-- Canada Dollar Falls From Almost 3-Month High on Trade Gap
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-11T22:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/canada-dollar-at-almost-3-month-high-before-trade-report.html
Canada ’s dollar fell from the
strongest in three months versus its U.S peer as the nation’s
trade deficit widened to the fourth-largest on record,
suggesting the economy is struggling to emerge from an export-
driven slump.  The currency gained earlier after China’s inflation
quickened as its economy grew faster than projected. Canada
recorded a C$1.96 billion ($2 billion) trade deficit in
November, up from a revised C$552 million shortfall in October,
 Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa.  The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists was for a C$600 million deficit.
Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell.  “The trade deficit absolutely worked to pare some of those
gains,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada (NA) , said in a telephone interview. “Taking
the Canadian number in the context of it being a mitigating
factor with respect to first-quarter growth, that could play
into the weakness.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.2 percent to
98.48 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier, it
touched 98.16 cents, the strongest level since Oct. 18. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0143. On the week, the loonie gained 0.2
percent.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.6
percent this week to $93.73 per barrel in New York, and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent.  Government Bonds  Benchmark 10-year Canadian government bonds rose today,
pushing yields down two basis points to end the week little
changed at 1.94 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent note
maturing in June 2022 fell 4 cents to C$106.92 this week.  The loonie’s move past Dec. 13’s high of 98.25 cents per
U.S. dollar signals it may appreciate beyond 98 cents, according
to a note from  George Davis , chief technical analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , a unit of Royal Bank of Canada.  The loonie’s gain against its U.S. counterpart trailed
those of other commodity currencies, including the Australian
dollar which saw a 0.6 percent increase.  “We’ve rallied a lot less, we’ve been a really low-beta
mover this week,”  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, said by
phone from Toronto. “So Canada has been an underperformer for
the last few days.” An asset with a high beta tends to rise and
fall more than the overall market.  Past Month  The loonie fell 0.6 percent over the past month versus nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The greenback has dropped 0.9 percent.  China ’s  consumer price index  rose 2.5 percent in December
from a year earlier to the highest level in seven months,
compared to a 2 percent gain in November, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today in Beijing. The nation’s economy probably
grew 7.7 percent in 2012, exceeding the government target of 7.5
percent, a vice chairman at China’s economic planning agency
said.  The loonie rose the most in a week yesterday against its
U.S. counterpart, 0.5 percent, after Chinese  exports  topped
estimates, increasing 14.1 percent in December from a year
earlier, almost triple the 5 percent gain forecast in a
Bloomberg analyst survey.  The U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, posted its
largest  trade deficit  today since April. The gap unexpectedly
widened 15.8 percent to $48.7 billion, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists projected a narrowing to $41.3
billion. Demand for  consumer goods  made overseas surged to a
record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  