-- Canada Posts 4th-Largest Trade Gap as Europe Exports Drop
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-11T16:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/canada-posts-4th-largest-trade-deficit-as-europe-exports-plunge.html
Canada  posted the fourth highest
 trade deficit  on record in November as shipments to  Europe  fell,
suggesting the country’s economy is struggling to emerge from an
export-driven slump.  Canada recorded a C$1.96 billion ($1.99 billion) trade
deficit in November, up from a revised C$552 million gap in
October, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The shortfall
was wider than all 21  forecasts  in a Bloomberg survey of
economists that had a median estimate of a C$600 million
deficit. Exports to the European Union fell 19.4 percent, led by
metals.  Growth in the world’s 11th largest economy slowed to a 0.6
percent annual pace in the third quarter as exports fell the
fastest since the end of the 2009 recession, and today’s figures
suggest the expansion didn’t accelerate much in the fourth-
quarter, leading to what could be the worst six month
performance since the 2009 recession.  “I’m pretty concerned about the ongoing weakness in
exports,” said  Sal Guatieri , senior economist at BMO Capital
Market in Toronto. “It looks like trade could subtract from
economic growth once again.”  Canada’s economy probably expanded at an annualized pace of
1.5 percent in the fourth quarter, according to Bloomberg’s
monthly economist survey, compared with forecasts of 1.7 percent
in the prior survey and 2.5 percent in the central bank’s
October monetary policy report.  Reconsidering Forecasts  Economists have already begun to reconsider those
forecasts. Guatieri said the trade data suggest the economy
probably didn’t grow much faster than 1 percent in the fourth
quarter.  IHS Global Insight,  National Bank of Canada (NA) , and Capital
Economics issued reports predicting the growth rate may remain
below 1 percent in the fourth quarter.  “At face value, this print is consistent with another
disappointing quarter for the Canadian economy where
international headwinds could end up slowing economic growth to
a crawl,” said  David Tulk , Chief Canada Macro Strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in Toronto.  While the report marks the first deterioration of the trade
balance in four months, rising imports suggest Canadian demand
remains buoyant and is helping to mitigate the impact of weak
exports. Swap rates show investors are placing 48 percent odds
of the Bank of Canada will raise interest rates by the end of
the year.  ‘Underlying Strength’  The trade data “signals underlying strength in other areas
of the economy,” Holt, Scotiabank’s vice-president of economics
in Toronto, said in a note to investors.  Imports rose 2.7 percent to C$39.5 billion in November, led
by motor vehicles and aircraft-related shipments.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.1 percent to 98.43 cents per
U.S. dollar at 11:40 a.m. in Toronto.  “Probably the market is comforted by the rebound in
imports,” Guatieri said.  Exports fell 0.9 percent in November to C$37.5 billion, led
by a drop in shipments of crops such as canola and precious
metals. Energy exports fell 1.2 percent. The value of goods
shipped to European Union countries fell to C$2.85 billion, or
7.6 percent of Canada’s total exports. That’s down from 9.3
percent a month earlier.  Eight of the 12 major export components tracked by
Statistics Canada recorded year-over-year declines in November.  The volume of exports, which exclude price changes,
increased 0.4 percent while import volumes increased 2.2
percent.  Canada’s trade surplus with the U.S. rose to C$3.34 billion
in November from C$2.69 billion a month earlier as exports rose
3.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  