-- Central African Republic Government Signs Peace Deal With Rebels
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n
-- 2013-01-11T16:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/central-african-republic-rebels-say-they-re-ready-for-cease-fire.html
The Central African Republic’s
government and rebels signed a peace agreement to set up a
national unity government, ending a month-long crisis, according
to a statement read to reporters.  Under the deal signed today, a prime minister will be
appointed from the opposition, President Francois Bozize will
remain in office and a parliamentary election will be formed
after 12 months. The agreement was reached during peace talks
held in the Gabonese capital, Libreville, where regional leaders
met to negotiate an end to the rebellion by the Seleka rebel
alliance.  Seleka insurgents advanced on Jan. 7 to within 12
kilometers (7.5 miles) of Damara, the last major town on the
road to Bangui, the capital. Troops from neighboring Congo
Republic,  Chad ,  France  and Gabon have been deployed in the
country, which is about the size of  Texas .  South Africa  also
sent soldiers.  Seleka pledged “to withdraw from occupied cities and
abandon the armed struggle” and foreign troops will also leave,
according to the peace deal. Rebels arrested during the crisis
will be released, it said, and Bozize won’t be able to remove
the prime minister during the transition period.  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since its independence from France in 1960, with at least four
battles for Bangui taking place from 1996 to 2003, when Bozize
toppled his predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as
army chief.  Mine Delay  The rebellion prompted  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold
explorer, to delay plans to open a mine in the country by at
least a year, the company’s chief executive officer, George Roach, said Jan. 7. Axmin has invested C$95 million ($96
million) in the gold project, which began development in the
late 1990s, he said.  Progress in securing financing for the Passendro Gold
project near Bambari, about 280 kilometers northeast of Bangui,
stalled after the insurgents overran the site last month, Roach
said.  Gabon and Congo Republic each sent 120 soldiers to the
Central African Republic to provide operational support for a
peace mission under the mandate of Eccas. France has also sent
150 troops, adding to the 250 it already has in the country to
support the mission and protect the 1,200 French citizens living
there. Chad also sent 320 troops.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  approved the dispatch of
400 troops, the presidency said on Jan. 6.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  