-- CFA Institute Plans Certificate to Help Restore Integrity
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-11T17:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/cfa-institute-plans-certificate-to-help-restore-integrity.html
The  Chartered Financial Analyst 
Institute plans to offer a certificate program it says may help
restore integrity in the  capital markets  by targeting investment
advisers’ support staff.  The group’s Claritas Investment Certificate provides
additional training for financial-services employees and is open
to people who work alongside those in investment roles, the
Charlottesville, Virginia-based  CFA Institute  said today in a
 statement . Potential candidates include specialists in
operations, compliance, human resources and marketing.  “There is a clear need for those who work in the industry
to take visible action to restore its integrity and
reputation,” the group said in the statement, adding that the
financial crisis “has undermined trust in financial services
and left a vacuum which organizations, academics and regulators
have struggled to address.”  Registration opens in May, the group said. Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Wealth Management,  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG
and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are among firms that have signed on to a
pilot program.  A total of 68 organizations and more than 3,000 candidates
are taking part, with exams for the pilot program scheduled for
March.  “Claritas will enable those working across financial
services to become more effective, knowledgeable and responsible
professionals,”  John Rogers , chief executive officer of the CFA
Institute, said in the  statement .  100 Hours  Certificate candidates will spend about 100 hours over
three to six months to learn the basics of ethics and
regulation, structure of the industry, and asset classes, the
Institute said.  The certificate is separate from the Chartered Financial
Analyst designation that applicants seek from the Institute each
year in the hope it will lead to better jobs, higher salaries
and a deeper understanding of finance. Successful charter
recipients spend an average of 300 hours preparing for each exam
and typically take four years to complete all three tests,
according to the not-for-profit Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  