-- Charoen Pokphand Says It Has Resources for Ping An Acquisition
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-01-11T10:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/charoen-pokphand-says-it-has-resources-for-ping-an-acquisition.html
Charoen Pokphand Group Co. said it
has the resources to complete a planned purchase of a $9.4
billion stake in  China ’s  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) , amid
concern that the acquisition will fail.  “The transaction is still under consideration by the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission and we confirm that if approval
is received from the CIRC, the CP Group has the necessary
resources,” the Bangkok-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  agreed on Dec. 5 to sell its 15.6 percent
holding in Ping An to four subsidiaries of CP Group in two
phases. The first stage, comprising shares valued at about HK$15
billion ($1.9 billion), was scheduled for Dec. 7. The sale of
the remaining shares requires approval from the CIRC by Feb. 1,
or else an extension of the accord.  Concern is growing that Chinese regulators may block the
deal, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Mancy Sun
and Ning Ma. The China Insurance Regulatory Commission conducted
a preliminary review of the application for the transaction, the
watchdog said in a statement yesterday.  China Development Bank , which had agreed to help finance
the purchase by Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s CP Group,
canceled its loans, China’s Caixin Online reported Jan. 8. The
first payment to HSBC has been made, Suthana Hongthong, CP
Group’s assistant vice president for corporate communication,
said on Jan. 9, without giving details.  ‘Transparent’ Funding  CP Group said on Dec. 25 that the acquisition of the shares
was legal and the source of funding was “transparent.”
Dhanin’s net worth was an estimated $6.2 billion on Dec. 7,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Almost 60 percent
of the fortune is from overseas private companies.  The group, whose historical ties to China range from
becoming the first foreign investor after  Deng Xiaoping  opened
the economy in 1979 to continued management of local
agricultural projects, has said it can help develop rural areas
through its investment in Ping An.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  