-- Chelsea Moves to Hire Guardiola as Coach, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-11T10:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/chelsea-moves-to-hire-guardiola-as-coach-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Big Offer  Roman Abramovich  will make a “take it or leave it” 18
million pound ($29 million) per year offer to Pep Guardiola to
become Chelsea coach, the  Daily Express  said.  The Blues’ owner is willing to make the Spaniard the
world’s highest-paid coach by offering 54 million pounds over
three years, the Express said.  Manchester United ’s  Alex Ferguson 
is Britain’s highest-paid coach, earning 7.6 million pounds per
year, the newspaper said.  Abramovich, currently on vacation in the Caribbean, is
furious about Chelsea’s 2-0 loss to Swansea two nights ago in
the first leg of the League Cup semifinals, the Express said.  No Hope  Chelsea’s interim manager  Rafael Benitez  has accepted he
won’t be given the job permanently after the home loss to
Swansea, the  Sun said .  Chelsea chairman Bruce Buck was given a hostile reception
by fans before the game and Benitez was subject to supporter
abuse after the loss, the Sun said. That reaction has convinced
Abramovich to make a change, though Benitez will not be fired
before the end of the season, the newspaper said.  Exit Request  Newcastle captain Fabricio Coloccini has asked to leave the
club and return to his native Argentina, the  Independent  said.  Coloccini’s agent flew told Newcastle officials the
defender wanted to leave before the end of the month, the
Independent said.  The 30-year-old signed a four-year contract last year but
now wants to return home, possibly to join San Lorenzo, for whom
he previously played and where his father is employed, the
newspaper said. Newcastle may have to consider a loan deal as
San Lorenzo is unlikely to pay a major fee for the player, the
Independent said.  Late Switch?  Wesley Sneijder  wants to make a last-minute switch to
England instead of leaving  Inter Milan  for Turkey, the  Daily
Mail  said.  Sneijder is on the verge of a transfer to Galatasaray but
his preference is to join a Premier League club, the Mail said.
His agent has spoken with Arsenal, Manchester United, Manchester
City, Tottenham and Chelsea, but they all turned him down
because of the midfielder’s 200,000 pound-a-week salary, the
newspaper said.  Palacios Signing  Queens Park Rangers manager  Harry Redknapp  is set to sign
Stoke’s Wilson Palacios, the  Sun said .  Redknapp signed Palacios from Wigan four years ago when he
managed Tottenham. The midfielder has made only four appearances
this season with Stoke, where he signed in 2011, and manager
 Tony Pulis  has said he will let the 28-year-old leave, the Sun
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 