-- China Sends Out Fighters to Watch Japanese F-15s, Ministry Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T17:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/china-sends-out-fighters-to-watch-japanese-f-15s-ministry-says.html
China dispatched two J-10 fighters
to the  East China Sea  on Jan. 10 to monitor two Japanese F-15s
that were trailing a Chinese patrol aircraft, the Ministry of
Defense said on its website yesterday.  The Chinese aircraft was conducting patrol duties near the
oil and gas fields east of Wenzhou, the ministry said in the
statement. The Chinese jets also monitored a Japanese
reconnaissance plane in the same airspace, it said.  The incident comes amid a dispute between China and  Japan 
over territory in the East China Sea, with China asserting
sovereignty over uninhabited islands that are administered by
Japan. Japan’s purchase of the islands, known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, from their private Japanese
owner last year strained relations between the world’s second-
and third-biggest economies.  “ China  and Japan may stand at a turning point that leads
to confrontation,” China’s state-run Global Times newspaper
said in an editorial yesterday. “The resentment toward each
other has come to the highest level since World War II. The
Sino-Japanese relationship is looking dim.”  The “current difficulty” in relations between China and
Japan are caused entirely by the Japanese side, Hong Lei, a
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, told a briefing in Beijing
yesterday.  The Japanese Self Defense Force has increased surveillance
on China and increased activities by fighter planes, “trailing
and interfered with” Chinese planes conducting normal patrol
and military patrol exercises, the defense ministry said in
yesterday’s statement.  China will “resolutely defend the safety of its
territorial air space and the rightful privileges under
international law,” it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  