-- China’s Inflation Accelerates as Chill Boosts Food Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T06:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/china-dec-inflation-2-5-exceeding-economists-est-.html
China ’s inflation accelerated more
than forecast to a seven-month high as the nation’s coldest
winter in 28 years pushed up vegetable prices, a pickup that may
limit room for easing to support an economic recovery.  The  consumer price  index rose 2.5 percent in December from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing. That compares with the 2.3 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 42 economists and a 2 percent gain in
November. The decline in the producer-price index eased to 1.9
percent.  Chinese  stocks  headed for the biggest drop in eight weeks
on concern that the quickening in inflation makes further policy
loosening less likely, after data yesterday on  exports  and
credit growth underscored the strength of the economic rebound.
Chen Yulu, a central bank academic adviser, said Jan. 8 that
price gains may become a concern in the second half.  “With growth momentum firming up and inflation picking up,
the likelihood of any further easing has disappeared and the
next interest-rate move will probably be an increase,” which
could come as early as the fourth quarter,  Zhu Haibin , chief
China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong , said in a
telephone interview.  The Shanghai Composite Index, China’s benchmark stock gauge,
fell 1.3 percent at 2:02 p.m. local time. The  yuan  strengthened
beyond 6.22 against the dollar for the first time in 19 years.  Holiday Impact  Inflation may temporarily accelerate to more than 3 percent
next month, Zhu said, reflecting the impact of cold weather on
food prices and the weeklong Chinese Lunar New Year holiday,
which fell in January last year.  Even so, for now, policy makers are more focused now on
“how to balance growth with the need for economic
restructuring,” Zhu said.  Food prices rose 4.2 percent in December from a year
earlier, the most since May, the data showed. Vegetable prices
increased 14.8 percent from a year earlier and contributed 57.5
percent to the total 0.8 percent month-on-month gain in the CPI,
the bureau said. Pressure on food costs may ease after the
holiday, it said in a statement.  Inflation pressure may be spreading to other parts of the
economy. Prices of services rose 2.5 percent in December from a
year earlier, the fastest rate since October 2011. Factory-gate
prices of daily-use items increased the most since June.  Consumer inflation has held below Premier Wen Jiabao’s 2012
target of about 4 percent for 11 months, aiding the government’s
efforts to engineer a growth recovery without triggering price
gains.  Producer prices  dropped for the 10th month. For the full
year, the CPI rose 2.6 percent while factory-gate prices
declined 1.7 percent.  ‘Abnormal Weather’  China’s vegetable prices may surge in some regions in the
short term because of “abnormal weather,” the Ministry of
Agriculture said last month.  The price of cabbage, a winter staple for Chinese
households, jumped 9.3 percent in the last week of December from
a week earlier, according to  Ministry of Commerce  data from 36
Chinese cities.  Snow had left about 180,000 head of livestock dead in
northern China by Jan. 4, while icy weather in the subtropical
Guangxi region damaged 8,310 hectares of crops, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain,
raised some menu prices in China because of higher labor and
input costs, the company said Jan. 7.  The People’s Bank of China has refrained from adjusting
 interest rates  since cuts in June and July and it last reduced
banks’ reserve requirements in May, preferring to control the
amount of cash in the economy through bill sales and purchases.  Liquidity Control  “The PBOC will continue to keep the liquidity under
control,” maintaining a lid on “the most important driver for
Chinese inflation,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Data yesterday showed signs of an improving economy, with
exports up 14.1 percent in December from a year earlier, the
most since May, according to customs administration data.
Imports grew 6 percent after being unchanged in the previous
month. Aggregate  financing  rose 28 percent from a year earlier a
year earlier, according to the central bank.  The government will release fourth-quarter gross domestic
product, December industrial production and retail sales and
full-year fixed-asset investment on Jan. 18. Economic growth
probably accelerated to 7.8 percent in the quarter from a year
earlier, up from a three-year low in the previous period,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Nerys Avery in Beijing and
Cynthia Li and  Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong. Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  