-- China Working to Cut Idled Wind Farm Capacity, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T05:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/china-working-to-cut-idled-wind-farm-capacity-official-says.html
China , the world’s biggest carbon
emitter, is making progress in connecting idled wind farms to
the electricity grid, helping to address a roadblock slowing the
development of wind power.  “The issue is in the process of improvement, given the
efforts made by grid companies,” Jiang Liping, vice president
of the State Grid Energy Research Institute, said in a phone
interview on Jan. 10, without disclosing the connection rate.  The adoption of wind power in China has been damped by the
electricity grid’s ability to handle the influx of energy,
forcing the government to impose stricter approvals on new
projects. The rate of wind capacity sitting idle could fall to
as low as 10 percent this year, compared with 25 percent at the
end of 2011, Jun Ying, Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s head of
research in China, said by e-mail.  “It’s the lack of economic incentives that discourage grid
companies to take in more renewable power,” said Beijing-based
Ying. “It means extra work and costs, but no extra benefits for
grid companies to do so.”  China this year plans to add 49 gigawatts of renewable-
energy capacity, including hydro power, to boost power
production without increasing its reliance on fossil fuels, the
National Energy Administration said in a  statement  on its
website earlier this week. Installed capacity totaled about 39
gigawatts in 2012, according to  Bloomberg New Energy Finance.   Wind Power Growth  China probably added 16.4 gigawatts of wind power last
year, 20 percent less than the previous year, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. This year, wind installations may
grow by 16.3 gigawatts, NEF forecasts. That compares with
China’s goal of adding 18 gigawatts of wind generation and 10
gigawatts of solar in 2013, according to the NEA’s Jan. 8
statement.  The wind-power target is larger than Bloomberg New Energy
Finance’s forecast because the projects referred to by the
government aren’t necessarily built and connected in the same
year, Ying said.  The solar goal for 2013 “is much higher than our forecast
ranging from 3.9 to 7.3 gigawatts, indicating the strong
determination from the government to boost the domestic
photovoltaic market to support its manufacturers,” Ying said in
the e-mail.  The New York-traded shares of  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) ,
the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, fell 31 percent in 2012
while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , which also trades in  New York , declined
35 percent in the same period. Suntech has gained 20 percent
since Jan. 8 when China announced its targets for renewable
energy this year; Trina is up 22 percent.  “The market will likely take up more slowly than the
government expects, due to electricity trading restrictions,
grid connection barriers, lack of eligible rooftops and project
quality issues,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Ying wrote,
referring to China’s solar capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  