-- China 5-Year Rate Swaps Jump Most Since September on Inflation
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-01-11T02:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/china-5-year-rate-swaps-jump-most-since-september-on-inflation.html
China ’s five-year  interest-rate
swaps  jumped the most in four months after consumer prices rose
more than economists expected.  Inflation quickened to a seven-month high of 2.5 percent in
December, more than the median 2.3 percent rate forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, data showed today. Trade figures yesterday
showed overseas sales increased 14.1 percent from a year
earlier, the most since May, adding to signs of a pickup in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “The exports number surprised on the upside, fueling
expectations that the Chinese economy will fare reasonably
well,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong. “This morning’s CPI number adds to inflation
expectations, which drives up the longer-end rates.”  The five-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, climbed 11 basis points to 3.83
percent as of 9:54 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That is the biggest gain since Sept. 14 of last
year. It touched 3.84 percent earlier, the highest since
September 2011.  The People’s Bank of China said in a report last month that
containing inflation will remain one of its top policy
objectives this year along with stabilizing growth, rebalancing
the economy and controlling risks in the financial system.
Central bank adviser Chen Yulu said this week that inflation may
become a concern in the second half of the year.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, dropped 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point,
to 2.76 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 2.70 percent, the
lowest since Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  