-- Citic Reprimanded for Disclosure Failure During SooChow’s IPO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T04:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/citic-reprimanded-for-disclosure-failure-during-soochow-s-ipo.html
Citic Securities Co. (600030) ,  China ’s
largest brokerage, was reprimanded by the nation’s securities
regulator for failing to disclose a drop in profit at  SooChow
Securities Co. (601555)  when advising on its initial offering.  Both companies received warning letters from the China
Securities Regulatory Commission for not disclosing the earnings
drop, which happened before SooChow Securities’s IPO prospectus
was published, and for not giving additional information about
the decline while marketing the shares, the regulator  said  on
its website. The CSRC will also stop processing requests for
IPOs from Citic’s representatives that work on SooChow
Securities’s listing for nine months.  That penalty is the second since November for Citic
Securities. Recent fraud cases have prompted regulators to
toughen rules on IPO advisers, asking underwriters last month to
inspect clients’ financial statements over the next three months
and vowing legal action against issuers and brokers if
misconduct is found.  Two phone calls to Raymond Tang, a Beijing-based press
officer at Citic Securities, seeking comment on the report went
unanswered. SooChow Securities posted a copy of the reprimand in
a  filing  with the  Shanghai  Stock Exchange today. The person who
answered the phone at SooChow Securities’ board secretary’s
office referred queries about the reprimand to that statement.  Citic Securities fell 1.8 percent to 12.98  yuan  at the mid-
day break in Shanghai today, while SooChow dropped 2.9 percent
to 7.67 yuan. The benchmark Shanghai Composite index lost 0.5
percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  