-- Citigroup Joins Goldman in Starting Electronic Bond-Trade System
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-01-11T02:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/citigroup-joins-goldman-in-starting-electronic-bond-trade-system.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, has started an electronic bond-trading
service as Wall Street firms seek to help clients buy and sell
debts among themselves.  Clients of the Citi Credit Cross trading system have been
able to enter transactions themselves since this week, said
Scott Helfman, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup. The
service will be phased in during the next few weeks, he said.  Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley are
among Wall Street firms that traditionally acted as middlemen by
warehousing bonds until customers sought to buy them. That model
is changing as U.S. and international rules meant to make the
banking system safer have prompted dealers to cut the amount of
debt they hold.  The firms now seek to match bond investors with each other
to ease trading. Holdings of company debt at the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve shrank 75 percent to
 $54.6 billion  earlier this month from the end of 2007, according
to the central bank.  Other firms such as  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the owner of
an electronic bond and derivatives-trading system, also seek to
allow debt investors to trade with each other.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
the world’s biggest money manager, said it plans to introduce
internalized bond trading among thousands of clients.  Reduce Costs  Moving to electronic bond-trading systems may reduce costs
by as much as five times, according to research by Terrence Hendershott, an associate professor at the University of
California-Berkeley’s Haas School of Business, and Ananth Madhavan, global head of trading research at New York-based
BlackRock.  A study of comparable trades from January 2010 to April
2011 executed on New York-based MarketAxess’s electronic system
versus others reported to the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority’s Trace bond-price reporting system showed a cost of
6.09 basis points on MarketAxess and 30.43 basis points in over-
the-counter transactions reported on Trace, Hendershott and
Madhavan wrote in a paper last year.  Dow Jones newswires reported on Citigroup’s plans
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  