-- Cnooc Clears Hurdle to Restart Largest China Offshore Field
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-01-11T08:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/cnooc-gets-approval-to-restart-largest-offshore-field-after-leak.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore
oil and gas producer, received an initial approval to restart
its largest offshore oilfield, which was shut in 2011 after an
oil leak.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s economic planner, approved the development plan for
Penglai 19-3 in December, the National Energy Administration
said in a statement today on its website.  Cnooc was ordered to shut the Penglai field in September
2011 after drilling activity leaked at least 3,200 barrels of
oil and fluids into North China’s Bohai Bay. Cnooc and its
partner  ConocoPhillips (COP)  have since cleaned up the spill and
agreed to pay about $160 million in compensation to Chinese
fishermen for losses.  “We still have to go through other regulatory approvals
and meet requirements before the site can resume production,” a
Beijing-based spokeswoman at Cnooc said in an e-mail.  The State Oceanic Administration ordered closing the
Penglai site. An approval from the agency is needed to restart
production, Cnooc Chief Executive Officer Li Fanrong said in
August.  Cnooc shares fell 1.9 percent to HK$16.22 at the close in
 Hong Kong . The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 0.4 percent.  Penglai 19-3 produced 62,000 barrels of oil a day before it
was closed. The lost production was equivalent to about 7
percent of Cnooc’s targeted daily oil and gas production,
according to calculations by Bloomberg.  Quick Start  Cnooc’s total net production rose 9 percent to 87.8 million
barrels of oil equivalent in the third quarter last year because
of higher overseas output and stable production from domestic
wells other than Penglai 19-3, the company said on Oct. 25.  Chairman Wang Yilin said in May the company was “ready”
to resume operations in Penglai, pending government approvals.  “Production at its full capacity could be achieved within
six months of the restart,” said Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai .  Cnooc received approval from the Canadian government for a
$15.1 billion acquisition of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the biggest takeover by
a Chinese company, in December. Cnooc said it expects to close
the deal in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  