-- Company Returns Assured by Government in Rail Expansion
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-11T12:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/company-returns-assured-by-government-in-rail-expansion.html
(Corrects spelling of Planner Corretora in 15th
Paragraph.)  Brazil’s $45 billion railroad
expansion is targeting  ALL America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3)  and  Vale
SA (VALE) ’s duopoly by guaranteeing returns for companies that create
train lines and transport cargo.  Highway operator  TPI-Triunfo Participacoes & Investimentos (TPIS3) 
SA and logistics group  JSL SA (JSLG3)  have said they may take part in
the April auction for the rights to operate lines or handle
cargo on 10,000 kilometers (6,200 miles) of new railways. The
government says the nation’s biggest rail expansion since the
1930s will lure 91 billion reais ($45 billion) of investments.  President Dilma Rousseff, seeking to stimulate the economy
and upgrade infrastructure after a decade without investment,
will auction off ports, airports and roads to ease bottlenecks
in Brazil, the world’s largest exporter of iron ore, orange
juice and sugar. The government ran the 28,000 kilometers of
railways until it privatized the lines in 2007. ALL and Vale now
control 84 percent of the network.  “There is a lot of space for this sector to grow,” Roger Oey, an analyst at Bes Securities  Brazil , said by telephone from
Sao Paulo. “If there is any uncertainty, the government will
try to diminish this for the projects to be successful,
especially in the beginning.”  As part of the plan announced Aug. 15, the government vowed
to sign contracts for all of the new capacity, Transportation
Minister Paulo Sergio Passos said. Companies will either operate
the rail lines or transport cargo, but not both. Additional
terms will be released in March.  ‘Minimum’ Guarantee  “If the government guarantees a minimum volume, I think
the risk is minimized,” Fernando Simoes, chief executive
officer at JSL, the largest logistics company in Brazil by
revenue, said in a Jan. 7 telephone interview.  JSL probably will require a minimum return of 15 percent,
equal to existing operations, said Oey, the analyst. The Mogi
das Cruzes, Brazil-based company is expected to report that 2012
revenue rose 28 percent to 2.94 billion reais, the median of
five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  JSL and Triunfo beat the rail incumbents and the Bovespa
index’s  3.1 percent gain  in the 12 months that ended yesterday.
JSL surged 69 percent to 14 reais, and Triunfo jumped 43 percent
to 13.46 reais. ALL fell 7.9 percent in that span to 8.9 reais,
while Vale rose 2.7 percent to 40.57 reais.  In a bid to make Brazilian companies more competitive,
Rousseff sought to cut interest rates and lower electricity
costs last year. Brazil ranks 130th of 185 nations in the World
Bank Group’s 2013 “Ease of Doing Business”  survey , which rates
countries based on attributes such as inland transportation.
That’s down two places from 2012.  ‘Big Steps’  “If we want to take big steps towards growth, we need to
have an interconnected transportation network,” said Henrique Kleine, an analyst at brokerage firm  Magliano (MAGLIAO)  SA, which holds
191,400 shares of toll-road operator CCR SA. Companies able to
diversify from construction of ports to operation of airports
“will have infinite advantages over others.”  ALL depends on railroads for most of its revenue, while
Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said last month it
may sell a controlling stake for its general cargo unit.
Domestic rail operations represented 93 percent of ALL’s 996
million reais in revenue in the third quarter, while railroads
accounted for just 2.8 percent of Vale’s sales.  Carajas  In Brazil, Vale controls about 10,000 kilometers of track,
including the Carajas railway serving the world’s largest iron-
ore mine.  Vale and its subsidiary VLI - Valor Logística Integrada
aren’t interested in implementing new railways, said Humberto
Freitas, Vale’s executive director for logistics.  “That does not impede us at an opportune time from
evaluating Vale or VLI’s participation as a rail operator of any
of these lines,” Freitas said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Competition for new rail concessions is expected to be
tough, and returns are likely to be 6 percent to 7 percent,
compared with 9 percent or 10 percent for highways, said Brian Tadeu Moretti, an analyst at Planner Corretora.  “I cannot believe that in railroads you’ll see a higher
margin because there’s volatility in shipments,” Moretti, who
is reviewing his rating for Triunfo, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. ALL and Vale will continue dominating
the railways because “the way the concessions model is set up
is meant more to lower prices than to break up a monopoly.”  ALL didn’t return e-mail and phone requests for comment.
Triunfo declined to comment.  Stock Selloff  Rousseff triggered a stock  selloff  in utilities when she
announced in September that companies would be required to cut
electricity rates as a condition of renewing hydroelectric
concessions. New rail, road, port and airport concessions being
awarded by the government now are unlikely to face a similar
situation, Moretti said.  “They won’t put the success of these tenders at risk,”
Moretti said.  Companies that get in early should get the biggest benefit
because government guarantees will vanish if the rail business
booms, Bes’s Oey said.  “As of a second round of auctions, the government won’t
have to help the development of new railways given that others
will be interested in participating,” he said. “Whoever is a
pioneer and willing to risk a little more will win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  