-- Copper Pares Third Weekly Gain on Accelerating China CPI
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-11T10:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/copper-pares-third-weekly-gain-on-accelerating-china-cpi.html
Copper fell in  London , almost
erasing this week’s gain, after stronger-than-estimated Chinese
inflation fueled concern officials may curb economic stimulus in
the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  Consumer prices gained 2.5 percent last month from a year
earlier,  China ’s statistics bureau said today, against the 2.3
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.
Copper also slid as stockpiles monitored by exchanges in London
and  Shanghai  reached the highest levels since at least April.  Chinese authorities “don’t want unsustainable high growth
rates with surging inflation,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst
at VTB Capital in London, said by e-mail today. “Hence monetary
expansion and the ongoing stimulus will still be limited and
very cautious.”  Copper for delivery in three months declined 0.3 percent to
$8,088 a metric ton by 10:50 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange,
compared with the close of $8,085 a week ago. Copper for
delivery in March fell 0.8 percent to $3.6805 a pound on the
Comex in  New York .  “You need sustained good news coming out of China
suggesting that we’re in the recovery phase now, and the same in
the U.S., before we can trade above $8,100,” Jesper Dannesboe,
an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London, said by phone.
“The market has been long for some time already, so maybe it’s
just consolidating a bit.”  Inventories of copper tracked by the LME advanced 1.2
percent to 330,450 tons, the highest level since Jan. 31, on
deliveries in  New Orleans  and Antwerp, Belgium, daily exchange
figures showed. That capped a 3.2 percent weekly expansion, the
sixth in a row. Stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange climbed to 209,096 tons, the highest level since April.  Orders to remove copper from LME warehouses fell 2.1
percent to 66,950 tons, rounding out a 6.5 percent weekly drop.  Aluminum and nickel rose in London, tin was unchanged, and
zinc and lead retreated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  