-- Covington, Boies, Schiller, Schulte Roth: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-11T19:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/covington-boies-schiller-schulte-roth-business-of-law.html
Covington & Burling LLP opened a
Shanghai office, the law firm’s third office in Asia, led by
corporate and securities partner Eva Wang and technology
transactions and intellectual-property partner Weishi Li.  The firm opened offices in  Seoul  in November and Beijing in
2008. The Shanghai site will have five lawyers, bringing the
total for the three Asian offices to 20, the firm said.  The Shanghai office will strengthen Covington’s ability to
provide corporate, dispute resolution, investigations and
regulatory capabilities for clients from the Americas and Europe
seeking to do business in Asia, as well as for clients in Asia,
the firm said.  “Our Shanghai office enhances our practices in life
sciences and technology transactions, FCPA, capital markets, M&A
and securities in China and places those capabilities in the
heart of one of Asia’s most dynamic business centers,” said
Timothy Hester, chairman of the firm’s management committee.  Wang, who joined the firm last February, was previously a
partner in the Shanghai office of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati PC. She has private-practice experience in  China  and also
previously served as general counsel and vice president of legal
affairs at Spreadtrum Communications Inc., a Nasdaq-listed
Chinese semiconductor company focused on the wireless-
communications market.  Li’s practice covers a range of technology transactions and
IP-related advice. She joined Covington from Bird & Bird LLP in
September.  Covington has more than 800 lawyers and 10 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  DLA Piper Names Heads of Cross-Border Litigation Practice  DLA Piper LLP said Tara Lee, managing partner of the
Reston, Virgina office;  London  partner Jean-Pierre Douglas- Henry; and Hong Kong partner Satpal Gobindpuri were named global
co-chairs of the firm’s cross-border litigation practice.  The firm’s expansion led its global disputes heads, Robert Mathias and Stephen Sly, to make appointments that drew leaders
from the three regions to meet the cross-border litigation needs
of clients, the firm said.  DLA Piper’s global litigation practice has been recognized
as the world’s largest by headcount in the American Lawyer and
the largest by revenue in the Lawyer, the firm said.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries
throughout the Americas, Asia-Pacific region,  Europe  and the
Middle East.  Rattet Pasternak Merges with DelBello Donnellan  New York bankruptcy boutique  Rattet Pasternak LLP ’s six
attorneys joined White Plains, New York, law firm DelBello
Donnellan Weingarten Wise & Wiederkehr LLP, home of former New
York Lieutenant Governor Al DelBello.  The Rattet lawyers are Dawn Kirby, Robert Rattet, Jonathan Pasternak, Julie Cvek, Erica Feynman and James Glucksman,
according to the group’s  website . They will remain part of a
group that will work with DelBello’s 24 lawyers in 11 practice
groups, including real estate, land use and litigation
practices.  Smith, Gambrell & Russell Hires Eight IP Lawyers in  Washington   Eight attorneys who comprised the Washington office of
Murphy & King PC have joined the intellectual-property practice
of Smith, Gambrell & Russell LLP.  The group of three partners, three counsel and two
associates includes partner Edward A. Pennington, who will head
the firm’s intellectual property litigation practice.  The team, which also includes Stephanie Scruggs and Sid
Pandit, focuses on patent litigation, patent licensing, due
diligence associated with intellectual-property transfers, and
opinion work.  Smith, Gambrell has more than 180 attorneys with seven
offices in the U.S. and  Frankfurt .  News  Boies Likens Takeover of AIG to Fire Department Seizing Property  David Boies, the attorney suing the U.S. over  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s bailout, said the firm’s takeover was
an abuse of authority similar to firefighters seizing
possessions they rescued from a flood.  “The fire and rescue people say we’re going to cart them
out, we’re going to protect them, but we’re going to take 80
percent of them for the firehouse,” Boies said in an interview
yesterday on CNBC. “Everybody would know that was wrong. It’s
also illegal.”  AIG opted Jan. 11 against joining former Chief Executive
Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg in a $25 billion lawsuit that
says the U.S. violated shareholders’ rights by taking over AIG
in 2008 in a bailout designed to save the economy from collapse.
CEO  Robert Benmosche  said the company is working to distance
itself from the rescue and serve clients.  “There are limits to what the government can demand in
return for” rescue loans, said Boies, who represents
Greenberg’s Starr International Co. “What it cannot demand, as
a court in Washington, D.C. has already ruled, is that the
company give up its equity.”  Boies, chairman of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, said he
plans to take depositions from Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. He said he
won’t sue New York-based AIG over the board’s decision to reject
Greenberg’s suit.  The lawyer said the government made the right move to
extend credit to stabilize the company and had no need, or legal
authority, to seize equity, because the loans were secured by
the insurer’s assets. The U.S initially took a stake of 80
percent, and the holding climbed to 92 percent as the aid
package swelled to $182.3 billion. The insurer repaid the
assistance last year.  Deals  Schulte Roth Represents Cerberus-Led Group in Supervalu Deal  Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP represented a Cerberus Capital
Management LP-led investor group that agreed to acquire
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s Albertsons, Acme, Jewel-Osco, Shaw’s and Star
Market grocery stores in a deal valued at about $3.3 billion.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal adviser
to Supervalu.  Schulte Roth’s partners included Stuart Freedman, Robert Loper and John Pollack, mergers and acquisitions; Alan Waldenberg and Kurt Rosell, tax; Michael Littenberg, securities
regulation; Ronald Risdon, finance; Ronald Richman and Laurence
Moss, employee benefits; Robert Kiesel, intellectual property;
Howard Epstein, environmental and insurance; Michael Swartz and
Peter Halasz, antitrust; and Jeffrey Lenobel, Marshall Brozost
and Julian Wise, real estate.  Wachtell Lipton’s team was led by corporate partners David M. Silk and Igor Kirman. Additional partners include DongJu
Song, corporate; Michael J. Segal, executive compensation and
benefits; and Deborah L. Paul, tax.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP advised Greenhill & Co.,
financial adviser to Supervalu. The Davis Polk corporate team
includes New York partner Paul R. Kingsley. New York partner
Charles S. Duggan is providing litigation advice.  Cerberus also will lead a group to conduct a tender offer
to buy as much as 30 percent of Supervalu’s common stock for $4
a share in cash, the companies said yesterday in a statement.
After the transactions are completed, Sam Duncan, the former
chairman and chief executive officer of  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) , will
become CEO of Supervalu, replacing Wayne Sales, the companies
said.  The third-largest U.S. grocery chain has eliminated jobs
and accelerated price cuts at stores as it struggles to keep
pace with discounters including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target
Corp. (TGT)  Supervalu sales have fallen for three straight years and
are forecast to drop 4.5 percent to $34.5 billion in its fiscal
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale leaves Supervalu with the Save-A-Lot chain, the
company’s largest with about 1,300 stores across the country, as
well as the Cub, Farm Fresh, Shoppers, Shop ’n Save and
Hornbacher’s regional chains.  For more, click here.  Moves  Partners Make Lateral Moves in London, Sydney, Hong Kong  In the U.K., Squire Sanders LLP appointed Steven Norris,
formerly a partner and national head of regulated procurement at
DLA Piper LLP, as a partner in its regulatory practice.  Norris will be based in the Birmingham office, where he
will expand the firm’s global procurement practice, spending
time in London and Washington, Squire Sanders said.  Norris has advised the Olympic Delivery Authority on
procurement issues tied to the London 2012 Olympic Games,
Transport for London on its traffic-congestion charging project
and the U.K. Department of Health on its National Programme for
IT, which was the world’s largest civil IT procurement project,
the firm said.  Winston & Strawn LLP hired Joe Tirado as co-chairman of its
international arbitration practice. He joined the London office
from Norton Rose LLP, where he was head of international
arbitration.  Donna Goldsworthy, an international commercial litigator,
joined Cozen O’Connor’s London office. She will be a member of
the commercial litigation and arbitration group.  K&L Gates LLP welcomed Andrea P. Beatty as a corporate
partner in the Sydney office. She is the first new partner to
join K&L Gates since the firm’s Jan. 1 combination with
Australian firm Middletons. She was previously at HWL Ebsworth.  Goodwin Procter LLP hired Gloria Liu in the firm’s business
law department in Hong Kong as a partner. Liu, who was a senior
associate at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind & Garrison LLP, joins
Goodwin’s private-equity and merger and acquisition practices.  She will focus her practice on cross-border mergers and
acquisitions, private equity and venture capital, and foreign
investment into China.  U.S. Lateral Partner Moves: Loeb & Loeb, Mayer Brown, Gardere  In  Chicago , Loeb & Loeb LLP said William J. Kramer joined
the firm’s patent litigation and counseling practice as a
partner. Most recently, he was a partner at Miller Matthias &
Hull in Chicago, where he served as head of the computer science
department.  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney Greg Deis joined Mayer Brown
LLP’s litigation and dispute resolution practice and the white-
collar defense and compliance group as a partner in the Chicago
office.  Lucosky Brookman LLP, a corporate finance and securities
law firm, said that Scott C. Kline joined as a partner and will
open its first office on the West Coast in Los Angeles.  Before joining Lucosky Brookman, Kline was a partner in the
corporate finance and Asia practice groups in the Los Angeles
office of Blank Rome LLP. Kline will head Lucosky’s foreign
direct investment practice group. He has lived and worked in
China and Hong Kong for several years while at Blank Rome and as
a partner and chief representative of Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw
Pitman LLP’s Shanghai office.  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP announced the addition of Scott D.
Deatherage as a partner in its Dallas office. Deatherage, who
focuses his practice on environmental, energy and greenhouse-gas
regulatory matters, was previously with Patton Boggs LLP.  Video  Bill on Bankruptcy: Fee Puts Law Firm in Trustee’s Sights  Law firm Kaye Scholer LLP and financial adviser Capstone
Advisory Group LLC are in the sights of a U.S. Trustee aiming to
claw back $12 million for an undisclosed agreement to share fees
awarded in the now-completed bankruptcy of GSC Group Inc.
according to Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle.  The effort by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to avoid real
estate recording taxes and AMR Corp.’s admission that the
holding company may be solvent are the next topics of
conversation. Rochelle provides a rundown on bankruptcy filings
statistics for 2012 showing another dramatic decline in all
categories including individual, corporate, and small business.
The video ends with discussion of important decisions in the
cases for Sentinel Management Group Inc. and Hostess Brands Inc.  To see the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  