-- Democrats Fumbling Over Christie Challenger Aids Governor
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/democrats-fumbling-over-christie-challenger-aids-governor.html
Cory Booker , the popular mayor of
 Newark ,  New Jersey , who Democrats wanted to challenge Governor
 Chris Christie  this year, cleared the field when he bowed out
last month. Party leaders have yet to decide who should take his
place.  Even Booker trailed Christie by 18 percentage points in a
November  poll  as the Republican governor enjoys record approval
for his handling of  Hurricane Sandy . State Senator Barbara Buono, the only Democrat so far to declare her candidacy, was
behind Christie by 43 points in a survey this week.  As Democrats fail to rally around a frontrunner, the
Christie campaign has raised more than $2 million, eight times
as much as Buono. The first Republican elected New Jersey
governor since 1997, Christie has blocked Democrats’ efforts to
raise taxes on millionaires, add funding for schools and women’s
health and allow gay marriage. Inaction by opposition leaders
may help him seal a second term and fulfill his agenda.  “It gives him a lot of freedom of movement,”  Ross Baker ,
who teaches politics at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,
said of a Christie victory. “The more potential rivals he has
on the Democratic side, the greater the cacophony becomes.”  Besides Buono, possible challengers include state Senator
Richard Codey, who served 14 months as governor after James McGreevey resigned in 2004 amid a sex scandal, and Senate
President Stephen Sweeney, who came under fire this week after
saying that Christie “prayed and got lucky” that Sandy hit
because it detracted from his lack of a jobs plan.  Party Indecision  Sweeney, 53, who apologized for the remark, had said he
might challenge Christie if Booker passed. Sweeney told
reporters this week that he hasn’t ruled out a bid, even as he
plays a role in selecting a frontrunner.  Booker, 43, is a rising Democratic star whose efforts to
turn around Newark have drawn investment from Wall Street
financiers. On Dec. 20, he said he would run in 2014 for the
seat held by 88-year-old U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , rather
than face Christie. In a poll of Democratic voters released
yesterday by Fairleigh Dickinson University’s PublicMind, Booker
was favored over Lautenberg, 42 percent to 20 percent.  While Buono, a lawyer from Metuchen, is a credible choice
to run for governor, the party wants to make sure it “puts the
best candidate forward,” Sweeney said.  “Cory was the strongest candidate because of his national
presence and his national fundraising ability,” said Sweeney,
of West Deptford. “The time we waited didn’t help anybody.”  ‘Due Diligence’  Codey, 66, who said he is still “doing due diligence,”
has the greatest name recognition among the three most likely
challengers. Even so, Christie beat him, 59 percent to 26
percent, in a hypothetical matchup, according to a Jan. 7 poll
by PublicMind.  “No disrespect to Mayor Booker, but as long as he was out
there, for the rest of us, the air was kind of sucked out,”
said Codey, of Roseland. “The rest of us couldn’t make a
move.”  New Jersey voters haven’t elected a Republican to the  U.S.
Senate  since 1972 and backed Democrats in the last six
presidential contests. Democrats control the legislature and
outnumber Republicans by more than 700,000 voters in New Jersey,
where 48 percent of the 5.5 million registered voters are
unaffiliated, according to state elections  data .  Democratic Support  Christie had a 72 percent approval rating in a Quinnipiac
University poll on Nov. 27, a month after Sandy, its highest
ever for a New Jersey governor. He said on Nov. 26 that he will
seek a second term to oversee the $36.9 billion rebuilding job.  The governor has feuded with Democratic lawmakers over tax
cuts and missed revenue targets. The  unemployment rate  stands at
9.6 percent, close to its highest since 1977. Still, 52 percent
of Democratic voters and 77 percent of independents approve of
his job performance, the Quinnipiac poll showed.  “No one’s had the guts” to challenge Christie, said
Matthew Hale, who teaches politics at  Seton Hall University  in
South Orange. “A lot of Democrats out there are saying, ‘Why
would I put myself through this, given where the governor is
today?’”  Buono was among a group of Democrats that opposed
Christie’s 2011 overhaul of public employee health care and
pensions. After voting against the package as protesters parked
a black hearse in front of the State House proclaiming it
carried the “soul of the  Democratic Party ,” she lost her
position as Senate majority leader.  Grassroots Campaign  Buono said the episode demonstrated her independence and
willingness to challenge her party’s machinery. The senator, who
announced her candidacy on Dec. 11, raised about $250,000
through Jan. 1, which she said exceeded her goals. Through Jan.
3, Christie’s campaign raised more than $2.1 million without
holding a single public event.  In her 2011 Senate race, Buono said she recruited 10,000
campaign volunteers. Such a grassroots effort is the only way to
offset Christie’s strengths, she said.  “It will have to be a campaign by everyday people and that
takes time,” said Buono, 59. “The sooner the Democratic Party
can coalesce around one candidate, the better it will be for the
Democratic Party and that candidate’s ability to be
successful.”  Christie, a former U.S. prosecutor, declared his initial
candidacy on Jan. 8, 2009, as he trailed Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine  in opinion polls, 36 percent to 42 percent. He beat the
incumbent that November, 48 percent to 45 percent, after a race
that had Corzine defending his economic stewardship.  Timing Issues  Corzine, who was a U.S. senator when he ran against
Republican Douglas Forrester in 2005, announced his candidacy in
December 2004. Codey said the timing of the announcement isn’t
important to voters.  “At the end of the day, who cares when you file and on
what date the decision is reached?” Codey said. “It’s all
about who is in and who’s out.”  Sweeney estimated that if Christie is on track to spend $40
million in the election, Democrats need about $30 million.  “He gets the biggest microphone: he’s the governor,”
Sweeney said. “So once you have a consensus candidate, that
person winds up having the same-sized megaphone and the message
is a lot stronger.”  The longer Democrats hold out, the more it creates an
impression that Christie is unbeatable, said  Larry Sabato ,
director of the Center for Politics at the  University of
Virginia  in Charlottesville. That sense of invulnerability may
grow as would-be challengers opt out, he said.  “They planned on Cory Booker running and they clearly
didn’t have a backup,” Sabato said. “It’s early on and people
are writing this race off. But that might not be so wise: it’s
only January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  