-- Deutsche Postbank Sues UBS Over $100 Million Securitization Deal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-11T16:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/deutsche-postbank-sues-ubs-over-100-million-securitization-deal.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  was sued by Deutsche Postbank
AG, a unit of Deutsche Bank AG, over allegations the Swiss
lender didn’t honor a 75 million-euro ($100 million)
securitization deal.  Postbank says in a London lawsuit that UBS failed to
convert leveraged asset-backed securities into collateralized
notes under the terms of a contract that required the action if
UBS’s credit rating was downgraded. Postbank says the Zurich-
based lender is in default because it didn’t convert the assets
after it was downgraded along with 14 other banks in June 2012.  UBS denies the allegations and will defend itself
vigorously, according to a statement from  Richard Morton , a
spokesman for the bank.  The Postbank press office in Bonn, Germany, didn’t respond
to e-mails requesting comment.  Postbank is demanding early repayment of the full amount
under the notes, according to the lawsuit. The court documents
released last week contain only a one-page summary of the claim
and further details haven’t been disclosed.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 15 banks in June of
last year because of volatility in  capital markets  and the risk
of “outsized losses,” it said at the time.  UBS, which was fined $1.5 billion by regulators last month
for trying to rig interbank interest rates and 29.7 million
pounds ($47.9 million) the month before that over Kweku Adoboli’s $2.3 billion trading loss, has said it will trim
10,000 jobs mainly in investment banking and focus on its wealth
management business.  The case is  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  v. UBS AG,  High Court  of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, 12-1628  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  