-- Djokovic Dodges Federer or Murray Until Australian Open Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-11T03:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/djokovic-to-start-australian-open-tennis-defense-against-mathieu.html
Novak Djokovic will avoid having to
play  Roger Federer  or  Andy Murray  until the Australian Open
final as he bids for an unprecedented hat trick of titles at the
season-opening Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Top-seeded Djokovic of Serbia, who’s seeking to become the
first man to win the championship three years in a row since the
professional era began in 1968, was today drawn against 58th-
ranked Paul-Henri Mathieu of France in the opening round, which
starts Jan. 14 at Melbourne Park.  Men’s No. 2 Federer was paired with Frenchman Benoit Paire,
while U.S. Open champion Murray takes on  Robin Haase  of the
Netherlands. Federer and Murray, the No. 3 seed from Britain,
were placed in the same half and are in line for a potential
final-four matchup. Djokovic could meet  David Ferrer , the No. 4
seed from  Spain , in the other semifinal.  “Murray and Djokovic are the two favorites and you’d
expect them to go through,” former Wimbledon champion Pat Cash
said at the draw. “Though anybody who’s got Federer in their
draw section is not going to be too happy.”  The 25-year-old Djokovic, who beat Murray in the semifinals
12 months ago before defeating  Rafael Nadal  in a final lasting
almost six hours, is projected to meet Tomas Berdych, the No. 5
seed from the Czech Republic, in the quarterfinals. Spain’s
Nadal withdrew from this year’s tournament because of illness.  Federer, 31, could face seventh-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
of France in the last eight as he seeks a record-extending 18th
Grand Slam singles title. The Swiss won the last of his four
titles in Melbourne three years ago.  Potential Quarterfinals  Should the top eight men advance, the other quarterfinals
would feature Murray against sixth-seeded Juan Martin Del Potro
of Argentina and Ferrer against eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic,
who will play local favorite and two-time major champion  Lleyton Hewitt  in round one.  The women’s draw placed defending champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus in the same half as five-time winner  Serena Williams , who’s the bookmakers’ favorite after claiming the past
two major titles.  Azarenka and Williams, who are projected to meet in the
semifinals, will start their campaigns against Romanian players.  Azarenka, 23, faces Monica Niculescu first up and is in
line to play seventh-seeded  Sara Errani  of Italy in the
quarterfinals. Azarenka said she’d recovered from a toe injury
caused by a pedicure that forced her to pull out of a tune-up
tournament in Brisbane before her semifinal.  ‘Behind Me’  “It’s much better,” Azarenka said at the draw. “I have
been practicing for the last couple of days and it feels good. I
am really happy it’s all gone and behind me.”  No. 3 seed Williams, on a 35-1 run since an upset loss in
the first round of the 2012 French Open, takes on U.S.-based
Edina Gallovits-Hall in round one and could face Petra Kvitova,
the No. 8 seed from the Czech Republic, in the last eight.  The other women’s quarterfinals might pit No. 2 seed  Maria Sharapova  against fifth-seeded German Angelique Kerber and
fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland against China’s  Li Na , the No. 6 seed and runner-up in Melbourne two years ago.  Sharapova, the 2008 champion, meets fellow Russian Olga
Puchkova in the opening round, while Radwanska plays Bojana
Bobusic of  Australia .  It’s the first time in 15 years that both defending
champions return as the top seeds. The last time a women’s No. 1
seed won any Grand Slam was Williams at Wimbledon in 2010.  Azarenka said breaking through for her first major title 12
months ago had given her confidence and self-belief that she can
compete for the top prizes.  “I’d love to repeat this feeling again,” Azarenka said.
“Last year was amazing and I’ve been trying to achieve the same
feeling again. That’s what I’m here for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  