-- Emerging Equity Funds Post Record Inflows on Growth Outlook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-01-11T02:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/emerging-equity-funds-post-record-inflows-on-growth-outlook-1-.html
Emerging-market equity funds
recorded their biggest-ever weekly inflows as the U.S. budget
deal and  China ’s economic rebound fueled investor demand for
riskier assets.  The funds attracted a net $7.4 billion in the week ended
Jan. 9 and assets under management reached an all-time high of
$781 billion,  Jonathan Garner , the chief  Asia  and emerging
market strategist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, wrote in an e-
mailed note today. Developing-nation debt funds lured their
second-largest inflows of $2 billion, Garner said, citing data
compiled by research firm EPFR Global.  Mutual  fund  purchases have helped spur a 22 percent rebound
in the benchmark  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  from last year’s
low on June 4. While big inflows tend to foreshadow short-term
market declines, Garner said the combination of global monetary
stimulus, accelerating economic growth and an improving outlook
for earnings will support share prices. His year-end target for
the MSCI index is 14 percent higher than yesterday’s close.  “We would not expect a significant setback,” Garner and
his Hong Kong-based colleague Pankaj Mataney wrote in the
report.  The MSCI gauge, which tracks 21 countries, increased 0.4
percent to 1,076.99 yesterday after Chinese trade figures showed
bigger-than-estimated gains in exports and imports. The  index 
has risen 2 percent since Jan. 1, when U.S. lawmakers reached a
deal to avert automatic tax increases for most workers in the
world’s largest economy.  Regional Inflows  Emerging-market stock funds have posted 18 consecutive
weeks of inflows, compared with the record 29-week stretch ended
in December 2010, Garner wrote. Funds that invest in developing
nations worldwide lured $5.7 billion last week, while Asia funds
attracted $1.5 billion.  Latin America  had about $90 million of
inflows and those investing in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa lured about $150 million.  Some strategists use fund inflows as a contrary indicator
because they suggest investors with a positive view of the
market have already purchased shares. The MSCI index’s average
drop after periods when four-week inflows exceeded 1.5 percent
of assets under management was 4 percent in the following four
to five weeks, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said in a
Dec. 13 report.  The MSCI emerging-market  index  trades for about 11 times
analysts’ 12-month earnings estimates, in line with the five-
year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  