-- Encana Chief Executive Eresman Steps Down, Takes Advisory Role
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-01-12T02:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/encana-president-and-ceo-eresman-resigns-effective-today.html
Encana Corp. (ECA)  Chief Executive Officer
Randall Eresman resigned yesterday after six years in the role
and will be replaced by board member Clayton Woitas until a
permanent successor is named.  Eresman, 54, will be an adviser of  Canada ’s largest natural
gas producer until Feb. 28, according to a statement from the
Calgary-based company yesterday. Woitas has been a company
director since 2002 and is CEO of Range Royalty Management Ltd.  “Now is the right time for me to step down and to turn
over leadership of Encana,” said Eresman in the statement. His
departure will allow a new leader to focus on the company’s
“transition to a more balanced commodity portfolio,” he said.  Eresman engineered Encana’s transformation into a producer
focused on gas by spinning off its oil assets into a new
company,  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , in November 2009. Cenovus is now
valued at C$25.3 billion ($25.7 billion), or 43 percent more
than its former parent.  The split was first announced in May 2008 and then shelved
as the financial crisis caused commodity prices to sink. U.S.
gas futures had dropped 42 percent through Sept. 11, 2009, when
Eresman said the company would go ahead with the Cenovus spin
off. Dividing the company was necessary because of diverging
production technology, Eresman said at the time.  Raising Cash  During Eresman’s tenure, Encana pursued a strategy of asset
sales to fund an expansion of its holdings in unconventional
shale gas formations in regions such as northeastern British
Columbia. As prices for the heating fuel sank to a decade low in
April, Eresman was forced to pursue joint-venture agreements
with companies including PetroChina Co. to boost  cash flow  while
helping lower production costs.  Eresman, who was born in the southeastern  Alberta  town of
Medicine Hat, had been CEO since Jan. 1, 2006. In 2011, Eresman
earned a total of $9.25 million, including salary, stock and
bonus awards, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last month, Eresman announced a deal to sell a 49.9 percent
stake in the company’s Duvernay shale formation in Alberta to
PetroChina for C$1.18 billion.   PetroChina, (857)   Asia ’s biggest oil
producer, also agreed to pay C$1 billion over four years to fund
development of the project.  The PetroChina agreement brought Encana’s net proceeds from
joint ventures and asset sales to C$3 billion last year, up from
an annual target announced at the company’s June investor day of
C$2 billion to C$2.5 billion.  Joint Ventures  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  agreed to pay C$1.46 billion for a 40
percent stake in development of Encana’s Cutbank Ridge shale gas
acreage in British Columbia and Alberta on Feb. 17. The deal
came eight months after PetroChina walked away from an agreement
to take a 50 percent stake in a larger position in Cutbank Ridge
that also included existing production.  The company also announced in December that it was exiting
its partnership to jointly produce liquefied natural gas with
 Apache Corp. (APA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  at the port of Kitimat,
British Columbia. The project, which has Canadian regulatory
approval to produce and ship the fuel to Asia, has yet to
announce any customers.  Some shareholders were speculating a CEO change was
possible given the performance of the shares in recent years,
 Randy Ollenberger , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Calgary,
said in a telephone interview.  Encana has fallen 43 percent to C$19.50 yesterday in
Toronto trading, from C$34.11 at the end of 2009.  Repeated Losses  The company has reported six quarters of losses over the
past two and a half years, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Encana is expected to post net income before one-time
items of $249.75 million in the fourth quarter, according to the
average of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares
with a loss of $246 million in the year-earlier period.  Encana has the lowest total return, including dividend
payouts and share price growth, of the 10 largest Canadian
energy companies valued at more than C$10 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Encana, along with Husky Energy Inc.
and  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , has a negative total return.  Eresman helped to create the notion of amassing large
resource positions in unconventional tight and shale gas
formations, then moving to tap the reserves in a manufacturing
mode, said Ollenberger, who has an outperform rating on Encana
shares and owns none.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Chediak at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net  