-- English Classes to Aid Aptech as Sales Decline: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-01-11T11:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/english-classes-to-aid-aptech-as-sales-decline-corporate-india.html
Aptech Ltd. (APTR) , an Indian IT training
company backed by billionaire Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, will start
teaching English to students in Africa and  Latin America  as it
seeks to stem five successive  quarters  of falling sales.  The  company , which trains people to write computer
programs, will add at least 50 centers in Brazil,  Mexico  and
other Latin American nations in the next five years, and about
25 centers in Africa, that will combine teaching English with
lessons in writing software code, Chief Executive Officer Ninad Karpe said in a telephone interview yesterday from  Mumbai .  Aptech partners with Microsoft Corp. to use its educational
content in teaching modules. It is also betting it can charge
students more for combination courses, according to Karpe. The
expansion on these two continents will bolster its efforts to
become a larger player in  emerging markets , he said.  “These are unexplored markets where the growth potential
is high,” said Karpe. “We leverage our strengths to keep
increasing our presence, revenue and profitability.”  Aptech’s  profit , including of its units, fell 84 percent to
97.2 million rupees in the six months ended Sept. 30, while
sales, excluding dividend income, declined 11 percent to 838.9
million rupees, according to earnings posted on its  website .  The company brought the accounting policy at one of its
subsidiaries in line with its own in July 2011 and this change
resulted in a decline in annual revenue, it said in a report.  Shares of Aptech, based in Mumbai, advanced 2.3 percent in
2012, compared with a 26 percent gain in the benchmark BSE India
 Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The stock fell 1.1 percent to 67.65 rupees at
the close of trading in Mumbai.  Jhunjhunwala, through his company and family, controls
34.96 percent of Aptech, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Language Barrier  Expanding in Africa and Latin America won’t be easy,
according to Shaukat Ali, an analyst at Quantum Securities Pvt.  “In Africa the main concern remains social unrest and
political turmoil,” said Ali. And in Latin America “the issue
is whether these products are viable in that locality or not
because they are Spanish speaking people.”  Karpe said the demand for learning English in Africa and
Latin America is “very high.”  Last year Aptech conducted a trial of the model of
providing combined courses at its center in Bangalore. The
company has been leveraging the 2009 acquisition of First
English, which operates centers teaching the language.  “Rather than develop content, we took over an existing
company with content and network,” said Karpe. The trial of the
combination model was “satisfactory,” he said.  English Advantage  Aptech plans to collaborate with local companies in French-
speaking countries in  Africa  and Spanish-speaking Latin American
nations, Karpe said.  “Combination offer is in very high demand especially in
these countries,” Karpe said. “All these people are realizing
they need to know English because with the spread of the
Internet, they have to learn English to be part of the
globalized world.”  Set up in 1986, Aptech has focused on expanding its
business overseas in the last four years with students
completing their 12th grade as its target market, Karpe said.  It operates about 1,300 centers in more than 40 countries
that teach people to write software codes, create animation
including in 3-D and the special effects used in making movies
and television programs, as well as train people to be cabin
crews of airlines and for the hospitality industry, according to
its website.  Aptech has said its goal is for the international business
to contribute half its revenue from individual training by 2014,
up from 45 percent in the year ended March 31, 2012, according
to its  annual report . It already has teaching centers in Nigeria
and  Brazil , apart from  China , the Asia-Pacific region,  Russia 
and the  Middle East .  The company is counting on expanding in Africa and Latin
America to help achieve that target.  “We are confident because we already have had some
presence for sometime,” Karpe said. “We have the skill and the
expertise to go into these markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  