-- Merkel Throws Weight Behind Cypriot Opposition for Election
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-01-11T16:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/merkel-throws-weight-behind-cypriot-opposition-before-election.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  threw her
support behind the head of Cyprus’s main opposition party before
the island nation’s presidential election next month, while
warning that a bailout is still a long way off.  The German leader arrived in the Cypriot seaside town of
Limassol today to promote the candidacy of Nicos Anastasiades,
head of the DISY opposition, to succeed communist President
Demetris Christofias, who isn’t seeking reelection.  “We’re here to support our partner, and we hope that Mr.
Anastasiades is successful in the election,” Merkel told
reporters before a meeting of the conservative  European People’s
Party . Cyprus must first move forward with reforms before euro
countries can “talk about solidarity,” she said.  Euro-area leaders loath to seek new taxpayer bailout funds
have wrestled with a Cyprus rescue since it became the fifth
euro state to seek aid last June. Scrutiny over a bailout that
could approach the size of Cyprus’s roughly 18 billion-euro ($24
billion) economy has slowed attempts to find a solution.  Negotiations are “far from the stage at which we can make
a decision,” Merkel said. Anastasiades, by contrast, urged
policy makers to reach an agreement “as soon as possible to
avoid the worst. There are visible dangers to delay.”  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , while calling on the
Cypriots not to let their crisis “fester,” said it “may well
fall to the incoming government” to conclude a deal.  ‘Real Dangers’  Anastasiades, who leads in the polls before the first round
of the election on Feb. 17, said after today’s meeting that he
had assured Merkel and his other EPP colleagues of his
determination to do what’s needed to reform the economy and
promote economic growth.  “I explained that Cyprus has prospects and can make it,
but we need the help of our European partners to avoid short-
term but real dangers,” he said.  German lawmakers from inside and outside Merkel’s coalition
this week raised concerns about a bailout for the euro area’s
third-smallest economy, possibly endangering a parliamentary
majority required to pass any aid.  Rainer Bruederle, the caucus leader for Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition partner, told Bild on Jan. 9 that there are
“too many question marks,” leaving taxpayers with the
impression that they would be bolstering  tax evasion  by
directing funds to Cyprus’s banks, which lost more than 4
billion euros in  Greece ’s debt restructuring.  ‘Dirty Money’  Anastasiades hit back on accusations of illicit funds,
which have included allegations of deposits by Russian
billionaires exploiting Cyprus’s favorable tax regime.  “References to laundering dirty money and the Cypriot tax
paradise are totally unjust and exaggerated,” he told reporters
after the meeting. “Cyprus is totally consistent with its
international obligations on this matter.”  Aid for Cyprus will test policy makers’ commitments to hold
the 17-nation currency bloc together and avoid more sovereign-
debt writedowns after they called Greece’s restructuring a one-
off. The workarounds may put most of the burden on bank
bondholders and possibly depositors.  Anastasiades dismissed the prospect of imposing losses on
bank bondholders. “I don’t think there are going to be any
haircuts,” he said. “I do believe we can find a lot of other
solutions.”  ‘Not an Option’  European and Economic Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
the German newspaper Handelsblatt in an interview published
yesterday that “a haircut is not an option for us,” when asked
about the prospect of debt relief for Cyprus.  “After Greece, the Cypriot economy is also being tested,”
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said in Limassol. “Through
difficulties we become stronger, and I genuinely believe that
just as Greece is making it, Cyprus will make it.”  Cyprus may need as much as 17.5 billion euros to pay its
bills and recapitalize its banks, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said in November. The government says it has enough cash
to last through March.  Moody’s Investors Service, citing the government’s
projected debt load from recapitalizing the banking system, cut
Cyprus’s credit rating three steps to Caa3 yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 21 it sees the risk of a
sovereign default as “considerable and rising.” Cyprus’s
public debt will be 97 percent of gross domestic product this
year and 103 percent in 2014, the European Commission forecasts.
S&P expects it to rise “well above 100 percent” in the bailout
aimed at shoring up the country’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Limassol, Cyprus at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Limassol, Cyprus at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  