-- Merkel’s Popularity Grows, Steinbrueck Drops in Opinion Poll
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-11T11:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/merkel-s-popularity-grows-steinbrueck-drops-in-opinion-poll.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
popularity rose while backing for her Social Democrat challenger
 Peer Steinbrueck  dropped eight months before federal elections,
a poll showed.  Asked whom they would prefer as head of  Germany ’s next
government, 65 percent of respondents named Merkel, a jump of 11
percentage points from a month ago, while 25 percent favored
Steinbrueck, a drop of 11 points, ZDF television said, citing a
Forschungsgruppe Wahlen poll.  Support for Steinbrueck in his party slumped to 63 percent
from 79 percent, ZDF said. Among the Greens, the SPD’s
prospective coalition partner, support for Steinbrueck stood at
47 percent compared with 43 percent for Merkel, the poll showed.  The likelihood of Steinbrueck ousting Merkel’s government
in an alliance with the Greens has decreased after the former
finance minister, who’s been among the top earners in the lower
house of parliament thanks to paid speeches, said the German
chancellor isn’t paid enough.  In a +5 to -5 ranking of Germany’s top 10 politicians,
Merkel rose to 2.4 from 2.1 in December, followed by Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who moved to 1.5 from 1.4 and SPD
parliamentary leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who held at 1.0.  Asked which party they would vote for if elections were
held next Sunday, 42 percent named Merkel’s Christian Union
bloc, 28 percent favored the SPD, 13 percent backed the Greens,
6 percent preferred the Left Party and 4 percent sided with the
Free Democrats, followed by 3 percent for the Pirate Party.  SPD Slips  Compared with a month ago, the CDU rose 2 points, the SPD
dropped two points and the Left slipped one point while the
other parties remained unchanged.  German voters cast ballots for parties and don’t directly
elect the chancellor, meaning the party vote, not the popularity
contest, is what will determine the winner of elections that
will probably be held in the second half of September.  With four parties in parliament, Merkel could form grand
coalition with the SPD -- like her first 2005-2009 government --
or rule with the Greens. Steinbrueck would have to form an
alliance with the Greens and the Left Party, the successor to
the former ruling East German communists, in order to become
chancellor, the poll showed.  FG Wahlen interviewed 1,358 people between Jan. 8 and Jan.
10. The poll had a margin of error of as much as 3 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  