-- Metcalf’s Wit Hides Ravaged Mind in ‘Other Place’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/metcalf-s-wit-hides-ravaged-mind-in-other-place-review.html
As a Big Pharma gun-for-hire,
Juliana Smithton knows how to engage the doctors while talking
up a new anti-dementia drug at a plush Caribbean resort.  She’s an accomplished research scientist presenting her own
work. The audience for her lecture (read: sales pitch) is
colleagues who are potential customers. But the sudden
appearance in the room of a young woman in a yellow string
bikini distracts her.  Juliana’s self-deprecating wit grows caustic as she targets
the intruder with mean digs that take her off topic until she
loses her grip completely and goes terrifyingly silent. Is she
suffering a stroke?  Laurie Metcalf’s performance as Juliana in “ The Other
Place ” has both sharpened and deepened since Sharr White’s
drama ran off-Broadway nearly two years ago. Given a second
outing, now on Broadway under the wing of the Manhattan Theatre
Club, the one-act drama still packs a formidable punch.  This must be the only play in which the good news, that one
is not dying of brain cancer or stroke, is followed by the
shattering diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer’s.  That news is delivered by Juliana’s devoted, if frustrated
husband, Ian, an oncologist she’s convinced has filed for
divorce. It’s the second big crisis of their long marriage, the
first having been the disappearance a decade earlier of their
teenage daughter.  Blurred Vision  White introduces both elements through an unfocused lens
that gradually clarifies as we come to understand all the forces
working to unravel Juliana’s increasingly ravaged mind.  Metcalf’s performance, under Joe Mantello’s sensitive
direction, has grown more poignant, but “The Other Place” has
lost some power in the interregnum. The most easily identified
reason is a significant casting change: Where Dennis Boutsikaris
was sharp, even severe as Ian, Daniel Stern is warm-and-fuzzier,
less of a foil to Juliana.  “You know, what surprises me almost more than anything
else,” Ian tells her when their latest conversation has turned
ugly, “is how cruel this thing has made you.”  With Boutsikaris, it was an indictment, however
sympathetically offered. With Stern, it’s a white flag of
resignation, a very different dynamic.  But I also found myself wanting more from the playwright. A
second act, perhaps, that digs deeper into the heart of a
marriage on such rocky shoals. Like “The Great God Pan”
earlier this season, “The Other Place” is yet another
ambitious play that’s maddeningly unfinished.  Through Feb. 24 at the Samuel J. Friedman Theatre, 261 W.
47th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include New York  weekend  and  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 