-- EU’s Rehn Doesn’t Expect Slovenia to Request Financial Rescue
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-01-11T11:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/eu-s-rehn-doesn-t-expect-slovenia-to-request-financial-rescue.html
Slovenia’s efforts to tackle its
fiscal deficit, including a pension overhaul, will help the
country avoid having to request financial assistance, Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  Slovenia, the first post-communist nation to adopt the euro
six years ago, is grappling with its second recession in three
years as Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s Cabinet works on an
economic overhaul and savings measures to avoid becoming the
sixth euro-region nation to seek an international bailout.  Implementation of the plan has been jeopardized by a row
within the governing coalition. Two coalition partners of
Jansa’s Slovenian  Democratic Party  have called on him to resign
after Goran Klemencic, the head of Slovenia’s anti-corruption
authority, said Jan. 8 that the premier failed to declare “more
than 200,000 euros” ($265,260) worth of private assets.  “The country is taking action to address its economic and
fiscal problems, which includes also a very important pension
reform,” Rehn said at the European Policy Centre in Brussels
today. “I can only hope that the current political turmoil will
be not long-lasting and the country can ensure that it has
political stability and economic sustainability for the sake of
its citizens very quickly.”  Yields on Slovenia’s Eurobond maturing in 2022, sold in
October, fell 3 basis points to 4.644 percent at 11:50 a.m. in
the capital, Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Slovenia’s blue chip index  SBITOP (SBITOP)  dropped 0.13 percent at 11:26
a.m. in Ljubljana to 666.65 points.  Protest Call  The cost of insuring the debt with credit-default swaps
rose more than 1 basis point to 214, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Slovenia has seen weeks of occasionally violent protests
against austerity and alleged corruption. Slovenian newspaper
Delo said protest organizers issued a Facebook call for a “loud
but peaceful” nationwide protests at 4:30 p.m., calling for the
creation of a transitional government for six months to prepare
for new elections.  The board of Jansa’s party “unanimously rejected” the
coalition partners’ offer to form a “technical government,”
the party said on its website today after a leadership meeting.
Out of 285 party board members, 281 backed Jansa as their
leader. Jansa gave coalition partners a Jan. 14 deadline to
decide whether they want to stay in his government, News portal
 www.24ur.com  reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  