-- European Stocks Post Weekly Drop on Valuation, China
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-on-valuation-china.html
European stocks  fell in the second
week of 2013 amid the highest valuation in 11 quarters for the
benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and concern that quickening
inflation in  China  will limit the scope for economic stimulus.  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  led a gauge of commodity shares lower.
 Debenhams Plc (DEB)  lost 9.9 percent after the retailer cut its
profit-margin forecast. Banco Popolare SC led banks higher after
global central-bank chiefs eased a liquidity rule.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 0.3 percent to 287.08 this past week.
The index rallied 3.3 percent in the week through Jan. 4, the
biggest gain since Nov. 23, as U.S. lawmakers approved a
compromise budget that avoided most scheduled tax increases and
delayed spending cuts in the world’s largest economy.  “Monetary policy has less punch in the beginning of 2013
than in the fourth quarter of last year, so one important equity
driver is gearing down,” said Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee
$55 billion as senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen. “Now it’s up to the economic momentum to take over.
Tactical indicators are at an extreme and political uncertainty
is still an important risk factor.”  The  price-earnings ratio  for the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  reached 19.1
times reported earnings, its highest level since March 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese Economy  Reports from China showed a measure of manufacturing
expanded in December for a third month, exports increased at
almost three times the rate economists had estimated and the
 inflation rate  accelerated to a seven-month high in the world’s
second-largest economy.  The quickening rate of price increases point to tighter
monetary policy, a stronger currency to curb imported inflation,
less liquidity and higher interest rates in the second half of
the year, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB.  German exports  declined more than forecast in November, a
report showed on Jan. 8. Exports adjusted for working days and
seasonal changes fell 3.4 percent from October, the steepest
drop in more than a year, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a
0.5 percent decrease.  National benchmark indexes retreated in eight of the 18
western European markets this week.  France’s CAC 40 (CAC)  dropped 0.6
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.5 percent.  Germany ’s
DAX lost 0.8 percent.  Mining Companies  A gauge of commodity producers declined 3.3 percent this
week, for the worst performance among the  19 industry groups  on
the Stoxx 600. The index ranked 16th in segment returns in 2012.  Salzgitter, Germany’s second-largest steelmaker, slumped
7.6 percent. The stock was downgraded to neutral from outperform
at Credit Suisse Group AG, which said European construction
activity and demand for steel tubes may not increase.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said Jan. 9 that the immediate outlook
for steel remains unclear.  Voestalpine AG (VOE)  lost 6 percent after Morgan Stanley called
Austria’s biggest steelmaker “less attractive,” saying the
company’s growth plans will consume more of its cash flow. The
bank cut its recommendation on the stock to equal weight, a
rating similar to hold, from overweight.  Debenhams slid 9.9 percent. The U.K.’s second-largest
department-store chain cut its forecast for full-year margin
growth as it expanded sales promotions.  Tullow Write-Off  Tullow Oil Plc, the U.K. explorer focusing on  Africa  and
Latin America, tumbled 7 percent after saying it more than
doubled 2012 write-offs related to unsuccessful wells in Ghana,
Guyana and Suriname. Also, Investec Bank Plc on Jan. 8
recommended investors sell the shares because of project delays
in Uganda and Ghana.  Getinge AB, a Swedish maker of sterilization systems sold
in more than 100 countries, plunged 10 percent after saying
fourth-quarter revenue was hurt by weakening demand in Europe.  A  gauge of bank shares  was the best performer this week,
gaining 4.3 percent. Central-bank chiefs at a meeting in  Basel ,
Switzerland on Jan. 6 allowed lenders to use a wider range of
assets to meet the so-called liquidity coverage ratio. The group
of regulators also gave banks an extra four years to fully
comply with the measure.  Banco Popolare SC (BP) , Italy’s fourth-biggest bank by assets,
rallied 16 percent.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  jumped 15 percent.
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  surged 12 percent
each.  Delta Lloyd NV surged 16 percent, for the biggest gain on
the Stoxx 600 this week. Aviva Plc sold its remaining 19.4
percent stake in the Dutch insurance company for 433.8 million
euros ($568 million). UniCredit SpA added 9.9 percent.  Phone Companies  A gauge of telecommunications shares gained 2 percent.
Mobile-phone operators including Deutsche Telekom AG and  France 
Telecom SA discussed the creation of a pan-European network with
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia, the Financial Times
reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  rose 3.2 percent. Verizon Communications
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam said his company has
the strength to buy Vodafone’s stake in their U.S. joint venture
Verizon Wireless, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Royal KPN NV, the biggest Dutch phone company, advanced 14
percent.  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  climbed 8.9 percent and Cable
& Wireless Communication Plc added 7.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  