-- Ex-Axius Chief Kaufman Pleads Guilty in Manipulation Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-11T22:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/ex-axius-chief-kaufman-pleads-guilty-in-stock-manipulation-case.html
Former  Axius Inc. (AXIU)  Chief Executive
Officer Roland Kaufman pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy
in a case alleging that he tried to manipulate the price of his
company’s stock.  Kaufman, 60, and financial professional Jean-Pierre
Neuhaus, both Swiss citizens, were accused of trying to bribe
stockbrokers to help artificially inflate the Dubai-based
company’s share price. They were caught through a sting
operation, according to prosecutors.  “I plead guilty,” Kaufman told U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York. He admitted today to flying to 
New York from Dubai to give commissions to people he believed 
to be brokers to induce them to buy stock. He said he wired 
$13,700 to a company bank account in  Brooklyn  to cover the 
commissions. “I did this knowingly and intentionally,” he said.  Gleeson set May 17 for sentencing. Kaufman faces a maximum
prison term of five years. The judge said prosecutors estimated
a sentence of 63 to 78 months under nonbinding federal
guidelines. Prosecutors and the judge said Kaufman would also
have to forfeit $298,740, representing the losses to investors.  “He took the crooked path and now faces the prospect of
years in prison,” Assistant U.S. Attorney General Lanny Breuer
said in a statement. “Although he committed his crimes from
outside the United States, U.S. authorities tracked him down,
and he has now been held to account.”  Trade Stocks  Kaufman and his attorney, Eric Snyder, declined to comment
after the plea hearing today.  Kaufman and Neuhaus enlisted the help of a person that they
thought controlled a network of corrupt U.S. stockbrokers with
the authority to trade stocks on behalf of their clients,
prosecutors said in a statement.  The pair told the person -- who was actually an undercover
law enforcement agent -- to direct the brokers to buy shares of
Axius owned or controlled by Kaufman in return for a “secret
kickback” of 26 percent to 28 percent of the share price,
according to the statement.  Kaufman told the agent that the brokers would have to pay
gradually higher prices for the shares and shouldn’t sell the
stock for a year in order to maintain the price, according to
the statement. The pair agreed to sell about $3.5 million to $5
million worth of Axius shares through the brokers.  Guilty Plea  The two men were arrested in March 2012. Neuhaus pleaded
guilty in October to a conspiracy charge and is scheduled to be
sentenced next month. Gleeson told Kaufman he should expect to
be deported to his native country when the sentence is
completed, although prosecutors said they won’t oppose an
application to serve part of his prison time in Switzerland.  Axius is a “development stage company” which “intends to
link world cultures and business enterprise together under a
common umbrella,” according to a report filed in September with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In a June 2008
report, the company is described a developer of “wind and solar
powered boilers.”  The case is U.S. v. Neuhaus, 12-cr-00439, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  