-- Texas Energy Boom Fuels Best Performance Since ’09: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-11T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/texas-energy-boom-fuels-best-performance-since-09-muni-credit.html
An oil and natural-gas boom in  Texas 
is helping the largest U.S. energy producer pile up a record
$11.8 billion in reserves, sustaining the best performance in
its debt since 2009.  Municipal securities of Texas issuers earned about 7.9
percent in 2012, eclipsing the 7.4 percent gain for the broader
$3.7 trillion local-bond market, which it beat for the first
time in three years, Standard & Poor’s total-return data show.  While states and localities are in their best fiscal shape
since the recession ended in 2009, Texas, with a top credit
rating from Moody’s Investors Service, is doing better than
most. The performance is generating debate on how to spend an
$8.8 billion projected operating surplus and a rainy-day fund
that Comptroller Susan Combs expects to grow by almost 50
percent by August 2015. The state was among just six expressing
optimism about its 2013 revenue outlook, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures.  “Texas is the best credit in the U.S.,” said Bill Sirakos, a senior executive vice president at Cullen/Frost
Bankers Inc., who manages $9.1 billion in San Antonio. The
reserves are “another piece of the picture of a state that
takes its financial responsibilities seriously.”  Job Gains  The second-most-populous U.S. state has topped budget
projections over the past 15 months. It also leads the nation in
employment gains since 2009, adding about 700,000 jobs, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Its 6.2 percent  jobless rate  is the
lowest in four years and below the 7.8 percent national average.  The rainy-day fund relies on taxes on oil and gas
production, which makes up 17 percent of Texas’s economy and was
the fastest-growing major industry in the past two years,
according to Combs. More than 900 oil and gas rigs were pumping
in mid-2012, a 180 percent jump from 2009, she said.  Texas sales-tax revenue jumped 14 percent in the third
quarter from the same period of 2011, trailing only North
Dakota’s 30 percent increase, according to data from the Nelson
A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in  Albany , New York.  The revenue pickup leaves Texas lawmakers with the task of
deciding how and whether to disburse the funds.  Spending Plans  Legislators tapped the reserve fund for $3.2 billion in
2011 to help balance the state’s budget. This year, Lieutenant
Governor David Dewhurst, a Republican, is proposing using $1
billion to fund water projects.  Politicians should consider tax cuts and resist groups
favoring more spending, Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican who
has led the state since 2000, told legislators Jan. 8. He also
wants stricter limits on spending.  Texas’s effort to reduce spending even as tax revenue rose
helped it sell $9.8 billion of one-year notes at a record-low
yield of 0.23 percent in August. The money enabled the state to
fund school districts when the fiscal year began Sept. 1.  It obtained a lower interest rate that month than
 California , which borrowed at 0.33 percent on May maturities and
0.43 percent on debt due in June when it sold $10 billion of
notes. Both sales had S&P’s highest short-term grade.  Boom Times  The state’s success differs from previous energy-driven
economic booms that often were followed by slumps when oil
prices declined, said Steve LeBlanc, co-founder of CapRidge
Partners LLC in Austin and a former senior managing director at
the $110 billion Texas Teacher Retirement System.  Commercial construction should accelerate in Texas over the
next few years because of pent-up demand and population growth,
he said. Texas’s population grew by about 20 percent from 2000
to 2010, more than double the U.S. average, according to Census
data.  “The reason Texas performs is the diversification in one
state with oil-patch bonds from Midland or Odessa or debt from
highly diversified economies in Houston or  Dallas ,” said David Jaderlund, who manages $450 million, most of it Texas bonds, as
owner of Jaderlund Investments LLC in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
“Texas has its own sovereign nature in many ways.”  In trading yesterday, benchmark 10-year munis gained for a
fourth-straight day, to yield 1.74 percent, the lowest since
Dec. 31, Bloomberg Valuation  data  show.  Following is a pending sale:  New York’s METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY plans to
sell $500 million of revenue bonds as soon as next week,
according to offering documents. The proceeds will be used to
finance transit and commuter projects. (Added Jan. 10)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 