-- Texas Planned Parenthood Loses Court Bid to Restore Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-12T01:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/texas-planned-parenthood-loses-court-bid-to-restore-funds.html
Six  Planned Parenthood  of Greater
Texas Inc. affiliates lost a bid for a court order giving them
access to funding under the state’s new women’s health program.  The state omitted the affiliates, which provide basic
health care, from the Texas Women’s Health Program that took
effect Jan. 1, citing their association with legally distinct
Planned Parenthood entities that provide abortion services.  State court Judge Stephen Yelenosky in Austin today denied
the affiliates’ bid for a temporary order requiring Texas to
include them in its new regime after finding they’d likely be
harmed by it.  “There must not only be probable injury but also a
likelihood that the legal claim will succeed at final trial,”
the judge said in a two-page letter decision he read from the
bench following a full day of argument and testimony.  The affiliates said in court papers they provided basic
health care to almost half of the more than 100,000 women who
were enrolled in the state’s federally funded Women’s Health
Program that ended on Dec. 31. It was replaced by a wholly
state-funded plan the next day.  The Planned Parenthood groups’ combined annual WHP
reimbursement had been about $13 million, they said in a filing
last month. Loss of that money will be “devastating” and would
force facilities to close, they said.  “We are disappointed in the ruling,” Pete Schenkkan, one
of two lawyers who represented Planned Parenthood at today’s
hearing, said after the decision was read. “I am confident in
the merits of the case.”  Federal Funding  President  Barack Obama ’s administration last year said it
was withdrawing federal funding for the old Texas program after
state lawmakers created a regulation blocking participation by
organizations associated with providers of elective abortions.  Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, together with Texas
Health and Human Services Executive Commissioner Kyle Janek, in
October announced the creation of the state-funded Women’s
Health Program, or Texas WHP.  “Governor Perry made clear Texas law will not allow a
program that includes abortion providers or their affiliates
like Planned Parenthood to be providers in the program,” his
administration said in a  statement  at the time.  “Any lawsuit filed to challenge the Texas WHP will kill
the program, and would be responsible for denying these
important  health services  to the low-income women of Texas,”
the Perry administration said then.  ‘Poison Pill’  In court filings, Planned Parenthood called that provision
a “poison pill.”  “We are pleased the court has rejected Planned
Parenthood’s latest attempt to skirt state law,” a spokeswoman
for Abbott, Lauren Bean, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The Texas Attorney General’s office will continue to
defend the Texas Legislature’s decision to prohibit abortion
providers and their affiliates from receiving taxpayer dollars
through the Women’s Health Program.”  Perry called the court’s ruling “great news for women.”
He called the case “a desperate move by an organization more
concerned with obtaining taxpayer money than with helping women
get care.”  In a separate suit filed last year after the state cut off
the affiliates’ access to the prior plan which was predominantly
federally funded, Yelenosky had found the plaintiffs would
likely suffer harm and that they’d likely win at trial.  Prior Case  The judge said today that the prior case involved money
paid out under the joint state-federal Medicaid program.  Texas law prevents the state from doing anything that would
lead to the loss of federal funds, Yelenosky said, “and the
federal government had notified the state that the exclusion of
Planned Parenthood would do just that.”  No federal money was at stake in today’s case, the judge
said.  Yelenosky said if he’d agreed with the affiliates that the
new program too must be Medicaid funded, then his only available
remedy would have been to shut it down, not to order Planned
Parenthood’s inclusion.  Planned Parenthood called three witnesses today, including
the lead individual plaintiff, Marcela Balquinta, 26, of
McAllen, described in court papers as a  University of Texas ,  Pan
American , graduate who worked part-time teaching students about
sexual-violence prevention.  ‘Very Selective’  Balquinta told the court she had been getting her health
care at Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County, but now can’t
because of the new rules. She said she would try to pay for some
herself through Planned Parenthood, though she would now need to
be “very selective” in her choices. She told the court today
she’s unemployed.  “I believe that the health care and information that
Planned Parenthood gives to the people in my community is not
something that everybody could afford,” she said.  Under cross-examination, state’s attorney Patrick Sweeten
cited Balquinta’s Planned Parenthood advocacy since she was in
college and told her there are other providers in her area that
contract with the state to provide women’s health care.  “Have you sought out, have you looked for other
providers?” Sweeten asked.  Balquinta said she hadn’t.  Yelenosky also heard testimony from two state officials.  One, Michelle Harper, who is director of acute care policy
for the state Health and Human Services Commission, testified
that she oversaw setting up the new program.  Program Options  Harper said state officials are trying to help women find
new providers under the  Texas  WHP, telling former Planned
Parenthood patients by mail of their new program options and
that providers have been found for all women who have called a
toll free information line.  Still, she acknowledged there have been some “hiccups”
with the online listing that state workers are attempting to
remedy.  Under cross-examination by Planned Parenthood lawyer Mike
McKetta, Harper said she didn’t know how many women who phoned
her agency got a new provider or an appointment with a doctor.  McKetta, in questioning, said it didn’t cause the state any
“hardship” to keep Planned Parenthood in the program through
the end of 2012. “They did a great job, didn’t they?” he
asked.  “I can’t speak to that,” she replied.  The case is Planned Parenthood v. Janek, D-1-GN-12-003887,
District Court of Travis County (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Kelley Shannon in Austin, Texas, at  
 kelley@kelleyshannon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  