-- Citigroup, Silver Point Push MF Global Parent for Payment
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-11T16:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/mf-global-parent-liquidation-plan-filed-by-creditors.html
A group of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
creditors proposed a liquidation plan that would pay as much as
41.5 cents on the dollar for unsecured claims after the company
reached key settlements last month with affiliates.  Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Blue Mountain Timberline
Ltd., Cyrus Capital Partners LP, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
Silver Point Capital LP and Waterstone Capital Management LP are
among the plan’s backers, according to a filing yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . The creditors said they hold
about 65 percent of certain MF Global  loans and bonds .  “The plan proponents have proposed the plan to facilitate
the prompt and efficient conclusion of the Chapter 11 cases,”
they said in the accompanying disclosure statement.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31, 2011, after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
following its investment in the debt of troubled European
economies. The company, which was headed by former New Jersey
Governor  Jon Corzine , listed assets of $41 billion and debt of
$39.7 billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  The creditors, an unofficial group, estimated that the
parent’s payout to unsecured claim holders would be 11.5 cents
to 41.5 cents on the dollar under their plan, from assets of
$276 million to $994 million. The calculation was conservative
as it didn’t include some money that might come in and the
creditors lacked access to all necessary information, they said.  Bond Prices  Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC, said he
was puzzled by the group’s proposal. Instead of filing a plan,
the  hedge funds  could have sold their bonds at current prices of
60 cents to 65 cents on the dollar, far exceeding the high end
of their estimated recovery, he said in an e-mail.  “Perhaps this is an expression of impatience with the lack
of disclosure and progress in the Chapter 11 case,” Starke
wrote in a note to clients of CRT, which trades distressed debt.
“Unless the plan proponent group’s estimates are perceived to
be sandbagged, they are likely to disappoint the rest of the
market.”  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s liquidation, the largest in
U.S. history, speeded up after two creditor groups, including
Paulson & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., filed rival
plans.The defunct investment bank has now paid creditors half of
the $65 billion it aims to raise.  The MF Global creditors supporting the plan filed yesterday
hold about $788 million of the $1.2 billion of the company’s
loans outstanding, and $647 million of its $1 billion in notes,
according to the disclosure statement. A hearing on the
statement is set for Feb. 14.  Bankruptcy Trustee  Professional fees and expenses are eroding the assets left
for MF Global creditors, according to the group’s filings.
Bankruptcy lawyers and advisers have put in bills for
$48.7 million, of which about $27.2 million was unpaid on
Nov. 30. The hedge funds’ plan, if approved, would allow the
administrator “any and all reasonable fees, costs and
expenses.”  Louis Freeh , the former  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
director serving as MF Global’s trustee, has been unwinding the
company under Chapter 11 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  in an
effort to repay creditors.  James Giddens is separately liquidating the brokerage, MF
Global Inc., to repay customers under the Securities Investor
Protection Act. Each trustee has conducted his own probe into
how the company failed and they have sometimes been at odds over
whether certain sums belong to creditors or brokerage customers.  Affiliates Settle  Freeh and administrators of MF Global Holdings’ U.K. arm
last month settled claims with Giddens. The agreements require
approval from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn.  “These settlements removed a series of substantial
obstacles to the resolution of the debtors’ financial affairs,”
the creditors said in the disclosure statement.  Lewis Goldberg, a spokesman for Freeh, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the liquidation plan.  Former customers of the U.K. arm will get about 60 percent
of their money returned after the settlement, its administrators
said. Unsecured creditors are set to receive a payment of about
20 percent of the value of their claims following the agreement.  Giddens has paid the U.S.-based brokerage’s U.S. and
foreign customers about $4.9 billion since it failed. Excluding
$500 million from the proposed U.K. accord, he had $1.2 billion
in hand, out of $1.4 billion in remaining assets, according to
data through Oct. 31.  Commodity customers shouldn’t expect to get paid in full
unless Giddens wins key legal battles, he said in December.  The case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  