-- Facebook Surges as Mobile Ad Growth Seen Over Next Year
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/facebook-surges-as-mobile-ad-growth-seen-over-next-year.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is climbing back from
a stock plunge last year that made it one of the worst
performing technology initial public offerings of 2012.  The shares set a six-month high yesterday, advancing 1.3
percent to $31.72 in  New York . As concerns ease over the social
network’s ability to boost revenue, the stock has rebounded 79
percent from a record low in September.  Facebook is still in the early stages of developing ads for
users who access the social network via mobile devices instead
of desktops, Doug Anmuth, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
wrote in a research report yesterday. Features such as Facebook
Exchange, which helps companies target ads based on users’ past
Web activities, will help boost sales this year, he said.  “We expect continued ad growth acceleration,” Anmuth
said. “We do not believe Facebook shares are well-owned.”  Shares may also be gaining from speculation that Facebook
could use an event scheduled for Jan. 15 to assuage user
concerns about ad policy changes for its Instagram photo-sharing
service, according to  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities.  A proposal letting advertisers display user names and
images in marketing materials was scrapped last month. Many
people threatened to leave Instagram before the plans were to
take effect on Jan. 16.  Instagram Integration  “Because of the timing, I think there’s going to be some
kind of Facebook-Instagram integration,” Pachter said in an
interview. “The announcement will clear up the confusion about
the terms of use.”  Some investors are also anticipating that the event may
relate to a new Web search or advertising platform, said John Blackledge, an analyst at Cowen & Co.  Before rebounding, Facebook had lost more than half of its
value since selling shares at $38 apiece in an initial public
offering in May. Investors fretted about the prospects for
growth with an untested mobile advertising service that had only
been started in March.  About 60 percent of the more than 1 billion Facebook
members accessed the social network via mobile devices at the
end of the third quarter, compared with about 47 percent a year
earlier. Investors were reassured in October when Facebook said
about 14 percent of advertising sales were already coming from
smartphones and tablets.  Mobile Push  Spending on mobile now makes up a fifth of total
advertising on Facebook, according to Kenshoo Ltd., a provider
of technology that helps companies buy online advertising.
Facebook gets 70 percent more for mobile ads than it does with
its counterparts on desktops, helped by fewer ad spots being
available on the smaller mobile devices.  Companies are ramping up spending as they see an impact
from advertising on Facebook, said Aaron Goldman, chief
marketing officer for Kenshoo. Big brands are spending more
consistently on the service instead of one-time campaigns, he
said.  “Overall, Facebook has a lot of momentum,” Goldman said.
“People are starting to realize, ‘I need an always-on
strategy.’”  Facebook will post third-quarter results Jan. 30. The
company should  report  sales rose 34 percent to $1.51 billion in
the fourth quarter from the year-ago period, faster than the
growth rate of 32 percent in the two previous quarters,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  