-- Fed’s Plosser Says Stimulus May Backfire, Fuel Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-01-11T17:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/fed-s-plosser-says-stimulus-may-backfire-fuel-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank’s record
stimulus risks a surge in inflation and may impair efforts by
households to repair their finances.  “Attempts to increase economic ‘stimulus’ may not help
speed up the process and may actually prolong it,” Plosser said
in the text of a speech today in Somerset,  New Jersey .  Policy makers are discussing how long they will keep buying
mortgage bonds and Treasuries as part of efforts to boost growth
and bring down a 7.8 percent unemployment rate. The Fed last
month linked its interest-rate outlook to economic thresholds,
saying borrowing costs will stay low “at least as long” as
joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if projected inflation won’t
go beyond 2.5 percent one or two years in the future.  “Efforts to drive real rates more negative or promises to
keep rates low for a long time may have frustrated households’
efforts to rebuild their balance sheets without stimulating
aggregate demand or consumption,” said Plosser, who doesn’t
vote on monetary policy this year. He has repeatedly criticized
Fed easing for risking higher inflation and jeopardizing the
central bank’s credibility, and said the latest stimulus steps
do little to boost growth.  Low interest rates reduce returns for savers and do little
to encourage businesses to expand payrolls or invest in new
ventures, Plosser said.  ‘Highest Value’  “Monetary policy  accommodation  that lowers interest rates
is unlikely to stimulate firms to hire and invest until a
significant amount of the uncertainty has been resolved,” he
said. “Firms have the resources to invest and hire, but they
are uncertain as to how to put those resources to their highest
valued use.”  An increase in the benchmark  interest rate  is
“conceivable” in 2014, Plosser said to reporters after the
speech. Such a move would be a year earlier than the 2015 date
Fed officials had announced before switching to thresholds for
unemployment and inflation.  The move away from dates is a “step forward” in Fed
communications, though may invite “a fixation” on specific
unemployment and inflation reports rather than a broader view of
economic data, Plosser said. The Fed shouldn’t change the
numerical thresholds, a change that would be “terribly
confusing,” he said.  Market Distortions  The Fed is looking for evidence of distortions in financial
markets that may stem from a lengthy period of low interest
rates and asset purchases, the Philadelphia Fed chief said.
Businesses need to be alert to accumulating too much risk from a
potential rise in interest rates over time, he said.  Plosser also said he is encouraged by signs U.S
manufacturing may pick up after a period of sluggish growth.  In response to audience questions, Plosser said he favored
halting additional bond purchases because their benefits are
“pretty meager” and “there are lots of risks” including
disruptions in the economy.  “The more of these assets we have, the more complicated
the exit strategy will be,” he said.  The Fed may need to slow or halt bond buying this year as
the economy makes “modest progress,” Plosser said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  “Given where we are, I think I would not be surprised if
we face the choice of having to rein in the purchases sometime
during this year,” Plosser said in the broadcast interview.  Stocks Fell  U.S. stocks fell, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced to a five-year high. The  S&P 500  fell 0.1 percent to
1,470.99 at 11:57 a.m. New York time.  Plosser reiterated his view that unemployment will drop to
near 7 percent by year’s end and the U.S. growth rate will pick
up this year to about 3 percent, which he said was “at the high
end” among Fed policy makers.  The  U.S. economy  may expand at a 2 percent pace in 2013
after a 2.3 percent gain last year, according to the median
forecast among economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month.  “Inflation expectations will be relatively stable and
inflation will remain at moderate levels in the near term,”
Plosser said. “However, with the very accommodative stance of
monetary policy in place for more than four years now, we must
guard against the medium- and longer-term risks of inflation.”  Inflation as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 1.4 percent in November from a
year earlier. The Fed aims for price acceleration of 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  