-- Fidelity, Federated Cement Money Fund Shift on Values
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-11T21:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/fidelity-joins-money-fund-providers-giving-daily-asset-values.html
Fidelity Investments and  Federated
Investors Inc. (FII)  will make daily disclosures of the values of
money-market mutual funds, cementing an industry shift to
greater transparency in a product regulators say poses a threat
to financial stability.  Fidelity, the biggest provider with almost $430 billion,
will reveal the previous day’s closing value for all its funds
beginning Jan. 16, the Boston-based company said today in a
 statement . Federated will do the same for five funds that invest
in commercial paper by Jan. 25, Meghan McAndrew, a spokeswoman
for the Pittsburgh-based firm, said in an interview.  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  will start providing daily values later this
quarter, the San Fransisco-based firm said today in a statement.  Companies managing $1.5 trillion in money-fund assets, or
more than half the U.S. market, have introduced the change in
the past three days, increasing the pressure on the rest of the
industry to follow. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was the first to
take the step on Jan. 9, followed the same day by JPMorgan Chase
& Co.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   “The companies are hearing from their client base, and
investors who shop among different funds want them to be on a
level playing field in terms of transparency,” Michael Krasner,
managing editor at money-fund research firm iMoneyNet in
Westborough, Massachusetts, said in an interview.  Goldman Sachs’s decision caught competitors by surprise and
angered some, said people from three money-fund providers who
asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter. The voluntary shift means that the
industry has given away a bargaining chip in the ongoing fight
over money fund regulation, the people said.  Schapiro’s Plan  Regulators led by former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro have worked to impose tighter
restrictions on money funds since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its closure triggered a
wider run on funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC enacted new rules in 2010 that introduced liquidity
minimums, reduced the average maturity of holdings and set
higher standards for credit quality.  Schapiro has since argued that funds are still prone to
investor runs that can destabilize financial markets. Her plan
to make the funds stronger would have required that funds either
abandon their fixed $1 share price or adopt capital buffers to
protect against losses and withdrawal restrictions to discourage
rapid investor redemptions. Money-fund providers have argued
that abandoning the $1 share price would destroy the appeal of
the product.  A majority of SEC commissioners blocked the plan in August
saying they wanted to see a more detailed study of the possible
impact of those changes and of restrictions introduced in 2010.  FSOC Process  A senior panel of regulators, the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, began a process in November by which it can
pressure SEC commissioners to reconsider the elements of
Schapiro’s plan. The panel includes the chairmen of the SEC and
Federal Reserve, and is headed by the Treasury Secretary. Public
comments on the panel’s draft recommendations to the SEC are due
by Jan. 18.  Executives from companies including Fidelity and BlackRock
jointly proposed their own plan to SEC commissioners in October
for bolstering funds. It called for the industry to restrict
withdrawals for funds that come under stress. It also offered to
increase fund disclosure by revealing market values on a weekly
basis with a five-day lag.  Money-market funds buy short-term debt securities and book
them based on their expected value at maturity. They also round
their share prices to the nearest 1 cent. Those practices
obscure small fluctuations in the funds’ underlying holdings.  ‘Shadow NAV’  The SEC’s 2010 changes forced funds to disclose each fund’s
market value, or “shadow NAV,” on a monthly basis with a 60-
day lag. Fidelity was among firms that initially opposed the
change, saying it could confuse investors.  Federated’s largest fund included in the change is its $49
billion Prime Obligations Fund. The firm will consider daily
disclosures for additional funds “depending on client demand,”
McAndrew said.  “Up until this week, there had been no client demand,”
she said.  Federated is the third-biggest U.S. money-fund manager with
$243 billion in assets as of Dec. 31, according to research firm
Crane Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Charles Schwab’s investment unit manages about $165 billion
in U.S. money-market fund assets, making it the fifth-biggest
provider in the U.S., according to Crane Data.  “This will help investors understand what’s going on with
their money funds,” Joan Swirsky, an attorney at Philadelphia
law firm Stradley, Ronon, Stevens & Young LLP who specializes in
money fund oversight, said in an interview. “Yet, when things
go bad they go bad very quickly, so it remains to be seen how
much of a warning this will really provide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  