-- Filthy Street Urchins, Angelic Kids Duke It Out
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/filthy-street-urchins-angelic-kids-duke-it-out.html
I don’t often get to  Newark , but a
potentially racy show got my attention.  “Angels & Tomboys: Girlhood in 19th-Century American Art”
at the Newark Museum promised “childhood androgyny,”
“beautiful daughters captured unaware” and “enigmatic and
disturbing girlhood images of family members...which reveal the
complexity of the artists’ personal responses to the young girls
who model for them.”  How could you not be just a little bit curious?  The strong, small museum, easy to get to by train, is a
short walk from the station. Along with the usual amenities, it
has some powerful pictures by Arshile Gorky, a planetarium and
rich collections of ancient and Asian art. Most impressive is
its attached wing, the 19th-century, 27-room Ballantine mansion
of the celebrated Newark beer-brewing clan.  “Angels & Tomboys,” which travels on to  Memphis  and then
to the  Crystal Bridges Museum  in  Arkansas , is a crowd-pleaser. I
could see why, when face-to-face with the doe-eyed adolescent
angel with huge wings splayed against a blue sky who lures you
like a siren into the show.  Abbott Handerson Thayer painted her in 1887 and she is
typical of the idealized female of the time.  Sexualized Children  While the exhibition’s subtext seems to be “Thank Heaven
for Little Girls,” some sexualized portraits of children may
raise an eyebrow.  Two such paintings by Seymour Joseph Guy focus a little too
intently on bare-breasted tweens and reveal more about the
painter than his daughters.  More than 75 percent of the work is post-Civil War, when
Victorian piety was being shaken, yet cultural shifts were
countered by sentimental views of girls as beatific, submissive
and domestic -- representative of our innocence, our salvation.  Playing to a longing for simpler times, most of the artists
here treat females as symbolic or allegorical props -- docile
dressed-up dolls posed in interiors and fields of flowers.  Exceptions occur when the work moves beyond doting and
sermonizing. In William J. McCloskey’s narrative painting
“Feeding Dolly (If You Don’t Eat It, I’ll Give it to Doggie)”
(1890), solitary play time takes on sinister implications,
especially when you notice that Doggie looks frightened and
Dolly appears nearly decapitated.  Savvy Siblings  Cecilia Beaux’s “Portrait of Harold and Mildred Colton”
(1887) depicts two young siblings -- she clenching an apple, he
with a whip -- as savvy adults.  Budding sexuality is best here when subtly explored. In
Frank Weston Benson’s “Gertrude” (1899), the dreaming sitter’s
hands slip suggestively low in her opening lap.  A milkmaid’s full pail and the young farmer’s long, tilted
hoe evoke palpable erotic tension between the two adolescents in
Winslow Homer’s “A Temperance Meeting (Noon Time)” (1874).  John George Brown’s melodramatic image of a “tomboy”
excited by a boy’s rifle is less intriguing than an unknown
artist’s androgynous depiction of a young, stern boy wearing a
dress and carrying a whip.  Playing Horsey  Far more compelling is Charles Dana Gibson’s print “The
Nursery” (1906), in which a pleased-looking girl with a doll
dominates the submissive boy, who is on his hands and knees
playing horsey. (It is worth noting that the artist’s “Gibson
Girl” helped emancipate women.)  Comprising more than 80 paintings, prints, photographs and
sculptures, “Angels & Tomboys” would have benefited enormously
had it branched out to  Europe  and included children’s portraits
by Corot and Renoir, and also extended further into the 20th
century, featuring Balthus, the preeminent master of the
adolescent.  The show does not completely live up to the hype. Still, it
is full of variety and surprises. Strong portrait photographs of
street urchins by Jacob Riis give it sobering ballast and
context.  They are among the show’s best and most honest artworks, in
which the wide-ranging truths and raw mischief of childhood win
out over sentimentality every time.  “Angels & Tomboys: Girlhood in 19th-Century American Art”
has been extended through Jan. 20 at the Newark Museum, 49
Washington St., Newark,  New Jersey . Information: +1-973-596-
6550;  http://www.newarkmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 