-- First Quantum Confident Inmet Holders to Follow Leucadia’s Lead
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-01-11T13:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/first-quantum-confident-inmet-holders-to-follow-leucadia-s-lead.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) 
said it’s confident other investors will follow the lead of
 Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) ’s biggest shareholder and back its C$5.1
billion ($5.2 billion) hostile bid.  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , which owns a 16 percent stake in
Inmet, said yesterday it plans to tender shares in the Canadian
mining company in support of First Quantum’s takeover proposal.
First Quantum took the C$72-a-share offer in cash and stock
straight to Inmet investors on Jan. 9 after twice being snubbed
by the Toronto-based company’s board.  “We welcome the support of Inmet’s largest shareholder,”
First Quantum President  Clive Newall  said today in a phone
interview. “We are confident that a large number of
shareholders share our excitement in the prospects for the
combined group and confident that many more of them will follow
suit.”  First Quantum is seeking to gain control of Inmet’s copper
project in Panama to create one of the world’s five largest
producers of the metal. Its offer requires acceptance by holders
of 66 percent of Inmet shares.  “Inmet’s board has not yet announced whether it will
recommend the offer, but this announcement will likely put
pressure on the board to recommend,” Nomura International Plc
wrote in a note today.  Inmet, which has until Jan. 24 to respond to First
Quantum’s latest approach, said earlier in the week it will
evaluate the bid “carefully” and also examine other strategic
options, some of which pre-date First Quantum’s approach.  Tender Shares  Leucadia, a New York-based holding company, said in a
statement it intends to tender its shares “in the absence of
changed circumstances or new information” including another
transaction that would provide greater value.  Inmet stockholders are being offered First Quantum shares,
cash, or a combination of both resulting in a total mix of about
50 percent in shares and 50 percent in cash. The cash component
of the latest offer will be financed through existing cash
resources, undrawn financing facilities of $1.25 billion and a
$2.5 billion acquisition facility provided by Standard Chartered
Bank, First Quantum has said.  First Quantum’s offer is 36 percent more than Inmet’s
closing price on Nov. 27, the day before Inmet said it rejected
two previous unsolicited proposals from First Quantum. Inmet
shareholders have until Feb. 14 to decide whether to back it.  While Inmet’s Cobre  Panama  copper project will cost about
$6.2 billion and produce an average of 266,000 metric tons a
year, First Quantum is developing the Sentinel copper project in
Zambia which will produce as much as 300,000 tons of copper by
the end of 2014 at a cost of about $1.7 billion.  Own Staff  First Quantum has said costs are lower than at Cobre Panama
mainly because it’s using its own staff rather than outsourcing
the project.  “All of the shareholders we talked to can see the vision
of creating a new go-to copper company and can see all the
merits of the transaction in that regard,” Newall said today.
“The shareholders of course question the ability to reduce the
capital cost and whether they can rely on us to deliver that and
we are confident that we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  