-- Florida Orange-Crop Forecast Reduced as Disease Spoils Fruit
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-01-11T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/florida-orange-crop-forecast-reduced-as-disease-spoils-fruit.html
The  orange  crop in  Florida , the
world’s second-biggest grower, will be 2.7 percent smaller
than forecast in December, the government said as a plant
disease damaged groves. The drop was bigger than analysts
expected.  The state will produce 142 million boxes of the fruit
in the nine-month season ending in June, down from 146
million forecast a month ago, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a report. The average estimate of
eight analysts and traders in a Bloomberg News survey was
145.16 million boxes. Florida produced 146.6 million boxes
in the previous season.  “The amount of fruit per tree is lower, and fruit
size is also down,”  Jimmy Tintle , chief executive officer
at GreenKey Alternative Asset Services in Longwood,
Florida, said in a telephone interview before the report
was issued. The plant disease, called citrus greening,
“has been spreading for years and is cutting into
production,” he said.  The bacterial disease, first found in the state in
2005, starves a tree of nutrients, causing fruit to drop
prematurely. Oranges are often smaller, especially in
younger trees.  Orange-juice plummeted 46 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday amid slowing demand in the U.S. and
rising supplies, fed by increasing imports. The March
contract rose 0.3 percent to $1.128 a pound at 9:51 a.m. on
ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  on expectations that the
government would reduce its forecast for Florida’s crop.  Yields in Florida will average 1.61 gallons per box,
down from 1.63 gallons a year earlier, the USDA said.  A box weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Brazil  is the
biggest orange producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  