-- Forint Slides to Seven-Month Low on Matolcsy Currency Comments
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-11T16:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/forint-heads-for-seven-month-low-on-minister-currency-comments.html
The forint slumped for a second day,
touching a seven-month low, after Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Hungary should avoid using currency strength to
fight the European Union’s fastest inflation.  Hungary’s currency depreciated as much as 1.4 percent to
297.27 against the euro, the weakest since June 14. It was down
1 percent to 296 at 4:24 p.m. in Budapest. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 17 basis points, or
0.17 percentage point, to 6.28 percent, the highest since Dec.
19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country must reject “traditional” economic models
including policies of previous governments that kept the forint
strong to control inflation and allowed the  budget deficit  to
widen, Matolcsy wrote in his weekly column in the Heti Valasz
newspaper yesterday. The minister has been named a potential
successor to central bank President Andras Simor, whose term
ends in March, according to media reports including the Index
news website.  “These comments indicate that the new central bank
president will be tasked with finding new ways of monetary
easing, which leads to forint depreciation,” Andrej Taraczky,
head of foreign-currency trading at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. in
Budapest, said by telephone, adding that today’s slump was
caused by Matolcsy’s comments.  ‘Unorthodox Tools’  Hungary’s central bank, which cut  interest rates  for five
consecutive months through December, should “bravely use
unorthodox tools” to support economic growth, Matolcsy said in
an interview with Budapest-based HirTV last month. The country’s
inflation rate stood at 5.2 percent in November.  “If on top of that he says they want an outright weaker
forint, that will determine the direction of trading,” Taraczky
said.  The Debt Management Agency raised 50 percent more debt than
planned at the first bond auction of 2013 yesterday as 10-year
yields fell to the lowest in seven years on expectation of
further monetary easing in Hungary.  The European Central Bank yesterday held off from further
measures to fight recession, keeping its benchmark interest rate
at 0.75 percent in a unanimous decision a month after calls for
a cut from some of its Governing Council.  The expected narrowing in  Hungary ’s interest premium over
the euro area caused additional losses in the forint, Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based economist at Erste Group Bank AG,
wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  