-- France’s Axa Plans Dollar Bond as Bond Sales Hit Six-Month High
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-11T04:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/france-s-axa-plans-dollar-bond-as-bond-sales-hit-six-month-high.html
Axa SA (CS)  and Yuexiu Property Co. plan
to meet investors in Asia about possible U.S. dollar-denominated
notes as weekly sales in the Asia-Pacific region rose to a six-
month high. Bond risk in the region fell.  Axa,  Europe ’s second-largest insurer and Yuexiu, a Hong
Kong-listed property developer, are planning Reg S dollar bonds,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Agile Property
Holdings Ltd. (3383) , a realtor based in  Guangzhou , southern  China , is
marketing perpetual securities at about 8.375 percent. Hong Kong
Broadband Network Ltd. is offering five-year bonds to yield 5.25
to 5.375 percent, people familiar with the matter said.  Average yield premiums on dollar bonds in Asia slid to a
20-month low of  245 basis points  more than Treasuries this week,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Asia-Pacific bond
sales have surged to $12.7 billion, the most for any week since
the one ended July 15, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “The year end was punctuation and now deals just resume,”
said Edwin Chan, the head of Asian credit research at UBS AG.
“Low interest rates are certainly one enticement for corporates
to issue in the U.S. dollar universe and also demand draws
supply.”  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS) , a Philippines conglomerate with
interests in real estate, textiles and consumer foods, is also
planning a U.S. dollar bond sale, and hired Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
transaction, according to a company stock exchange disclosure.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  retreated one basis point to 103 basis
points as of 8:17 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices. The measure has declined 10 basis
points this year, after falling 93 basis points in 2012,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell three basis points to
135 as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup prices show. The
benchmark is on track for its lowest close since August 2011,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased one basis point
to 112 as of 11:13 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The gauge has fallen 15.5 basis points since Dec.
31, extending a 53 basis-point drop in 2012, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  