-- France Joins Fight in Mali Against Islamist Militants
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-12T11:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/french-forces-acting-in-mali-against-rebels-hollande-says.html
French military forces intervened in
support of the Malian army to stem a renewed offensive by
Islamist rebels in the northern part of the West African nation,
President Francois Hollande said.  The Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas,
today ordered the early deployment of a multinational African-
led force approved by the United Nations to help  Mali ’s
military, the 15-nation group said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are defending a population under threat,” Hollande
said in a one-minute televised statement late yesterday. “The
French forces will remain as long as necessary.”  Hollande didn’t say whether the intervention involved
ground or air operations. In a later press conference, Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius said the French Air Force conducted
raids and wouldn’t confirm whether French forces were involved.  French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian talked yesterday
with U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, according to an
American defense official who spoke on the condition of
anonymity due to the diplomatic nature of the conversation. The
French have asked for support and U.S. officials are weighing
options, the official said.  After months of relative stability, Islamist rebels who
control the north of the country this week began an offensive
that captured the central town of Kona, 30 kilometers (19 miles)
north of Mopti, the last Malian military outpost before the
rebel-controlled region.  State of Emergency  The army is in the process of retaking the town, Colonel
Diarran Kone, an army spokesman, said by phone late yesterday.
The town is home to 50,000 people, according to the United
Nations.  Malian Interim President Dioncounda Traore declared a state
of emergency on national television yesterday. Companies
operating in the country, including mining and telephone
businesses, should “contribute to the fight” financially,
Traore said in a speech.  The timing of the Ecowas deployment was unclear, spokesman
Sunny Ugoh said today by telephone from Abuja, Nigeria’s
capital. The Abuja-based body in November agreed to send in
3,300 soldiers.  “The specifics are not there,” he said. “We need to talk
to member states and see what they have decided to send.”  Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore said yesterday his
country will send troops, without specifying when or how many.
Nigeria, which is contributing troops to the Ecowas force, has
yet to send its soldiers into Mali, Defence Ministry spokesman
Colonel Mohammed Yerima said by telephone from Abuja.  Al-Qaeda Connection  Hollande said France’s military actions are covered by a
Dec. 21 UN Security Council resolution that approved a West
African military operation to retake the north. The West African
force, which is to be trained by the European Union, is still
being formed. Malian Defense Ministry adviser Colonel Abdramane
Baby said yesterday that Nigerian and Senegalese military forces
had arrived in the country.  Traore sent a letter to Hollande and UN Secretary General
Ban Ki-moon Jan. 10 requesting military assistance, according to
 Gerard Araud , the French ambassador to the UN.  “Our goal in this operation is to stop the progress of the
terrorist forces toward the south,” Fabius said. “Their aim
was to take over all of Mali and turn it into a terrorist
state.”  Former Colony  Before the intervention, France had 14 military personnel
in Mali under a cooperation agreement with its former colony.
France also has military bases in Senegal, Djibouti and Gabon
and recently deployed forces in Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso, Chad
and Niger as part of various missions.  Hollande said he’d inform French parliamentary leaders
about the military mission Jan. 14. Fabius said he’d consulted
with France’s allies including the U.S.,  Russia  and  Algeria .  Islamist groups, including the Movement for Unity and Jihad
in West Africa, Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north African unit,
took control of northern Mali, along with Touareg separatists,
last year following a military coup in March that left a power
vacuum in Bamako, the capital.  ‘Grave Concern’  The African Union “strongly” condemned the recent
offensive and said talks are under way to expedite the
deployment of the African-led force, according to a statement
distributed by the African Press Organization.  The UN Security Council met Jan. 10 and expressed “grave
concern” about attacks by “terrorist and extremist groups” in
Mali.  “This serious deterioration of the situation threatens
even more the stability and integrity of Mali and constitutes a
direct threat to international peace and security,” the council
said in a  statement .  In  Washington , U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said yesterday that “we echo the international
community’s condemnation of these recent aggressive acts.”  She said that the Malian government hasn’t asked for direct
U.S. support and that the U.S. is consulting with France.
Pentagon spokesman George Little didn’t respond to an e-mail
asking if French troops were on the ground in Mali.  Also yesterday, the French Foreign Ministry in a statement
advised its 6,000 citizens in Mali to leave the country.  The operation is the first time that Hollande, who
immediately after his May election acted to speed up the
withdrawal of French troops from  Afghanistan , has ordered French
military forces into action.  France ’s two main opposition parties, former President
Nicolas Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular Majority and the National
Front, issued statements saying they supported the intervention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  