-- GDF Says New Gas Pricing to End Disputes With French Government
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-11T14:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/gdf-says-new-gas-pricing-to-end-disputes-with-french-government.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  expects a new system of
adjusting regulated gas prices every month will end a series of
disputes between the former French monopoly and the government.  “We are at the right level that corresponds to our real
costs,” Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said after
tariffs rose on Jan. 1. The system “should end litigations.”  Regulated natural gas prices have caused friction between
GDF, the government and smaller suppliers seeking to compete. A
failure by successive administrations to allow prices to reflect
costs led to losses for GDF and difficulties for new entrants.
The revised method takes into account new contract terms between
the utility and long-term suppliers such as OAO Gazprom.  The share of supply indexed to spot market prices has risen
to 36 percent from 26 percent and may expand further as talks
begin with producers, Mestrallet said.  France ’s highest court,
the Conseil d’Etat, is expected to rule this month on whether
last year’s price gains allowed the utility to cover costs.  If the court decides in favor of the utility, as expected
in light of four previous rulings, the company will recoup the
shortfall from consumers over 18 months, Mestrallet said.  Failure by the government to raise tariffs sufficiently to
cover production expenses in the second half of 2012 cost the
company 185 million euros ($247 million), he said.  President Francois Hollande pledged to keep energy costs as
low as possible for consumers. Environment Minister Delphine
Batho said last month the new system would take politics out of
pricing by making adjustments automatic. The state can “take
things back in hand” in exceptional circumstances, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  