-- Global Regulators Weigh Benchmarks Overhaul Amid Rates Scandal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-11T11:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/global-regulators-weigh-benchmarks-overhaul-amid-rates-scandal.html
Global regulators sought to bolster
the way market benchmarks including Euribor are set, saying the
process raises concerns over “potential inaccuracy or
manipulation.”  The  International Organization of Securities Commissions 
said it’s seeking views on possible measures to overhaul the
setting and governance of such rates, according to a statement
on its website today.  Organizations in charge of setting benchmark rates should
seek to “verify the accuracy and plausibility” of the data
they receive from banks and other market participants, IOSCO
said. The group said it may draw up a code of conduct.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, must pay $1.5 billion
to U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for trying to rig global
interest rates. The sum is triple the penalties levied against
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , which agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($467
million) in June to resolve the U.S. and U.K.’s Libor and
Euribor regulatory probes.  Madrid-based IOSCO, which represents regulators in more
than 100 countries, last year responded to the interbank-rate
scandal by announcing a task force to investigate the setting
and governance of market benchmarks.  The task-force is led by Financial Services Authority
Managing Director Martin Wheatley and U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler.  Allowing rate-setting panels to select their own members
may “give rise to conflicts of interest,” IOSCO said.  The group will seek views on possible measures until Feb.
11. The review covers benchmarks across different “financial
sectors,” IOSCO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  