-- Goldman Sachs Private Wealth Sees 4% Hedge-Fund Returns
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-01-11T22:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/goldman-sachs-private-wealth-sees-4-hedge-fund-returns.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private-
wealth-management unit expects  hedge funds  to return an average
of 4 percent to 5 percent over the next five years as the
industry struggles amid low interest rates.  “Everybody hopes to get the five hedge funds, all of whom
are going to have 15 percent returns,” Sharmin Mossavar- Rahmani, chief investment officer of Goldman Sachs Private
Wealth Management’s Investment Strategy Group, said at a press
briefing today. “People need to be more realistic.”  The $2.19 trillion hedge-fund industry last year trailed
global stocks for the fifth time in seven years, posting a 6.7
percent gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWO)  returned 17 percent in 2012, and the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 16 percent.  Federal Reserve officials said last year they will keep
interest rates near zero as long as the jobless rate is above
6.5 percent and inflation is forecast to be 2.5 percent or less.
Previously they said they will keep rates low through at least
mid-2015.  Mossavar-Rahmani said investors are “overestimating” how
much hedge funds can return in excess of market indexes. While
some managers may do well, the low-interest-rate environment
makes it difficult to produce double-digit returns, she said.  “They don’t walk on water,” Mossavar-Rahmani said.  Equity funds and event-driven funds, those that invest in
companies undergoing transactions such as mergers or spinoffs,
may benefit if stock markets rise next year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  