-- Google Didn’t Lobby White House in FTC Case, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-01-12T01:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/google-didn-t-lobby-white-house-in-ftc-case-lawyer-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  didn’t lobby the White
House to persuade the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to close its
antitrust case, a lawyer for the world’s biggest search-engine
operator said, countering suggestions by a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
lawyer that political influence had played a role.  “I am completely confident that there was no request that
the White House intervene with the FTC,” the lawyer, Jonathan Jacobson of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC, said during an
American Bar Association panel discussion of the case today in
Washington in response to a question from the audience.  The FTC voted 5-0 on Jan. 3 to close its 20-month
investigation into whether Mountain View, California-based
Google unfairly skewed its search results. The company said it
would voluntarily remove restrictions on the use of its online
search-advertising platform and offer companies the option of
keeping their content out of Google’s search results.  The decision to close the probe without any enforcement
action was a blow to competitors including Microsoft,  Yelp Inc. (YELP) 
and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  An alliance of such e-commerce and Web-search
companies pressed the agency to bring a lawsuit, claiming
Google’s dominance of Internet search, combined with the company
favoring its own services in answers to consumer queries,
violated antitrust laws.  Google has risen 2.3 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market
since the FTC announced its decision. The  shares  declined $1.49
to $739.99 today.  ‘Extraordinary Reliance’  Charles “Rick” Rule, a lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham &
Taft LLP who represents Microsoft, said during the discussion
today that the decision, including the FTC’s “unprecedented and
extraordinary reliance on unilateral commitments,” was “so
inconsistent with antitrust precedent that it raises questions”
about whether political influence was a consideration.  Rule, who said Congress should consider looking at the
decision, also called on the antitrust division of the U.S.
Justice Department to “pick up the job of investigating
Google.” The Justice Department prosecuted a monopoly case
against Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft in 1998.  Former FTC Commissioner Tom Rosch, who voted with the other
four commissioners to close the probe without taking action on
the search-bias allegations, said during the panel discussion
that he “was not contacted or lobbied by the White House or
lobbyists.” Rosch left the FTC today upon the swearing-in of
his successor, Joshua Wright.  Consumer Protection  Rosch said he would have favored a combined antitrust and
consumer-protection case alleging Google misleads consumers when
it says it collects data about users to their benefit, because
he said the search engine is using the information to deliver
users advertisements targeted to their interests.  “Google’s entire business model is based on search-
advertising revenue,” Rosch said.  Google had resisted the FTC’s efforts to extract a consent
decree in the case, including sending Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  to Washington to meet with FTC officials, people
familiar with the matter said Nov. 28.  The company is in talks with the European Commission, which
has asked the company to make a proposal that would settle its
concerns about the placement of search results, among other
issues.  Investigations Continuing  The EU’s antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia has asked Google
to submit proposals by the end of January.  Investigations by state attorneys general in Texas and
 Ohio , among others, are also continuing.  The FTC did enter into a consent decree with Google over
its use of patents that cover key smartphone technology,
limiting Google’s ability to seek court orders barring
competitors’ products when the company has agreed to license its
technology on reasonable terms.  “The FTC did not take a pass on this as some critics
allege,” said Jacobson, the lawyer for Google. “The idea that
there was political interference is flatly wrong, and it’s a
great insult to the commission to suggest otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  