-- IBM, Ikea, MLS, Gazprom, Northrop: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-11T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/ibm-ikea-mls-gazprom-northrop-intellectual-property.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  racked up more U.S. patents than any other company for the
20th straight year, helped by increasing contributions from its
researchers in other countries.  IBM’s 6,478 patents in 2012 mark a record for the company,
research firm IFI Claims Patent Services said in a statement.
South Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Tokyo-based  Canon Inc. (7751) 
ranked second and third. Google Inc. took a spot in the top 50
for the first time, with 15 more patents than  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.  About 30 percent of IBM’s patents were produced by
inventors outside the U.S., up from 22 percent in 2010. Research
centers in  Germany ,  Japan ,  Canada , the U.K. and  Israel  were
especially productive, the Armonk, New York-based company said.
The percentage of its patents coming from overseas is expected
to continue growing as newer labs in Brazil and  Kenya  ramp up,
said Manny Schecter, IBM’s chief patent counsel.  “Intellectual property flows from where markets are
flourishing,” he said in an interview. “You’ll see upticks in
the amount of technology and intellectual property which we
generate outside the U.S.”  IBM’s flow of patents lets the computer-services giant
produce about $1 billion a year in licensing revenue. The
intellectual property also gives it the freedom to move into new
businesses with less risk of being sued over technology.  Still, some other technology companies get much higher
royalty revenue from a smaller number of patents.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
a designer of mobile-phone chips, made  $6.33 billion  in
technology licensing in the most recent fiscal year -- even
though it’s not in the top 10 of IFI’s list.  Apple, whose innovations helped revolutionize computing and
mobile phones, also isn’t one of the biggest recipients of U.S.
patents. The maker of the iPhone and iPad spends about half as
much as IBM on research and development.  Even so, Apple made gains in this year’s list, jumping to
No. 22 from 39th place. Google, Apple’s biggest rival in
smartphone software, rose to 21st place. Both companies are
embroiled in  lawsuits  over intellectual property -- along with
other mobile-phone makers such as Samsung -- giving them more
incentive to increase their store of patents.  IBM, which has more than 430,000 employees worldwide,
invests about $6 billion in R&D each year. With more than 67,000
patents since 1993, about half of which are active, it is easier
for the company to avoid courtrooms, Schecter has said. Eight
thousand inventors in 46 states and 35 countries contributed to
last year’s patents.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  EU’s Almunia Says Google May Be Diverting Traffic to Its Sites  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s dominance of the Web-search market in Europe
concerns regulators there, despite the company’s recent
settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Joaquin
Almunia told the Financial Times in an  interview .  Almunia, the European Commission vice president with the
 responsibility for competition , said an investigation of
Mountain View, California-based Google is continuing and “my
conviction is that they are diverting traffic” to their own
sites, the Financial Times reported.  He has said that he will give the search-engine company
until the end of January to come up with a settlement that will
assuage antitrust concerns, according to the Financial Times.  Almunia said Google officials are handling the European
Commission’s investigation better than other antitrust targets
in the past, and that the company “has learned the way these
kind of cases should be done,” the Financial Times reported.  Ikea’s Planned India Expansion May Hit Trademark Roadblocks  Ikea of Sweden AB’s plans to open retail stores in  India 
may face trademark roadblocks, India’s Business Standard
 reported.   According to the newspaper, three Indian companies
registered with that country’s Registrar of Companies to use the
same brand name.  Ikea Home Decor Private Ltd., a furniture manufacturer, has
been registered since July 2011, and two other Indian companies
have earlier registration dates than that, the Business Standard
reported.  Although the Swedish furniture giant could go to Indian
courts and claim the registrants were trying to trade on Ikea’s
goodwill and fame, this could take a long time if the other
companies have actually registered trademarks, Business Standard
reported.  MLS Application to Register ‘Cascadia Cup’ Mark Irk Soccer Fans  Major League Soccer has responded to Pacific Northwest
soccer fans’ concerns over a trademark application by promising
to meet three fan groups, the SounderAtHeart.com blog  reported .  The league is seeking to register “Cascadia Cup” as a
trademark, even though fan groups own the  trophy  and came up
with the idea for the award, according to the blog.  The application was filed with the aim of halting potential
exploitation of the term “by parties unaffiliated with the
league and its supporters,” the league said in a statement, the
blog reported.  The league said it understood there were some fan concerns
about how the use of the mark would be managed, and hoped the
forthcoming meeting with the leadership of the fan groups would
assuage fears, according to the blog.  Brabham Name, Trademark Back in Auto-Racing Family’s Hands  A German court has resolved a trademark dispute between a
family associated with Formula 1 auto racing and a German who
registered the family’s name in Germany, the Motorsport.com
auto-racing news blog  reported .  Registration of the Brabham trademarks have now reverted to
the family, which includes triple Formula 1 World Champion  Jack
Brabham , according to Motorsport.com.  A third generation of racing Brabham’s is “coming up
through the ranks,” David Brabham told Motorsports.com, and the
ruling will “help future plans for the Brabham brand.”  A monitoring system has been set up to look for any
attempts worldwide to register the Brabham name without the
family’s consent, Motorsport.com reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Gazprom Unit, Rostelecom Sued Over Use of Blur Song in TV Ad  Gazprom OAO (GAZP) ’s NTV unit and Russian telecommunications
operator Rostelecom were sued for copyright infringement over
alleged unauthorized use of “ Song2 ” from the British band
 Blur , the Russian International News Agency  reported .  The court has been asked to force Rostelecom to publish the
text of an earlier infringement ruling related to the music’s
copyright, and to order payments of $115,100 from Rostelecom and
$16,435 from NTV, according to the news agency.  Rostelecom was accused of using the song in an
advertisement, and NTV was sued for allegedly running that ad on
its television channel, the news agency reported.  The suit was filed by SGBA Music Publishing, a unit of Gala
Records,  Russia ’s first privately owned music recording company,
according to the news agency.  Faulkner Literary Rights, Northrop Grumman Settle Dispute  A copyright-infringement lawsuit brought by the owners of
the rights to the late  William Faulkner ’s work against  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  has been settled, according to a court filing.  Faulkner Literary Rights LLC sued the Falls Church,
Virginia-based defense contractor for copyright infringement in
federal court in Jackson,  Mississippi , in October. The rights
holder objected to the use of a Faulkner quote in an
advertisement.  “We must be free, not because we claim freedom, but
because we practice it,” is taken from a 1956 Faulkner essay,
“On Fear: The South in Labor,” according to court papers. The
Faulkner rights holder claims the quote was used without
permission.  Nobel laureate Faulkner, a novelist who wrote about his
native Mississippi, died in 1962. He was also the winner of two
Pulitzer Prizes.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed. According to the
court filing, each party was to pay its own litigation costs,
including legal fees.  The case is Faulkner Literary Rights LLC v. Northrop
Grumman Corp., 12-cv-00732, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Mississippi (Jackson).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Fish & Richardson Hires Two IP Litigators From Goodwin Procter  Fish & Richardson PC hired two new members for its IP
litigation group, the Boston-based firm said in a  statement .  The new hires --  R. David Hosp  and  Mark S. Puzella  --
joined from Goodwin Procter LLP, also a Boston firm.  Hosp and Puzella both handle copyright, trademark, false-
advertising and licensing disputes. Among clients they have
represented are Aereo Inc., Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, New
Balance Athletic Shoe Inc., Monotype Imaging Inc. and Iconics
Inc.  Puzella has an undergraduate degree from Wesleyan
University and a law degree from Northwestern University. Hosp
has an undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College and a law
degree from George Washington University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 