-- Middle East Solar Market to Reach 3.5 Gigawatts by 2015
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-01-11T19:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/middle-east-solar-market-to-reach-3-5-gigawatts-by-2015.html
Developers are expected to install
about 3.5 gigawatts of solar power in the Middle East and North
Africa in 2015, up from 149 megawatts that will be installed
this year, driven by government support across the region and
booming growth in Saudi Arabia and  Turkey , according to GTM
Research.  Demand for photovoltaic and solar-thermal systems will grow
slowly and then skyrocket in 2015 when “the large bulk” of
projects from a Saudi program will go into operation, Scott
Burger, an analyst with the Boston-based research company, said
today in an interview.  Saudi Arabia will account for a third of the region’s
demand in 2015 and Turkey about a quarter, according to GTM’s
Middle East and North Africa Solar Market Outlook  report 
released yesterday. Solar manufacturers including  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  and LDK Solar Co. are seeking new markets as sales
slowed in  Europe  and a global glut drove  prices  down 61 percent
in the past two years.  Panel makers are “desperate for demand anywhere they can
get it,” said Burger. “When Saudi Arabia says that they’re
going to install a lot, they get really excited,” he said.  The country won’t deliver significant solar sales for a few
years, he said. “Realistically, we’re not going to see any
significant demand until 2015 at the earliest.”  Saudi Arabia  The government has set a goal of having 41 gigawatts of
installed solar capacity by 2032, from nothing now. “Saudi
Arabia will be the Saudi Arabia of solar energy,” according to
the report.  Many governments in the region subsidize fossil fuels. For
example, Saudi Arabia provides electricity producers with oil at
about $5 a barrel, said Burger. That’s lower than the $93.35
price of crude for February delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange at 1:48 p.m. today.  Solar can’t compete against such low-cost electricity, so
policy is essential in most markets in the region, said Burger
It also presents an opportunity. “They want to conserve the oil
they burn for electricity” to sell on the international market,
Burger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  