-- Most Indian Stocks Drop as Factory Output Falls; Infosys Jumps
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-11T10:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/india-nifty-futures-rise-before-infosys-earnings-output-data.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks retreated, led by
industrials and consumer goods companies, as a contraction in
the nation’s factory output countered better-than-expected
earnings by  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)   About five shares fell for every one that increased on the
BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, which lost 0.1 percent to
19,639.34, according to preliminary closing prices in Mumbai.
The gauge fell 0.7 percent this week.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , India’s biggest
cigarette company and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the top
maker of power equipments, retreated more than 2 percent each.
Infosys, India’s second-largest software exporter, soared 17
percent after raising its full-year sales forecast.  Industrial  output  fell 0.1 percent in November from a year
earlier, government data showed. The median of 34 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.1 percent gain. Foreigners have
bought a net $1.4 billion of shares this year, more than three
times the level at the same time in 2012, exchange data show.
The Sensex closed near a two-year high on Jan. 8.  “While the market is being supported by liquidity from
foreign investors there are enough things to worry about on the
ground,” Dilip Bhat, joint managing director at Mumbai-based
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt., told Bloomberg TV India today.  The Sensex jumped 26 percent in 2012, its  biggest annual
gain  since 2009, as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh opened the
economy to more foreign investments in the past four months to
boost an  economy  growing at the slowest pace in three years and
to avert a credit-rating downgrade. The steps prompted offshore
funds to invest a net $24.5 billion into domestic shares last
year, the highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in  Mumbai  at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  