-- India Said to Tell Vodafone It’s Ready for Tax Settlement Talks
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-11T08:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/india-said-to-tell-vodafone-it-s-ready-for-tax-settlement-talks.html
India  has written to  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  saying it’s ready for talks to settle a $2.2 billion tax
dispute, a Finance Ministry official with direct knowledge of
the matter said, bringing the resolution of the clash closer.  The government replied yesterday to a letter from the
company that seeks an amicable settlement, the official said,
asking not to be named as the information isn’t public. The
administration may seek to waive interest and penalties on
levies, such as in Vodafone’s case, arising from changes to tax
laws applied retroactively, another official said, asking not to
be identified as he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  India’s recent push to lure foreign investment to revive an
economy facing  budget  and trade deficits has been hurt by the
spat with the second-largest mobile phone operator, amid concern
the nation’s tax laws have become more hostile. The company said
Jan. 6 that no tax is payable after the authorities sent a
reminder about the liability, which arises from the 2007
purchase of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s Indian assets.  Whether a waiver of interest and penalty charges is a way
to settle the argument between  Asia ’s No. 3 economy and the
Newbury, England-based business depends on Vodafone’s response
to such a proposal, according to one of the officials.  Vodafone has “said all along” that it wants to reach an
amicable settlement with the Indian government,  Ben Padovan , a
spokesman, said today.  The  Supreme Court  ruled in January last year that the
operator isn’t liable and dismissed the government’s case.
Former Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  amended the tax law in
March 2012’s budget to revive the claim.  Rare Cases  Vodafone’s Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford told
analysts in November that the company has decided against making
a tax provision for the potential bill.  An expert panel set up by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said in October that India should refrain from applying changes
to tax laws retroactively except in rare cases. If the
government still opts to levy such charges, the seller making
the gains should be liable, it said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who is due to
deliver the annual budget next month, has pledged to contain the
fiscal gap as he tries to boost confidence in India’s outlook.  He is planning a tour of Asia and  Europe  aimed at wooing
investors, four people with knowledge of the matter have said.
The  economy  may expand as little as 5.7 percent in the year
through March, the weakest pace in a decade, according to his
ministry.  U.S. trade and lobby groups have criticized the
retrospectively applied amendments, saying they may lead to
levies going as far back as 50 years and deter investment from
overseas. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has
said the changes could damage India’s investment climate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  