-- Indonesia May Cut Palm Oil Tax to Zero to Counter Malaysia
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-01-11T09:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/indonesia-may-reduce-palm-oil-tax-to-zero-to-counter-malaysia.html
Indonesia, the world’s largest palm
oil producer, is considering reducing export taxes to boost
competition with  Malaysia , which set its tariff for the crude
variety at zero this month to help clear record stockpiles.  “Ideally it should be at zero too,” Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  told reporters in Jakarta today. The possible reduction
“can be at any level, as long as it can help maintain the
downstream-industry development and our competitiveness,” he
said, referring to processors and refiners.  Enhanced competition from Indonesia for sales of the most-
used cooking oil may erode Malaysian exports, deepening a  bear
market  in crude palm oil in Kuala Lumpur while benefiting
importers such as  India  and  China . Malaysia’s reserves gained to
the highest ever last month, data showed yesterday, and
surveyors said exports fell in the first 10 days of January. The
two countries account for 87 percent of global shipments.  “Any price reduction will definitely be beneficial for an
importing country like India,” said B.V. Mehta, executive
director of the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India. “We
need to see the difference between crude and refined  palm oil  if
any tax reduction takes place. India would prefer to have a
lower duty on crude palm oil.”  The ministry has held talks the industry minister on the
tax issue, Wirjawan said. The Indonesian Palm Oil Association,
known as Gapki, has asked the government to cut the tax to avoid
losing market share in countries such as India that typically
buy more crude oil, Secretary-General Joko Supriyono said Jan. 8.  Zero Rate  The Malaysian government said in October it would cut its
export tax to 4.5 percent to 8.5 percent, from 23 percent, from
Jan. 1, to help reduce the  reserves . The tariff this month was
set at zero as the base price was below the 2,250 ringgit ($745)
threshold that triggers the 4.5 percent rate. Indonesia cut
taxes in 2011, making local crude palm cheaper than in Malaysia.
The Indonesian rate is set at 7.5 percent this month.  Palm oil on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the regional
benchmark, declined as much as 2.3 percent to 2,332 ringgit a
ton, the cheapest since Dec. 21, and traded at 2,364 ringgit at
5:28 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur . Most-active prices have dropped 27
percent over the past year.  November Exports  Shipments of palm and lauric oils from Indonesia surged 39
percent to 1.98 million tons in November from a month ago,
according to data from Gapki today. The November figure is the
highest since at least January 2008, the earliest data available
from the growers and refiners group. It was also higher than the
1.6 million tons estimated in a Bloomberg survey.  Exports of palm oil and its by-products represented about
92 percent of total shipments, or 1.83 million tons, according
to the data. Shipments in the first eleven months of 2012 rose
3.2 percent to 16.3 million tons, the data showed.  Shipments from  Indonesia  may rise to a record 20 million
tons this year, from an estimated 18.2 million tons last year,
Gapki said on Jan. 8. Output may expand 5.7 percent to 28
million tons, it said then.  Reserves in Malaysia expanded 2.4 percent to an all-time
high of 2.63 million tons last month, according to the figures
from the country’s palm oil board yesterday. That exceeded the
median estimate for a decline in holdings to 2.53 million tons,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  