-- Infosys Surges by Record on Higher Annual Sales Forecast
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-01-11T11:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/infosys-profit-beats-estimates-on-bank-manufacturer-outsourcing.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest
software exporter, surged by a record in Mumbai trading after
raising its full-year sales forecast.  The company jumped 17 percent, the most since the stock’s
debut in 1993, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
the largest gainer on the BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , followed by
competitors  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  Infosys increased its sales forecast about 3 percent to
407.5 billion rupees ($7.4 billion) as it reported better-than-
expected profit for the third quarter. The Bangalore-based
company signed eight large outsourcing deals in the period,
worth a total of $731 million, as it looks to boost volumes in
lower-cost projects.  “Infosys’s transformation strategy may be beginning to see
some results,” Suresh Mahadevan, managing director at UBS
Securities  India  Pvt., told Bloomberg TV India. Today’s numbers
“have been a positive surprise,” he said.  Net income  was 23.7 billion rupees in the three months
ended December, little changed from a year earlier, Infosys said
today. That surpassed the 22.4 billion-rupee median of 42
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company has a “strong pipeline of large deals” and is
“cautiously optimistic” about the current quarter, Infosys
Chief Executive Officer S. D. Shibulal said today.  U.S. Spending  In the U.S., the company is benefiting as the government
shifts its spending focus to health care and other civilian
services from defense, said Ashok Vemuri, the head of Infosys’s
business in the Americas.  “Across the board in America, we’ve seen good traction,”
Vemuri said. The government spending move “is good news for
us,” he said.  The software-services company closed at 2,712.10 rupees.
 Tata Consultancy (TCS) , Infosys’s bigger competitor, climbed 3.8
percent to 1,306.35 rupees, and Wipro surged 6.2 percent, the
most since July 2009, to 419.95 rupees.  Infosys added 53 clients during the quarter, it said. It
also completed the acquisition of management consultancy
Lodestone Holding AG.  The developer pared hiring plans by about 5,000 people last
quarter to limit costs. The company writes software programs, as
well as provides IT and outsourcing services for  customers 
including  BP Plc (BP/)  and AT&T Inc.  “This was a very positive quarter compared to
expectations,” Bhavan Suri, an analyst at William Blair & Co.,
told Bloomberg TV India from  Chicago . Management had also
lowered expectations “tremendously” in the weeks before the
results, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  