-- Mitsubishi UFJ Lists Potential Targets for U.S. Bank Acquisition
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-01-11T02:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/mitsubishi-ufj-lists-potential-targets-for-u-s-bank-acquisition.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest lender, compiled a list of potential acquisition
 targets  in the U.S. as it seeks to expand retail banking
operations in the world’s biggest economy.  The bank has spoken with chief executive officers and
investment officers from companies on the internal list, said
Takashi Morimura, deputy president and group CEO of global
banking at lending unit Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. The
Tokyo-based bank isn’t in discussions with the companies at the
moment, he said, declining to name them.  “We’re trying to enhance our network and commercial
banking business so if there’s a good target and the timing is
good, we would like to do it as soon as possible,” Morimura
said in an interview yesterday in  Hong Kong .  Japan’s megabanks are expanding lending abroad as a
 shrinking economy  and persistent  deflation  stifle credit demand
at home. Mitsubishi UFJ last month agreed to spend about $740
million in  Vietnam ’s VietinBank, the biggest investment by a
Japanese bank in the Southeast Asian nation.  In the U.S., the bank’s interest in possible takeovers will
depend on factors including their branch network and any
efficiency gains that can be made, Morimura said.  Mitsubishi UFJ already owns two banks in  California  as well
as a 22 percent stake in  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest U.S.
lender by assets. It spent $3.5 billion in 2008 to purchase San
Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp., where Morimura was once
president, and bought Santa Barbara-based Pacific Capital
Bancorp for $1.5 billion last March.  Asia Focus  Asia remains a strategic focus for Mitsubishi UFJ, Morimura
said. The lender expressed interest in buying a stake in
Bangkok-based  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl  from General Electric Co., he
said, adding that while its attention was “well received,”
discussions haven’t begun.  The company may seek to invest in banks from  Indonesia  and
the  Philippines , Morimura said. Mitsubishi UFJ isn’t in talks
with lenders in those countries, he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ in December agreed to buy 20 percent of
 Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade (CTG) , or
VietinBank, for 15.5 trillion dong ($744 million). It said the
same month it will ally with Myanmar’s Co-Operative Bank Ltd. to
tap growing demand for financial services as the nation moves to
democracy.  Overseas Profit  Morimura maintained his target of getting at least 40
percent of profit from overseas within the next few years, from
about 30 percent now. The bank plans to hire as many as 3,000
people abroad over the next three years to expand retail
banking, he said in April.  With $2 trillion of unlent deposits at home, other Japanese
banks are also expanding abroad.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , the country’s second-
biggest lender by market value, may issue as much as a record
$4.5 billion in dollar-denominated bonds this year to fund
overseas loans. Smaller rival  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in
June agreed to buy German lender WestLB AG’s Brazil unit for an
undisclosed price.  “In Japan, from the banking industry point of view, it’s
very difficult to achieve high-growth business,” Morimura said
yesterday. “The growth in the market is very limited so we want
to enhance our overseas businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  