-- J&J’s Mesh Failure Rate Exceeded 20 Percent, Jury Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-11T21:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/j-j-s-mesh-failure-rate-exceeded-20-percent-jury-told.html
A prototype of a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
vaginal mesh implant failed in 20 percent of women within six
months even before the device was first sold in 2005, a company
official testified today in  Atlantic City , New Jersey.  The company also found that 27 percent of the devices
failed within a year, said Scott Ciarrocca, a project leader for
the development of the device for J&J’s Ethicon unit. French
researchers had reviewed 87 women who received the type of
implant that Ethicon developed into its Gynecare Prolift.  Ciarrocca was the first witness at the state court trial of
a  lawsuit  by Linda Gross, 47, who claims J&J sold a defective
vaginal mesh implant after testing it inadequately and failing
to warn of all the risks. The case by Gross, a nurse from  South
Dakota , is the first of 1,800 such lawsuits to go to trial.  Gross’s attorney, Adam Slater, asked Ciarrocca about the
failure, or recurrence, rate while trying to show that Ethicon
never adequately studied the risks of the device, which helps
shore up pelvic muscles.  “The studies seem to indicate that after six months, they
had a recurrence rate of more than 20 percent,” Ciarrocca told
jurors today.  18 Operations  Gross claims that she had 18 operations to repair damage
caused by the Gynecare Prolift implanted in her on July 13,
2006. She accuses J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care
products, of failure to warn of the risks, defective design,
deceit and negligence.  On questioning today by William M. Gage, an attorney for
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, Ciarrocca cited other
studies that showed more favorable rates of success.  Another J&J lawyer, Christy Jones, told jurors in her
opening statement that a 2005 study of the Gynecare Gynemesh, a
predecessor to the Prolift, showed an 84 percent success rate.  Jones also denied Gross’s claims yesterday in her opening
statement. Ethicon, she said, properly warned Gross and her
surgeon of the risks associated with implanting a Prolift
device. Gross, she said, needed relief after her rectum fell,
and her pelvic floor had been weakened by earlier surgeries.  J&J in August stopped selling four mesh devices in the
U.S., including the Prolift. The company said in June that it
would end sales worldwide based on the products’ commercial
viability, not their safety and effectiveness.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County,  New Jersey  (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  