-- Japan Current Account Slides Into Deficit Ahead of Stimulus
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-11T00:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/japan-current-account-slides-into-deficit-ahead-of-stimulus.html
Japan  posted a larger-than-expected
current account deficit as exports fell, underscoring the
challenges facing Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as he prepares a
stimulus package to pull the economy out of a recession.  The  shortfall  in the widest measure of the nation’s trade
in November was 222.4 billion yen ($2.5 billion), the Ministry
of Finance said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 19
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a 17.1 billion yen
deficit.  The government will announce economic stimulus measures
today, with Nomura Securities Co. estimating that the spending
will increase gross domestic product by 0.8 percentage point in
the year starting in April. Exporters may receive a boost this
year from a yen that has fallen around 10 percent against the
dollar since mid-November.  “The trade numbers are weak now because of the global
slowdown last year,”  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at
 Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo, said before the report. “The Abe
administration may keep on pushing for a weaker yen.”  The currency slid through 89 per dollar after the data,
before trading at 89.27 as of 8:54 a.m. in Tokyo, the weakest
since June 2010.  The current account is the sum of the balance of trade,
earnings on investments and cash transfers. November is
traditionally a weak month for Japan’s account because smaller
dividend payments reduce income from overseas investments,
according to Maruyama. Today’s deficit is the first since at
least 1985 in months other than January, when seasonal trade
factors drag down the account.  Trade Deficit  The account was also dragged down by a 953.4 billion yen
trade deficit in November, the third-largest on record.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 3.5
percent pace in the third quarter of last year after contracting
in the three months through June, meeting the textbook
definition of a recession.  Nomura raised its real GDP growth forecast for the fiscal
year starting April 2013 to 1.8 percent from 1 percent,
according to an e-mailed research note dated Jan. 9. The note
cited the stimulus package and improved export prospects as the
reason for the upgrade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  