-- Japan’s Court Rules Against Ban on Internet Drug Sales
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-01-11T08:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/japan-s-supreme-court-rules-against-ban-on-internet-drug-sales.html
Rakuten (4755)  Inc. unit  Kenko.com Inc. (3325) , an
online retailer that quadrupled in Tokyo trading in the past 30
days, won a lawsuit seeking the Japanese government’s withdrawal
of a ban on selling over-the-counter drugs online.  The  Supreme Court  in Tokyo today rejected an appeal by the
government, allowing resumption of Internet sales of items
including cold remedies, pregnancy tests and laxatives.  The ruling permits online sales of two categories of drugs
accounting for about 67 percent of all non-prescription
purchases in a country where such medicines are sold off-line
only by specially licensed retailers. The  Japan Pharmaceutical
Association , representing about 100,000 licensed pharmacists,
had opposed online sales, saying they increased risks that users
would experience side-effects.  “I can’t describe how happy I am in words,” Kenko.com
President Genri Goto said in a briefing in  Tokyo  after the
verdict.  “We have suffered tremendously mentally and
financially for the past four years.”  Kenko.com climbed by the daily exchange imposed limit,
gaining 27 percent to 190,000 yen in Tokyo trading as of the 3
p.m. close. The shares have almost tripled in the six trading
days this year and are at their highest since 2006 after gaining
from 46,650 yen at the close on Dec. 11. Rakuten has rallied 15
percent this year, compared with a 3.9 percent advance for the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Lost Sales  Kenko.com lost about 500 million yen ($5.6 million) in
annual sales, or 30,000 orders, in 2009 when the government
ordered it to stop sales of over-the-counter drugs, the company
said in a statement. The online retailer will resume sales of
the OTC drugs today, Goto said.  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  is preparing to expand its product line-
up of OTC drugs online after the verdict by the Supreme Court,
the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Rakuten will also offer hosting for shops selling OTC drugs
through its online mall, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Wellnet, a closely held rival online drug seller based in
 Japan , was also party to the lawsuit.  Kenko.com and Wellnet lost an initial suit filed in May
2009 at the Tokyo District Court. They appealed the decision and
won at the Tokyo High Court, a ruling the government appealed to
the nation’s highest court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  