-- JPMorgan Said to Face Order to Tighten Money-Laundering Controls
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-01-11T16:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/jpmorgan-said-to-face-order-to-tighten-money-laundering-controls.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will become the
latest big bank ordered by U.S. regulators to clean up its
safeguards against money laundering, said a person briefed on
the situation.  Banking regulators including the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency will soon order the largest U.S. bank to fix
compliance flaws in its Bank Secrecy Act responsibilities, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The order doesn’t include monetary penalties and
is similar to one issued to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in April, the person
said.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, and  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, declined to
comment on the order.  After the 2008 credit crisis companies reduced compliance
staff tasked with guarding the financial system against the flow
of illicit money, banking regulators said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Europe’s largest bank, agreed last month to pay $1.9 billion to
settle a money-laundering probe by the U.S. Department of
Justice and banking regulators in the U.S. and U.K. Another
London-based bank, Standard Chartered Plc, was fined a total of
$667 million by U.S. regulators last year for facilitating
transactions with Iran in violation of sanctions.  In a separate OCC probe, Treasury Department Inspector
General Eric Thorson threatened to sanction the bank if it fails
to turn over documents to regulators investigating its ties to
 Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, giving JPMorgan a deadline of
today to cooperate with the regulator.  The OCC is also investigating the 2012 trading losses in
JPMorgan’s chief investment office and is preparing an
enforcement action, according to another person briefed on the
situation who asked not to be named because the matter isn’t
public. The cease-and-desist order would require the bank to fix
internal risk controls, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  