-- JPMorgan Leads 20% Rise in Global Securitization Sales Last Year
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-11T19:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/jpmorgan-leads-20-rise-in-global-securitization-sales-last-year.html
Global securitization volumes jumped
20 percent last year to $511.6 billion as  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  & Co.
widened its lead as the top underwriter, according to newsletter
 Asset-Backed Alert .  JPMorgan managed the sales for $66.2 billion, or 12.9
percent, of the total offerings of securities backed by assets
such as home mortgages, auto debt and speculative-grade company
loans, according to the newsletter.  The bank’s share grew from 10.1 percent in 2011 as the New
York-based firm managed $39.9 billion in sales of asset-backed
securities tied to U.S. consumer or corporate borrowing, a
category that excludes mortgage debt and so-called
collateralized debt obligations.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Bank of
America Corp. , the other top underwriters in that market,
remained the second- and third-ranked global bookrunners.  Barclays handled 10 percent of the global total last year,
up from 9.2 percent for the London-based bank, according to
Asset-Backed Alert.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America’s share climbed to 8.7 percent, from 8 percent.  Worldwide securitization volumes are down from the record
$2.57 trillion reached in 2006, a year before U.S. mortgage
securities and CDOs began a collapse that would spark the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Securitization  fell  to $330.6 billion in 2009, excluding
bonds that were created outside the U.S. to be retained by the
issuers and pledged as collateral for loans from central banks,
according to Asset-Backed Alert.  The newsletter’s securitization tallies exclude government-
backed U.S. home-loan bonds and repackagings of that debt called
agency collateralized mortgage obligations, asset-backed
 commercial paper  and the derivative portions of certain issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  