-- KenGen Advances to 14-Month High on Buy Rating: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-01-11T14:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/kengen-advances-to-14-month-high-on-new-rating-nairobi-mover.html
Kenya Electricity Generating Co. (KEGC) ,
the East African nation’s biggest power producer, climbed to the
highest in 14 months after Genghis Capital Ltd. started coverage
on the stock with a buy recommendation.  The shares  gained  6.9 percent to close at 10.10 shillings
in Nairobi, the highest level since Nov. 7, 2011. It was the
biggest one-day gain since October 2007 with about 1.13 million
shares traded, or 225 percent of the three-month daily average.  Kenya’s utility industry has a “bullish outlook” brought
about by increasing power demand due to an expanding population
and customers, increase in per capita income and economic
growth, according to Nairobi-based Genghis Capital. The country
has an installed electricity capacity of 1,600 megawatts, with a
peak power demand of 1,500 megawatts growing at an average rate
of 8 percent a year.  Kenya  Electricity produces 1,232 megawatts,
while four private companies generate the balance.  “We expect the manufacturing and tourism sectors to expand
rapidly in the next five years therefore that will lead to an
increase in power demand,” Moses Waireri, a research analyst at
Genghis Capital, said in a phone interview today. “In addition
the population is growing at three to four percent annually.”  Genghis Capital has a price target of 20.90 shillings on
Kenya Electricity. The company has secured financing to build
power plants, some of which are set to be commissioned by June
2013, it said in September.  “The price target is quite bullish,” Aly Khan Satchu,
chief executive officer of Nairobi-based investment company Rich
Management Ltd. a Nairobi-based adviser to companies and high
net-worth individuals, said by phone. “In the last two years
they have managed to raise capital through the bond market to
bulk up the business so from an equity investor’s point of view
the worst moments are behind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  