-- Kenya Shilling Declines for Third Week After Bank Cuts Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-11T14:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/kenya-shilling-declines-for-third-week-after-bank-cuts-rate.html
Kenya ’s shilling declined for a
third week as the central bank slashed its benchmark  interest
rate  more than expected.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy was unchanged
at 86.70 per dollar as of 4:38 p.m. in Nairobi, leaving it down
0.5 percent in the week, the biggest retreat since the five days
ended Nov. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, reduced the rate for the fourth time since
July, cutting it to 9.5 percent from 11 percent, the Nairobi-
based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Seven out of 10 economists and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast a 1 percentage-point reduction.  “The shilling has been under pressure on expectation of
the rate cut and with the rate slashed more than the market
expected, it will remain under pressure,” Jeremiah Kendagor,
head of trading at Nairobi-based  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ,
said by telephone. “Demand for dollars will rise on lower
borrowing charge with the shilling expected to hit 87 range in
the coming days.”  The monetary authority has lowered its  lending rate  by 7
percentage points since July to stimulate economic growth, which
slowed to 3.4 percent in the first quarter and 3.3 percent in
the second. Expansion quickened to 4.7 percent in the third
quarter.  The central bank took 2 billion shillings ($23 million) of
seven-day  repurchase agreements , out of bids of 2.6 billion
shillings received, a bank official who asked not to be
identified in line with policy, said by phone today. The repos
are used by the regulator to withdraw  money supply  from banks
and support the shilling.  The Ugandan shilling appreciated 0.8 percent to 2,678 a
dollar, leaving it 1.4 percent up in the week, while Tanzania’s
shilling gained 1.2 percent to 1,589.50 a dollar, giving it a
weekly rally of 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  