-- Kocherlakota Sees Record Fed Stimulus as ‘Too Tight’
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-11T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/kocherlakota-sees-record-fed-stimulus-as-too-tight-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank may not be
providing enough accommodation given his outlook for prices and
the job market.  “Inflation will run below the Fed’s target of 2 percent
over the next two years and the  unemployment rate  will remain
elevated,” Kocherlakota said in the text of remarks prepared
for a speech today in Minneapolis. “If anything, monetary
policy is currently too tight, not too easy.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month expanded its
bond purchase program and linked policy to economic indicators
for the first time, seeking to fuel growth and reduce a 7.8
percent  unemployment rate  in December. Officials said they will
probably end so-called quantitative easing sometime this year,
according to minutes of the Dec. 11-12 meeting.  “I expect unemployment to continue to fall only slowly,
down to around 7.5 percent in late 2013 and around 7 percent in
late 2014,” Kocherlakota said at a forum held at the
 Minneapolis Fed .  The Minneapolis Fed president was an early advocate for
tying the Fed’s  zero-rate  policy to economic data, first calling
for the change in a speech in September. The FOMC adopted a
variation of what the district bank president advocated in the
committee’s December meeting.  Officials expect to keep rates near zero as long as
 joblessness  is above 6.5 percent, inflation is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent and longer-term price expectations are
well anchored, the central bank said. The Fed previously said it
will keep rates low through at least mid-2015.  Excessive Easing  Kansas City  Fed President Esther George in a speech today
warned of excessive easing, saying a prolonged period of low
 interest rates  may fuel the risk of financial instability and a
surge in inflation. The central bank has held the benchmark
interest rate near zero since December 2008.  Asset purchases by the Fed will “almost certainly increase
the risk of complicating the FOMC’s exit strategy” from record
stimulus because bonds will need to eventually be sold, George
said today in a speech in Kansas City,  Missouri .  “Like others, I am concerned about the high rate of
unemployment, but I recognize that monetary policy, by
contributing to financial imbalances and instability, can just
as easily aggravate unemployment as heal it,” George said.  U.S.  stocks  rose to a five-year high today after reports in
 China  pointed to a sustained pickup in  Asia ’s largest economy.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.8 percent to
1,472.12.  ‘High Levels’  Prices “of assets such as bonds, agricultural land and
high-yield and leveraged loans are at historically high levels”
and may signal market imbalances, George said.  Kocherlakota said today that the economy will probably grow
about 2.5 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014. Inflation, as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures index, will
probably be 1.6 percent this year and 1.9 percent next year,
below the Fed’s 2 percent goal, he said.  At the Dec. 11-12 meeting, the Fed expanded its bond
purchase program to offset the end of Operation Twist, in which
the central bank swapped short-term Treasuries for longer-term
bonds. The Fed is now each month buying $85 billion in
 government bonds  and mortgage securities.  Policy makers may have difficulty tying bond purchases to
inflation and the unemployment rate, as the Fed has with its
zero-rate policy, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said
today in Madison,  Wisconsin .  ‘Too Far’  “Attempts to also put thresholds on the timing of asset
purchases may be a bridge too far,” Bullard said to the
Wisconsin Bankers Association in Madison, Wisconsin. He said
last week that unemployment could drop to about 7 percent by the
end of this year, which may be enough improvement for the FOMC
to halt bond purchases.  That pace would be a continuation of the decline in the
unemployment rate since October 2009, when the rate hit 10
percent. Since then, the level has declined by about 0.7
percentage point per year, Bullard told reporters.  If that pace continues the current 7.8 percent jobless rate
could decline to around 7 percent by the end of this year and
“would get us to 6.5 percent sometime in the middle of 2014,”
Bullard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  