-- N.J. Transit Restores Pre-Sandy NY Rail Service Jan. 14
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-01-11T16:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/n-j-transit-restores-pre-sandy-ny-rail-service-jan-14.html
New Jersey Transit  said its
commuter-train service into  New York  will be fully restored as
of Jan. 14, 11 weeks after  Hurricane Sandy  destroyed rail cars
and tracks and brought the system to a standstill.  The agency, which operates the nation’s largest statewide
mass-transit network, will add nine trains on the North Jersey
Coast Line, bringing the total to 101 as compared with 114
before Sandy struck Oct. 29. Systemwide, the agency will reach
94 percent of pre-storm levels, operating 658 of 700 weekday
trains, it said in a statement today.  “It’s critical in the sense that we’re able to say we’re
at pre-Sandy levels into New York Penn” Station, Executive
Director James Weinstein said in an interview. “That commuter
shed is our largest. It accounts for about 80,000 commuters a
day.”  Sandy washed out some of the system’s 500 miles of track,
brought down overhead wires and flooded control points. That
created a commuting nightmare as managers jury-rigged a
collection of buses and ferries. The coastal line was completely
knocked out of service as ballast stones were washed from under
rails and a drawbridge suffered damage.  The agency continues to use diesel trains instead of faster
electric-powered cars in and out of Hoboken, mostly along the
Gladstone branch of the Morris & Essex lines, while it repairs
the Mason substation and overhead wires at the Hoboken terminal.
Weinstein said that work should be complete within six to eight
weeks.  Fixing that facility, along with the Meadows Maintenance
Complex in Kearny which suffered heavy damage, are the biggest
hurdles to full restoration of service, Weinstein said.  Starting next week, the agency will also add trains on the
Morris & Essex, Montclair-Boonton, Pascack Valley and Port
Jervis lines. New timetables will be posted at the agency’s
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  