-- Naira Pares Weekly Gain as Traders ‘Take Advantage’ of Rates
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-01-11T13:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/naira-pares-weekly-gain-as-traders-take-advantage-of-rates.html
The naira retreated against the
dollar, paring a weekly gain, amid speculation that companies
and traders took advantage of favorable rates as the Nigerian
currency benefited from inflows into bonds.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer fell 0.1
percent to 156.3 a dollar as of 2:43 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, paring its gain to 0.2 percent this week.
The naira advanced 3.9 percent last year, the strongest
performance of African currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The naira has been strongly supported by continued
capital flows into fixed income instruments during this week’s
primary T-bill auction and in the secondary  bond market ,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “It is
normal that some market players or corporates may want to take
advantage of the attractive rates.”  T-bill yields fell to the lowest in 15 months at a central
bank auction on Jan. 9, as bids were more than double the amount
on sale amid speculation that inflation and  interest rates  will
retreat this year.  While  Nigeria ’s  inflation rate  rose for a second month in
November to 12.3 percent as the worst floods in decades cut
farming output, pricing pressures should ease early this year as
the impact from the flooding diminishes, central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said on Nov. 20. He left the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 12 percent.  ‘Perform Well’  “The dollar-naira rate is likely to perform well in coming
weeks on sustained capital inflows, foreign-exchange sales from
 oil companies  and limited dollar demand,” said Gadio.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. added the West African nation’s bonds
to its benchmark emerging-market index series in October,
predicting the inclusion may lure $1.5 billion to sub-Saharan
Africa’s second-largest economy. Barclays Plc said it will
follow from March for its own local-currency index.  Yields on 10-year naira debt fell four basis points to
11.34 percent in the secondary market, according to yesterday’s
prices compiled on the Financial Markets Dealers Association
website. Borrowing costs on the nation’s $500 million of
Eurobonds due January 2021 declined one basis point to 3.79
percent today, a drop of 16 basis points this week.  Ghana ’s cedi declined 0.4 percent to 1.8955 per dollar in
Accra, the capital, unchanged for the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  