-- NBC Sports Sticks With Sponsorship of Gun Show
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-11T22:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/nbc-sports-sponsors-gun-show-month-after-newtown-shooting.html
NBC Sports, home to gun-control
advocate Bob Costas, is sticking with its commitment to be a
sponsor of the largest U.S. gun trade show next week, a month
after a school shooting in  Connecticut  killed 20 children.  NBC Sports Network will remain the 2013 SHOT Show New
Product Center Sponsor, said Greg Hughes, a spokesman for the
channel. Costas, one of NBC’s marquee broadcasters, criticized
gun laws weeks before the Connecticut shooting, after the
murder-suicide of a Kansas City Chiefs football player.  The National Shooting Sports Foundation Inc.’s SHOT Show
last year billed itself as “more than about selling and buying;
it’s a powerful display of industry unity and its resolve to
meet any challenge affecting the right to make, sell and own
firearms.” The NSSF is headquartered in Newtown, Connecticut,
where a gunman killed 20 children and six adults in an
elementary school on Dec. 14 with a semiautomatic rifle.  NBC Sports Network, formerly called Versus, has been a
sponsor of the show for “several years,” according to Hughes.
The cable channel airs hunting and fishing shows and
participates as a sponsor “as part of our commitment to our
outdoor-programming block,” he said in a phone interview.  The SHOT Show -- SHOT stands for shooting, hunting, outdoor
trade -- takes place from Jan. 15 to Jan. 18 in Las Vegas at the
Sands Expo & Convention Center. Other sponsors include the
Outdoor Channel, the Chrysler Group LLC’s Ram and ArmaLite Inc.  NSSF President Steve Sanetti said he had never seen the
organization “so unified and united” in its purpose, according
to a January  2012 statement . The group is a  member  of the White
House panel that’s discussing gun regulations.  ‘Too Easy’  Costas, who has worked for NBC since 1980, said it was
“too easy” to access guns, specifically semiautomatic weapons,
in an interview on “The Dan Patrick Show” last month. Costas
appeared on Patrick’s show after reading an editorial critical
of gun laws by  Jason Whitlock , a Fox Sports columnist, during
halftime of NBC’s Sunday Night Football on Dec. 2.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   owns  51 percent of NBC Universal, which
includes NBC Sports. D’Arcy Rudnay, a Comcast spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Jovan Belcher, a linebacker for the Chiefs, shot the mother
of his child and then himself on Dec. 1, police said.  President  Barack Obama  formed a panel last month to develop
new gun regulations that Vice President Joe Biden yesterday said
include more extensive background checks and restrictions on
large-capacity bullet magazine clips.  The nonprofit group Media Matters for America, which says
its objective is to identify and correct “conservative
misinformation in the U.S. media,” noted the NBC sponsorship
earlier today on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  