-- Netflix Improperly Favored by Post Office, Court Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-11T22:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/netflix-improperly-favored-by-post-office-court-says.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the largest U.S. mail-
order movie-rental service, got special treatment from the U.S.
Postal Service, which improperly discriminated against other
mail-order companies, a federal appeals court ruled.  In a challenge filed by  GameFly Inc. (GFLY) , the video-game rent-
by-mail service, a three-judge panel in Washington today ordered
the Postal Regulatory Commission to cure “all discrimination”
against the company or explain why treating GameFly different
from Netflix is reasonable. The ruling may lead to changes in
the way Netflix movies are handled by the postal service.  GameFly sued the postal commission in May 2011, challenging
its response to allegations that the post office was giving
Netflix special treatment by manually sorting its DVDs free of
charge. Without similar handling, Los Angeles-based GameFly
could be subject to an “epidemic” of broken discs, the appeals
court said today.  “The Postal Service has saved Netflix -- apparently its
biggest DVD mailer customer -- from this crippling otherwise
industrywide problem by diverting Netflix mail from the
automated letter stream, shifting it to specially designated
trays and containers, hand culling it and hand processing it,”
U.S. Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote. “Rather obviously,
this is not without cost to the  Postal Service .”  Jonathan Friedman, a spokesman for  Los Gatos , California-
based Netflix, declined to comment on the ruling.  The U.S. Postal Service is analyzing the decision and its
implications, David Partenheimer, a spokesman for the service,
said in an e-mail.  “The Postal Service believes that the different treatment
that we provided to our customers was fully justified and
reasonable, and consistent with the law,” he said.  The case is GameFly Inc. v. Postal Regulatory Commission,
11-1179,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 