-- New York Should Consider Storm Barriers, Post-Sandy Panel Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-01-11T21:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/new-york-should-consider-storm-barriers-post-sandy-panel-says.html
Governor Andrew Cuomo should
consider building storm barriers in New York Harbor that would
cost as much as $29 billion and two new rail tunnels under the
Hudson River, according to a report he commissioned.  A panel Cuomo appointed to study infrastructure needs after
 Hurricane Sandy  also recommended building a rapid bus network
to serve New York City, expanding Metro-North service and adding
double tracks to the Long Island Rail Road in Suffolk County.  Sandy blasted the region Oct. 29, flooding New York City’s
subway system, knocking out power to more than 2 million New
York residents and destroying or damaging more than 300,000
homes. In his State of the State address this week, Cuomo said
New York must better prepare itself for increasingly powerful
weather after the subway had to shut down twice in the last two
years due to approaching storms.  “Climate change is real,” the 55-year-old Democrat said
Jan. 9 in Albany. “It is denial to say each of these situations
is once in a lifetime. There is a 100-year flood every two years
now. It is inarguable that the sea is warmer and there is a
changing weather pattern, and the time to act is now.”                    Most of the recommendations in the 205-page report have no
price tag, and many come with no specific plan for funding. The
report does recommend Cuomo create an infrastructure bank to
help harness private industry funding to repair bridges and
roadways. It also suggests a “wetland banking system” that
would enable private developers to fund the construction of sand
dunes, oyster reefs and other natural storm barriers in exchange
for legally required offsets on other projects.  Storm Barriers  Among the biggest-ticket items is a proposal to build storm
barriers to protect New York Harbor that would cost from $7
billion to $29 billion, the report said. The gates, which would
close against a storm surge, would be similar to those
constructed in  London  and St. Petersburg,  Russia , though more
complex due to size and geography, it said.  The commission recommended two options for protecting the
portion of New York Harbor that’s open to the Atlantic Ocean.  One would require building two sets of flood gates, one
between the Verrazano Narrows and another at the mouth of the
Arthur Kill between Perth Amboy, New Jersey, and Staten Island.
A second option would be to build a barrier stretching from
Sandy Hook, New Jersey, to the Rockaways in New York. Another
gate would block the Long Island Sound from flowing into the
East River.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  