-- Nintendo Gains as New Wii U Sales Beat Predecessor
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2013-01-11T06:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/nintendo-gains-as-new-wii-u-sales-beat-predecessor.html
Nintendo Co. rose the most in almost
four months in Osaka trading after its new Wii U home video-game
console generated more revenue in the U.S. than its predecessor.  The stock  climbed  5.6 percent to close at 9,070 yen,
posting its biggest gain since Sept. 18.  Sales of the new console in the U.S. in the first 41 days
after its Nov. 18 introduction were more than $300 million,
while those of the original Wii were $270 million at the same
point after release, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
Nintendo has sold almost 890,000 units of the Wii U in the U.S.,
according to market researcher NPD Group Inc.  “The U.S. sales report prompted investors to jump on
Nintendo,” said  Makoto Sengoku , a Tokyo-based market analyst at
Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. Still, “the gain may be short-lived
unless it can sustain sales momentum.”  President Satoru Iwata is counting on the Wii U to revive
earnings after Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo posted its first
annual loss in three decades last year. The video-game industry
in the U.S. has been shrinking as consumers buy fewer packaged
titles and shift to digital downloads and games played on mobile
devices.  The Wii U machine features a 6.2-inch touch-screen
controller that lets users wirelessly connect to the console and
shift the display between a TV and the device.  The $350 deluxe version of the console, which has more
storage, and the “New Super Mario Bros. U” software attracted
demand from customers, Scott Moffitt, Nintendo of America’s
executive vice president of sales and marketing, said. The basic
version sells in the U.S. for $300.  Japan, Americas  The creator of Mario and Zelda characters sold 638,339 Wii
Us in  Japan  as of Dec. 30, Enterbrain, a Tokyo-based market
researcher, said Jan. 7. Japan and the Americas made up 70
percent of sales in the six months ended Sept. 30, according to
Nintendo. The Wii U debuted in Japan on Dec. 8.  U.S. retail sales of video-game software, hardware and
accessories declined 22 percent from a year earlier to $3.21
billion in December, according to NPD. Software sales fell 26
percent to $1.54 billion, leading the overall decline, the  Port
Washington , New York-based company said. Console sales fell 20
percent to $1.07 billion, and retail sales for the year fell 22
percent to $13.3 billion, NPD said.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  held the lead in console unit sales in
December for the 24th consecutive month. The Redmond,
Washington-based company said in a separate statement that U.S.
retailers sold 1.4 million of its Xbox consoles last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  