-- Nokia Bonds Rally as Lumia-Led Turnaround Gathers Pace
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-01-11T08:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/nokia-bonds-rally-as-lumia-led-turnaround-gathers-pace.html
Buyers of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt are
joining equity holders in reaping rewards as Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop’s plan to salvage the Finnish smartphone
maker gathers pace.  Nokia’s handset unit is poised for the first break-even
result or profit in a year, the company said yesterday, giving
the latest signal that new devices and cost cuts are gaining
traction. Nokia’s 750 million euros ($995 million) of
convertible bonds jumped 7.6 percent yesterday and were up 2.5
percent today, bringing their advance to 52 percent since first
sold in October.  Improving smartphone sales and job cuts exceeding 20,000
under Elop have prompted investors to reassess the  junk-rated 
company’s chances of survival. Faced with dwindling cash and
competition from Apple Inc. and Google Inc., Nokia is showing
that it can cope with the challenges, said Arne Eidshagen, who
helps manage about 400 million euros in high-yield debt at
Alfred Berg Asset Management in Oslo.  “Nokia is coming out with decent products and they seem to
be managing their transition, adapting as a company, quite
well,” said Eidshagen, who has bought Nokia’s debt, including
the convertible bonds, after considering the company too risky
about nine months ago. “The convertible bonds have been a
tremendous success story.”  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Nokia’s
senior unsecured 6.75 percent notes due 2019, compared with
benchmark government debt, has narrowed to 430 basis points from
as much as 930 basis points in July.  Mounting Losses  Nokia said yesterday operating profit at its handset unit,
excluding some items, was at a break-even level or as much as 2
percent of sales last quarter. In October, it had projected an
operating loss for the unit of as much as 10 percent of sales.  Before the fourth quarter, Nokia had accumulated 4.8
billion euros in  losses  since Elop started his bet in early 2011
on phones using  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software.  In the middle of last year, Nokia rattled markets as many
worried over the company’s shrinking cash pile, sending the cost
of insuring Nokia bonds using credit-default swaps to a high of
1,240 in July and its stock to the lowest level since 1994.  Nokia  shares  have more than doubled since, reaching a nine-
month high yesterday. The stock climbed 3.7 percent to 3.45
euros at 10:52 a.m. in Helsinki, adding to yesterday’s 11
percent rise. Five-year CDS contracts have fallen 53 percent to
583 basis points, to the lowest level since May.  Cash Dwindles  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  A total of 3,865 credit-default swaps contracts are
outstanding on Nokia, covering $1.3 billion of debt, according
to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a central
registry for the market.  A return to profit couldn’t come too soon for the company
as it tries to cope with waning cash. Its reserves have shrunk
by about half in the past five years, with net cash dropping to
3.6 billion euros in the third quarter from 4.2 billion euros at
the end of June. It has 1.25 billion euros of bonds  maturing 
next year.  The phonemaker lost its investment-grade rating from
Moody’s Investors Service in June and is now graded Ba3.
Standard & Poor’s, which grades it an equivalent BB-, stripped
it of investment-grade status in April. Both companies have
negative outlooks on the issuer, a signal they expect any rating
change will be lower.  ‘More Confidence’  Besides  cutting jobs  and selling assets such as its
headquarters in recent months, Nokia has made progress in
winning over users. Last month, the company gained  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , the country’s largest wireless carrier, as a customer for
its Lumia 920T phone. There were also reports Lumia models were
selling out in some markets, and Elop said yesterday the company
had supply constraints last quarter.  “Investors were worried about the company’s cash position
and smartphone future,” said Michael Schroeder, an analyst at
FIM Bank Oyj in Helsinki. “With signs of the Lumia gaining
traction and Nokia showing it can divest assets and sign license
deals, the market has more confidence.”  Nokia has also benefited from its network-equipment joint
venture with  Siemens AG (SIE)  returning to profit. Nokia said
yesterday the venture had a fourth-quarter operating profit of
13 percent to 15 percent of sales excluding some items, beating
the company’s predictions.  To further shore up its finances, Nokia is projected to
skip its dividend for the first time since at least 1989,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Hit Needed  Nokia still has a long way to recovery. The company, which
controlled more than half of global smartphone sales before the
first iPhone and Android devices were introduced, now accounts
for about 4 percent of the market, according to research firm
Strategy Analytics. IPhone and Android combined make up about 90
percent of the market.  To make further progress, Nokia will “need a hit model
from the Lumia range that captures the popular imagination of
wealthy American, Chinese and European consumers,” said Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics in  London . Nokia isn’t
yet winning “the hearts and minds of mass-market consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  