-- Nomura Sees Most Japan IPOs Since 2007 on Abe Stimulus Plan
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-01-11T04:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/nomura-sees-most-japan-ipos-since-2007-on-abe-stimulus-plan-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s No. 1
equity underwriter, expects initial public offerings in the
country to reach the highest in six years as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s stimulus pledge boosts investor confidence.  About 60 Japanese companies will probably announce debut
share sales in 2013, Masaharu Kambe, who heads Nomura’s IPO
department in Japan, said in an interview. That would be a 25
percent increase from last year and the most IPOs in the country
since 121 listings in 2007, according to Nomura data.  Abe today said the government will spend 10.3 trillion yen
($116 billion) to reverse Japan’s recession, his first major
policy initiative to end deflation and spur growth since taking
office last month. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has risen about
10 percent since his  Liberal Democratic Party  won the election,
improving the outlook for  investment banking , Kambe said.  “Sentiment on the stock market has turned around, and we
can expect more fundraising and M&A following IPOs,” Kambe said
yesterday. “The new government has shown a strong commitment to
pull out of deflation, the yen’s appreciation is being corrected
and companies are improving their profitability.”  Nomura was the No. 1 IPO underwriter last year in Japan,
arranging 17 of the country’s 48 offerings, according to the
brokerage. The bank aims to increase its market share this year,
Kambe said, declining to give details on its target.  Stimulus Plan  The value of Japanese IPOs rose more than four times to
736.5 billion yen in 2012 from a year earlier, helped by  Japan 
Airlines Co.’s $8.3 billion offering, according to Nomura data.  Under Abe’s stimulus plan, the government seeks to spend
around 3.8 trillion yen for disaster prevention and
reconstruction, with 3.1 trillion yen directed to stimulating
private investment and other measures, according to a statement
released today by the Cabinet Office. Extra spending will
increase gross domestic product by about 2 percentage points and
create about 600,000 jobs, the government said.  The prime minister has also called for more aggressive
monetary stimulus to defeat deflation, helping the yen weaken
against the dollar to the lowest level since June 2010,
bolstering earnings prospects for exporters.  Shares of Nomura fell 0.6 percent to 490 yen at 1 p.m. in
 Tokyo . The Nikkei climbed 1.2 percent. Nomura more than doubled
last year, compared with a 23 percent gain in the Nikkei.  Suntory Holdings Ltd. is planning an IPO for its non-
alcoholic drinks and food unit this year that may raise between
300 billion yen and 500 billion yen, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said this week. The maker of Boss coffee
and Orangina soda plans to hire Nomura as a lead underwriter for
the offering, the people said.  The deal would help Nomura recover from mandates it lost
last year including a lead role in Japan Air’s offering,
following revelations that brokerage staff tipped traders on
share sales it managed. Suntory would be Japan’s biggest IPO
since the airline’s sale, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  