-- Norway Excludes Nuclear Arms Component Makers From Oil Fund
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-01-11T15:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/norway-excludes-nuclear-arms-component-makers-from-oil-fund-2-.html
Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund
excluded U.S.-based engineering companies  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC) 
and  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc (JEC)  from its investment portfolio
because of their production of nuclear arms components.  The $700 billion Government Pension Fund Global has sold
its shares in both companies, the  Finance Ministry  said in an  e-
mailed statement  today. The ministry, which sets the fund’s
investment guidelines, also ended its exclusion of  BAE Systems
Plc (BA/) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  FMC Corp. (FMC)   Siemens AG (SIE)  was removed from
an observation list after making progress on anti-corruption
efforts, the ministry said.  “During the observation period, Siemens had demonstrated
both a willingness and an ability to transform the company’s
culture,” the Oslo-based ministry said in a  statement .  The world’s largest wealth fund takes into account ethical
rules encompassing human rights, some weapons production, the
environment and tobacco when deciding on its investments. It has
 excluded  about 50 companies, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , following recommendations from the
ministry’s Ethics Council. The exclusions are announced after
the shares are sold.  The fund held shares valued at about 188 million kroner
($34 million) in B&W, 208 million kroner in Jacobs Engineering
and about 11.4 billion kroner in Siemens as of the end of 2011,
according to the  most recent data  available on its website.  BAE Systems and Finmeccanica, which had previously been
excluded due to their production of nuclear weapons, told the
ministry missile production had been completed. FMC, which was
excluded in 2011 due to purchases of phosphate from Western
Sahara, no longer buys phosphate from the region and doesn’t
have any plans to do so in the future, the ministry said.  Michelle Jones, a spokeswoman at Jacobs, and Aimee Mills, a
spokeswoman at Babcock & Wilcox, didn’t immediately respond to
messages left at their offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer at   jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  