-- Euribor Maturities Must Be Halved for Simplicity, EU Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-01-11T14:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/number-of-euribor-maturities-must-be-halved-eu-regulators-say.html
As part of an effort to restore
trust in the scandal-hit Euribor interest rate, regulators said
the number of maturities that make up the benchmark for
trillions of euros of lending should be cut from 15 to seven.  Europe ’s top banking and markets regulators told the
 European Banking Federation , which oversees Euribor, to
strengthen governance procedures to ensure no banks try to
manipulate the rate. Cutting the number of tenors would “have
the benefit of simplifying” submissions.  The measures “will give clarity to benchmark providers and
users,” Steven Maijoor, chairman of the European Securities and
Markets Authority, said in an e-mailed statement today. They
“are an immediate step to be taken in advance of potential
wider changes in the supervisory and regulatory framework for
financial benchmarks.”  Global watchdogs are levying fines and criminal penalties
against lenders accused of fiddling interest-rate benchmarks
such as Euribor and Libor, the London interbank rate.  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  and Rabobank Groep said this year they
would leave the 40-strong Euribor panel, while  Citigroup Inc. (TRVC) 
and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale left the group of euro rate-
setters last year.  The benchmarks are meant to represent the rate at which
banks can borrow from other lenders in a specific currency over
various periods. Authorities are investigating whether more than
a dozen banks altered their benchmark-rate submissions to profit
from derivative trades or to appear more financially stable.  Nighttime Deal  The three-week maturity should be cut from Euribor, along
with the two, four, five, seven, eight, 10 and 11-month tenors
as a minimum, the regulators said. The EBF should perform
regular governance audits and publicly disclose the results,
ESMA and the European Banking Authority said. The proposed
changes weren’t agreed upon by the regulators until last night.  “We broadly support the recommendations and they go in the
direction of the reforms we have started discussing and
implementing,” Florence Ranson, a spokeswoman for Euribor-EBF,
the non-profit association in Brussels that sets Euribor rates,
said in a phone interview.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions, a
global regulatory body, also said it’s seeking views on possible
measures to overhaul the setting and governance of such rates,
according to a statement on its website today.  The way benchmarks such as Euribor are set raises concerns
over “potential inaccuracy or manipulation,” IOSCO said.  Accurate, Plausible  Organizations in charge of setting benchmark rates should
seek to “verify the accuracy and plausibility” of the data
they receive from banks and other market participants, according
to the group, which said it may draw up a code of conduct.  The recommendations come less than a month after  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, was fined $1.5 billion by U.S. and
U.K. regulators for manipulating  interest rates  including
Euribor.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million pounds ($467
million) in June last year for manipulating Euribor and Libor.  Regulators found that Barclays derivatives traders made at
least 58 requests for Euribor submissions to be altered from
September 2005 through May 2009, and that they coordinated with
traders at other banks to manipulate Libor, including affecting
specific rates when derivatives contracts are settled or reset.  At UBS, at least 45 bank employees, including some
managers, knew of the “pervasive” practice of trying to alter
rates, and a further 70 people were included in open chats and
messages where attempts to manipulate Libor and Euribor were
discussed, according to U.K. regulators.  Conduct Codes  The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc will be next in line
to face sanctions.  The EBA set out guidelines for national supervisors,
recommending they require their banks to have internal codes of
conduct in place for Euribor submissions.  The report is an “important step towards ensuring that
Euribor represents a transparent and reliable benchmark for
financial transactions,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Stockholm interbank offered rate will also be pared
down after the Swedish Bankers’ Association takes over the
responsibility for setting the benchmark in March.  Stibor Maturities  The association said today that the number of Stibor
maturities will be cut to six from eight. The group will
establish a Stibor Committee, which will be responsible for
monitoring the framework.  The changes recommended by the EU regulators mirror a
streamlining of Libor last year.  The number of Libor reference rates should be cut to 20
from 150 by phasing out currencies and maturities in which
trading is thin, Martin Wheatley, the U.K.’s chief markets
regulator, said in a report.  Euribor is derived from a daily survey of interbank lending
rates submitted by a panel of banks and conducted for Euribor-
EBF by Thomson Reuters Corp. Three-month Euribor, which tracks
bank-loan rates over that maturity, was set at 0.195 percent
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  