-- Obama Plans to Join Trade Talks on Financial Services
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-01-11T19:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/obama-plans-to-join-trade-talks-on-financial-services.html
President  Barack Obama  is set to
notify Congress early next week that the U.S. plans to
participate in trade talks to lower national barriers to
financial services, telecommunications and express delivery,
according to people familiar with the decision.  U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk’s office is preparing a
90-day notification to Congress that it will take part in so-
called trade in services negotiations at the World Trade
Organization in Geneva, the people said. They declined to
discuss the process on the record before a formal announcement.  Services are a growing portion of international trade,
accounting for about $8 trillion in 2011, according to WTO
statistics. The countries involved in the talks account for
about 70 percent of global commerce.  Discussions probably will cover the cross-border movement
of financial data, information and communications services,
maritime, environmental and energy services and government
procurement.  Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the USTR in Washington,
declined to comment, saying by phone: “We haven’t notified
Congress, and when we notify Congress, we’ll notify Congress.”  It would be the first new trade negotiation since Obama was
re-elected in November.  Discussion Topics  An agreement should address the free movement of data
because manufacturers rely on the flow of information and
services to facilitate their cross-border operations, according
to the Coalition of Service Industries, a Washington-based trade
group. Its members include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  Walmart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  AT&T
Inc. (T) ,  Visa Inc. (V) , and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)   Peter Allgeier, a former U.S. ambassador to the WTO who is
now head of the CSI, last month called the agreement on a
framework for the talks encouraging and praised “the degree of
collaboration and cooperation.”  He said he hopes the talks produce an ambitious agreement
that creates new trade opportunities rather than just
consolidating concessions in existing bilateral accords.  Five Goals  A group of 21 governments agreed on five goals for the
discussions of an accord to liberalize services last month, and
pledged to begin negotiations this year.  Unlike other WTO talks, only those countries that choose to
participate are part of the discussions. So far, Brazil, China
and India, three of the world’s fastest-growing economies, have
declined to participate in the talks. They say the negotiations
will impede efforts to reach a global deal as part of the WTO’s
Doha Round.  WTO members participating in the exploratory talks are the
U.S., the European Union, Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica,  Hong Kong (2823) , Iceland, Israel, Japan, Mexico,  New
Zealand (ANZ) , Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, South Korea,
Switzerland, Taiwan and Turkey.  The 21 governments, which represent 50 countries, account
for about 70 percent of global commerce, according to the CSI.  John Clancy, the European Commission’s spokesman for trade
in Brussels, declined to comment about what the U.S.
notification would mean for the services talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  