-- Lockheed, AT&T to Offer Pentagon Cyber-Threat Service
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/lockheed-at-t-to-offer-pentagon-cyber-threat-service.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , AT&T Inc.,
and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , are the first companies to sign up for a
U.S. program giving them classified information on cyber threats
that they can package as security services for sale to other
companies.  The Pentagon provides the classified threat signatures to
the Department of  Homeland Security , which in turn provides them
to companies approved to receive such information, Eric Rosenbach, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for cyber
policy, said in an interview. More companies are interested in
participating in the program, he said.  “The vision is we take something unique that isn’t
available in the public domain and give it to the private sector
and rely on their ability to innovate, push and market,” said
Rosenbach, who previously was a national security adviser to
former Senator Chuck Hagel, President  Barack Obama ’s choice to
be the next defense secretary.  The move to create a market based on classified U.S.
information about cyber threats follows the failure by Congress
in November to pass legislation that would have required
companies operating critical infrastructure -- such as
electrical grids or telecommunications networks -- to adopt
voluntary security standards. The measure was opposed by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which argued that the proposed
standards might transform into burdensome regulations.  The program to share classified information, called Defense
Industrial Base Enhanced Cybersecurity Services, will help U.S.
companies get protection that’s not been available in the
commercial market, said Alan Paller, director of research at the
SANS Institute, a computer-security training company based in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Added Protection  A cyber intrusion-prevention service built on U.S.
classified information “will absolutely protect companies
against things they wouldn’t have been protected against,”
Paller said in a phone interview.  Only the Pentagon has “very deep access to people who have
been attacked and deep technical skills to analyze” such
attacks and develop signatures, or unique characteristics, of a
cyber assault, Paller said.  The Pentagon may learn about a particular type of cyber
attack on a power company and glean its telltale signs, Paller
said. “But how does the government let power companies know”
they’re vulnerable? Paller asked. Letting a group of companies
with security clearances take that information and sell it to
others is “a really good idea, it’s the right way to do it.”  ‘Strong Demand’  Pentagon officials hope the model will expand beyond
critical infrastructure such as  power plants  to others, said
Richard Hale, the Defense Department’s deputy chief information
officer.  “The idea was if the government knew something, figure out
a way to share it in a way that kept it private but still
allowed the protection benefits to flow from that,” Hale said
in an interview.  Potential customers for the cyber-threat service must be
approved by the Pentagon.  Participation in the program by Bethesda, Maryland based
Lockheed Martin combines cooperation with the government and the
company’s own technical skills “to better protect our nation
and its critical infrastructure from the most serious of cyber
threat,” Nettie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the world’s biggest
defense contractor, said in an e-mail.  ‘Strong Demand’  CenturyLink is “seeing strong demand from private
companies,” Linda Johnson, a spokeswoman for the Monroe,
Louisiana-based telecommunications company, said in an e-mail.
She declined to name companies that have expressed interest in
buying the service.  Michael Balmoris, a spokesman for Dallas-based  AT&T (T) , the
largest U.S. telephone company, declined to comment.  The program to share classified information with defense
contractors and  Internet service providers  for resale grew out
of an experiment that began four years ago, when the Pentagon
and a group of U.S. defense contractors started sharing
unclassified information on data loss and securing company
computer networks, Hale said.  That initiative, which began with 36 defense contractors
now has 71 companies with an additional 22 waiting to join, Hale
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  