-- Oil Heads for Fifth Weekly Gain on Saudi Production Cut, Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-01-11T05:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/oil-rises-a-second-day-on-saudi-production-cut-economic-outlook.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
almost four months, extending the longest weekly rising streak
since August, as  Saudi Arabia  cut production and investors
speculated a global economic recovery will boost fuel demand.  Futures were little changed in New York after rising for
the first time in three days yesterday. Saudi Arabia, the
world’s largest crude exporter, reduced output in December to
the lowest in 19 months, according to a Persian Gulf official
with knowledge of the kingdom’s energy policy. Oil is poised for
a fifth weekly gain after Chinese exports accelerated, European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro-area economy
will gradually recover, and  Japan  announced a 10.3 trillion yen
($116 billion) stimulus package.  “With Saudi Arabia holding back on supply, the market has
decided to push oil up,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “If investors get behind the global recovery, then I
think it can break through $95 a barrel.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for February delivery was at
$93.92 a barrel, up 10 cents, in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:40 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract increased 72 cents to $93.82 yesterday, the highest
close since Sept. 18. Prices are up 0.9 percent this week.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid 32 cents to $111.57 a barrel. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $17.65 to WTI. The
spread was $18.07 yesterday, the narrowest since Sept. 24.  Saudi Output  Oil’s rally in  New York  may stall as a technical indicator
shows futures have climbed too quickly for further gains to be
sustainable, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 14-day
relative strength index rose above 70 today for the first time
since Aug. 22, a level that typically signals prices will fall.
On the weekly chart, crude is also approaching long-term
resistance along its 100-week moving average around $94.93 a
barrel. Futures yesterday breached the 50-week average.  Saudi Arabia’s production slid 4.9 percent to 9.025 million
barrels a day last month as booming U.S. output and recovering
shipments from  Iraq  threaten to oversupply the global oil
market, the Persian Gulf person said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. The 465,000
barrel cut is the biggest monthly drop since November 2008, when
the country and other members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries reduced supplies amid a global recession.  Economic Outlook  Oil in New York may rise next week on optimism global
economic growth will accelerate, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts and traders. Fourteen of 28 respondents, or
50 percent, said crude will advance through Jan. 18. Nine in the
survey, or 32 percent, predicted a decline and five forecast
little change.  Japan’s stimulus package announced today will increase
gross domestic product by about 2 percentage points and create
about 600,000 jobs, according to a statement released by the
Cabinet Office. The country is the third-largest crude consumer,
figures from  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy show.  Exports of goods by  China , the second-biggest oil user,
jumped 14 percent in December from a year earlier, exceeding the
5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, according to
data yesterday from the customs agency in Beijing. The nation
imported 271 million metric tons of crude last year, 6.8 percent
more than in 2011, said the General Administration of Customs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  