-- Brent Oil Set for First Weekly Drop in Three on China
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-11T13:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/oil-heads-for-fifth-weekly-gain-on-saudi-production-cut-economy.html
Oil fell in London, erasing a weekly
gain, as concern that accelerating inflation in  China  will
impede steps to stimulate growth countered a drop in crude
production in Saudi Arabia.  Brent futures declined as much as 1.5 percent and headed
for their first weekly decline in three weeks. China’s inflation
climbed more than forecast to a seven-month high, potentially
limiting scope for policy easing. Saudi Arabia, the world’s
largest crude exporter, reduced output in December to the lowest
in 19 months, according to a Persian Gulf official with
knowledge of the kingdom’s energy policy.  “Today the market’s attention turns back to Chinese macro
numbers,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London, who predicts Brent will struggle to advance to more than
$113 a barrel.  Brent for February settlement dropped as much as $1.64 to
$110.25 a barrel, it lowest since Dec. 31, on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange and was at $110.41 at 1:01 p.m.
local time. Prices are 0.8 percent lower this week. The European
benchmark crude’s premium to West Texas Intermediate shrank to
$17.24 a barrel earlier, the narrowest gap since Sept. 21.  WTI crude for February delivery was at $93.14 a barrel,
down 68 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. It increased 72 cents to $93.82 yesterday, the highest
close since Sept. 18. Prices are little changed this week.  China Inflation  China’s consumer price index rose 2.5 percent in December
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today in Beijing. That compares with the 2.3 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 42 economists and a 2
percent gain in November. The decline in the producer-price
index eased to 1.9 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s production slid 4.9 percent to 9.025 million
barrels a day last month as booming U.S. output and recovering
shipments from  Iraq  threaten to oversupply the global oil
market, the Persian Gulf person said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. The 465,000
barrel cut is the biggest monthly drop since November 2008, when
the country and other members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries reduced supplies amid a global recession.  “The production cuts from Saudi Arabia will help to
stabilize  oil prices  around current levels,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk Management Ltd. in
Middelfart,  Denmark . “Fundamentals currently show a well-
balanced market. Markets are waiting for an unknown trigger to
send prices in either direction.”  WTI may rise next week on optimism global economic growth
will accelerate, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts and traders. Fourteen of 28 respondents, or 50 percent,
said crude will advance through Jan. 18. Nine in the survey, or
32 percent, predicted a decline and five forecast little change.  -- Editors: Rachel Graham, Raj Rajendran  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  