-- TOP Oil Market News: Brent Set for First Weekly Drop in Three
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-01-11T12:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/top-oil-market-news-brent-set-for-first-weekly-drop-in-three.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Brent Oil Set for First Weekly Drop in Three on China Inflation  Oil fell in London, erasing a weekly gain, as concern that
accelerating inflation in China will impede steps to stimulate
growth countered a drop in crude production in Saudi Arabia.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Woodside Oil Ships Move From Fields as Australian Cyclone Nears  Oil-production and storage vessels servicing fields
operated by Woodside Petroleum Ltd. have moved away from the
projects offshore Western  Australia  as tropical cyclone Narelle
nears, according to ship-tracking data.  Oil May Advance as Chinese Data Bolsters Optimism, Survey Shows  Oil may rise next week after China’s exports jumped more
than forecast last month, bolstering optimism growth will
accelerate, a Bloomberg survey showed.  BTC February Crude Exports to Fall 0.2% to 637,500 Barrels/Day  Daily exports of Azeri Light crude from the Turkish port of
Ceyhan will drop by 0.2 percent in February from this month,
according to a loading program  obtained by Bloomberg News.  Asia Gasoil Crack Rises by the Most in Five Weeks: Oil Products  Asia gasoil’s premium to Dubai rose, heading for the
biggest weekly increase in five.  OPEC  OPEC to Boost Supply for Final Winter Demand, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase crude shipments this month to meet the final phase of
peak winter demand in the northern hemisphere, according to
tanker tracker Oil Movements.  Saudi Arabia Said to Cut December Oil Output to 19-Month Low (3)  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, reduced
production to the lowest in 19 months as booming U.S. output and
recovering shipments from  Iraq  threaten to oversupply the global
oil market, a Gulf official said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Phillips 66 Flared Gas at Wood River Oil Refinery in Illinois  Phillips 66 flared gasses including sulfur dioxide at its
Wood River oil refinery yesterday because of “lost recovery
compressor,” according to a filing with the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency.  Exxon Mobil Fawley Oil Refinery Has Flaring, Fire Official Says  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Fawley oil refinery in Hampshire,
 England , was flaring, according to a local fire official.  Delta Trainer Fluid Catalytic Cracker Said Shut to Late-January  Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary expects
to need until the last week of January to complete repairs on
the fluid catalytic cracker at its Trainer refinery in
 Pennsylvania , two people familiar with operations said today.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Naphtha Falls as Vitol Sells; ICE Gasoil Climbs: Oil Products  European naphtha declined as Vitol Group sold four
shipments. Vitol offloaded 11 cargoes since the start of the
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gasoline barges rose to
the highest in almost three months.  West Texas Sour Falls to Seven-Week Low on Refinery Maintenance  West Texas Sour crude fell to a 50- day low on the spot
market as HollyFrontier Corp. was scheduled to begin maintenance
at its refinery in New Mexico this month.  Canadian Oils Weaken as Enbridge Apportions Mainline Mid-Month  Canadian crude oil weakened after Enbridge Inc. issued a
mid-month apportionment notice for its Mainline pipeline system.  LNG, Oil-Tanker Demand Seen Increasing in 2013 by Clarkson (1)  Seaborne demand for liquefied natural gas is set to
increase this year and outpace new liquefaction projects,
according to Clarkson Capital Markets.  Unipec Seen Overtaking Shell as Largest Booker of Oil Tankers  China  International United Petroleum & Chemical Co. became
the world’s largest charterer of oil tankers for the first time
in 2012, surpassing Royal Dutch Shell Plc, according to Poten &
Partners Inc.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East,  Africa  and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Kuwait Sets February Crude Price to Asia at 95 Cents Premium  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. raised the official selling price
for February crude shipments to Asia by 30 cents a barrel to a
premium of 95 cents, the company said an e-mailed statement.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Natural Gas Climbs on Biggest Stockpile Drop in Almost Two Years  Natural gas futures advanced for the first time in four
days after a government report showed that U.S. stockpiles
declined by the most in almost two years.  U.S. LNG Profit Seen Elusive as Price Gap Closes: Energy Markets  Profits from selling U.S. liquefied natural gas abroad may
be elusive, belying the $60 billion race for export licenses as
the price gap between Asia and North America shrinks from record
levels.  Cnooc Clears Hurdle to Restart Largest China Offshore Field (1)  Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil and gas producer,
received an initial approval to restart its largest offshore
oilfield, which was shut in 2011 after an oil leak.  Chevron’s Gain Portends Strong Earnings Season for Oil: Energy  Chevron Corp.’s forecast for “notably higher” quarterly
profit bodes well for competing international energy producers
also grappling with oil- production and refining challenges.  Hall Sets Up Commodities Hedge Fund Five Months After Duet (1)  Tony Hall has set up Hall Commodities LLP with former
colleague Arno Pilz five months after the pair left hedge fund
Duet Commodities Fund Ltd.  Shell Says Tax Played Role in Move of Arctic Rig That Grounded  Avoiding a state tax played a role in Royal Dutch Shell
Plc’s decision to move a drilling rig from Alaska waters, though
the company said the vessel’s grounding days later was the
result of an unforeseen worsening of weather.  Hafslund Chief Power Trader Roenningen Quits After Disagreement  Roenningen, 44, resigned his post at Hafslund Energy
Trading on Dec. 31 after 16 years, citing disagreement on
development and strategy of co.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Fall With Commodities on China Inflation; Yen Weakens  Stocks fell for a second day in  Europe  and commodities
dropped as China’s inflation topped economist estimates. The yen
weakened to a 2 1/2-year low against the dollar after  Japan 
announced stimulus measures.  Yen Drops to 2010 Low on Government Stimulus Plan; Franc Weakens  The yen fell to the weakest level against the dollar since
June 2010 after the Japanese government said it will spend 10.3
trillion yen ($116 billion) to end deflation and boost growth.  Abe Makes Yen Best Bet on Asia With 77% Carry Return: Currencies  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has made his nation’s
currency the most lucrative means to invest in faster-growing
Asian economies.  Wheat Trade More Bullish Even as Bear Market Begins: Commodities  Wheat traders are getting more bullish, even after prices
tumbled into a bear market, as demand for U.S. exports
strengthened and a drought in the Great Plains threatens to curb
next season’s crop.  Copper Falls as Inflation Fuels Concern China May Curb Stimulus  Copper fell in London, almost erasing this week’s gain,
after stronger-than-estimated Chinese inflation fueled concern
officials may curb economic stimulus in the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal.  Lew’s Lack of Geithner Global Rolodex Won’t Be Biggest Hindrance  Jack Lew, President  Barack Obama ’s choice to head the
Treasury, won’t have the global experience of Secretary Timothy
F. Geithner as he grapples with issues like Europe’s debt and
China’s currency rate. It probably won’t matter.  Obama Tees Up Second-Term Cabinet That Leaves Women Waiting Turn  President Barack Obama’s second-term Cabinet picks so far
resemble his golf foursomes more than the coalition of voters
who gave him four more years.  SPORTS  Seahawks’ Wilson Proves Value With Bargain Wins at $32,500 Each  Russell Wilson has been the best quarterback bargain in the
National Football League this season, his $390,000 salary
breaking down to $32,500 for each of the Seattle Seahawks’ 12
wins.  Knicks Fall to Pacers in NBA as Anthony Serves 1-Game Suspension  Paul George had 24 points and 11 rebounds to lead the
Indiana Pacers to an 81-76 victory over the  New York  Knicks, who
played without the suspended Carmelo Anthony, the team’s top
scorer.  Andy Murray Finds Swagger, Calm After U.S. Open Breakthrough (1)  Andy Murray enters the Australian Open with confidence and
a swagger after finally winning his first Grand Slam tennis
singles championship.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.18   -0.64  -0.7  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    110.64   -1.25  -1.1    ICE     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         946.25  -13.00  -1.4    ICE     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       275.35   -3.98  -1.4  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.26   +0.06  +2.0  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    110.65   -1.14  -1.0    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            302.63   -2.80  -0.9  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.84  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,678.00  +1.4
MSCI World Index     1,379.74  +0.1  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in  London  at   sev@bloomberg.net  