-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Heading for Its Fifth Weekly Advance
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-11T08:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/top-oil-market-news-crude-heading-for-its-fifth-weekly-advance.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Heads for Fifth Weekly Gain on Saudi Production Cut, Economy  Oil traded near the highest level in almost four months,
extending the longest weekly rising streak since August, as
Saudi Arabia cut production and investors speculated a global
economic recovery will boost fuel demand.  U.S. LNG Profit Seen Elusive as Price Gap Closes: Energy Markets  Profits from selling U.S. liquefied natural gas abroad may
be elusive, belying the $60 billion race for export licenses, as
the price gap between Asia and North America shrinks from record
levels.  Woodside Oil Ships Move From Fields as Australian Cyclone Nears  Oil-production and storage vessels servicing fields
operated by Woodside Petroleum Ltd. have moved away from the
projects offshore Western  Australia  as tropical cyclone Narelle
nears, according to ship-tracking data.  Oil May Advance as Chinese Data Bolsters Optimism, Survey Shows  Oil may rise next week after China’s exports jumped more
than forecast last month, bolstering optimism growth will
accelerate, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Tudor Energy Trader McMillan Said to Depart to Start Hedge Fund  Andrew McMillan, who oversaw the Singapore energy team for
$11.6 billion Tudor Investment Corp., has left the firm to start
a commodity hedge fund.  Asia Gasoil Crack Rises by the Most in Five Weeks: Oil Products  Asia gasoil’s premium to Dubai rose, heading for the
biggest weekly increase in five.  Shell Says Tax Played Role in Move of Arctic Rig That Grounded  Avoiding a state tax played a role in Royal Dutch Shell
Plc’s decision to move a drilling rig from Alaska waters, though
the company said the vessel’s grounding days later was the
result of an unforeseen worsening of weather.  Formosa Petrochemical Said to Sell Jet Fuel Cargo at Premium (1)  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. sold a jet fuel cargo for
February loading at a premium of about $1 a barrel to Singapore
prices, said two people familiar with the transaction. They
asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Obama Agency Sued for $675 Million Over Clean-Energy Loans (2)  President  Barack Obama ’s administration played favorites on
clean-energy loans while improperly blocking a carmaker and a
related technology company from receiving millions in aid,
according to two lawsuits.  Natural Gas Climbs on Biggest Stockpile Drop in Almost Two Years  Natural gas futures advanced for the first time in four
days after a government report showed that U.S. stockpiles
declined by the most in almost two years.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Jan. 9 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  Carmaker Sues Obama Administration Over Clean-Energy Loans (1)  A failed carmaker and a related technology company accused
President Barack Obama’s administration of playing favorites on
clean-energy loans while improperly blocking them from receiving
millions in aid.  Gasoil Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage rose in  Europe ’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  OPEC to Boost Supply for Final Winter Demand, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase crude shipments this month to meet the final phase of
peak winter demand in the northern hemisphere, according to
tanker tracker Oil Movements.  Saudi Arabia Said to Cut December Oil Output to 19-Month Low (3)  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, reduced
production to the lowest in 19 months as booming U.S. output and
recovering shipments from  Iraq  threaten to oversupply the global
oil market, a Gulf official said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Exxon Mobil Fawley Oil Refinery Has Flaring, Fire Official Says  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Fawley oil refinery in Hampshire,
 England , was flaring, according to a local fire official.  Bakken Oil on Trains to East Boosts Independence: Energy Markets  Oil moving from the Bakken field in North Dakota to the U.S.
East Coast is rising as the capacity to receive trains increases
to 900,000 barrels a day, cutting the region’s imports of
higher-cost crude to a 29-year low and reducing dependence on
gasoline from Europe.  West Texas Sour Falls to Seven-Week Low on Refinery Maintenance  West Texas Sour crude fell to a 50- day low on the spot
market as HollyFrontier Corp. was scheduled to begin maintenance
at its refinery in New Mexico this month.  Western Refining Rises on Permian Oil Discount: Houston Mover  Western Refining Inc., the owner of refineries near the
Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico, rose the most in two
months with Permian crude at a record discount to U.S. benchmark
prices.  Canadian Oils Weaken as Enbridge Apportions Mainline Mid-Month  Canadian crude oil weakened after Enbridge Inc. issued a
mid-month apportionment notice for its Mainline pipeline system.  Delta Trainer Fluid Catalytic Cracker Said Shut to Late-January  Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary expects
to need until the last week of January to complete repairs on
the fluid catalytic cracker at its Trainer refinery in
 Pennsylvania , two people familiar with operations said today.  Naphtha Falls as Vitol Sells; ICE Gasoil Climbs: Oil Products  European naphtha declined as Vitol Group sold four
shipments. Vitol offloaded 11 cargoes since the start of the
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gasoline barges rose to
the highest in almost three months.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  TOP Oil Market News: Crude Rises to Three-Month High on China  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 9.49 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Mideast Oil-Tanker Returns Slide on Speculation of Fewer Cargoes  Returns for the biggest oil tankers hauling Middle East
crude to Asia, the industry’s busiest trade route, fell for a
10th session amid speculation cargoes are too few to boost
charter costs.  Kuwait Sets February Crude Price to Asia at 95 Cents Premium  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. raised the official selling price
for February crude shipments to Asia by 30 cents a barrel to a
premium of 95 cents, the company said an e-mailed statement.  Iran Raises Light, Heavy Crude Premiums to Asia for February  Iran increased its February crude- price differentials for
customers in Asia, according to an official at National Iranian
Oil Co.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East,  Africa  and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Hall Sets Up Commodities Hedge Fund Five Months After Duet (1)  Tony Hall has set up Hall Commodities LLP with former
colleague Arno Pilz five months after the pair left hedge fund
Duet Commodities Fund Ltd.  Brent Oil Rises to Three-Month High on Chinese Growth, Saudi Cut  Oil rose to its highest level in almost three months in
 London  amid signs of growth in  China , the world’s second-largest
fuel consumer, and as Saudi Arabia, the biggest crude exporter,
reduced supplies.  Crude Rises to Three-Month High as Chinese Exports Accelerate  Oil rose to the highest level in three months as exports
from China accelerated and European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi said “a gradual recovery should start” in the region
this year.  Karoon Gas Takeover Looming With Brazilian Oil Bonanza: Real M&A  The prospect of new oil discoveries in the same region that
yielded the Western Hemisphere’s biggest find in three decades
is transforming Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. into a takeover target.  India to Speed Plan to Save $300 Billion Burning Coal Belt (1)  India approved a plan to speed up the relocation of more
than half a million people living atop mines in the eastern part
of the country where $300 billion worth of coal is burning away.  Chevron’s Gain Portends Strong Earnings Season for Oil: Energy  Chevron Corp.’s “notably higher” quarterly profit bodes
well for other international energy producers also grappling
with oil-production and refining challenges.  Caltex Plans Kurnell, Lytton Oil Refinery Maintenance in 2013  Work planned for No. 2 diesel hydrotreating unit and
benzene hydrogenation unit at Lytton in 1H, Caltex spokesman Sam
Collyer says in e-mailed statement today.  Turkey  Beating Norway as Biggest Regional Oil Driller: Energy  Turkey is drilling for oil and natural gas with more rigs
than any European country and plans new rules in 2013 to speed
exploration of energy supplies for the fastest-growing major
economy after China.  World Bank Focuses on Climate Change in Hunt For Fresh Strategy  The World Bank can make a difference in areas such as
climate change, education and health, President Jim Yong Kim
said, as he crafts a strategy for the poverty- fighting lender.  Bonavista Energy Rises After Cutting Dividend 42%: Calgary Mover  Bonavista Energy Corp. rose after the Canadian oil and
natural gas producer almost halved its dividend to cope with
lower gas prices.  OTHER MARKETS  Japanese Stocks Rise as Yen Falls on Spending; China Shares Drop  Japanese stocks rose for a third day and the yen weakened
as the government announced stimulus measures. Chinese shares
fell after the nation’s inflation accelerated faster than
estimated, limiting room for easing.  Yen Drops to 2010 Low on Stimulus Bets, Current Account Deficit  The yen touched the weakest level since June 2010 against
the dollar on speculation the Bank of Japan will cooperate with
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government to ramp up efforts to
stimulate the economy.  Abe Makes Yen Best Bet on Asia With 77% Carry Return: Currencies  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has made his nation’s
currency the most lucrative means to invest in faster-growing
Asian economies.  Asia Stocks Swing From Gain to Loss on China CPI, Japan Stimulus  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as China’s
inflation accelerated and Japan approved 10.3 trillion yen ($116
billion) of stimulus measures.  Emerging Equity Funds Post Record Inflows on Growth Outlook (1)  Emerging-market equity funds recorded their biggest-ever
weekly inflows as the U.S. budget deal and China’s economic
rebound fueled investor demand for riskier assets.  Wheat Trade More Bullish Even as Bear Market Begins: Commodities  Wheat traders are getting more bullish, even after prices
tumbled into a bear market, as demand for U.S. exports
strengthened and a drought in the Great Plains threatens to curb
next season’s crop.  Clive Hedge Fund Assets Said to Fall by $1.7 Billion After Loss  Clive Capital LLP’s assets plunged 46 percent in 2012 after
the commodity hedge fund lost money for a second year running
and investors withdrew their cash, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Lew’s Lack of Geithner Global Rolodex Won’t Be Biggest Hindrance  Jack Lew, President Barack Obama’s choice to head the
Treasury, won’t have the global experience of Secretary Timothy
F. Geithner as he grapples with issues like Europe’s debt and
China’s currency rate. It probably won’t matter.  Obama Tees Up Second-Term Cabinet That Leaves Women Waiting Turn  President Barack Obama’s second-term Cabinet picks so far
resemble his golf foursomes more than the coalition of voters
who gave him four more years.  SPORTS  QPR’s Redknapp Wants to Sign Gallas, Standard Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Swansea Seizes on Errors to Beat Chelsea in League Cup Semifinal  Swansea beat Chelsea 2-0 to open their English League Cup
soccer semifinal, getting both goals off mistakes by Blues
defender Branislav Ivanovic.  Swansea Defeats Chelsea 2-0 to Open League Cup Soccer Semifinal  Swansea City defeated Chelsea 2-0 to open their two-match
semifinal in English soccer’s League Cup.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.87   +0.05  +0.1  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.89   +0.13  +0.1    Ice     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         959.25  +10.50  +1.1    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       279.33   +1.44  +0.5  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.19      --    --  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.79   +0.13  +0.1    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            305.43   -1.56  -0.5  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.76  -1.0
Gold ($/Oz)          1,678.00  +1.4
MSCI World Index     1,378.48  +0.8  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $789 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  