-- Osborne Threatens British Exit From EU Without Change
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-11T17:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/osborne-threatens-u-k-exit-from-european-union-without-change.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said the European Union will need to change if
Britain is to remain a member.  The ultimatum marks a hardening of the language of the
British government as Prime Minister David Cameron prepares to
make a key speech on the U.K.’s relationship with  Europe  later
this month.  “I very much hope that Britain remains a member of the EU
but in order that we can remain in the European Union the EU
must change,” Osborne said in an interview with the German Die
Welt newspaper published today. The quote was confirmed by the
British Treasury in London in an e-mailed statement.  Cameron is under pressure from some members of his party to
call a referendum on pulling out of the EU. The argument
intensified this week after Philip Gordon, assistant secretary
of state for European Affairs in President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, warned Britain against a referendum, saying the
U.K. staying in the EU is important to U.S. interests.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, said the
premier’s position has not changed and that he wanted “fresh
consent” on Britain’s relationship with the 27-nation bloc,
without saying how that would be reached.  “The prime minister’s position is that we want to change
our relationship with the European Union and seek fresh consent
on that,” Gray told reporters in London. “There’s an
opportunity to do so.”  ‘Very Disappointed’  Osborne declined to say in the interview with Die Welt if
the British government is planning a referendum, saying Cameron
will state the government’s position in his speech. The Sun
newspaper reported today that the speech will be made in  The
Hague  on Jan. 22, when Cameron will say the Dutch government
supports his bid for EU powers to be returned to member states.  “ David Cameron  has said recently that a new consensus is
necessary for our relations with Europe,” Die Welt reported
Osborne as saying after he was asked about the possibility of a
vote. The British people are “very disappointed” with the EU
and whether it can solve urgent problems and create jobs, he is
quoted as saying.  The comments may further strain relations with European
leaders who have been angered by Cameron’s threat to veto treaty
changes unless the U.K. wins concessions.  ‘Blackmailing’  “You cannot create a political future if you are
blackmailing other states. That will not help Britain,” Gunther
Krichbaum, an ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and the head of
 Germany ’s European Affairs committee, told  the Guardian 
newspaper. “It needs a Europe that is stable. It needs markets
that are functioning.” A referendum “could paralyse efforts
for a better Europe and deeper integration. Britain would risk
being isolated,” he said.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , whose pro-EU Liberal
Democrat party governs in coalition with Cameron’s
Conservatives, said today the debate over Britain’s future in
the EU is proving “a massive disruption and deeply unhelpful”
at a time when the government is trying to boost the economy.  “I have to spend my time talking to business people,
British and international, trying to have the confidence to
invest here and create employment, and the recent uncertainly is
just deeply uncomfortable for the country,” he said in a speech
in London. “I think the warning shot across the bows from the
 United States  was actually quite helpful as well as very
timely.”  UKIP Gains  The U.K. Independence Party, which seeks Britain’s exit
from the EU, is attracting the support of about 10 percent of
respondents in opinion polls, leading some  Conservative Party  to
press for a harder line on the EU. They also reacted with anger
to interventions in the debate from other countries.  “This is about democracy and it’s about our relationship
with the EU and we will have our say, we will have our debate,
and we will do it on our own terms,” Conservative lawmaker Bill Cash told BBC Radio 4’s World at One show. “In relation to the
EU, there is no question that the status quo is unacceptable.”  Cameron and Obama discussed the U.K.’s place in the EU in a
telephone call last month and the president was “supportive”
of the prime minister’s approach, Gray said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  