-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Drop as China CPI Accelerates
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-11T10:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/most-asia-stocks-rise-as-stimulus-bets-boost-japan-shares.html
Asian  stocks  dropped, with a
regional gauge that excludes  Japan  heading for its first decline
in three days, amid overheating signs as China’s inflation
accelerated. Japanese shares rallied after the Cabinet approved
stimulus measures.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. led Chinese developers lower,
falling 3.1 percent in Hong Kong. Sydney Airport slid 5.5
percent after Morgan Stanley said the operator of  Australia ’s
biggest airstrip may sell shares.  Sharp (6753)  Corp. jumped 13 percent
in Tokyo after the Mainichi newspaper reported the television
maker will record an operating profit. Sony Corp. and Canon Inc.
both gained more than 1 percent as a weaker yen boosted the
earnings outlook for Japanese exporters.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  slipped 0.3
percent to 476.07 as of 7:22 p.m.  Tokyo  time. The gauge’s 14-day
 relative strength index , which tracks trading momentum, reached
71.8 yesterday. Some investors view a reading above 70 as a sign
the market has risen too quickly. The 14-day RSI for the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, stayed above 70 this
week after capping a seven-week rally last week as U.S. Congress
approved a budget deal.  “The market looks overbought in the short term but I don’t
think its going to collapse,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based
head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about $50 billion globally. “Economic data
has been quite supportive. We’re looking at a mild recovery for
the Chinese economy and it looks like China’s inflation rate has
bottomed.”  China Inflation  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.8 percent as the
nation’s inflation accelerated faster than estimated, limiting
room for easing. Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in December
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today in Beijing. That compares with the 2.3 percent median
estimate of 42 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News and a 2
percent pace in November.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 0.4 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.3 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index dropped 0.5 percent after the nation’s central bank
left its key rate unchanged as expected.  The benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific, which headed for a weekly
advance of less than 0.1 percent, climbed to its highest level
since August 2011 yesterday as  China ’s exports beat forecasts.
Shares on the gauge traded at 14.2 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.3 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
12 times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  advanced 1.4 percent,
posting its ninth week of gains and the longest winning streak
since December 1988, as the yen fell and Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe announced a 10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion) stimulus
package to help accelerate a recovery from a recession.  Weaker Yen  The yen touched 89.35 versus the dollar, the weakest level
since June 2010, on speculation the Bank of Japan will cooperate
with Abe’s government to ramp up monetary easing. Japan’s
currency extended declines after the nation posted wider-than-
expected current account and trade deficits.  “There is significant scope for the equity market to
outperform in 2013 if Abe’s promised reforms are undertaken,”
said  Sean Darby , chief global equity strategist at Jefferies
Group Inc. in Hong Kong. “A weaker yen would be beneficial for
export-led sectors such as the automobile, electronics and
machinery sectors.”  Futures on the S&P 500 slipped 0.1 percent. The gauge
yesterday advanced to the highest level in five years, led by a
rally in financial shares.  China Property Shares  Chinese developers fell in Hong Kong. Agile Property, whose
chairman was charged this week with indecent assault, dropped
3.1 percent to HK$11.24. China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd.,
the biggest Chinese developer listed in the city, lost 1 percent
to HK$24.60. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. declined 3 percent to
HK$14.10.  Genting Malaysia Bhd., owner of the Resorts World Casino
New York City, slipped 3.2 percent to 4.63 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur after Citigroup Inc. said plans by New York to expand
casino gambling in the state may hurt the Southeast Asian gaming
company.  Sydney Airport (SYD)  sank 5.5 percent to A$3.08 after Morgan
Stanley said it may have to sell shares to help finance about
A$3.6 billion ($3.8 billion) of spending needs.  United Breweries Ltd. decreased 4.6 percent to 817 rupees
in Mumbai after the Economic Times reported the Securities &
Exchange Board of  India  may ask Diageo Plc, the maker of Johnnie
Walker Scotch, to rework its proposed $2 billion acquisition of
a 53.4 percent stake in the Indian distiller.  Sharp Profit  Sharp, Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays,
climbed 13 percent to 330 yen on a Mainichi report that the
company expects its first operating profit in five quarters,
without saying where it got the information. Sharp boosted sales
in each of the four months from a year earlier on recovering
demand for televisions.  Japanese stocks advanced on a weaker yen. Sony, the
nation’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics, climbed 1.6
percent to 983 yen. Canon, which generates about 80 percent of
its sales from overseas, gained 2.3 percent to 3,370 yen.  Infosys Ltd. soared 17 percent to 2,705 rupees in Mumbai
for the  biggest advance  on the MSCI Asia Pacific. India’s
second-largest software exporter raised its full-year sales
forecast about 3 percent to 407.5 billion rupees ($7.5 billion)
as it reported better-than-expected profit for the third
quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  