-- Emerging Stocks Drop on China Inflation as Infosys Surges
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-11T23:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/most-emerging-stocks-drop-on-china-inflation-infosys-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, pushing
the benchmark index to its first weekly drop since November, on
concern Chinese inflation will restrict monetary easing while
strengthening currencies hamper exporters.  Brazilian iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3) , whose largest export
market is  China , declined as the Bovespa index posted its
biggest weekly decline since November.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South
 Korea ’s biggest automaker, slipped 1.7 percent as the won
appreciated to its strongest versus the dollar since August
2011. Consumer and raw materials stocks  led declines .  Infosys
Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s No. 2 software exporter, jumped the most in more
than three years after the company raised its sales forecast.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.4 percent to
1,073.04 at the end of trading in  New York , for a 0.5 percent
weekly decline. The won gained against the yen as the  Bank of
Korea  held benchmark borrowing costs for a third month and  Japan 
reported a larger-than-expected  current account  deficit in
November. China’s inflation rate rose more than was estimated by
economists to a seven-month high.  “Currency gains would crimp exporters’ earnings and come
at a time when the purchasing powers of the Western countries
remain low,” Jitendra Panda, head of sales broking at Future
Capital Holdings Ltd. in Mumbai, said by phone. “Tackling
inflation continues to be a huge problem for many countries and
that has jeopardized policy makers’ plans to ease.”  The emerging-market gauge posted its first weekly drop
since the five days ended Nov. 16. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
sank 1.5 percent this week, its first decline in seven. The
gauge slumped 1.8 percent today, the most among Asian markets.  ETF Falls  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. slipped 1.1 percent in New York as
American depositary receipts of  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (SMI)  sank 5.3 percent, the most since October.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.8
percent, extending a 1.2 percent drop in the week, the most
since November. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, added 4.1 percent to
18.16.  The Bovespa retreated for the first time in three days and
fell 1.6 percent in the week. Vale lost 1.9 percent to the
lowest level since Dec. 24 as the S&P GSCI Spot Index of
commodities dropped 0.5 percent.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar,
 Brazil ’s biggest retailer, slid 3.2 percent, the most in two
months, after reporting sales at supermarkets open at least a
year grew at a slower pace in the fourth quarter. Trading volume
was 35 times the daily average over three months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  gained 0.7 percent this
week for a sixth advance.  Improved Outlook  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  fell 0.7 percent, its first drop
in three days. South Korea’s  Kospi index  slid 0.5 percent. The
BSE India Sensitive Index was little changed.  The euro-area economy will gradually return to health in
2013, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday, and Japan announced a 10.3 trillion-yen ($116
billion) monetary stimulus package today. The  U.S. trade deficit 
unexpectedly widened in November, data today showed, as
retailers bought imported goods in preparation for the holidays.
The gap swelled 15.8 percent to $48.7 billion, according to
Commerce Department figures.  Turkish Airlines  “In the last few months we got increasing confirmation of
better global growth prospects,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an
emerging-market strategist at ING Investment Management in The
Hague, said by e-mail.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.2 percent on the fourth day of
2013 trading. The Czech Republic’s PX Index gained 0.5 percent,
while Turkey’s ISE National 100 gauge added 0.2 percent. The BUX
Index in Hungary added 0.7 percent, while Poland’s equity
benchmark slipped 0.6 percent.  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  increased 1.5 percent to a record in
Istanbul, after Dunya newspaper reported Deutsche Lufthansa AG
is interested in cooperating on flights to the  Middle East  and
 Asia , citing an unidentified company executive.  ‘Massive Inflows’  Emerging-market equity funds recorded their biggest-ever
weekly inflows as the U.S. budget deal and China’s economic
rebound fueled investor demand for riskier assets. The funds
attracted a net $7.4 billion in the week ended Jan. 9 and assets
under management reached an all-time high of $781 billion,
 Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and emerging-market strategist
at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, wrote in an e-mailed note today,
citing data compiled by research firm EPFR Global.  “We’ve had some massive inflows into emerging markets,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in  London , said by e-mail. “People may not be willing to
make many big bets.”  The emerging-markets gauge has risen 1.7 percent this year,
trailing a 3.3 percent gain by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country stocks. The measure trades at 10.9 times
estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rand weakened 0.9 percent versus the dollar,
depreciating for a fifth day, after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded
South Africa to the second-lowest investment grade because of
slowing economic growth, a widening budget deficit and rising
unemployment.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
cut South Africa’s ratings last year.  China Inflation  China’s consumer price index rose 2.5 percent in December
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today in Beijing. That compares with the 2.3 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 42 economists and a 2
percent advance in November. Producer prices dropped 1.9
percent, compared with an estimate for a 1.8 percent decline.  December inflation points to tighter monetary policy, a
stronger currency to curb imported inflation, less liquidity and
higher rates in the second half of the year, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  Hyundai Motor fell the most since Jan. 3 in  Seoul . A
stronger currency cuts the value of exporters’ overseas sales
when converted back to local currency. A gauge of consumer
discretionary stocks sank 0.8 percent, the most among 10
industry groups in the developing-nations gauge.  Infosys surged 17 percent in Mumbai, the biggest advance
since June 1993, and the largest gainer in the  emerging-markets 
gauge. The company raised its sales forecast about 3 percent to
407.5 billion rupees ($7.5 billion) as it reported better-than-
expected profit for the third quarter. Larger rival  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  jumped 3.8 percent, the most since
April 24.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 264 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  