-- Pakistan Cleric Leads March to Islamabad for Political Change
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-01-13T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/pakistan-cleric-to-march-on-capital-to-demand-election-overhaul.html
A Muslim religious scholar is
leading thousands of supporters on a march to Pakistan’s capital
to demand political change before the country holds a vote that
will represent an electoral milestone.  Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, 61, who heads an Islamic group
with 90 branches worldwide, says he wants the government to
appoint a neutral electoral commission and a caretaker
administration before a ballot is held by mid-year. He has vowed
to hold a sit-in after reaching Islamabad today, creating the
“biggest Tahrir Square,” a reference to the Cairo area that
was the center of  Egypt ’s Arab Spring uprising in 2011.  “This march will end the political dictatorship in our
country,” Qadri, who also has Canadian citizenship, said before
setting off yesterday from his organization’s offices in the
eastern city of Lahore for the 300-kilometer (186-mile) trek.
“This peaceful and democratic struggle will continue until we
get rid of this corrupt and illegal regime.”  Qadri’s rise to prominence comes as President Asif Ali Zardari’s government is set to become the first democratically
elected administration to complete its five-year term and
transfer power through a ballot, in a country ruled for half its
history by the military. The cleric’s message may be aimed at
Pakistanis disillusioned by established political parties that
they blame for corruption and a faltering economy.  ‘Pure Spoiler’  “He’s a pure spoiler,” Muhammad Waseem, a political
science professor at the Lahore University of Management
Sciences, said Jan. 7, describing Qadri’s prediction of
assembling “a million-man march” as inflated. “He doesn’t
have a defined political constituency but he commands a large
number of religiously motivated followers who can create
instability at this crucial moment.”  The cleric, who said he wants the government to agree to a
role for the army and top judiciary in forming an interim
administration, expressed anger over federal and provincial
governments’ efforts to prevent his followers from reaching the
starting point of the march in Lahore.  Local television channels estimated that 8,000 to 10,000
followers were accompanying Qadri when he left the headquarters
of his group,  Pakistan Awami Tehreek , or the  Pakistan  People’s
Movement. Qadri addressed one of the biggest rallies in
Pakistan’s recent history Dec. 23, gathering as many as 200,000
supporters in Lahore, according to local media estimates.  Denies Allegations  Qadri’s challenge has given new life to two of Pakistan’s
most persistent political conspiracy theories: that he’s working
for a foreign power or on behalf of the military. Army spokesman
Major General Asim Saleem Bajwa denied any such link, the Dawn
newspaper reported Jan. 2. Bajwa didn’t reply to questions in a
telephone call and a text message.  In a news conference two days ago, Qadri reiterated his
denial of the allegations and said his financial support comes
only from donations from his followers. His representatives
didn’t immediately respond to requests to interview him.  “He knows that there is a lot of political alienation in
Pakistan because of poor governance and people are vulnerable to
emotional appeals,” said Hasan-Askari Rizvi, an independent
political and military analyst in Lahore, in an interview Jan.
3. “He’s capitalizing on the feeling that there is no good in
elections without reforming the system first. He’s acting like a
Messiah who will fix everything.”  Slowing Economy  The Washington-based International Monetary Fund said Nov.
29 that Pakistan’s economic growth will slow to about 3.25
percent, one of the lowest  expansions  in a decade, in the fiscal
year through June 2013, from 3.7 percent.  Under existing law, Zardari’s government will leave office
by the end of March, and a caretaker administration approved by
a majority of parties represented in parliament will oversee
elections within three months.  Fourteen percent of Pakistanis viewed Zardari favorably in
a Pew Research Center  survey  in June, down from 64 percent in
2008. About 87 percent are dissatisfied with the country’s
direction, viewing the economy, crime and corruption as the
biggest problems, it said. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minor 4.2 percentage points.  Qadri formed his group in 1989 and was elected a member of
parliament under army rule in 2002. It’s his role as the head of
a Sufi Muslim-dominated spiritual foundation, the Minhaj-ul-
Quran, that provides his popular support and funding, he has
said. The body, which according to its website promotes inter-
faith tolerance, has offices in countries including the U.S.,
the U.K. and  Canada .  Stocks Fell  Pakistan’s stocks fell the most in more than 14 months on
Jan. 2 after the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, a party in southern
Sindh province and partner in the federal coalition government,
asked its members to join Qadri’s march. The party withdrew the
call on Jan. 11. Former cricket star and opposition politician
Imran Khan has backed Qadri’s agenda while declining to march.  “We will not allow this Canadian national to derail the
system,” Nawaz Sharif, a former prime minister whose party
rules the country’s largest province of Punjab from Lahore, told
reporters last week. “This guy is here to sabotage elections
and impose a foreign agenda on us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  