-- Holiday PC Shipments Mark First Decline Since 2001
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/pc-shipments-fell-3-2-percent-in-2012-hurt-by-tablets-idc-says.html
Personal-computer shipments fell 6.4
percent in the fourth quarter -- the first holiday-period slump
since 2001 -- as consumers and retailers shifted to tablets and
smartphones, researcher IDC said.  Worldwide PC shipments declined 3.2 percent for all of
2012, dragged down by lackluster holiday season demand,
according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. In 2011, PC
shipments rose 1.7 percent.  While the shopping season marked the release of a major
overhaul to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s flagship Windows operating system,
that didn’t boost demand for PCs, IDC said yesterday in a
statement. Windows 8 is designed to be used on touch-screen
devices and tablets, aiming to help PC makers compete with Apple
Inc.’s iPad as well as smartphones that are increasingly capable
of tasks once confined to PCs.  “Lost in the shuffle to promote a touch-centric PC,
vendors have not forcefully stressed other features that promote
a more secure, reliable and efficient user experience,” said
 Jay Chou , an analyst at IDC, referring to Windows 8.  IDC’s report has  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  continuing to hold the
top spot in shipments worldwide for the fourth quarter and the
year. Hewlett-Packard has 17 percent of worldwide PC shipments
in the fourth quarter, IDC said, followed by  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) 
with 16 percent and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  with 11 percent. Dell’s shipments
fell 21 percent in the quarter.  Competing market researcher Gartner Inc. -- which plans to
report its 2012 PC data on Jan. 16 -- had Lenovo surpassing
Hewlett-Packard as the top PC supplier in the third quarter.  IDC’s study includes so-called workstations, the more
powerful desktop devices used for such tasks as engineering,
architecture and video-game development.  In the U.S., Hewlett-Packard and Dell were followed by
Apple, which had 11 percent of the market for the fourth quarter
and the year. Sales of its Mac computers fell less than 1
percent in the quarter, IDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  