-- Penn’s ‘Gangster’ Gore; Smith’s Diva; ‘Outlaws’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/penn-s-gangster-gore-smith-s-diva-outlaws-movies.html
Inspired by a true story and a
century of wise guys, flatfoots and better movies, Ruben
Fleischer’s garish, hardboiled “ Gangster Squad ” rat-a-tats its
way from one misfire to the next.  Postponed after the Aurora multiplex massacre, the ’40s-era
flick arrives minus a controversial scene depicting a shootout
at Grauman’s Chinese Theatre. But a nightclub bloodbath remains.  Set in  Los Angeles  1949, “Gangster Squad” recounts the
extra-legal adventures of a team of L.A. cops on a mission to
take down mob boss Mickey Cohen ( Sean Penn ).  Presented here as a multi-cultural Magnificent Six, the
squad includes a square-jawed war hero ( Josh Brolin ), a pretty-
boy ladies man ( Ryan Gosling ), a black beat cop (Anthony Mackie), an aging cowboy (Robert Patrick), an electronics whiz
(Giovanni Ribisi) and a gung-ho Mexican rookie (Michael Pena).  Each comes equipped with a signifying trait and little
else: the cop throws a wicked knife, the cowboy’s a
sharpshooter, the whiz has a conscience (and a cute kid).  “Gangster Squad” was adapted by former L.A. detective
Will Beall from a book by journalist Paul Lieberman, though any
authenticity is washed out by Fleischer’s cartoon-style
directing and a fussy visual design that’s as contrived as
composer Steve Jablonsky’s heavy-handed score.  Flaky Piety  It should all be a lot more fun than it is, or at least as
rollicking as “ Zombieland ,” Fleischer’s clever 2009 outing.
Some pious soul-searching near the end is altogether
insufferable.  Brolin plays it painfully straight, while Penn hams it up
under so much facial putty he looks like a “ Dick Tracy ” crook.  Gosling, affecting an airy, high-pitched delivery, is even
sillier.  “Who’s the tomato?” he says, eyeing a nightclub beauty
played by  Emma Stone .  She’s Cohen’s moll, and she’s trouble.  Probably hangs with Jessica Rabbit.  “Gangster Squad,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  Maggie Smith  “ Quartet ” offers the same pleasures as “ The Best Exotic
Marigold Hotel ”: fine old British troupers munching scenery
while demonstrating that no matter how decrepit you grow, you
never have to shed your joie de vivre.  The setting is a tasteful but strapped retirement home for
musicians, which begins to buzz on the arrival of a renowned
diva ( Maggie Smith , playing her 1,000th dragon, perfectly).  Almost at once the machinations begin to draft her into a
performance of “Bella Figlia dell’Amore,” a quartet from
“Rigoletto,” for the home’s fund-raising gala. Her
participation will allow the organizers to jack up ticket
prices, but she doesn’t want an audience to hear her weakened
voice.  The other potential quartet members are Billy Connolly
(jaunty), Pauline Collins (dotty) and Tom Courtenay (mournful
but still handsome, so his past entanglement with Smith’s diva
is entirely credible).  Michael Gambon  swishes around in a
caftan, having a ball as an imperious old opera director.  It’s an oddly safe vehicle for  Dustin Hoffman  to have
chosen as his late-career directing debut. Heavy on pathos and
thick with zingers, material like this is so pat that it feels a
little disreputable. Still, it’s irresistible.  “Quartet,” from the Weinstein Company, is playing in  New
York  and Los Angeles. Rating: *** 1/2 (Seligman)  ‘Baytown Outlaws’  For a movie that’s as violent, profane, incoherent, ugly
and dumb as “ The Baytown Outlaws ,” it’s not bad.  A good-looking schemer (Eva Longoria) hires three criminal
(or maybe criminally insane) Alabama rednecks, the Oodie
brothers (Clayne Crawford, Daniel Cudmore and Travis Fimmel), to
kidnap a wheelchair-bound boy from the crime boss who’s her ex-
husband (Billy Bob Thornton).  The boss unleashes theme squads -- homicidal women, blacks
and Native Americans -- to pulp them. The biggest disappointment
is the women, a gang of supervixens straight out of “ Faster,
Pussycat! Kill! Kill! .”  The screenplay is the work of two Tarantino-besotted young
Southerners, Barry Battles (who also directed) and Griffin Hood.
They’re hardly prodigies, but they had the energy to get their
movie made and to attract some recognizable names (Andre Braugher is there as a corrupt sheriff). They may have a future;
they may even have talent.  But their timing is terrible. Though the bloodbaths are
wildly over the top, the comedy feels bleak. In the wake of
Aurora and Newtown, the glee has leaked out.  “The Baytown Outlaws,” from Phase 4 Films, is playing in
New York. Rating: ** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 