-- Peripheral Corporate Bond Sales Reach 3-Month High on Yield Hunt
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-11T16:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/peripheral-corporate-bond-sales-reach-3-month-high-on-yield-hunt.html
Companies from  Europe ’s weakest
nations are selling more bonds than at any time in the past
three months as borrowers tap investors’ growing appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  helped boost issuance from the euro-
area’s peripheral countries to 6.3 billion euros ($8.4 billion),
the busiest week since Oct. 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Sales across Europe reached 18.4 billion euros this week, led by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Deutsche Bank AG.  Bond buyers are snapping up riskier alternatives to the
ultra-low rates on safer corporate securities even as Europe’s
economy continues to sputter. While European Central Bank
members voted unanimously to keep rates at a record low
yesterday, President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers saw few
signs of an early economic recovery.  “We’re seeing a wall of new credit being issued on a daily
basis, in my opinion at relatively unattractive rates,”  Neil Dwane , chief investment officer for Europe at Allianz Global
Investors, said on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson . “Credit fund managers have
loads of money and they have to invest it, but that tends to not
be a good investment strategy.”  Investor demand for peripheral company bonds has pushed
yields on the debt down to a record 2.56 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Periphery Non-Financial Index
shows. That’s still 100 basis points more than notes issued by
companies in Europe’s core nations including Germany and France.  Spreads Tighten  Telefonica’s 1.5 billion euros of 3.987 percent 10-year
bonds yield 221 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
down from their Jan. 8 issue spread of 230 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield gap on Barcelona-based  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS) ’s 600 million euros of 10-year securities sold
Jan. 9 narrowed 21 basis points to 209.  In today’s deals, Spanish utility Red Electrica Corp. SA
raised 400 million euros from nine-year bonds at a spread of 223
basis points, its first note sale since September, Bloomberg
data show.  Portugal’s  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA  issued the country’s
first euro-denominated covered bonds since August, while Spain’s
 Banco de Sabadell SA (SAB)  in Spain sold similar securities, which are
backed by loans and guaranteed by the issuer.  Spain, Italy  Demand for debt from Europe’s second tier of nations has
extended to sovereigns, with two-year Spanish and Italian bond
yields dropping to the lowest since 2010 yesterday. Spain’s 10-
year debt fell to a 10-month low after the country exceeded its
target at its first debt auction this year.  “There is still a long way to go before we can call the
end to the sovereign crisis, but what the ECB has done is
quashed the tail risk,” said Harpreet Parhar, a credit
strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in London. “With yields so
incredibly low investors have had to hunt around for juice, and
in investment-grade it’s only peripherals and some banks.”  In  credit derivatives , the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps linked to 50 companies with mostly high-
yield credit ratings declined one basis point to 422, down from
428.5 at the start of the week. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell one basis
point this week to 102.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  