-- Peugeot Said to Sign $7 Billion Bank Unit Loan in the Next Week
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-01-11T11:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/peugeot-said-to-sign-7-billion-bank-unit-loan-in-the-next-week.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  will sign about
5.3 billion euros ($7 billion) of loans for its bank unit in the
next week after lenders offered more than originally sought,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The refinancing, part of a 11.5 billion-euro deal to shore
up the division’s finances, comprises a 4.1 billion-euro five-
year  term loan  and a 1.2 billion-euro three-year forward-start
facility, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the transaction hasn’t been announced. A forward-start
deal extends the maturity of facilities before the debt expires.  The term loan was increased from 3.6 billion euros after
attracting demand from lenders led by BNP Paribas SA, Credit
Agricole SA, Natixis and Societe Generale SA, said the people.
The remainder of the debt comprises loans agreed individually
with banks, one of the people said.  The Paris-based company is taking steps to sustain its
Banque PSA Finance division as Moody’s Investors Service is
considering whether to cut the unit’s  credit rating  to junk
because of slumping car sales. Chief Financial Officer Jean- Baptiste de Chatillon said Dec. 20 the company had reached an
agreement with around 20 banks for the financing.  The company will pay interest of 370 basis points more than
benchmark lending rates if its credit rating is cut to non-
investment grade, the people said. Banque PSA’s outstanding
three-year credit line signed December 2011 pays a margin of 160
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a spokesman for Peugeot, declined to
comment on the financing.  As part of the plan to shore up the banking unit, Peugeot
also received 7 billion euros in guarantees from the French
government to issue new bonds, allowing it to raise money at
lower  interest rates . The car maker still needs European
Commission approval for the guarantees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  