-- Pew’s Bair Says Bond Risk High Given Unprecedented Fed Easing
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2013-01-11T21:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/pew-s-bair-says-bond-risk-high-given-unprecedented-fed-easing.html
The eventual unwinding of the
 Federal Reserve ’s monetary accommodation with financial
regulation uncompleted has lifted risk in U.S. debt markets,
according to former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair .  The Fed has kept its benchmark  interest rate  close to zero
and more than tripled its balance sheet since 2008 to about $3
trillion as part of its efforts to sustain growth following the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. Policy makers last
month added $45 billion in Treasuries purchases a month to the
$40 billion of mortgage-backed bonds it has been buying since
September, in its latest round of quantitative easing.  “We are really in uncharted territory,” Bair said in an
interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “The Hays Advantage” with
Kathleen Hays and Vonnie Quinn. “We had highly accommodative
monetary policy leading into the subprime crisis, but nothing
like near-zero interest rates for several years. You do create
asset bubbles with this amount of liquidity and it’s difficult,
it’s very difficult to get out.”  Yields on 10-year Treasury  notes  tumbled to an all-time low
of 1.379 percent in July. They were 1.86 percent today.  “You have a lot of investors that have been loading up in
bonds,” said Bair, now a senior adviser at Pew Charitable
Trusts. “They all think that when the market starts to turn
they can get out first. You can get that kind of herd mentality
and you can get some real problems in the  bond market .”  Regulation Risk  Risks of rising bond yields when the Fed begins to exit its
easy monetary policy are exacerbated given that many rules
related to the Dodd-Frank Act to stem systemic risk in the
financial sector have seen delays, she said. Dodd-Frank
derivatives rules, originally intended to be in place in July
2011, have been delayed as the government seeks feedback on how
to bring swaps under its oversight.  “The good news and the bad news is that as the economy
starts to improve, and we hope it will, to control inflation the
Fed is going to have to start raising interest rates,” Bair
said. “What impact that’s going to have on the bond market, we
just don’t know. We need to be looking forward to those kinds of
challenges instead of still trying to get Dodd-Frank in place.
It really should have been done a long time ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  