-- Planned Parenthood in Texas Tries to Restore Health Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-11T19:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/planned-parenthood-in-texas-tries-to-restore-health-funds.html
Six Planned Parenthood of Greater
Texas Inc. affiliates asked a state court judge to clear the way
for them to receive government money to provide health care to
low-income women.  Judge Stephen Yelenosky in Austin is hearing arguments
today from Planned Parenthood’s lawyers and from the office of
Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott . The state opposes the
request to restore funding cut last year because of the group’s
association with legally separate Planned Parenthood entities
that provide abortion services.  The affiliates said in court papers they provided basic
health services other than abortion to almost half of the more
than 100,000 women who were enrolled in the state’s federally
funded Women’s Health Program, which ended on Dec. 31 and was
replaced by a wholly state-funded plan the next day.  “Whichever way you go on this, they have a big statutory
problem,” Planned Parenthood lawyer Pete Schenkkan said of the
shift to the new Texas Women’s Health Program today in court.
“You can’t exclude licensed providers.”  The affiliates and the women they serve will be irreparably
harmed if access to the money isn’t restored, they said in court
filings.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration last year said it
was withdrawing federal funding for the Texas program after
state lawmakers created the regulation blocking participation by
organizations associated with providers of elective abortions.  State Program  Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, together with Texas
Health and Human Services Executive Commissioner Kyle Janek, in
October announced the creation of the state-funded Women’s
Health Program, or Texas WHP.  “Governor Perry made clear Texas law will not allow a
program that includes abortion providers or their affiliates
like Planned Parenthood to be providers in the program,” his
administration said in a  statement  at the time.  “Any lawsuit filed to challenge the Texas WHP will kill
the program, and would be responsible for denying these
important  health services  to the low-income women of Texas,”
the Perry administration said.  In court filings, Planned Parenthood has called that
provision a “poison pill.”  The legislative intent was to exclude an abortion message
from women’s health programs, state attorney Kristofer Monson
told Yelenosky today. Witnesses who’ll testify at the hearing
will give a “real world picture” of the service providers now
available to low-income women, Monson said.  The new women’s health program provides yearly exams,
family planning and birth-control options for low-income women,
according to the state’s Health and Human Services Commission.  ‘Devastating’ Loss  The Planned Parenthood groups’ combined annual WHP
reimbursement had been about $13 million, they said in a filing
last month. Loss of that money will be “devastating” and would
force facilities to close, they said.  “There is no Texas statute that requires a primary-care
program run by the Department of State Health Services using
Texas money to accept the entity plaintiffs as service
providers,” the state said in a Jan. 7 court filing.  Planned Parenthood called three witnesses today, including
the lead individual plaintiff, Marcela Balquinta, 26, of
McAllen, described in court papers as a  University of Texas ,  Pan
American , graduate who works part-time teaching students about
sexual-violence prevention.  ‘Very Selective’  Balquinta told the court she had been getting her health
care at Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County, but now can’t
because of the new rules. She said she would try to pay for some
herself through Planned Parenthood, but would now need to be
“very selective” in her choices.  “I believe that the health care and information that
Planned Parenthood gives to the people in my community is not
something that everybody could afford,” she said.  Under cross-examination, state’s attorney Patrick Sweeten
cited Balquinta’s Planned Parenthood advocacy since she was in
college and told her there are other providers in her area that
contract with the state to provide women’s health care.  “Have you sought out, have you looked for other
providers?” Sweeten asked.  Balquinta said she hadn’t.  Additional Payments  Patricio Gonzalez, chief executive officer of the  Planned
Parenthood  in Hidalgo County said almost 50 percent of its
clinics’ budget came through the WHP and that most of his
clients are poor and uninsured people seeking cancer screenings,
annual exams and other care.  His clinics are now asking patients for additional
payments.  “Many of the women can’t afford the $20 for that office
visit,” Gonzalez said.  Two state witnesses will testify later today, Monson said.  The court denied the affiliates’ request for a temporary
restraining order on Dec. 31, the day before the new statutory
regulation took effect.  The case is Planned Parenthood v. Janek, D-1-GN-12-003887,
District Court of Travis County (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Kelley Shannon in Austin,  Texas , at   
 kelley@kelleyshannon.com .   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  