-- Pound Slides for Sixth Day Versus Euro as Manufacturing Falls
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-11T16:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/pound-slides-for-sixth-day-versus-euro-as-manufacturing-falls.html
The pound dropped for a sixth
straight day against the euro, the longest losing streak since
October, as a government report showed U.K.  manufacturing
production  unexpectedly declined in November.  Sterling weakened versus the dollar as the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research estimated Britain’s
economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter. The U.K.
currency slumped the most in four months versus the 17-member
common currency after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday the euro-area economy will slowly return
to health in 2013 as the region’s bond markets stabilize. U.K.
gilts were little changed.  “The data today was really quite depressing,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “The fundamentals were bad last year but sterling
picked up its bid on the back of the euro-zone crisis. Assuming
that we continue to get this lull, I think sterling’s
fundamentals will undermine it.”  The pound depreciated 0.8 percent to 82.74 pence per euro
at 4:29 p.m. London time, after reaching 82.87, the weakest
level since April 4. It fell as much as 1 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Sept. 7. Sterling slipped 0.2 percent to
$1.6129, headed for its first weekly tumble since the period
ended Dec. 14.  The U.K. currency slid against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after data showed factory output declined
0.3 percent from October, when it dropped 1.3 percent. The
median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.5 percent gain.  Total industrial production  rose 0.3
percent, also less than forecast.  Currency Indexes  U.K. gross domestic product stagnated last year, the NIESR
said in an e-mailed statement today. The institute’s clients
include the  Bank of England  and the U.K. Treasury.  The pound has fallen 1.3 percent since the start of 2013,
the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
dropped 3.4 percent and the dollar lost 0.4 percent, while the
euro gained 0.9 percent.  “We have signs that fragmentation is being gradually
repaired,” Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt yesterday after
the ECB kept its key  interest rate  at 0.75 percent. “We spoke a
lot about contagion when things go poorly but I believe there is
a positive contagion when things go well. And I think that’s
also what is in play now. There is a positive contagion.”  Buy Euro  Sterling extended its slide against the euro after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said investors should buy the common currency
versus the dollar, citing “compression in euro-area risk
premia.” Strategists including London-based Thomas Stolper made
the recommendation in an e-mailed note to investors today.  The  10-year gilt  yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.08 percent, after climbing seven basis
points yesterday. The 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022
changed hands at 97.16.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.9 percent this month
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bonds dropped 1.5 percent and Treasuries fell 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  