-- Savile Abused Women, Children in 14 Hospitals, Mental Homes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-11T12:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/prosecutors-should-have-filed-three-savile-cases-in-2008.html
The late British Broadcasting Corp.
television star Jimmy Savile committed more than 200 criminal
sexual-abuse offenses at the  BBC , in schools and in more than a
dozen hospitals, mental homes and a hospice, police said.  Savile, who died in 2011, engaged in the conduct until
at least two years before his death when he put his hand up
the skirt of a 43-year-old woman on a train, the Metropolitan
Police Service said in a report. His youngest victim was an
8-year-old boy and most were girls between 13 and 16, it said.  “Savile’s offending footprint was vast, predatory and
opportunistic,” Commander Peter Spindler said at a press
conference in London today. “He cannot face justice today, but
we hope this report gives some comfort to his hundreds of
victims.”  The BBC was plunged into crisis after competitor  ITV Plc (ITV) 
aired a story in October about five women who said they were
abused by Savile. Former BBC Director General George Entwistle
stepped down Nov. 10 as a result of the scandal, which includes
claims the BBC dropped an earlier news investigation into
Savile’s abuse and instead aired tributes following the 84-year-
old TV star’s death.  Savile wasn’t prosecuted while he was alive, even after
four women made reports to two U.K. police departments in 2007
and 2008, in which they described abuse when they were children.
Police and prosecutors could have filed criminal charges against
Savile if the cases had been handled properly, the Crown
Prosecution Service said in a report today.  Celebrity Status  In addition to starring on “Top of the Pops,” Savile, who
started working at the broadcaster in 1965, also hosted the
BBC’s “Jim’ll Fix It,” where he granted wishes for children.
His celebrity status and activity for charities allowed him
access to children in hospitals and schools, police said.  One of his final known acts of abuse was against a child
during the filming of the last episode of “Top of the Pops” in
2006, according to the Met’s report.  “The police report into Jimmy Savile contains shocking
revelations,” the BBC said in a statement. “As we have made
clear, the BBC is appalled that some of the offenses were
committed on its premises.”  While police heard from 450 of Savile’s victims after the
scandal erupted, only 214 have resulted in crime reports because
some victims want to remain anonymous or don’t remember enough
details. The recorded crimes include 126 “indecent acts” by
Savile and 34 rape or penetration offenses, including 28 against
children, the MPS said.  Filming Break  In 1960, Savile “seriously sexually assaulted” a 10-year-
old boy in a hotel after he asked the star for his autograph,
the Met said. In 1972, a 12-year-old boy and two of his female
friends were groped by Savile during a break in the filming of
“Top of the Pops.”  “It would be wrong to think the likes of Jimmy Savile are
a rare breed -- they are not,” Peter Saunders, of the child-
abuse victims’ support group NAPAC, said at the press
conference. “Some people spend their whole lives abusing.”  Police departments in the English counties of Surrey and
Sussex failed to tell victims during probes in 2007 and 2008
that other complaints against Savile had been made and
prosecutors didn’t make any effort to “build” a case after the
victims declined to testify, the CPS said in its report today.  Three Instances  If a different approach had been taken, trials could have
been possible in three of four instances where woman came
forward, the CPS said.  The CPS started the probe after it was widely criticized
for failing to follow up on complaints about Savile years before
allegations that he sexually abused hundreds of women and
children emerged in October. The women in the earlier cases said
they would have considered testifying if they had known they
weren’t the only ones.  “These cases do not simply reflect errors of judgment by
individual officers or prosecutors on the facts before them,”
Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, said in a
statement. “These were errors of judgment by experienced and
committed police officers and a prosecuting lawyer acting in
good faith.”  London  police started Operation Yewtree, with 30
detectives, to investigate historic sexual-abuse claims against
Savile and other celebrities, including people that weren’t
connected to Savile and allegedly abused on their own.  Other Arrests  Officers focusing on the entertainment industry have
arrested at least 10 people in the probe. Celebrity publicist
Max Clifford, who has represented O.J. Simpson and David Beckham, was arrested, along with singer Gary Glitter and former
BBC disc jockey Dave Lee Travis.  The CPS said in November that Cyril Smith, a former member
of Parliament who died in 2010 at the age of 82, should have
been charged with sex abuse in 1970, after eight men accused him
of abusing them when they were living in a children’s home. The
decision to not charge Smith wouldn’t have been made today,
prosecutors said. That case isn’t part of the Savile probe.  The Met said reports of sex abuse have increased across the
country since the Savile investigation started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  