-- Rand Sinks as Fitch Cut Extends Worst Emerging-Market Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-11T14:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rand-declines-to-1-month-low-as-fitch-follows-s-p-with-downgrade.html
The rand slid for a fifth day and
bond yields rose after  Fitch Ratings  cut  South Africa ’s credit
rating because of slowing economic growth, a widening  budget
deficit  and rising unemployment.  The currency declined as much as 0.7 percent to 8.7128 per
dollar, the weakest level since Dec. 6, and traded 0.6 percent
lower at 8.6991 per dollar by 3:49 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
rand has slipped 1.6 percent this week, the worst performance of
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on
benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 jumped four basis
points to 7.14 percent after falling 27 basis points in the
previous four sessions.  Fitch reduced South Africa by one level to BBB, the second-
lowest investment-grade ranking and on par with Brazil, Russia
and Mexico, following cuts by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service last year. The deterioration of the economy
and budget deficit has exacerbated social tensions in the
nation, which has seen farm worker protests this week and
 Harmony Gold Mining Ltd. (HAR)  consider closing its biggest mine on
illegal strikes and violence.  “The implications of this downgrade are likely to be
visible mostly in the short term and mainly through the
weakening of the rand,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , the London-based
head of emerging-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA, and
colleagues said in a note e-mailed to clients today. South
African bonds “have rallied this week and the downgrade could
prompt some profit-taking on such positions,” they said.  Yields on South Africa’s $1 billion of 8.875 percent bonds
due May 2022 rose six basis points to 3.11 percent. The yield
reached a record low of 2.89 percent on Dec. 12. The cost of
insuring against non-payment of the debt for five years using
credit-default swaps was unchanged at 141 basis points.  Fitch said its rating outlook was stable. “South Africa’s
investment grade rating is underpinned by a generally sound
banking system, a deep local  bond market ” and “a floating
exchange rate and inflation-targeting regime that is an
effective shock absorber,” the company said in its statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  