-- RBS Is Among Four Banks Said to Agree to Dubai Group Debt Deal
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-11T14:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rbs-is-among-four-banks-said-to-agree-to-dubai-group-debt-deal.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
three others will be paid 18.5 cents to the dollar for their
loans by Dubai Group LLC to end litigation in a $6 billion debt
restructuring, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  also agreed to the payment after
walking away from the restructuring talks in July with Dubai
Group, an  investment company  owned by Dubai’s ruler, according
to the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Dubai Group proposed last year to repay
the loans in full over 12 years in the debt restructuring.  About 18 banks that were part of the same $1.5 billion 
syndicated loan have also been offered the deal or agree to 
the original 12-year restructuring plan, the people said. 
The lenders have until the end of the month to accept and 
litigation may begin again if the deal is blocked, one of 
the people said. A final restructuring agreement involving 
about 35 lenders and all of the debt is expected by the end 
of the month, the person said.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the state seeking to restructure loans that
were arranged before property prices slumped and credit markets
froze with the 2008 global credit crisis. The company, whose
parent is owned by Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, used cheap loans to invest in financial-services
companies in the region and property in the U.S.  Dubai World  The Financial Times reported the settlement earlier today.
Spokesmen for Dubai Group and RBS declined to comment. A call to
Commercial International Bank’s office in Cairo wasn’t answered.
Martin Halusa, a spokesman for Commerzbank, and Ross Linstrom, a
spokesman for  Standard Bank , declined to comment.  Dubai Group, which also owes another $4 billion to
shareholders, holds stakes in companies including Dubai-based
investment bank  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , Cairo-based investment bank
 EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  and  BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB) , Oman’s biggest bank
by assets. Dubai World, one of the sheikhdom’s three main state-
controlled holding companies, reached a deal in March 2011 with
about 80 banks to delay payments on about $15 billion of loans.  Dubai Group’s 12-year restructuring deal proposed four
interest-rate classes depending on the currency and the type of
creditors, two people with knowledge of the proposals said in
April. Secured creditors, whose loans are backed by assets, will
be repaid principal in three years, according to the people.
Banks that offered partially secured and unsecured loans will be
returned principal in 12 years and receive additional interest
at the end of the loan term, they said.  In 2011, Dubai Group appointed eight banks to two
committees representing creditors. Paris-based Natixis SA’s
Nexgen unit and  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  of Dubai make up the committee
of secured lenders. RBS and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  were leading the
group of partially secured and unsecured lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  