-- Rebar Falls as Quickening Chinese Inflation Seen Limiting Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T04:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rebar-falls-as-quickening-chinese-inflation-seen-limiting-easing.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures
declined, set for the first weekly loss in six weeks, on
speculation that accelerating inflation in  China  may limit room
for easing to support an economic recovery.  Rebar for delivery in May fell as much as 1 percent to
3,982  yuan  ($641) a metric ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
before trading at 3,987 at 11:25 a.m. local time. Futures, which
closed at the highest level since July 9 yesterday, are poised
for a 0.1 percent drop this week.  China’s inflation quickened more than forecast to a seven-
month high of 2.5 percent in December as the nation’s coldest
winter in 28 years pushed up vegetable prices, making further
policy loosening less likely, after data yesterday on exports
and credit growth underscored the strength of economic rebound.  “The recent rally has already absorbed the strong
expectation of an improving Chinese economy,” said Huang
Huiwen, an analyst at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co. “Producer
prices indicate that fundamentals are not improving
substantially, so any further rally could be difficult.”  Rebar prices surged 14 percent in December, the most since
July 2009, as the country’s economy headed for a rebound in the
final three months of the year after a seven-quarter slowdown
after the government increased infrastructure spending and
accelerated investment-project approvals.  The average spot  price  for rebar fell 0.3 percent to 3,764
yuan a ton yesterday, according to data from Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  Spot  iron ore  at Tianjin port dropped 0.2 percent to
$158.20 a dry ton yesterday, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  