-- REC Slides as Output Cuts Signal Lower Prices Ahead: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-01-11T11:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rec-slides-as-output-cuts-signal-lower-prices-ahead-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) , the
Norwegian solar maker grappling with excess capacity and falling
demand, declined the most in almost a month in Oslo after
announcing production cuts at its Moses Lake plant in the U.S.  Shares in the company fell as much as 13 percent to 1.186
kroner, the biggest intraday drop since Dec. 17. The stock
traded 11.1 percent lower as of 12:20 p.m. in the Norwegian
capital, making REC the biggest loser on the  Oslo Stock
Exchange’s (OBX)  All-Share Index after Biotec Pharmacon ASA. About 57
million REC shares have been traded so far, 80 percent more than
the daily average in the past three months.  The Norwegian solar manufacturer, based in Sandvika near
Oslo, plans to temporarily cut Siemens-based solar grade silicon
output at its Moses Lake factory by 2,400 metric tons, resulting
in the loss of 46 positions, it said in a statement yesterday.  “Under these current economic conditions it is not viable
to continue production when market prices for the Siemens solar
chunk production have fallen well below the cost to produce
it,” said Tore Torvund, head of REC’s Silicon unit.  REC and other makers of polysilicon, the main raw material
used in solar panels, are struggling with low prices after Asian
peers expanded, leading to supply outpacing demand growth.  The production cuts come as “no surprise,” Pareto
Securities ASA said in a note to clients. REC’s average cash
cost is about $22 per kilogram (2.2 pounds) compared with a
current spot price of about $16 per kilogram, the broker said.  ‘Price Indication’  “In the long term this is an indication of where they see
demand in 2013 and also where they see prices,” Andreas Strand,
an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, said by phone from
Oslo. The cuts “imply that they do not see a very steep price
recovery, at least not up to $25 per kilo.” Strand has a sell
rating on the stock and a target price of 1 kroner.  The market probably won’t return to balance before “at
least” 2014, REC’s Chief Executive Officer Ole Enger said in
October. The company, which had net debt of 1.9 billion kroner
($342.7 million) at the end of the third quarter, has sought to
bolster its finances by curbing costs.  The group reported net income of 408 million kroner in the
third quarter after the bankruptcy of its Norwegian wafer unit,
with continuing operations yielding a loss of 452 million
kroner. REC will present its fourth-quarter results on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer at   jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  