-- Redskins’ ‘Hogettes’ Hanging Up Snouts, Dresses After 30 Years
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-11T20:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/redskins-hogettes-hanging-up-snouts-dresses-after-30-years.html
The group of Washington Redskins
fans known as the “Hogettes” are hanging up their pig snouts
and dresses after three decades.  The fans, who wore floppy hats, wigs, gowns and fake noses
at games, are retiring after 30 years in character, founder
Michael Torbert announced today on the  group’s website . They
said they will still root for the National Football League team
and continue efforts that have helped raise more than $100
million for local charities.  Torbert said it was a “new era” for the Redskins, who won
the National Football Conference East title this season for the
first time since 1999.  “It has been an honor being a part of the greatest 12th
Man fans in the NFL,” Torbert said in the statement. “We will
forever be Redskins fans.”  The Hogettes name comes from the Redskins’ “Hogs”
offensive line of the 1980s and early 1990s. The group formed in
1983 when the members started wearing the dresses to entertain
patients at local children’s hospitals, according to their
website.  The group’s first game in dress was on Nov. 27, 1983, a
28-24 victory over the  Philadelphia Eagles , and the group kept
the tradition through this year, both in the stands and during
philanthropic endeavors.  “Funny looks and clowning around by these professional men
has brought many a smile to a lot of people across the
Washington, D.C., community and other NFL cities around the
country,” according to the group’s website.  Fireman Ed  Joe Jacoby, a member of the Hogs offensive line, called the
group’s longevity “amazing.”  “They took it to the next step, and the things they were
able to do for children’s charities that they were involved
with, it was just outstanding,” Jacoby, 53, said in an
interview, according to the Washington Post. “I salute them.”  Today’s announcement comes two months after Ed Anzalone,
known by  New York  Jets fans as “Fireman Ed,” announced that he
would no longer attend the team’s games in character. Anzalone
said in a guest column for the Metro New York newspaper that his
decision was fueled in part because “confrontations with other
Jets fans have become more common.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  