-- Rethinking Copper ETF, Deere Probe Ends, Bats: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-11T13:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rethinking-copper-etf-deere-probe-ends-bats-errors-compliance.html
Industrial copper users including
AmRod Corp., Southwire Co. and  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  urged U.S.
regulators to reverse a decision clearing the way for a  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  exchange-traded fund backed by the metal.  The user group has said that the JPM XF Physical Copper
Trust, the first U.S. exchange-traded fund backed by physical
copper, would leave less for manufacturers, creating shortages
and boosting prices. The proposed rule change by NYSE Arca Inc.
to list the funds shares was approved in an order last month by
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We believe the commission’s findings that the listing and
trading of shares in the JPM Physical Copper Trust will not have
a material impact on the supply of physical copper available for
immediate delivery is not based on substantial evidence and is
therefore arbitrary and capricious,” Eaton & Van Winkle LLP, a
firm representing the copper users, said in a  letter  to the SEC
dated Jan. 9.  Compliance Policy  Euribor Maturities Must Be Halved for Simplicity, EU Says  As part of an effort to restore trust in the scandal-hit
Euribor interest rate, regulators said the number of maturities
that make up the benchmark for trillions of euros of lending
should be cut from 15 to seven.  Europe’s top banking and markets regulators told the
 European Banking Federation , which oversees Euribor, to
strengthen governance procedures to ensure no banks try to
manipulate the rate. Cutting the number of tenors would “have
the benefit of simplifying” submissions.  Global watchdogs are imposing fines and criminal penalties
against lenders accused of fiddling interest-rate benchmarks
such as Euribor and Libor, the London interbank offered rate.
Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Rabobank Groep said this
year they would leave the 40-strong Euribor panel.  Citigroup
Inc. (TRVC)  and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale left the group of euro
rate-setters last year.  The benchmarks are intended to represent the rate at which
banks can borrow from other lenders in a specific currency over
various periods. Authorities are investigating whether more than
a dozen banks altered their benchmark-rate submissions to profit
from derivative trades or to appear more financially stable.  The three-week maturity should be cut from Euribor, along
with the two, four, five, seven, 10 and 11-month tenors as a
minimum, the regulators said. The EBF should perform regular
governance audits and publicly disclose the results, ESMA and
the European Banking Authority said. The proposed changes
weren’t agreed upon by the regulators until last night.  The EBA set out guidelines for national supervisors,
recommending they require their banks to have internal codes of
conduct in place for Euribor submissions. The recommendations
changes mirror a streamlining of Libor last year.  Lender Scrutiny of Borrowers Tightened Under U.S. Mortgage Rules  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued a rule
yesterday that for the first time forces lenders to verify
borrowers’ ability to repay mortgages by confirming income and
assets.  The rule, mandated by Congress in response to lax
underwriting standards before the 2008 financial crisis, will
also offer some legal protection for lenders who follow
guidelines for so-called qualified mortgages, according to an e-
mailed statement by the bureau. The measure also insulates
issuers of qualified mortgages at prime  interest rates  from
future lawsuits.  The rule takes effect Jan. 10, 2014 according to the
statement.  The qualified mortgage rule will apply to home loans in the
underwriting phase. The rule on repayment ability is the first
in a series of rules that the CFPB will issue that will shape
the post-crisis mortgage market. The bureau will unveil rules on
mortgage servicing at a Jan. 17 hearing in Atlanta. Those rules
will apply equally to banks and non-bank servicers such as  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN)   Other rules to be issued by the bureau will cover
appraisals and loan officer compensation. The agency has also
proposed simplifying the documents borrowers receive when
applying for and concluding a mortgage.  For more, click here.  Basel III Punishing Dutch Debt Over a Risk That Isn’t: Mortgages  Investors in 262 billion euros ($349 billion) of Dutch
residential mortgage-backed securities risk being penalized by
new bank liquidity rules, even as the securities prove among the
safest home-loan bonds globally.  The notes won’t be categorized as liquid assets under
regulations approved last week by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision because the underlying mortgages have an average
loan-to-value ratio of 95 percent, a quirk of the Dutch housing
finance system, where borrowers take on more debt because they
can use  tax deductions  in place since the 19th century. The
rules allow banks to apply securities only where the ratio is
less than 80 percent, according to committee  documents .  Excluding Dutch bonds, in which defaults are close to zero,
shows the flaws in trying to apply global standards for banks
after more than 27 nations spent four years crafting regulations
to prevent a repeat of the 2008 global financial crisis.  U.S. government-backed mortgage securities receive more
preferential treatment with debt-guaranteed by U.S.-owned Ginnie
Mae counting the same as Treasuries, which carry no discounts.
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac securities also can be fully counted
up to a cap.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Deere Says SEC Doesn’t Plan Any Enforcement Action After Probe  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest maker of agricultural
equipment, said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
completed an investigation of the company and doesn’t plan to
pursue any enforcement action.  Deere fully cooperated with the SEC, the Moline, Illinois-
based company said yesterday in a statement.  The company said in August 2011 it was being investigated
by the SEC about a possible violation of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and that the agency requested documents related to
Russia.  Bats Says System Errors Caused Pricing Problems Over 4 Years  Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-largest U.S. stock
exchange operator, said its computers allowed trades that
violated rules intended to ensure all investors get the best
prices for equities over a period of four years.  Machines that match orders for two Bats equity exchanges
and an options venue allowed some trades to occur at prices
inferior to the best available bid or offer and enabled others
to violate rules for short sales, or bearish bets, the company
said in a  notice  published on its website Jan. 9. Customers lost
$420,360, because of rule violations,  Randy Williams , a Bats
spokesman, said by e-mail.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment in an e-mail.  Bats said it identified the trading issues in an internal
review and that none of its customers had reported it. The first
indication of the problem was on Jan. 4 and it was confirmed on
Jan. 7, according to a statement from the company.  The software problem at Bats is a symptom of overly complex
market regulations that should be simplified, Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Ratterman said in a phone interview. About 250
customers, mainly market-making firms, and 0.004 percent of
trades on Bats’s two equity exchanges were affected by the
problem that dates back to 2008, Ratterman said. About 0.0009
percent of options trades were affected, he said.  According to its rules, Bats’s aggregate liability to its
customers is limited to $500,000 per calendar month when the
exchange makes a mistake in the normal course of business.  For more, click here.  Libor Probe Marks Financial Fraud Priority for FBI in Washington  The U.S. investigators at the center of the international
probe into the manipulation of interest rates may not be who
people would expect -- and they are far from done with their
work.  The FBI’s Washington  field office , known for its terrorism
and public corruption work, is conducting the U.S. probe into
the rigging of benchmarks including the London Interbank Offered
Rate. Their work has led in part to two international
resolutions secured in the investigation, including the $1.5
billion settlement with  UBS AG (UBSN)  in December and charges against
two of the bank’s former traders.  The settlement, which also included a guilty plea from the
company’s Tokyo subsidiary, and the investigations into banks
and traders across the globe underscore the priority attacking
“major fraud” has become for the office, Timothy Gallagher,
the head of the Washington criminal division who is overseeing
the probe, said in an interview.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s role at the center of
financial fraud cases isn’t new -- the New York office has
spearheaded some of the largest corporate and securities fraud
cases in history. The Washington office’s emergence, bolstered
by its relationship with the  Justice Department  lawyers leading
the probe and its two financial fraud squads, has pushed it to
the forefront of Wall Street’s radar.  Along with the Justice Department and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, regulators from at least five countries are
investigating the banks involved.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Joins Goldman in Starting Electronic Bond-Trade System  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
started an electronic bond-trading service as Wall Street firms
seek to help clients buy and sell debts among themselves.  Clients of the Citi Credit Cross trading system have been
able to enter transactions themselves since this week, said
Scott Helfman, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup. The
service will be phased in during the next few weeks, he said.  Citigroup, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are
among Wall Street firms that traditionally acted as middlemen by
warehousing bonds until customers sought to buy them. That model
is changing as U.S. and international rules meant to make the
banking system safer have prompted dealers to cut the amount of
debt they hold. The firms now seek to match bond investors with
each other to ease trading.  Other firms such as MarketAxess Holdings Inc., the owner of
an electronic bond and derivatives-trading system, also seek to
allow debt investors to trade with each other.  Moving to electronic bond-trading systems may reduce costs
by as much as five times, according to researchers.  Dow Jones newswires reported on Citigroup’s plans
yesterday.  Courts  Ex-SAC Analyst Wang Spared Prison in Insider Trading Case  Wesley Wang, a former analyst for SAC Capital Advisors LP’s
Sigma Capital unit, was sentenced to two years’ probation for
insider trading after cooperating with a government
investigation.  Wang recorded phone calls and wore a body wire,
incriminating about 20 people in insider trading, some of whom
haven’t yet been charged, prosecutors said. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, citing Wang’s cooperation, Jan. 9 sentenced him to
probation, instead of as many as 37 months in prison called for
in federal sentencing guidelines.  Wang, 39, in a court appearance before Rakoff, apologized
“for breaking the insider trading laws.”  He pleaded guilty last year to passing illegal tips to
former Sigma Capital portfolio manager Dipak Patel and to
Whitman Capital LLC hedge fund founder Doug Whitman. Wang’s
testimony at Whitman’s criminal trial helped lead to his
conviction on charges of conspiracy and securities fraud,
prosecutors said.  Patel, who ran a five-person team investing in technology
stocks before leaving SAC in 2011, hasn’t been charged with a
crime.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC, has said that Cohen and SAC did nothing wrong.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 12-cr-541, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SEC Sues Volt Information for Allegedly Misstating Revenue  Volt Information Sciences Inc. (VISI)  was sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and settled with the
regulator over claims it misstated $7.55 million in software
revenue and income.  Volt, a provider of staffing, call-center and technology
services, said that it had a $10 million contract with a
customer to justify the revenue recognition and incorporated the
improper revenue in regulatory filings with the SEC, according
to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  “The company is pleased to resolve the matter and move
forward,” Joan McKown, a partner at Jones Day who is
representing New York-based Volt, said in a phone interview.
“They cooperated with the SEC, and they have taken extensive
remedial steps. The SEC is not seeking a penalty against the
company.”  The SEC also settled its claims against its former chief
financial officer.  Volt announced the SEC investigation in November 2008.  “We are committed to adhering to the highest standards of
accounting and corporate governance,” Chief Executive Officer
Ron Kochman said in a statement, adding that the company has
cooperated with the SEC “throughout this investigation.”  The accord is subject to approval by a federal judge in New
York who is presiding over the case.  The cases are Securities and Exchange Commission v. Volt
Information Sciences Inc., 13-cv-00237, and Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Egan, 13-cv-00236, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Hearings  Barclays Must Change Culture, Ex-FSA Chief Hector Sants Says  Hector Sants, the former chief of the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority, said that he wants to change  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
culture and behavior when he joins the bank as a compliance
director later this year.  “I’m going to do what I do best, and that’s drive
operational change,” Sants told lawmakers in London.  Keep, Chapman Comment on Herbalife and Ackman’s Pyramid Theory  Bill Keep, dean of the business school at the College of
 New Jersey , talked about hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman ’s theory
that  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) ’s business model is a pyramid scheme and the
SEC’s investigation into the company. He explained the
difference between a multi-level marketing company and a pyramid
scheme.  Ackman, head of New York hedge fund Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, had said at the Sohn Investment Conference in New
York Dec. 20 that a year of research convinced him Herbalife is
a pyramid scheme. The company, whose shares he began selling
short seven to eight months earlier, misrepresents sales
figures, misleads distributors about potential earnings and
sells a commodity product at inflated prices, he said at that
time.  Keep spoke with Scarlet Fu, Julie Hyman and  Stephanie Ruhle 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the Keep video, click here.  Separately, Robert Chapman, founder of Chapman Capital LLC,
talked about his investment in Herbalife and Ackman’s claims.
Chapman said it is “simply not the case here,” that
Herbalife’s business meets the definition of a pyramid scheme.  Chapman spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.”  For the Chapman video, click here.  For more, click here.  Cammarn Explains ‘Lincoln Amendment’ Impact For Foreign Banks  Scott Cammarn, a partner at  Cadwalader, Wickersham and
Taft , discussed a little known provision of Dodd-Frank that
could become expensive for foreign banks doing business in the
U.S. While openly acknowledged by lawmakers as a mistake, the
so-called Lincoln Amendment is perceived to treat U.S. branches
of foreign banks differently from domestic banks dealing in
swaps.  Cammarn talked with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia on
Bloomberg Television’s “Behind the Headlines.”  For the video, click here.  Former UBS Investment Bank Head Says He Was Negligent on Libor  Jerker Johansson, a former head of UBS AG’s investment
bank, said his unawareness of rigging of global interest rates
at the biggest Swiss bank was a failure and negligent.  Johansson, who headed the unit from March 2008 until April
2009, made the remarks to the U.K.’s parliamentary commission on
banking standards in London yesterday.  Huw Jenkins , who headed the unit before Johansson, and
former chief executive officer Marcel Rohner told the hearing
that they were “shocked” to hear about the misconduct, for
which UBS was fined $1.5 billion by regulators in the U.S., the
U.K. and Switzerland in December. Johansson, Jenkins, Rohner and
Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell, who co-headed the investment bank for
1 1/2 years until November 2010, all said they learned of the
rigging only recently from press reports.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 