-- Revel Debt Falls to Record Low as Atlantic City Revenue Dips
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-01-11T20:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/revel-debt-falls-to-record-low-as-atlantic-city-revenue-declines.html
     Jan. 11 (Bloomberg) - Prices of the $850 million loan used to
finance the construction of Revel Entertainment Group LLC, the newest
casino in  Atlantic City , fell to a record low as gambling revenue in 
the  New Jersey  seaside resort declined 8.9 percent in December.  The debt, due in 2017, fell 7.125 cents to 46.5 cents on
the dollar yesterday, from 53.625 cents on Jan. 9, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The decline comes two weeks after
the casino owner trying to avoid default obtained $150 million
in financing from lenders.  Revel, needs to generate $28 million to $33 million a month in 
revenue to cover payments on its first-lien debt, according to a 
Dec. 10 research report by Unite Here, a labor union representing
workers in industries such as hotel, gaming and food service.
Revel reported total revenue, or casino win, of $9.9 million in
December, according to the state Office of the Attorney General.  “It’s difficult to see a scenario in which this project
doesn’t have a debt restructuring,” Ben Begleiter, a research
analyst at Unite Here, said in a telephone interview. “The
movement of stock and debt prices in the gaming industry in
general is contingent on the performance of those monthly
reports, and Revel didn’t bounce back from  Hurricane Sandy  the
way Borgata did.”  The casino win for all of Atlantic City’s 12 gaming
properties fell 8.9 percent last month, to $223.5 million, the
New Jersey Attorney General’s office said yesterday in a
 statement . Revel ranked near the bottom, while the Borgata Hotel
Casino & Spa was number one with a total casino win of $54
million.  ‘Disastrous Management’  Revel, which has been struggling to generate revenue to
cover its interest costs since it opened last year, received the
additional funding from lenders last month to help back its
gaming projects. Including the new financing, Revel has about
$1.5 billion of debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In order for the property to be profitable it will need
both a restructuring of the debt and a complete change in the
disastrous management of the casino,” Begleiter said.  Maureen Siman, a spokeswoman for Revel, couldn’t
immediately comment.  Hurricane Sandy, which hit  New York  and New Jersey as it
came ashore Oct. 29, forced Atlantic City casinos to shut for
five days, resulting in a 28 percent drop in November revenue,
to $176.6 million. Revel posted November revenue of $6.2
million.  Christie’s Bet  Construction on Revel stalled in 2009 after former owner
Morgan Stanley abandoned the 1,800-room complex and lost more
than $1 billion. Managers led by Chief Executive Officer Kevin
DeSanctis took over the project, borrowed $1.15 billion to
finish it and won a $261 million tax break from New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , who is trying to revitalize Atlantic
City.  Revel last month amended its existing revolving credit line
and added a $125 million  term loan  expiring in 2015 as well as
increasing the revolver by $25 million, the Atlantic City, New
Jersey-based company said in a Dec. 27 statement.  Revel used a portion of proceeds from the term debt, which
pays interest at the higher of 10 percent or 9 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, to repay borrowings
under the revolver, according to a regulatory filing. The
transaction follows a deal last August that doubled a credit
pact signed in 2011 to $100 million.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the company Caa2 and
 Standard & Poor’s  has an equivalent CCC grade on Revel. Both
ratings companies have Revel on review for downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  