-- RIM Turns to Carriers to Help Avoid a Repeat of Palm
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-11T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rim-turns-to-carriers-to-help-avoid-a-repeat-of-palm.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is counting
on its relationships with 150 carriers to avoid the fate of
another smartphone pioneer that fell on hard times -- Palm Inc.  RIM’s BlackBerry 10, due to be introduced Jan. 30, has been
compared by analysts to Palm’s doomed WebOS, a smartphone
operating system unveiled four years ago this week. The
technology drew rave reviews at the  Consumer Electronics Show 
and sparked a stock rally for Palm, only to fizzle months later.  Like Palm, RIM rebuilt its latest operating system to
compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone after years of market-share
declines. RIM also has received positive reviews for the
changes, more than doubling its stock since late September,
including a 14 percent gain today.  The difference this time is RIM has the support of carriers
around the world, said Frank Boulben, chief marketing officer
for the Waterloo, Ontario-based company. Palm relied purely on
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the No. 3 mobile-phone service in the U.S.  “They launched with one carrier worldwide,” Boulben said
in an interview. “We are currently in the labs of 150 carriers
around the world. We are not comparing things that are
comparable.”  While Palm eventually added more carriers when the WebOS-
based Pre phone was sold in  Europe , the decision to debut with
just one carrier in the U.S. was a “really, really bad
choice,” said  Alexander Peterc , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
in London, who has a neutral rating on RIM. “RIM has wider
carrier distribution going for it.”  Comparisons Persist  Analysts such as  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Phillip Huang and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s Ehud Gelblum have compared RIM to Palm over the past
two months, suggesting that optimism surrounding the BlackBerry
10 is excessive. In 2009, WebOS excitement sent Palm’s stock to
about $18 from $3, only to fall back below $4 the next year.
Palm’s revamped phones failed to catch on with consumers, and
the company agreed to a takeover by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2010.
The products were discontinued the following year.  RIM’s rally “is reminiscent of Palm,” Huang said in a
report last month.  The company’s 14 percent gain to $13.56 at the close in  New
York  was the biggest since April 3, 2009.  There are technological similarities between the BlackBerry
10 and WebOS as well. RIM’s software lets users flip between
apps with their fingertips, just as the Palm Pre did in 2009.  Touch Screens  In both cases, the companies faced the daunting task of
pitching an unfamiliar platform to consumers, said  Brian Blair ,
an analyst with  Wedge Partners  in New York.  With BlackBerry 10, RIM aims to persuade long-time
BlackBerry fans to adopt a touch screen, rather than RIM’s
hallmark keyboard. While the BlackBerry 10 lineup will include
models with regular keyboards, RIM Chief Executive Officer
Thorsten Heins has said he expects the touch version to account
for most of sales.  “As they ask their 80 million customers to do this, those
same customers are going to be taking an honest look at the
other devices that are out on the market,” Blair said.  RIM’s most loyal business customers will give BlackBerry 10
an initial boost. That could account for 5 million to 10 million
units in the first full quarter BlackBerry 10 is on sale, Exane
BNP Paribas’s Peterc said.  Wooing the broader public will be tougher, he said.  “It will be enough to keep them going this year, but next
year will be much harder,” said Peterc, who now mostly uses an
iPhone himself. “As a consumer, I’ve moved on.”  Carrier Support  RIM will publicly unveil the first BlackBerry 10 phones on
Jan. 30, with sales beginning in February. Some carriers --
including  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s largest -- have
already begun taking BlackBerry 10 orders.  “If you have the carriers committed, that’s very important
for a successful launch,” said RIM’s Boulben, who previously
worked at  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  France Telecom (FTE)  SA’s Orange
unit.  RIM also had 79 million subscribers and $2.9 billion in
cash at the end of last quarter, money it can tap to market the
new phones. Palm only had about $250 million in cash and short-
term investments at the beginning of 2009.  Still, RIM today faces a hurdle that Palm didn’t. The
smartphone market is more mature today, said Steven Li, an
analyst at Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto. Apple’s iOS platform
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android also didn’t account for more than 80
percent of U.S. sales in 2009.  “Back then, smartphone penetration was still quite low and
there was no entrenched ecosystem,” said Li, who has the
equivalent of a hold rating on RIM. “Today you have two major
entrenched ecosystems in Android and iOS, and smartphone
penetration is maturing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  