-- RIM Jumps Amid Rising Optimism for BlackBerry 10
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-11T21:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rim-jumps-amid-rising-optimism-for-blackberry-10.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  shares
jumped the most in more than two and a half years amid rising
confidence the new BlackBerry 10 lineup will boost sales for the
struggling smartphone maker.  Analysts received invitations today to the formal unveiling
of the new phones on Jan. 30, a sign that the oft-delayed device
is real and going to be released on time, said Anil Doradla, an
analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago . A series of photos
also were posted today on technology blog RapidBerry showing the
new phones in action. RIM is releasing the BlackBerry 10 in both
touch-screen and physical-keyboard versions.  “What you’re seeing here is the anticipation of the launch
of these new phones, the anticipation of potentially healthy
sell-through for at least one or two quarters,” Doradla said in
an interview. He rates RIM the equivalent of a hold.  RIM jumped 14 percent to $13.56 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the
most since April, 2009. Optimism that the new phones will be
successful has caused the stock to more than double since late
September.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. carrier, also
reiterated its support for the BlackBerry this week at the
 Consumer Electronics Show .  “We are working closely with RIM to try and get out a
product this year,” Sprint Product Chief Fared Adib said at the
conference. “The market is consolidating around Samsung and
Apple, and that’s not necessarily a good thing. We need other
players to do well.”  RIM plans to unveil the new phones in six cities around the
world at the end of January, before putting them on sale in
February and March. RIM needs a hit if it is to regain market
share lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices that run Google
Inc.’s Android. If the company doesn’t achieve that, the stock
will tumble again, Doradla said.  “In the next 20 days, I expect the stock to trend
upwards,” he said. “Once the product is launched, barring
signs of sell-through exceeding street expectations, I expect
the stock to pull back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  