-- Ruble Drops Third Day as Bank Rossii Intervenes to Curb Gains
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-01-11T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/ruble-drops-third-day-as-bank-rossii-intervenes-to-curb-gains.html
The ruble slid for a third day
against the central bank’s basket as Bank Rossii bought foreign
currency in a bid to curb gains that can hurt exporters in the
world’s biggest energy supplier.  The ruble weakened 0.8 percent versus the dollar-euro
basket to 34.88 by 11:50 p.m. in Moscow, leaving it little
changed in the week. The yield on the government’s generic 10-
year ruble debt rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 6.61 percent after a 26-basis point tumble yesterday,
the most since Aug. 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank has bought almost 10 billion rubles ($330
million) of foreign currency since trading started this year
after a month without interventions in December, Bank Rossii
data show. While  Russia  is shifting toward targeting inflation
instead of the exchange rate, the central bank will still
intervene to curb volatility, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in October.  Policy makers won’t allow the ruble to appreciate beyond
34.5 to the basket, Ivan Sinelnikov, an analyst for OAO
Gazprombank, said by phone from Moscow. “Interventions will
follow and may reach as much as $250 million per day.”  The ruble depreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar to
30.3145 and slid 1.1 percent per euro to 40.46. Crude, Russia’s
main export earner, slid 0.3 percent to $93.56 a barrel in New
York.  The regulator’s purchases are small compared with daily
trading volumes and they also send a positive signal on the
ruble to investors, according to Sinelnikov, who sees the
currency gaining to 29.5 per dollar in the next three months.  Euroclear, OFZs  Expectations the ruble debt market will open in 2013 for
direct settlement for foreigners via systems including Euroclear
Bank SA and Clearstream International SA are also increasing
demand for the Russian currency, Sinelnikov said.  Ruble bonds returned 5 percent in the fourth quarter,
compared with gains of 2.5 percent for Brazilian debt, 2.7
percent for  India ’s and 0.3 percent for  China ’s, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  While the ruble’s trading hours were extended to 11:50 p.m.
this week, policy makers won’t buy and sell foreign currency to
influence its movements beyond 7 p.m., Bank Rossii said Jan. 9.  The central bank’s decision to refrain from interventions
after 7 p.m. has “no currency implications” because evening
trading is “illiquid,” Alexander Morozov, chief economist for
Russia at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Moscow, said by e-mail today.  The extra yield investors demand to own Russia’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points to 161 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.
An index of five-year government yields increased nine basis
points to 6.2481 percent.  Inhibiting Companies  The ruble’s strength is “clearly inhibiting oil and gas
performance” where companies’ costs are priced in the local
currency, Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading UK in
 London , said by e-mail.  OAO Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil producer,
retreated 2.1 percent this week in New York, leading the worst
start to a year since 2008 for Russian crude producers. The
shares closed down 0.2 percent at 2,005.10 rubles in Moscow.  “There is no reason to expect any significant increase in
Russian oil companies’ profits this year,” Vladimir Tikhomirov,
the chief economist at Otkritie, said by phone from Geneva
yesterday. “A stronger ruble doesn’t help exporters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  