-- Rupee Set for Best Week Since November on Growth, Export Outlook
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-01-11T04:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/rupee-set-for-best-week-since-november-on-growth-export-outlook.html
India ’s rupee was headed for the
biggest weekly gain since November on speculation the central
bank will reduce borrowing costs to support economic growth.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter,
reported third-quarter profit today that beat analysts’
estimates and raised its sales forecast for the year through
March. Economists predict data today will show an expansion in
factory output in Asia’s third-largest economy slowed in
November, even as inflation is forecast to stay near a 10-month
low. The  Reserve Bank  of India is scheduled to review  interest
rates  on Jan. 29.  “Leading indicators suggest Indian export growth can pick
up in the period ahead,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a foreign-exchange
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore, wrote in a
research note. “We also feel the growth and inflation mix is
becoming more favorable for the rupee.”  The currency advanced 1 percent this week to 54.5100 per
dollar as of 9:42 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest increase since the
five days through Nov. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupee gained 0.1 percent today and touched
54.4050 earlier, the strongest level since Jan. 3.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 10 percent this week.
The rate climbed 15 basis points today.  Wooing Investors  Westpac joins  Credit Agricole  CIB and Credit Suisse AG in
recommending purchases of the rupee, saying interest-rate
reductions and the government’s policy revamps will boost the
currency. Indian  exports  fell 4.2 percent in November, official
data showed, the seventh straight month of decreases. December
data are due anytime in the coming four days.  India’s  industrial production  rose 0.1 percent in November
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 34
economists in a Bloomberg survey before data due around 11 a.m.
local time. That compares with an 8.2 percent increase in
October. A separate survey predicts a report on Jan. 14 will
show  wholesale prices  rose 7.37 percent last month, near a 10-
month low of 7.24 percent in November.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is planning a tour
of  Asia  and Europe aimed at wooing investors to the nation as a
record current-account deficit threatens growth, according to
four people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified before the official announcement.  “Talk of the Indian finance minister’s roadshow to attract
foreign capital should be rupee-positive in early trade,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in a research report today. The currency may pare gains
once the factory output data are published, he wrote. Credit
Agricole expects a contraction.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.48 per
dollar, compared with 55.57 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.36 versus 55.57. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  