-- Russia Warns Ex-Defense Minister After Questioning in Graft Case
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-01-11T13:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/russia-warns-ex-defense-minister-after-questioning-in-graft-case.html
Russian investigators said the
country’s ousted defense minister refused to cooperate with
their corruption inquiry, warning this may change his status as
a witness in the case.  Anatoly Serdyukov appeared for questioning today for the
second time over a case involving the alleged fraud of 4 billion
rubles ($132 million) at OAO Oboronservis, a contractor
supplying goods and services to the military. Serdyukov provided
written testimony and declined to give further evidence, the
Investigative Committee said in a  statement  published on its
website today.  “The former defense minister’s position could be
interpreted as an effort to hinder the investigation,” the
Moscow-based law-enforcement agency said. “It’s perfectly
feasible that Serdyukov’s status may change during the course of
the inquiry.”  President  Vladimir Putin  fired Serdyukov as defense
minister in November, the most senior official to be ousted over
corruption by the Russian leader. Three of his former
subordinates have been charged over the alleged Oboronservis
graft, which involved the sale of property, and another three
ministry officials have been charged over a separate $13 million
fraud.  Genrikh Padva, Serdyukov’s lawyer, said his client denies
any wrongdoing and criticized the committee’s threat to charge
him with the crime as “unacceptable.” The former minister had
replied to investigators’ questions at today’s meeting, Padva
said by phone.  Serdyukov may face criminal charges over illegal
construction of an 8-kilometer (5-mile) road that connected to a
property owned by the former minister’s relative, an episode
over which he was also questioned today, Interfax reported,
citing unidentified people close to the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  