-- Russia to Weigh Serbian $1 Billion Request, Cypriot Rescheduling
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-01-11T09:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/russia-to-weigh-serbian-1-billion-request-cypriot-rescheduling.html
Russia  is considering Serbia’s
request for a $1 billion credit and will discuss more lenient
terms for Cyprus’s repayment of its 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3
billion) loan, Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  Russian and Serbian officials plan to continue talks in the
coming weeks on the loan request, Siluanov told reporters in
Moscow today after a meeting with Serbian Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic . Russia signed an agreement today to provide $800
million to the Balkan country for its infrastructure projects.  Russia will work with European countries on possible steps
to revise Cyprus’s repayment schedule, Siluanov said. The east
Mediterranean nation has officially asked Russia to extend its
2.5 billion-euro loan by five years to 2021, the Nicosia-based
 Finance Ministry  said yesterday. The euro area’s third-smallest
economy borrowed the funds in December 2011 and has recently
sought an additional 5 billion euros from Russia.  Russia, holder of the world’s fourth-largest international
reserves, has been approached for bilateral financial aid from
at least five countries, Siluanov told reporters last month. The
$800 million loan made to  Serbia  will go toward’s Serbia’s
railways and completes a $1 billion package signed in 2009. The
terms of the agreement were “extremely favorable,” Dinkic said
today.  Russia has no plans to grant a new 5 billion-euro loan to
Cyprus, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said in an
interview in Moscow on Dec. 24. Cyprus, downgraded three steps
by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday, is bracing for results
of a study next week that may show the island nation needs the
world’s biggest bank bailout as a proportion of gross domestic
product in at least 16 years.  ‘More Even’  “We’ll cooperate with European countries on the subject of
measures needed to shift Cyprus to a more even schedule for debt
repayment,” Siluanov said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said this week Cyprus won’t
get “special” treatment as it negotiates the bailout it
requested in June. Cyprus became the fifth euro-area nation to
request a rescue, after  Greece ’s debt restructuring trashed the
financial health of lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY)  and
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  