-- Russian Consumer Confidence Falls to Lowest Since 2011
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-11T14:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/russian-consumer-confidence-falls-to-lowest-since-2011.html
Russian  consumer confidence  fell
last quarter to the lowest in 1 1/2 years as the economy slowed
and inflation held above the central bank’s target.  The  consumer confidence  index fell 2 points to minus 8, the
weakest since the second quarter of 2011, the Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed statement today. The
biggest  factors  weighing on sentiment were assessments by
Russians of changes in the economy over the past year and their
material wellbeing, according to the report.  Russia , which relies on household spending for about half
of its economy, faces a slowdown this year as income growth is
projected to weaken. The decline in household comfort followed
signs that private consumption was slowing and will probably
continue to sag into the first half, said Vladimir Miklashevsky,
an economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki.  “No large growth is expected in wages, and inflation
doubled compared with a post-Soviet low in the first half of
2012,” Miklashevsky said by e-mail today. “For 2013 we expect
lower confidence than in 2012, but no dramatic drop.”  The  Micex Consumer Goods and Services Index  erased gains
and was down less than 0.1 percent as of 5:09 p.m. in Moscow.
The benchmark Micex Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,512.11.  The deteriorating consumer outlook may trim earnings for
companies including McDonald’s Corp. and Burger King Worldwide
Inc., which both highlighted Russia as a key market for growth
in the third quarter.  Economy Slumps  Russia’s economic expansion is  forecast  to slow to 2.5
percent in the fourth quarter, the weakest pace since a recovery
began in 2010, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Private consumption will remain the main
driver of growth this year, advancing 4 percent and outpacing
the broader economy, BNP Paribas SA said in a report this week.  “The economy is indeed slowing down, although still
performing much better compared to debt-ridden economies across
 Europe ,” said  Piotr Matys , an emerging-markets analyst at 4cast
Ltd. in  London . “I expect inflation to remain higher throughout
2013 compared to 2012 and the central bank may struggle to reach
its end-year target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  