-- Sales of Aussie-Linked Structured Notes Gain Speed as Yen Slumps
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-01-11T02:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/sales-of-aussie-linked-structured-notes-gain-speed-as-yen-slumps.html
Sales of structured notes linked to
the Australian dollar accelerated in number in the second half
of 2012 at the fastest pace in more than a year, as the currency
surged against the yen.  Issuance rose 21 percent to 76 securities in the six months
through December from the first half, the sharpest rise since
the first six months of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yen-denominated notes accounted for the largest group
at 37 percent of total sales, the data show.  The Australia  dollar  ended 2012 at the highest level
against the yen since September 2008, after Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe called for a higher inflation target. The
so-called Aussie is set to gain on improvement in the Australian
economy, while Abe’s policies are expected to weaken the yen
further,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  strategists wrote in
a Dec. 21 report.  The rise in the Aussie-yen “has been extremely swift,”
David Naville, head of foreign-exchange structuring for the
Asia-Pacific region at Barclays Plc in Hong Kong, said in an
interview. “It’s a great opportunity for investors.”  International Finance Corp., the private-sector investment
arm of the  World Bank , sold 14.85 billion yen ($166.9 million)
of callable notes in December betting against the Japanese
currency gaining on its Australian peer, Ben Powell, Washington
D.C.-based senior financial officer at the company, wrote in
response to e-mailed questions. IFC also sold $12.56 million of
securities tied to the Aussie- U.S. dollar  pair last month.  ‘Just a Start’  IFC’s 1.5-year 8.95 billion yen note pays 2.5 percent
annually and the two-year 5.9 billion yen security has a 2
percent coupon, Powell said. If the Australian dollar
depreciates by more than about 10 percent, investors are paid in
the Aussie at predetermined rates, potentially taking losses on
their principal.  Nomura International Plc sold the notes in the uridashi
market, Powell said.  In 2012, Aussie-linked securities accounted for almost 90
percent of the total value of dual-currency structured notes
traded in the uridashi market, according to Bloomberg data. The
market includes debt issued outside of  Japan  that’s sold mainly
to the country’s individual investors.  Investments in the Aussie have been popular among the
Japanese looking for high yields as the South Pacific nation has
the highest  interest rates  among developed economies. The
 currency pair  is also often used in so-called carry trades that
borrow in the yen to buy the higher-yielding Aussie to take
advantage of Japan’s lower borrowing costs.  The yen fell past 87 per U.S. dollar for the first time in
2 1/2 years on Jan. 2 after Abe reiterated his intention to
weaken the nation’s currency. On the same day, the Australian
dollar advanced to its strongest level in more than a week.  The Japanese currency probably won’t recover soon,
Barclays’ Naville said.  “It may be just a start,” he said. “I’m quite confident
the trend could last at least for 18 months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  