-- Sanford Fined $1.9 Million for Hiding Waste Dump at Sea
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-11T22:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/sanford-fined-1-9-million-for-hiding-waste-dump-at-sea.html
Sanford Ltd. (SAN) ,  New Zealand ’s second-
biggest fishing company, was fined $1.9 million by a U.S. judge
for dumping oil waste at sea and covering up its actions.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell in  Washington  yesterday
also put the Auckland-based company on probation for three
years. Sanford was ordered to pay $500,000 in community service
to the National Marine Sanctuaries Foundation that will benefit
Fagatele Bay in America Samoa, according to the  Justice
Department .  “Today’s sentence sends a clear message to owners and
operators of commercial vessels who illegally dump oily waste
and try to cover it up,” U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We are committed to
protecting our precious natural resources and will punish
companies and individuals who ignore their obligations to our
planet and future generations.”  Sanford was convicted in August of conspiracy, presenting
false documents and deceiving the U.S. Coast Guard, according to
a court filing. The company was acquitted of obstructing
justice.  A federal jury found that a Sanford vessel, the San
Nikunau, which routinely delivered tuna to American Samoa, had
been discharging oily bilge waste into the sea around the island
since at least 2007.  Sanford was paid more than $24 million for tuna deliveries
over the past five years, according to prosecutors.  Engineer Convicted  The chief engineer of the San Nikunau, James Pogue, was
convicted of violating international shipping law for failing to
keep an accurate record book and of obstruction of justice.
Pogue, who faced a possible prison sentence of 20 years, was
ordered jailed for one month and fined $6,000. He was acquitted
of directing the crew to dump waste directly into the sea.  Eric Barratt, Sanford’s managing director, didn’t
immediately respond to a call seeking comment made outside
normal business hours.  The U.S. belongs to an international convention that
regulates discharges of oil from ships. The U.S enforces the Act
to Prevent Pollution From Ships in waters under its
jurisdiction, including those around  American Samoa  and the port
of Pago Pago, where the San Nikunau ended its fishing voyages.  The U.S. charged Sanford with telling the San Nikunau’s
crew to dump bilge waste directly into the ocean, rather than
first passing it through pollution-control equipment, according
to the indictment.  The ship’s former chief engineer, Rolando Ong Vano, pleaded
guilty April 18 to concealing environmental crimes. In the plea
agreement, he said it was routine practice by the company to
discharge oily bilge waste into the sea, bypassing cleanup
equipment. He admitted to falsifying the oil record book and
lying to Coast Guard inspectors, according to court filings.  The case is U.S. v. Sanford Ltd., 11-cr-00352, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 