-- Sanford Fined $1.9 Million for Waste Dump Cover-Up
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-11T19:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/sanford-fined-1-9-million-for-waste-dump-cover-up.html
Sanford Ltd. (SAN) ,  New Zealand ’s second-
biggest fishing company, was fined $1.9 million by a U.S. judge
for dumping oil waste at sea and covering up its actions.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell in  Washington  today also
put the Auckland-based company on probation for three years.
Sanford was convicted in August of conspiracy, presenting false
documents and deceiving the U.S. Coast Guard, according to a
court filing. The company was acquitted of obstructing justice.  A federal jury found that a Sanford vessel, the San
Nikunau, which routinely delivered tuna to American Samoa, had
been discharging oily bilge waste into the sea around the island
since at least 2007.  The chief engineer of the San Nikunau, James Pogue, was
convicted of violating international shipping law for failing to
keep an accurate record book and of obstruction of justice.
Pogue, who faced a possible prison sentence of 20 years, was
ordered jailed for one month and fined $6,000. He was acquitted
of directing the crew to dump waste directly into the sea.  The U.S. belongs to an international convention that
regulates discharges of oil from ships. The U.S enforces the Act
to Prevent Pollution From Ships in waters under its
jurisdiction, including those around  American Samoa  and the port
of Pago Pago, where the San Nikunau ended its fishing voyages.  Bilge Waste  The U.S. charged Sanford with telling the San Nikunau’s
crew to dump bilge waste directly into the ocean, rather than
first passing it through pollution-control equipment, according
to the indictment.  The ship’s former chief engineer, Rolando Ong Vano, pleaded
guilty April 18 to covering up environmental crimes. In the plea
agreement, he said it was routine practice by the company to
discharge oily bilge waste into the sea, bypassing cleanup
equipment. He admitted to falsifying the oil record book and
lying to Coast Guard inspectors, according to court filings.  The case is U.S. v. Sanford Ltd., 11-cr-00352, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  