-- Sarepta May Seek Partnership Advice for Experimental Drug
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2013-01-11T21:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/sarepta-may-seek-partnership-advice-for-experimental-drug.html
Sarepta Therapeutics Inc. (SRPT) , a
developer of an experimental drug for  Duchenne muscular
dystrophy , may seek advisers to find an overseas partner for the
therapy, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Garabedian said.  The biotechnology company is talking with more than a dozen
drugmakers about a partnership for international sales of
eteplirsen, Sarepta’s medicine for the rare muscle-wasting
disease, Garabedian said in an interview at the JPMorgan Chase &
Co. health-care conference in San Francisco. Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Sarepta is considering hiring an advisory
firm, such as Centerview Partners LLC or JSP Partners, to help
with the talks. The company isn’t for sale, he said.  While successful testing of eteplirsen may make Sarepta, a
32-year-old company with no marketed products, an acquisition
target, Garabedian said he wants it to become a rival to large
biotechnology companies such as  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the
world’s biggest maker of AIDS medicines and  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , the
maker of the $3 billion cancer drug, Revlimid.  “I’m building a team that knows how to create a successful
global biopharmaceutical company,” Garabedian said. “I’m
hiring people from Genzyme, Gilead, Celgene, Shire, and Vertex.
Those people like myself want to work on the next break-out
biotech.”  Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a form of the disease that
affects boys and worsens quickly. It is caused by a defective
gene for a protein in the muscles and occurs in about one of
every 3,600 male infants, according to the  National Institutes
of Health .  Sarepta declined less than 1 percent to $26.18 at the close
of  New York  trading.  Gene Repair  Eteplirsen repairs a gene mutation in about 13 percent of
patients, helping them produce the missing protein and gain
strength, the company has said. The drug is made by manipulating
RNA, or ribonucleic acid, which controls protein synthesis.  Sarepta’s shares have  increased  more than fourfold in the
12 months through yesterday, including tripling in a single day
last October when the company announced positive results for the
drug in a test of eight patients.  Investors have driven up the share price with an
acquisition in mind though no deal will happen until a clear
regulatory path is established for eteplirsen in the first
quarter of the year, said Kimberly Lee, an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC. GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Pfizer Inc. and
Sanofi would be likely bidders as they are looking to acquire
drugs to expand their products for rare diseases, Lee said.  Sarepta’s next key marker is its meeting to discuss mid-
stage testing with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ,  which
will allow the company to decide if it can seek accelerated
approval, Garabedian said.  Further Testing  Lee said Sarepta probably won’t receive accelerated
approval based on current results in so few patients and likely
will be required to run a larger, pivotal study. Prosensa, a
Dutch biotechnology company, and Glaxo are conducting a Phase 3
study of a treatment called drisapersen for Duchenne muscular
dystrophy patients with data expected by the fourth quarter.
Drisapersen was once known as PRO-051.  “Investors are focused on whether the regulatory pathway
is going to be accelerated approval versus standard approval,”
Lee said.  Sarepta also must smooth out eteplirsen’s intellectual
property in  Europe , where the company has a patent dispute with
Prosensa that may affect partnership talks, Garabedian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in  San Francisco  at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  