-- Saudi King Appoints First Women to Consultative Council
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-01-11T15:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/saudi-king-appoints-first-women-members-of-consultative-council.html
King Abdullah  of  Saudi Arabia 
appointed female members to the Consultative Council for the
first time, naming 30 women to the 150-member advisory body.  The appointments, reported by the official Saudi Press
Agency, came after Abdullah issued a decree requiring at least
20 percent of members should be women. It says they must observe
Islamic law and be properly covered, and will enjoy full rights
in the council, have a separate entrance to the chamber and sit
in a special section apart from men.  “I’m very happy. This is a step forward,” said Wajeeha
al-Howaider, a leading women’s rights activist, in a phone
interview from the Saudi city of Dhahran. “Women’s
representation, though small, will help women because their
issues will be addressed more.”  Saudi Arabia, which has the world’s second-largest oil
reserves, enforces constraints on women stemming from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Men and women are segregated in
public, including at schools, restaurants and lines at fast-food
takeouts. Women need permission from a male guardian to go to
school or get married, and are barred from driving.  King Abdullah has taken some measures to expand  women’s
rights  in the kingdom since he came to power in 2005, in the
face of resistance from the religious establishment. He has
granted women the right to vote and run in the 2015 municipal
elections, opened the first co-educational university, and
ordered that lingerie stores be staffed by women.  Citizens Recognized  The 30 female members of the council include leading
figures from education, health care and science, said Hatoon al-
Fassi, a Saudi academic and women’s historian, in a phone
interview. One of them is Thuraya Obaid, a former executive
director of the United Nations Population Fund.  “We have at last been recognized as co-citizens with
men,” said al-Fassi. She said Saudi women plan to meet with the
new female council members so “we can talk to them about how
best they can represent us and make the best of their presence
there for the next four years.”  Al-Howaider said Saudi women are seeking further changes,
including ending the requirement for a male guardian and the
driving ban, and she hopes they will be taken up by the council.  “I cannot understand how a woman can be a member of the
council and yet cannot drive herself to work,” she said.  ‘Deep Dismay’  The  United Nations  voiced its “deep dismay” over the
execution of Sri Lankan domestic worker Rizana Nafeek in Saudi
Arabia this week. Nafeek, who arrived in Saudi Arabia from  Sri
Lanka  to work as a housemaid in 2005, was charged with the
murder of her employers’ baby a week after her arrival.  “We are deeply troubled by reports of irregularities in
her detention and trial, including that no lawyer was present to
assist her in key stages of her interrogation and trial, that
language interpretation was poor, and Ms. Nafeek’s contention
that she was physically assaulted and forced to sign a
confession under duress,” Rupert Colville, a spokesperson for
the Office of the UN High Commissioner for  Human Rights , told a
news briefing in Geneva, according to the  UN  website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  