-- HSBC Said to Advise Wealthy Against More SAC Investments
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-01-12T12:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/hsbc-said-to-advise-wealthy-against-more-sac-investments.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s private bank
advised clients to not add money to  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP amid a U.S. government insider-trading
investigation into the hedge fund, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The bank made the recommendation to some clients last month
after SAC disclosed that regulators may file civil fraud claims
against it, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the information is private.  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC has
told some employees and outside advisers that it expects
investors to withdraw at least $1 billion, or 17 percent of the
money it manages for outside clients, according to a person
familiar with the discussions.  Citigroup Inc.’s private bank last month suggested clients
not add to their SAC investments after the November arrest of a
former portfolio manager and disclosure that the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is considering suing the $14 billion
hedge fund. The investigation marks the first time government
officials have linked Cohen to trades at the center of an
insider-trading case.  Medard Schoenmaeckers, a Zurich-based spokesman for HSBC’s
private bank, declined to comment yesterday on investments in
SAC.  It’s “far too early to speculate about redemptions, and we
do not expect redemptions to have a significant impact on our
funds,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, said
yesterday.  Cohen’s SAC Capital International rose 13 percent last
year, according to a person briefed on the returns. The fund has
produced average annual gains of about 30 percent since its 1992
inception.  Redemption Rules  HSBC, based in  London , advises SAC investors and separately
manages client investments in the hedge fund through its fund-
of-funds business, the person said. The recommendation to not
add money directly wouldn’t apply to the fund-of-funds
investments, in which HSBC charges fees to pick  hedge funds  on
behalf of clients. HSBC’s private bank facilitates more than
$500 million of SAC investments across both businesses, the
person said.  Clients can pull 25 percent of their investment every
quarter from SAC after giving the firm 45 days’ notice, meaning
it would take them a year to redeem in full. The next deadline
for putting in a redemption notice is mid-February.  The fund-of-funds units at HSBC and New York-based
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are monitoring how the government proceeds
regarding SAC and haven’t decided whether to pull any money from
the hedge fund, people with direct knowledge of the firms’
thinking said.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined
to comment.  Alzheimer’s Drug  Prosecutors in November charged Mathew Martoma, the former
SAC employee, with what they called a record-setting insider-
trading scheme that netted as much as $276 million in profits
and averted losses for the hedge fund in 2008.  Martoma traded on tips about clinical trials of a drug
intended to treat  Alzheimer’s disease , prosecutors said in their
criminal complaint. Martoma allegedly advised Cohen to sell
shares of Wyeth LLC and Elan Corp., the companies that were
developing the drug, before negative news about its performance
was announced. The SEC told SAC after Martoma’s arrest that the
agency may sue the hedge fund over his trading.  Martoma pleaded not guilty to illegal trading at a court
hearing in  New York  this month. Cohen and SAC are confident they
acted appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry, Gasthalter said in November. Cohen hasn’t
been accused by the government of any wrongdoing.  Higher Bonuses  SAC has contacted investors to ask whether they plan to
redeem, according to the Wall Street Journal, which earlier
reported the firm’s estimates of client withdrawals. Outside
money accounts for about $6 billion of SAC’s assets under
management; the rest is from Cohen and his employees.  SAC has told portfolio managers it will raise their bonuses
by 3 percentage points to help retain employees amid the probe
by regulators, a person familiar with the matter said earlier
this week. The managers are typically paid an annual bonus of
about 15 percent to 25 percent of the profits they generate from
their trades, another person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  