-- Scottish Offshore Renewable Projects Face Risks From Grid Delays
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-01-11T16:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/scottish-offshore-renewable-projects-face-risks-from-grid-delays.html
Scotland ’s planned offshore tidal,
wave and wind power plants face risks from delays in building
links to transfer electricity between the nation’s islands and
the mainland, according to renewable energy developers.  Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission, a unit of  SSE Plc (SSE) ,
said on  Dec. 20  links to the Orkney and Shetland Islands won’t
be complete until 2018, two years later than planned, because of
challenges including planning approval, land acquisition and
delivery of subsea cables. A government spokeswoman said it’s
disappointed by the delay and will discuss the matter with SSE.  More than two-thirds of wave and tidal energy developments
are reliant on the new links to deliver electricity from Orkney,
Shetland and the Western Isles to the Scottish mainland, said
Richard Yemm, founder and director of Pelamis Wave Power Ltd.  “This news is clearly a concern for the emerging marine
industry in general,” Yemm said by e-mail. “Pelamis will
continue to work closely with all parties involved to try and
minimize this delay and its impacts.”  EON SE and Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power Ltd. are testing
two Pelamis machines in Orkney and Vattenfall AB is helping it
build a 10-megawatt project off the Shetlands. In addition,
Pelamis is developing two other sites in Scottish waters.  Aquamarine Power Ltd., an Edinburgh-based developer of wave
energy technology also said the delays were a cause for concern.  An “urgent” fix is needed to give developers confidence
to commit to  capital costs  in the early summer, Chief Executive
Officer Martin McAdam said in an e-mail.  Ofgem, the U.K. energy regulator, in 2010 began a review of
transmission costs to assess whether generators in remote areas
such as offshore marine developers should pay more for power
transmission than those closer to centers of demand. A proposal
is being studied that would partly set rates on the location as
well as taking into account the renewable power being generated.  “This news underlines the need for swift action to end the
discriminatory treatment of the Scottish Islands regarding grid
connection charges,” the Scottish government spokeswoman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  