-- Seahawks’ Wilson Proves Value With Wins at $32,500 Each
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-11T12:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/seahawks-wilson-proves-value-with-bargain-wins-at-32-500-each.html
Russell Wilson has been the best
quarterback bargain in the  National Football League  this season,
his $390,000 salary breaking down to $32,500 for each of the
Seattle Seahawks’ 12 wins.  Wilson, 24, has led the Seahawks to one playoff victory,
outlasting fellow rookie quarterbacks  Andrew Luck  and Robert Griffin III, last year’s top two draft picks. As Seattle visits
the  Atlanta Falcons  on Jan. 13, Wilson is seeking to join  Joe Flacco  and  Mark Sanchez  as the only first-year quarterbacks in
league history with multiple postseason wins.  Wilson’s rookie base salary is about 2 percent of the $18
million  Peyton Manning  is getting from the  Denver Broncos  this
season, and the same as Manning’s backup, Brock Osweiler, who
was taken 18 spots higher in the 2012 NFL draft. Manning cost
the Broncos $1.2 million per win.  “This wasn’t Andrew Luck, this wasn’t Robert Griffin, this
was a third-round pick who overcame tremendous odds to even be
afforded the opportunity to play in the first game of the
season,” Hall of Fame quarterback Troy Aikman, now an NFL
analyst for Fox, said by telephone. “This guy is the real deal.
That’s a pretty good bargain.”  The Seahawks this season opted to start Wilson, who got a
four-year, $2.99 million contract after being taken with the
75th pick in the 2012 draft, even though they had signed free
agent  Matt Flynn  to a three-year, $24 million deal. Wilson threw
26 touchdown passes this season to tie Manning’s rookie record
while rushing for 489 yards and four scores.  “The easy thing to do for them would have been to say
we’re going to go with Matt Flynn and if he struggles we’ll put
Russell Wilson in,” Aikman said. “You can see where there may
be some arguments because they brought Matt Flynn in.”  Rookie Pay  Wilson is making significantly less than the four-year,
$22.1 million rookie contract Luck got from the Colts or
Griffin’s four-year, $21.1 million deal with Washington. Both
quarterbacks lost in the first round of the playoffs last week,
with the Redskins ousted by Wilson and the Seahawks.  And Wilson’s salary for this season, which is set by the
league’s new collective bargaining agreement, is a pittance
compared with most of his peers in the playoffs.  Wilson’s counterpart for the Falcons,  Matt Ryan , is in the
fifth season of a six-year, $66 million contract and making
$11.5 million this season. The Seahawks are 2 1/2-point
underdogs against the Falcons, with the winner earning a spot in
the National Football Conference championship game. Ryan cost
the Falcons $885,000 a win.  Manning, 36, is the NFL’s highest paid quarterback, getting
a five-year, $96 million contract with the Broncos after being
acquired in the offseason from the  Indianapolis Colts .  The Broncos have won 11 straight games and tomorrow host
the Baltimore Ravens and Flacco, who is making $6.8 million this
season, according to NFL Players Association records.  Brady’s Deal  Tom Brady  of the  New England Patriots , in the third season
of a five-year, $78.5 million contract, is getting $950,000 in
base salary this season along with more than $7 million in
bonuses. The Patriots on Jan. 13 are home to the Houston Texans
and quarterback  Matt Schaub , who is making $4.4 million in the
first year of his five-year, $66.2 million deal.  Reigning NFL Most Valuable Player  Aaron Rodgers  of the
 Green Bay Packers  has two years remaining on his six-year, $65
million contract and is making $8 million this season.  Among the playoff quarterbacks, Colin Kaepernick of the  San
Francisco 49ers  may be the second-best bargain behind Wilson.
The 49ers’ second-year signal-caller, who replaced  Alex Smith  as
the starter midway through the season, received a four-year,
$5.12 million deal after the 2011 draft and has a $608,000 base
salary this season.  Future Pay  Wilson will make $526,217 next season and $662,434 in 2014,
as rookie contracts can’t be renegotiated. After that, he may
get a bigger raise. Wilson’s agent, Bus Cook, didn’t immediately
return messages about what Wilson’s play this season might mean
for future contract negotiations.  “There’s compelling stories all over the playoffs at the
quarterback spot, which is fun to talk about and makes for much
better football,” Hall of Fame quarterback and ESPN analyst
 Steve Young  said on a conference call. “Everybody has kind of
capitulated to the fact that it’s a quarterback-driven league.”  What Wilson has working against him is that no rookie
quarterback has taken his team to the NFL title game, and he’s
in a playoff field that includes three Super Bowl MVPs at the
position.  Passing Montana  Rodgers won the award two years ago and takes a 5-2 playoff
record into San Francisco, where the Packers are 3-point
underdogs, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The
Broncos are favored by 9 1/2 points against the Ravens in their
American Football Conference matchup, as Manning seeks to even
his postseason record at 10-10.  Brady, a three-time Super Bowl champion, this weekend can
surpass  Joe Montana  for the most playoff victories by a
quarterback in NFL history. Brady, 35, has 16 postseason wins
and his Patriots are 9 1/2-point favorites against the Texans.  Wilson and Brady are the only starting quarterbacks
remaining in the playoffs who weren’t first- or second-round
draft picks. Brady, 35, was drafted in the sixth round in 2000
and led the Patriots to a Super Bowl title in his first year as
a starter the following season.  “I played games early in my career when I had no
experience and we did pretty well,” Brady said on a conference
call. “It’s all a matter of how well you play. It always comes
down to who is executing the best and not so much the
experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  