-- Senator Jay Rockefeller Won’t Seek Re-Election in 2014
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-01-11T23:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/senator-jay-rockefeller-won-t-seek-re-election-in-2014.html
U.S. Senator  John D. Rockefeller  IV
announced today he won’t seek a sixth term next year, posing a
challenge for Democrats to keep the seat representing West
Virginia.  “As I approach 50 years of public service in West
Virginia, I’ve decided that 2014 will be the right moment for me
to find new ways to fight for the causes I believe in and to
spend more time with my incredible family,” Rockefeller, 75,
said today in Charleston, West Virginia.  His departure will give Republicans an opportunity to pick
up a seat in a state where President  Barack Obama  received only
36 percent of the vote last year.  Seven-term Republican Representative Shelley Moore Capito,
59, announced Nov. 26 that she would run for the Senate seat.
Rockefeller, chairman of the Commerce Committee, first won his
office in 1984.  Republicans have lost 21 consecutive Senate races in West
Virginia dating back more than half a century. The state votes
Democratic in most statewide elections, including for governor
and the state legislature, though voters have favored the
Republican candidates in the last three presidential races.  West Virginia’s other senator, Democrat  Joe Manchin , won
re-election in 2012 with 60.5 percent of the vote following a
campaign in which he sought to distance himself from Obama.
Manchin didn’t attend the Democratic National Convention in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and refused to say whether he was
voting for Obama.  ‘Serious Contest’  “When Capito announced her intentions, that made it a
serious contest, and now Rockefeller’s retirement raises the
stakes even higher” in the state’s 2014 Senate race, said
 Nathan Gonzales , political analyst for the non-partisan
Rothenberg Political Report in Washington. “It should have been
one of the top races in the country, but now we have to wait and
see who Democrats nominate.”  The Cook Political Report, a non-partisan  Washington  group
that tracks congressional races, rated the West Virginia contest
a toss-up before Rockefeller’s announcement today.  The first Republican woman to represent West Virginia in
Congress, Capito on Nov. 6 won 69.8 percent of the vote in her
district. It encompasses about one-third of the state, including
Charleston, the state capital. Capito is the daughter of former
three-term Republican governor Arch Alfred Moore Jr.  ‘Basically Dysfunctional’  Capito said when she announced that she decided to run in
part because “the Senate has been basically dysfunctional over
the past several years.” She entered the race less than three
weeks after Obama became the first major-party presidential
nominee in history to lose all 55  West Virginia  counties.  Colorado Senator Michael Bennet, chairman of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee, said in a statement, “Democrats
maintain nearly a two-to-one voter registration advantage over
Republicans in West Virginia and I know there are a number of
leaders there who will consider taking this next step to serve
their state.”  Democrats and independents aligned with them control 55
seats in the 100-member Senate. The party will be defending
seats next year in several other states that Obama lost,
including  Louisiana ,  Montana  and North Carolina.  Rockefeller, a former two-term West Virginia governor,
pledged that during the rest of his Senate term he will keep up
his “no-holds-barred approach to solving problems that affect
people’s lives.”  He is the great-grandson of oil billionaire John D.
Rockefeller, and his wife is the daughter of former Senator
Charles Percy, an Illinois Republican. His uncle,  Nelson Rockefeller , was governor of  New York  and served as vice
president under Republican President  Gerald Ford .  Obama, in a statement, praised Rockefeller for building
“an impressive legacy” in his state, “one that can be found
in the children who have better schools, the miners who have
safer working conditions, the seniors who have retired with
greater dignity, and the new industries that he helped bring to
West Virginia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  