-- Senate Democrats Urge Obama to Act on Debt If Needed
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-01-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/senate-democrats-urge-obama-to-act-on-debt-if-needed.html
Senate Democratic leaders urged
President  Barack Obama  to take any steps he can to pay U.S.
financial obligations if congressional Republicans don’t support
a debt-limit increase that Democrats deem acceptable.  In a letter to Obama yesterday, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  and three other top Democrats said Obama “must be
willing to take any lawful steps to ensure that America does not
break its promises and trigger a global economic crisis --
without congressional approval, if necessary.”  The Democrats’ letter sharpens the dispute with Republicans
over the borrowing limit, which the U.S. hit at year’s end. Amid
Republican opposition to raising the debt ceiling without
spending cuts, some Democrats have proposed invoking the
Constitution’s 14th amendment and minting a platinum coin with a
face value of $1 trillion to pay government bills.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, both Republicans, have said
they will seek substantial spending cuts in exchange for any
debt-ceiling increase. Boehner has said cuts must match or
exceed the amount the ceiling is raised.  McConnell said yesterday that Democrats “are falling all
over themselves in an effort to do anything they can to get
around the law -- and to avoid taking any responsibility for
Washington’s out-of-control spending.”  In a statement, McConnell added that “avoiding this
problem will only make it worse, which is why many of us view
the upcoming debt-limit debate as a perfect opportunity to face
up to Washington’s spending.”  ‘Extraordinary’ Measures  The U.S. reached the statutory  borrowing  limit on Dec. 31,
and the Treasury Department is using what it terms
“extraordinary” measures to finance the government. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates those steps will be
exhausted by mid-February.  Obama must act on his own to prevent default “in the event
that Republicans make good on their threat by failing to act, or
by moving unilaterally to pass a debt-limit extension only as
part of unbalanced or unreasonable legislation,” wrote Reid of
Nevada and Senators Richard Durbin of Illinois,  Charles Schumer 
of New York and  Patty Murray  of Washington.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters on Jan. 9
that the administration was “not going to negotiate” on the
debt limit. He said Obama won’t send aides or Vice President  Joe Biden  to Capitol Hill to negotiate with Republicans over their
demand for at least a dollar in spending cuts for every dollar
that the debt ceiling is raised.  14th Amendment  Obama also won’t summon congressional leaders to the White
House to discuss a debt-ceiling deal, Carney said.  Carney repeated that the administration doesn’t think the
president has the power to unilaterally raise the limit under
the Constitution’s 14th Amendment, an argument advanced by some
congressional Democrats, including House Democratic leader  Nancy
Pelosi .  “You must make clear that you will never allow our
nation’s economy and reputation to be held hostage,” Reid and
his colleagues said in their letter. “We support your view that
an extension of the debt limit is not something for which
Democrats should have to negotiate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  