-- Shard Rockets Visitors 72 Stories to 40-Mile London View
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/shard-rockets-visitors-72-stories-to-40-mile-london-view.html
The Shard , Western Europe’s tallest
building, opens its doors to the public on Feb. 1 and tickets
are already selling out at 24.95 pounds ($40) per adult.  The first two days are full and first evening entrance is
available on Feb. 3 for the trip as high as level 72, the
highest public floor of the skyscraper, at 244 meters (800
feet). On a clear day, you can see for 64 kilometers (40 miles).  “We’re aiming for a million visitors a year and I think
we’ll achieve it,” Andy Nyberg, chief executive of  The View
From the Shard  company, said in an interview at level 71.
“We’ve been on sale since July and we’ve well surpassed our
expectations. We’ve sold tens and tens of thousands (of
tickets). We’re recommending people book about 10 days in
advance because we don’t want them to be disappointed.”  The Shard, which stands at 309.6 meters on London’s South
Bank, is owned by LBQ Ltd., which brings together the State of
Qatar (the majority shareholder) and Sellar Property Group Ltd.,
with non-equity funding by  Qatar National Bank. (QNBK)  The building
will house offices, homes, a hotel and three floors of
restaurants.  Visitors take two separate lifts to reach the viewing
galleries on levels 69 to 72. (These elevators are in the center
of the building, with no view.) They travel at six meters a
second, and you are in them for about 60 seconds.  Landmarks visible from the top include the Olympic Stadium,
the Tower of London, Tower Bridge, Canary Wharf, the Thames
Barrier, St. Paul’s, Parliament, Buckingham Palace, Battersea
Power Station, the Oval, Wembley Stadium and Alexandra Palace.  London Vistas  “What’s so special about the view?” Nyberg asked.
“London. No other viewing attraction in the world has the kind
of vistas you can see from The View From the Shard. We’re a
21st-century tower right across the river from an 11th-century
tower, the Tower of London. You don’t get that anywhere else.”  The closest rival as a viewing attraction is the  EDF Energy
London Eye , where a  standard ticket  starts at 17.28 pounds,
while adults and children pay 29.16 pounds for fast-track
tickets on the day. (The London Eye is closed for annual
maintenance until Jan. 19.) It’s only 135 meters high. The
highest point in London other than the Shard is Westerham
Heights, in Bromley, 245 meters above sea level.  The 360 degree views from the Shard are impressive and it’s
likely to become a popular attraction for visitors to London,
even though the cost is hefty. Digital telescopes -- you look at
the view on a screen -- identify places of interest and provide
information on 200 landmarks in 10 different languages.  Dubai, Chicago  Nyberg has a head for heights: He was previously a director
of the world’s tallest building,  Burj Khalifa , in Dubai, where
the viewing deck is on level 124. Before that, he worked at  the
Skydeck , on the 103rd floor of the Willis Tower,  Chicago .  An introductory ticket to the  At the Top  viewing area at
the  Burj Khalifa  costs 100 dirham ($27.22). The Skydeck is $18,
or $35 fast track. It costs 1,420 yen ($16.02) to get to the top
of the  Tokyo Tower . It’s $25 for the main deck of the  Empire
State Building  and C$27.20 ($27.65) online for the CN Tower in
Toronto. (Some attractions have a range of prices.)  With adult tickets for the Shard costing 24.95 pounds for
an adult and 18.95 pounds for a child, a family of four might
pay 87.80 pounds. The top of the Eiffel tower, by comparison,
costs 14 euros ($18.56) for adults and 12.50 euros for kids.  View From the Shard representatives says tickets are in
line with other crowd- and line-free  London  attractions. Tickets
are for a timed entry so guarantee fast-track entrance.  Renzo Piano  I went up the Shard -- designed by Renzo Piano -- on a
media trip on Jan. 9 and shall enjoy bragging rights for three
weeks. There is nowhere else in central London where you can
take in a 360-degree view from anywhere near the same height.  In future, I’ll head for the restaurants scheduled to open
in coming months. Zuma owners Rainer Becker and Arjun Waney plan
a rotisserie and grill and a bar on the 32nd floor, while Aqua
Restaurant Group will open venues on the 31st and 33rd floors.  Diners will use a dedicated entrance on St. Thomas Street
and two express lifts will take them to level 32. There will be
a central triple-height atrium bar.  The 24.95 pounds I hope to save on admission might cover a
Martini.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Lewis Lapham  on history,  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 