-- Sharp Poised to Extend 360 Billion Yen Loan as Revenue Gains
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-01-11T08:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/sharp-poised-to-extend-360-billion-yen-loan-as-revenue-gains.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV maker
which said in November there was “material doubt” about its
ability to survive, is poised to get lenders’ approval to extend
the maturity of debt due June as its revenue recovers, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. are set to extend the maturity of 360 billion yen ($4
billion) of loans due June 30, said the person, asking not to be
identified because the details are private. A final decision
will be made in March on the condition the company makes an
operating profit for the six months to March 31 and forecasts a
net income for the next fiscal year, the person said.  Sharp, which is facing back-to-back  annual losses ,
hemorrhaged 103.8 billion yen in cash from operations in the
fiscal first half amid falling demand and competition from
Samsung Electronics Co. The 100-year-old inventor of mechanical
pencils is selling assets and cutting jobs to revive profit
after posting a record 376 billion-yen loss last fiscal year.  “The 360 billion yen facility is subject to negotiations
with the financial institutions,” Heihachiro Ochiai, a
spokesman for Sharp, said in a telephone interview from  Osaka 
today, declining to give further details. “We are considering
various options to strengthen our capital base.”  Revenue in September, October, November and December each
surpassed year-earlier results due to higher demand for liquid
crystal display TVs and home appliances, coupled with a weaker
yen, President Takashi Okuda said Jan. 7.  Sharp is considering ways to repay 200 billion yen of
convertible bonds which mature Sept. 30, including doing a
public or private share offering, or entering into bank loans,
said the person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  