-- Temasek Said to Hire Morgan Stanley M&A Executive Popper
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-01-11T08:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/singapore-s-temasek-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-executive-popper.html
Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s
state-owned investment company, hired Morgan Stanley managing
director Jonathan Popper, said two people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified.  Popper oversaw mergers and acquisitions in Southeast Asia
for the New York-based bank, where he has worked since 2001.
 Nick Footitt , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong ,
confirmed that Popper will be leaving the firm, declining to
comment further.  At  Morgan Stanley, (MS)  Popper was involved in advising Thai
billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi on his S$8.9 billion ($7.3
billion) offer for Singapore’s  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  Charoen, who
is vying with a group led by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  for
Fraser & Neave, yesterday extended his bid ahead of a deadline
for final bids later this month.  Temasek, which managed S$198 billion of assets as of March
31, said in June it’s seeking investment opportunities as the
turmoil in Europe may result in a market slump rivaling the 2008
global financial crisis.  The fund’s senior hires from global investment banks in the
past 18 months include Boon Sim, Credit Suisse Group AG’s ex-
global head of mergers and acquisitions John Cryan, UBS AG’s
former chief financial officer, and Tan Chong Lee, former head
of corporate and investment banking in  Southeast Asia  at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Rising Rankings  Sim and Cryan are now Temasek’s presidents for  North
America  and Europe respectively, while Tan is its chief
investment officer.  Temasek spokesman Tan Yong Meng declined to comment on
Popper’s hiring. Popper didn’t respond to a call and a text
message to his mobile phone seeking comment on the move.  In Southeast Asia, Morgan Stanley improved its mergers
advisory ranking from ninth in 2011 to fifth last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Besides the F&N deal in
2012, it also advised Prudential Plc in its purchase of the life
insurance business of Thailand’s Thanachart Bank Pcl and DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in its bid to buy Temasek’s stake in PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia.  Wall Street firms have cut jobs and compensation amid a
worldwide slump in deal making and  stock trading  last year.
Morgan Stanley plans to eliminate about 1,600 jobs from its
investment bank and support staff in coming weeks, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  