-- Singapore Imposes More Measures to Curb Property Speculation
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-11T12:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/singapore-imposes-more-measures-to-curb-property-speculation.html
Singapore added more measures to
curb speculation on residential and industrial properties after
 home prices  climbed to a  record  and the value of logistics
buildings doubled over the past three years.  The stamp duty for homebuyers will increase as of tomorrow
by between 5 percentage points and 7 percentage points, the
government said in an e-mailed statement today. Permanent
residents will have to pay the additional tax when they buy
their first home, while Singaporeans will have the levy starting
with their second purchase, according to the statement.  The government has tried to rein in residential property
prices since 2009. Before today’s measures, it barred interest-
only loans for some housing projects, stopped allowing
developers to absorb interest payments, imposed additional taxes
on foreigners and companies buying properties, and moved to curb
the trend of so-called shoebox apartments. In October, it also
restricted home-loan maturities to 35 years and required tighter
loan-to-value limits for loans exceeding 30 years.  “The reality we face is that  interest rates  are
extraordinarily low, globally and in Singapore and continue to
add fuel to our  property market ,”  Tharman Shanmugaratnam ,
Singapore’s deputy prime minister, said in the statement. “We
have to take this further round of measures now to check recent
market trends and avoid a more serious correction in prices
further down the road.”  Loan Limits  The government will also tighten the loan-to-value limits
for buyers seeking a second mortgage, it said today, referring
to the amount they are allowed to borrow relative to the value
of their properties. The cash down payment will also rise to 25
percent from 10 percent starting from the second loan, it said.  Singapore will also cap bank loan repayments for public
housing to 30 percent of the buyer’s monthly income, and
restrict permanent residents from subletting their entire units
of apartments sold by the government, it said.  The size of executive condominiums will be limited to 160
square meters (1,720 square feet), the government said. These
apartments are built by private developers and come with income
limits and other restrictions.  For industrial buildings, the government will introduce a
stamp duty for sellers, starting at 15 percent if the property
is sold within a year, it said.  Shoebox Apartments  In September,  Singapore  said it would cap the number of
homes that can be developed in suburban projects to curb the
increasing trend of what have been dubbed shoebox apartments, or
units smaller than 50 square meters.  The island city-state in December 2011 imposed an
additional 10 percent stamp duty on foreigners and corporate
entities. The levy is 3 percent for permanent residents
purchasing a second home and for citizens buying their third
residence. The government earlier required a 1 percent duty on
the first S$180,000 ($147,000) of the price, 2 percent on the
next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder.  Singapore home prices climbed to a record in the fourth
quarter after developers sold more homes. The private
residential property price index rose 1.8 percent to 211.90
points in the three months ended Dec. 31, according to
preliminary estimates released by the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority  on Jan. 2.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer, fell
1.3 percent to S$3.89 while  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , Singapore’s
second-largest builder, slid 0.3 percent to S$12.60.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  