-- Slovenia Risks Election as Calls Rise for Jansa to Resign
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-01-11T07:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/slovenia-risks-election-as-calls-rise-for-jansa-to-resign.html
Slovenian Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s party dismissed calls from coalition partners for him to
resign over corruption allegations and refused to take part in
any “technical government.”  Jansa allegedly failed to declare “more than 200,000
euros” ($265,260) worth of private assets, according to Jan. 8
 statement  by Goran Klemencic, the head of Slovenia’s anti-
corruption authority. As a result, two coalition partners called
on Jansa to quit.  The board of Jansa’s Slovenian  Democratic Party 
“unanimously rejected the offer” to form a “technical
government,” the party said on its  website  after a leadership
meeting. Out of 285 party board members, 281 backed Jansa as
their leader. Jansa gave coalition partners a Jan. 14 deadline
to decide whether they want to stay in his government, News
portal www.24ur.com reported.  Slovenia, the first post-communist nation to adopt the euro
six years ago, is grappling with its second recession in three
years as Jansa’s Cabinet, less than a year in office, works on
an economic overhaul and savings measures to avoid becoming the
sixth euro-region nation to seek an international bailout.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  phoned Jansa on
Jan. 10 and “emphasized the importance of political stability”
at a time of taking strategic decisions, according to the
premier’s party.  Facing Risks  The country risks a credit rating downgrade, an increase in
 risk premium  on Slovenian bonds and an increase in the cost of
capital in case of snap elections, which would also halt efforts
to lead the economy out of the crisis, the party cited Jansa as
saying after the board meeting.  Yields on Slovenia’s Eurobond maturing in 2022 stood at
4.652 percent at 7:28 a.m. in  Ljubljana , rising from 4.643
percent on Jan. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  put Slovenia’s credit rating on watch
negative on Nov. 6 because of opposition efforts to call a
referendum on the government’s plan to overhaul the economy. The
referendum was later scrapped by the country’s  Constitutional
Court .  Slovenia has seen weeks of occasionally violent protests
against alleged corruption and austerity. Gross domestic product
shrank 3.3 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the
third-biggest drop in the euro region after Greece and Portugal,
as consumption slumped and exports to  Europe  eased. GDP is
forecast to recover in 2014, according to the European
Commission’s November report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  