-- Smart Technologies Judge Certifies Class in IPO Lawsuit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-13T04:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/smart-technologies-judge-certifies-class-in-ipo-lawsuit.html
(Corrects reference to spokesman in eighth paragraph of
story published Jan. 11.)  A federal judge certified the
plaintiff class in a lawsuit against  Smart Technologies Inc. (SMT) 
stemming from the company’s initial public offering, limiting
the group to U.S. purchasers of stock in the company’s 2010 IPO.  Officers of the Calgary-based company, which produces
interactive whiteboards used in classrooms, made false and
misleading statements in the registration and prospectus for the
company’s initial offering and had already experienced
disappointing results before the IPO, according to a complaint
filed in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  in 2011.  Smart Technologies’ initial sale, which raised $660
million, was the biggest by a Canadian technology company in at
least a decade.  The plaintiffs allege that the true financial condition of
the company was “belatedly disclosed” after the market closed
on Nov. 9, 2010, when Smart Technologies “shocked investors”
and reported disappointing results for the fiscal second quarter
that ended Sept. 20, the same period during which the IPO was
conducted.  Stock Plummets  The following day when shares of the company resumed
trading, Smart Technologies stock dropped more than 30 percent,
from $13.07 on Nov. 9 to close at $8.91. Published news reports
described the drop, with Chief Executive Officer Nancy Knowlton
saying in a statement that the company had seen “slower than
anticipated sales,” according to the complaint.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest, who is presiding
over the case, ruled that the case of plaintiffs would include
“all persons or entities who purchased or otherwise acquired
(and did not sell) SMART common stock in the U.S. prior to Nov.
10, 2010,” she said.  Jeremy Patrick Robinson, a lawyer for the lead plaintiff,
the City of Miami General Employees’ and Sanitation Employees’
Retirement Trust, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
left at his office seeking comment about the ruling.  Laurie James Long, a spokesman for Calgary-based Smart
Technologies, said the company has no comment on the ruling.  The case is In re  Smart Technologies Inc. (SMA)  Shareholders
Litigation, 11-cv-7673, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  