-- Splunk Gains on Speculation IBM May Consider Takeover
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-11T21:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/splunk-gains-on-speculation-ibm-may-consider-takeover.html
Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , a maker of software
that helps businesses analyze Web data, climbed the most in more
than four months on speculation that the company might be
acquired by  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   The  shares  increased 8.4 percent to $32.27 at the close in
New York, the biggest gain since Aug. 31. Shares of the San
Francisco-based company have advanced 90 percent since an
initial public offering in April.  Splunk could lure offers of as much as $4 billion, James Gilman, an analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC, said in an interview.
IBM, the largest computer services provider, or  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
the biggest provider of database software, might consider buying
Splunk to expand services for corporate customers, he said.  “I have heard IBM,”  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen
& Co., said in an interview about potential buyers.  James Sciales, a spokesman for IBM, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation. Deborah Hellinger, an
Oracle spokeswoman, declined to comment. Tom Stilwell, a Splunk
spokesman, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Founded in 2004 by Erik Swan, Rob Das and Michael Baum,
Splunk is the first of the so-called big data companies to go
public, providing software that helps businesses monitor and
analyze information to improve service, cut operations costs and
reduce security risks. Its backers include venture firms  August
Capital, JK&B Capital, Ignition and Sevin Rosen Funds.  IBM has been expanding its efforts to analyze business data
to improve performance and security. The company plans to make
$16 billion from analytics by 2015.  Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is spending to
add cloud software that customers can rent and run over the
Internet, a tool Spunk provides. In December, Oracle agreed to
buy Eloqua Inc. for about $871 million, further expanding in
cloud computing and ratcheting up competition with
Salesforce.com Inc. and  SAP AG. (SAP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  