-- Swiss Stocks Gain to Highest in Four Years; Nestle Rises
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-01-14T08:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-led-by-nestle-transocean.html
(Corrects headline, first and third paragraphs of story
first published Jan. 11 to show SMI closed at highest level
since 2008.)  Swiss stocks  rose to a four-year
high as Japan’s approval of stimulus measures to accelerate its
economic recovery offset concern that China will refrain from
monetary easing.  Nestle SA (NESN)  climbed after Bank of America Corp. advised
investors to buy the stock.  GAM Holding AG (GAM)  rallied 4.7 percent
after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  raised its rating on the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  advanced 0.6 percent to 7,188.22 at
the close of trading in Zurich, its highest level since Sept.
12, 2008. The gauge rose for a second week, gaining 1.8 percent.
The broader Swiss Performance Index added 0.6 percent today. The
volume of shares changing hands was 4 percent above the average
of the past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is good news for Japan, which has had difficulties
coming out of the low growth/deflation scenario,” said Benoit Peloille, equity market strategist at Natixis in Paris. In China
“inflationary tension may limit the maneuvering room of
economic policy. In terms of asset allocation, we are favoring
developed countries.”  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the country will
spend 10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion) to accelerate a recovery
from recession as speculation rose that the Bank of Japan will
increase monetary easing.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.8 percent today
as the nation’s inflation accelerated faster than estimated,
limiting room for easing. The  consumer price index  rose 2.5
percent in December from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today in Beijing. That compares with the 2.3
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and a 2
percent gain in November.  Nestle Upgrade  Nestle climbed 0.7 percent to 61.25 francs. Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit raised its recommendation on the
world’s largest food company to  buy  from neutral, saying it
expects 9 percent to 10 percent earnings-per-share growth in
2013-2014.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  rose 3.5 percent to 35.43 francs for
the best performance in the SMI.  UBS AG (UBSN)  increased 1.4 percent to
15.85 francs.  GAM, the Swiss asset manager that split from Julius Baer
more than three years ago, jumped 4.7 percent to 14.55 francs.
Credit Suisse raised its rating on the stock to outperform from
neutral, citing its attractive valuation relative to its peers,
improving risk appetite and a reduction in outflows from legacy
private banking clients.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the maker of perfumes and fragrances whose
customers include Nestle and Danone SA, rose 0.9 percent to 988
francs. Kepler Capital Markets re-initiated coverage of the
shares with a buy rating.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest maker of Swiss
timepieces, lost 0.7 percent to 492.30 francs. UBS cut the
shares from its most preferred list, citing the stock’s
valuation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  