-- Sun Life Adds Junk Bonds to Offset Rate Decline
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-01-11T15:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/sun-life-adds-junk-bonds-to-offset-rate-decline.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  is altering
its investment mandate to add high-yield bonds to the C$115
billion ($117 billion) of assets it oversees as the lowest
interest  rates  since at least 1950 sap investment income.  “One thing that we had not considered historically but we
do have the ability to do now is to think about making
allocations to the high-yield market,” Chief Investment Officer
Stephen Peacher said in a Jan. 9 interview at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. Peacher called it “the best risk-adjusted asset
class in the market for the last five years.”  Declining  interest rates  around the world are draining
income for insurers and pension funds that often aim for minimum
annual returns of about 8 percent on investments. That’s pushing
investors into riskier markets such as high-yield bonds, which
attracted $72.4 billion of fund inflows in 2012 while equity
allocations shrunk, according to data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  “To the extent people can get outside the government bond
market they should do it,” Peacher said.  Sun Life, Canada’s third-largest insurer, has less than 1
percent of assets devoted to  junk bonds , compared with an
average of 3 percent to 4 percent earmarked by U.S. life and
property insurers, according to  Barclays Capital . Of the life
insurers,  Symetra Financial Corp. (SYA) ,  Unum Group (UNM)  and  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  had
the most exposure to high-yield corporate bonds as a percentage
of book value in September.  Top Performer  High-yield bonds were the best-performing company bonds
worldwide last year, gaining 18.8 percent versus 10.8 percent
for investment-grade peers and 4.4 percent for global
governments, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Average global government bond yields of 1.3 percent are
near a record low of 1.23 percent on Dec. 5, the index shows.  Relative yields of global high-yield bonds issued by
Canadian firms declined to 496 basis points yesterday, the
lowest since April 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Peacher said he can afford to wait for prices to
decline before buying.  “We don’t have to be there so we can time our purchase,”
he said. “We should be able to ride through any downturns and
we should be able to be fairly opportunistic about what we buy
into that market, and I want to take advantage of that.”  Low rates may encourage speculative-grade companies with
weaker balance sheets to borrow, posing a risk to investors by
creating an asset bubble, he said.  Big Risk  “I think that that’s the big risk for the high-yield
market,” Peacher said. “You have to be comfortable that the
new bonds being sold aren’t creating a profile for the market
that’s about to blow. And I don’t think we’re there yet.”  The Toronto-based insurer pared  cash reserves  to C$6.5
billion at the end of the third quarter from C$12 billion at the
beginning of the financial crisis through purchases of corporate
bonds, private placements and mortgage securities.  Sun Life’s investments in high-yield will start in
“hundreds of millions” of dollars, said Peacher, who oversaw
Putnam Investments LLC’s high-yield portfolios. He joined Sun
Life in 2009 and is based in Wellesley Hills,  Massachusetts .  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold bonds of investment-grade Canadian companies
narrowed one basis point yesterday from a day earlier to 130
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Yields rose to 2.99 percent from 2.97 percent.  Private Placements  Provincial bond spreads declined to 72 basis points, while
yields increased to 2.64 percent from 2.61 percent, Merrill data
show.  Provincial bonds, yielding an average 50 basis points more
than pre-crisis levels, are among the most attractive securities
in Canada, Peacher said, citing  Quebec ’s issue of C$500 million
of 10-year notes Jan. 8 which offered a spread of 103.5 basis
points to government debt. Ontario, Canada’s most populous
province, sold C$1 billion in 2.1 percent bonds maturing in 2018
yesterday, priced to yield 59.5 basis points over government.
Prince  Edward Island , the smallest region, raised C$125 million
in 40-year bonds at 113 basis points over government debt.  The insurer has about C$18 billion in private placements,
which are securities sold to a relatively small number of
investors. It’s boosting these less-liquid investments as it
requires less cash to back its insurance liabilities. Such
investments include machinery leases, infrastructure projects
and commercial mortgages, Peacher said.  Post-War Low  Apart from provincial debt, most of the firm’s investments
this year will avoid low-yielding government debt, Peacher said.
Canadian  government bonds  trailed most world peers except  Japan ,
the U.S. and  Switzerland  last year, according to Bloomberg’s
EFFAS Bond Index, as accommodative policies by central banks
around the world dimmed  Canada ’s safety appeal.  The Canadian 10-year yield reached  1.565 percent  on July
23, the lowest since at least 1950. The 2.75 percent note due in
June 2022 yielded 1.97 percent at 10:30 a.m. in Toronto, down 8
cents to C$106.71.  Sun Life’s investments are predominantly investment-grade,
Peacher said. Any speculative-grade holdings are so-called
fallen angels that have been downgraded, or holdings inherited
from portfolios it’s acquired.  “We could buy a below-investment grade, individual
investment but to go out and make an allocation in that sector,
it just was not in line with our policies,” Peacher said.  Sun Life will target BB rated securities in its high-yield
purchases to avoid higher capital charges for lower-rated
securities, he said.  “It’s a wonderful asset class,” Peacher said. “You end
up going through a year or two of terror but then it always
comes back. The big coupons make up for a lot of bills, and as
long as you’re not forced to sell when default rates go to 10
percent you’re fine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; and
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  