-- Superman Creator’s Heir Loses Ruling to Time Warner Over Rights
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-11T02:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/superman-creator-s-heir-loses-ruling-to-time-warner-over-rights.html
An heir to one of Superman’s
creators lost a court ruling to  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in her bid to
reclaim the rights to the film and comic book hero.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco  today said all
the elements necessary for formation of a binding agreement were
present in a 2001 letter from Laura Siegel Larson’s lawyer to
Time Warner’s DC Comics unit. The court reversed a 2008 finding
by a lower-court judge in favor of Larson, whose father, Jerome,
conjured the superhero with Joseph Shuster in the 1930s.  “Statements from the attorneys for both parties establish
that the parties had undertaken years of negotiation, that they
had resolved the last outstanding point in the deal during a
conversation on Oct. 16, 2001, and that the letter accurately
reflected the material terms they had orally agreed to on that
day,” the three-judge panel said in a unanimous ruling.  Larson is seeking to terminate the rights agreement her
father and Shuster made in 1938.  The three-judge panel returned the case to U.S. District
Judge Otis D. Wright II in  Los Angeles  with instructions to
reconsider his earlier findings.  $20 Million  If it’s proven there is a valid contract that can be
enforced, Larson would immediately get a $20 million payment in
exchange for her father’s share in some of the earliest Superman
stories, Time Warner lawyer Dan Petrocelli said during arguments
before the appeals court in November.  DC Comics and Time Warner’s  Warner Bros . Entertainment unit
contend the Siegel family wanted to escape the 2001 agreement
because they were approached by a different lawyer, Marc
Toberoff, who proposed a plan to get them more money.  Toberoff contended there was never an agreement because
Warner Bros. lawyers changed the terms of what was then only a
deal in principle.  Wright, who inherited the Superman cases after the judge
originally assigned to the matter went into private practice,
ruled in October that the Shuster heirs forfeited their rights
in a 1992 agreement with DC Comics that boosted a survivor
payment for the late artist’s brother and sister from $5,000 to
$25,000.  Because DC Comics and Warner Bros. retained that half, they
are free under U.S. copyright law to exploit those rights by
making another Superman movie due out next year, as long as they
account for any profits they may owe to the Siegel heirs.  A new Superman film is scheduled be released by Warner
Bros. on June 14.  The cases are Larson v. Warner Bros., 11-55863, and DC
Comics v. Pacific Pictures Corp., 11-56934,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  