-- Surging Offshore Costs Risks Leaving Oil in Ground, Norway Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-11T12:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/surging-offshore-costs-risks-leaving-oil-in-ground-norway-says.html
Norway  is concerned capacity
limitations will further boost costs, delay field development
and risk leaving oil in the ground as western  Europe ’s biggest
producer struggles to extract more from aging deposits.  Companies will drill about 50 exploration wells offshore
Norway this year, up from 42 in 2012, the Norwegian Petroleum
Directorate said today. A lack of rigs led the industry to miss
the NPD’s drilling target in 2012 and exploration success in
recent years has strained capacity in Norwegian yards, director
Bente Nyland said.  “That could lead to galloping costs,” Nyland said today
in an interview in Stavanger, on the western coast of Norway.
Delays in field developments “could easily come when there’s
capacity limitations” in the next two years, she said.  Recent discoveries such as the Johan Sverdrup field in the
North Sea, which may be the biggest in Norway in almost 40
years, has rekindled interest in exploration off the Nordic
country where the NPD today forecast crude production would fall
for a 13th consecutive year in 2013.  Investments in the oil industry will reach a record 192
billion kroner ($35 billion) in 2013 and continue rising to 225
billion kroner in 2017, the NPD’s forecast.  Labor Costs  Rig rates are 90 percent higher in Norway than in the
neighbouring U.K. waters, a government-appointed commission
found in August. Norway needs to lower labor costs and simplify
rules in order to avoid leaving resources in the ground,
according to the report.  The constraints may lead companies to favor new
developments at the expense of mature fields where deposits risk
being lost, Nyland said.  “We will be watching closely,” she said. Companies are
“very keen to start producing from the big discoveries, that’s
what’s driving the industry. It’s probably more exciting to work
on this, because it costs a lot to work on mature fields.”  Norway’s oil minister Ola Borten Moe has said that the
government won’t accept companies neglecting mature fields,
possibly resorting to regulatory means.  Norway’s oil production will rise in 2014 for first time
since 2000, the NPD said today. While delays and maintenance
work will continue to hamper output, it will be compensated by
production from new fields such as Goliat, Nyland said.  The oil industry has also reacted to low rig capacity and
high costs, with  Statoil ASA (STL)  ordering tailor-made rigs that
won’t need to be upgraded for work in Norway, Nyland said.
Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of oil and gas
production in Norway, plans for some of these rigs to be owned
by field partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  