-- Franc Falls to One-Year Low as Euro Crisis Abates: Zurich Mover
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-01-11T17:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/swiss-consumer-price-slump-continued-in-december-on-strong-franc.html
Switzerland’s franc depreciated to
the weakest level in more than a year versus the euro on
speculation the  European debt crisis  that fueled demand for the
currency is easing.  The franc fell for a second day after a government report
showed  consumer prices  extended their longest slump in at least
four decades. Italian and Spanish government bonds rose, adding
support for the euro, which strengthened against all 16 of its
major peers. The Swiss National Bank imposed a ceiling for the
franc of 1.20 versus the euro in September 2011 to combat the
threat of deflation.  “If traders needed any other reason to go long on the euro
versus the franc, they got it today with the release of Swiss
CPI,” Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva, wrote in a note to clients. A long
position is a bet an asset will gain.  The franc declined 0.4 percent to 1.2177 per euro at 4:24
p.m. London time after depreciating to 1.2201, the weakest level
since December 2011. The Swiss currency strengthened 0.2 percent
to 91.23 centimes per dollar.  Volatility on Swiss government bonds was the highest among
developed nations today, according to measures of 10-year or
equivalent-maturity debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-
year securities, and credit default swaps. Switzerland’s 10-year
yields advanced four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 0.66 percent, the highest since Sept. 17.  ‘Upbeat Comments’  The euro headed for its biggest weekly advance versus the
dollar since Sept. 14, after the European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said yesterday the economy should gradually
recover. The 17-nation currency climbed as much as 0.7 percent
today to $1.3366, the strongest since April 3, and was set for a
2.2 percent advance from Jan. 4.  Italian and Spanish securities rose after both nation’s
borrowing costs dropped at auctions this week. The yield
difference, or spread, between 10-year Italian bonds and
similar-maturity German bunds narrowed as much as 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 248 basis points, the least
since July 22, 2011. The Spanish-German spread narrowed to as
low as 324 basis points, the least since March 21.  Yesterday’s “upbeat comments by ECB President Draghi could
provide the trigger” for a new trend of the euro rising versus
the franc, UBS AG strategists  Gareth Berry  and  Geoffrey Yu  wrote
in an e-mailed note, comparing the euro-franc exchange rate to a
“coiled spring.”  “We have witnessed enormous Swiss franc inflows over our
books ever since the inconclusive outcome of the May 2012
general election in  Greece ,” they wrote. “These inflows have
yet to reverse. So euro-versus-franc will not be short of
propellant whenever the move eventually gets underway.”  Consumer Prices  Swiss consumer prices dropped 0.4 percent in December from
a year earlier after falling 0.4 percent in November, the
 Federal Statistics Office  said in a statement today. That’s the
15th month of annual declines, the longest stretch since at
least 1971. Prices fell 0.2 percent from the previous month.
Economists forecast an annual drop of 0.3 percent, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  The statistics office said prices fell 0.7 percent last
year, and it estimates inflation will be 0.2 percent in both
2013 and 2014.  While the Swiss currency has weakened since the ECB pledged
in August to purchase government bonds of distressed nations to
cap borrowing costs, the SNB has said the franc remains “high”
and weighs on companies in Switzerland.  ‘Deflation Threats’  “The euro-franc minimum exchange rate of 1.20 has not
staved off deflation threats and has fueled speculation that
further SNB action can be expected,” Rosenstreich wrote in the
note. “With the euro currently in high demand this would be a
prime opening to act,” he said, adding this may be done by
raising the cap or with negative interest rates.  The franc has slumped 0.8 percent this week versus the
euro, the biggest drop since the period ended Nov. 11, 2011. It
slid yesterday after Zuercher Kantonalbank said it reserved the
right to set negative interest rates on franc deposits for its
retail customers.  Switzerland’s currency has still strengthened 1.7 percent
in the past month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes which track performance among 10 developed-nation
currencies. The euro rose 2.2 percent in the same period and the
dollar fell 0.8 percent, the indexes show.  The cost of Swiss imported consumer goods dropped 2 percent
from a year ago and 1.2 percent from the previous month, today’s
report showed. Prices of domestic goods increased 0.1 percent in
the year and the month. Under a European Union harmonized
method,  consumer prices  fell 0.3 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  