-- Syria Rebels Seize Key Northern Air Base From Assad Forces
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-01-11T16:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/syria-opposition-says-peace-means-assad-out-civilians-disarmed.html
Syrian rebel fighters seized control
of the Taftanaz airbase in the northern region of Idlib after
heavy fighting, according to an opposition group.  The base is now fully under rebel control, said Rami Abdel
Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights . He said he had confirmation of its capture from both
rebel and pro-government groups.  At least 60,000 people have been killed across  Syria  since
the conflict began in March 2011. The mostly Sunni Muslim
opposition, backed by the U.S. and its main European and Middle
Eastern allies, has increasingly sought to target infrastructure
such as military bases and energy facilities. President Bashar al-Assad, who still controls most of the capital, Damascus, has
been supported by Russia and  Iran .  A video posted by the opposition Local Coordination
Committees showed rebels in an ammunitions depot that they said
was located inside the Taftanaz airbase. Another showed them
posing next to a military helicopter and a third in what they
said was a building belonging to the base.  The rebels have been trying to take the base since Jan. 2
in a bid to undermine the government’s air power, which has
hampered the opposition’s ability to advance.  The main opposition group, the National Coalition of Syrian
Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that any acceptable peace plan would require
Assad to resign, the army to return to its barracks and
civilians to be disarmed. It said government institutions should
continue to work during the transition.  Assad Vision  The statement came less than a week after Assad outlined
his own vision for ending the fighting, in which he would stay
in power as a new constitution is drafted and an expanded
government set up. The opposition and Western governments have
rejected the plan.  Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations-Arab League joint envoy
to Syria, told a Geneva news conference that no solution to the
crisis is “around the corner.”  “We are very, very deeply aware of the immense suffering
of the Syrian people, which has gone on for far too long,” he
said after talks with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov. “We
all stressed the need for a speedy end to the bloodshed, to the
destruction and all forms of violence in Syria,” he said of the
meeting.  Brahimi declined to say how he could continue his mission
after Syria yesterday accused him of being “flagrantly biased”
against the Assad government.  The UN estimates that more than half a million Syrians have
fled to Jordan,  Turkey  and other neighboring countries.  King Abdullah  of  Saudi Arabia  is sending $10 million to help refugees
in Jordan and Syria, Al Arabiya television reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  