-- U.K. Inflation Seen Holding at Seven-Month High in December
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-11T15:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-k-inflation-seen-holding-at-seven-month-high-in-december.html
U.K. inflation  probably held at the
highest rate since May as energy prices climbed, heaping
pressure on households as the economy stalls.  Consumer prices rose an annual 2.7 percent in December from
a year earlier, the same as in November and October, according
to the  median forecast  of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The Office for National Statistics will publish the data
at 9:30 a.m. in London on Jan. 15.  The recovery is struggling to gain traction as the crisis
in Europe continues and the government drives through the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II. The National
Institute of Economic and Social Research forecast the economy
shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter after the London
Olympics “artificially” boosted growth in the third.  “It looks likely that consumer price inflation will hit
3 percent in the early months of 2013,”  Howard Archer , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said in a research
note. “This will obviously not be good news for consumers’
purchasing power and growth prospects.”  The retail-price index, a benchmark for wage negotiations
and the inflation-linked  bond market , held at 3 percent,
according to the median estimate in a separate poll.  Core
inflation , which excludes alcohol, tobacco, food and energy
costs, stayed at 2.6 percent, another survey showed.  A price increase by energy supplier SSE Plc affected the
November inflation rate, with increases by companies from RWE
Npower Plc to Centrica Plc, the owner of British Gas, due to be
included in the December index.  The  Bank of England  held its target for bond purchases at
375 billion pounds ($605 billion) yesterday as policy makers
assessed the impact of their Funding for Lending Scheme.  “There is little sign yet that the FLS is having a large
enough impact to offset other headwinds in the economy, which
include high inflation, widespread job insecurity and high
debt,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at  Markit Economics ,
said in a research note. “The available data point to the U.K.
economy having contracted slightly in the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  