-- U.K. Recession Risk Rises as Industry Weakness Persists: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-11T15:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-k-manufacturing-output-unexpectedly-declined-in-november-1-.html
U.K.  industrial production  rose less
than economists forecast in November and manufacturing
unexpectedly fell, increasing the risk the economy is heading
for a triple-dip recession.  Output rose 0.3 percent from October, when it fell 0.9
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. Economists had forecast a 0.8 percent increase,
according to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Factory production declined 0.3 percent.  Britain’s economy is struggling to gain traction after
emerging from a recession in the third quarter as a slump in the
euro area and government budget cuts add to pressure from weak
household spending. The  Bank of England  left its  bond-buying
program  on hold yesterday as it assesses early signs of success
in its credit-boosting plan aimed at encouraging lending growth.  “The risks of a triple-dip have increased with today’s
figures,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in
London and a former central bank official. “The BOE will
probably stick to their view for a while longer, but expect
further stimulus in the second half of the year.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
data were published. It was trading at $1.6121 as of 3:30 p.m.
 London  time, down 0.3 percent from yesterday.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimated today that fourth-quarter gross domestic product
contracted 0.3 percent from the previous three months, based on
the production data.  Manufacturing Weakness  The monthly drop in factory output in November compared
with economists forecasts for an increase of 0.5 percent. Out of
13 categories in manufacturing, nine fell and four rose in
November from October. From a year earlier, manufacturing fell
2.1 percent, while total industrial output declined 2.4 percent.  Within industrial output, oil and gas extraction surged
11.3 percent, the most since records began in 1968. It dropped
23.7 percent in September and 4.8 percent in October, partly due
to the shutdown of the Buzzard oilfield in the  North Sea .  The economy has shown mixed signals in recent weeks.
Services and construction shrank in December, while
manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest in 15 months.
Markit Economics said the surveys are consistent with the
economy contracting by about 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter.
The first quarter’s performance may be hindered by poor weather,
it said today.  “There are signs that the situation in manufacturing
improved in December,” said Markit economist  Chris Williamson .
“But a deteriorating trend in the far larger services sector
and forecast of heavy snow for January have raised the
possibility that the economy could contract in the first
quarter, meaning the country slid into a triple-dip recession.”  Japan Stimulus  Elsewhere, the Japanese government said today it will spend
10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion) to drive a recovery from
recession, in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s first major policy
initiative to end deflation and boost growth.  About 3.8 trillion yen will be for disaster prevention and
reconstruction, with 3.1 trillion yen directed to stimulating
private investment and other measures, according to a statement
released by the Cabinet Office. Extra spending will increase
gross domestic product by about 2 percentage points and create
about 600,000 jobs, the government said.  Chinese inflation  was a more-than-forecast 2.5 percent in
December, a seven-month high, as the coldest winter in 28 years
pushed up vegetable prices. Also today, the  Bank of Korea  held
borrowing costs unchanged for a third month amid promises from
incoming President Park Geun Hye to increase efforts to support
economic growth and create jobs.  Construction Slump  In the U.K., the ONS said that construction output fell 3.4
percent in November from October and was down 9.8 percent from a
year earlier. The data is not seasonally adjusted.  The  trade deficit  in the U.S. unexpectedly widened in
November as retailers stocked up on imported goods for the
holidays and demand for foreign cars rebounded following
superstorm Sandy. The gap widened 15.8 percent to $48.7 billion,
against economists’ forecasts for the gap to narrow to $41.3
billion.  The U.S. import-price index rose 0.1 percent in December
after a revised 0.8 percent plunge a month earlier, in line with
the Bloomberg survey median.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  