-- U.K. Adds to Index ‘Inflation’ as RPIJ Becomes Ninth Price Gauge
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-k-adds-to-index-inflation-as-rpij-becomes-ninth-price-gauge.html
The U.K.’s decision to create an
extra measure of inflation will sow confusion and lead the
government and lobby groups to pick the index that best suits
their needs, analysts and executives said.  Statisticians will stick with the way the retail-price
index is calculated while adding a new measure -- RPIJ -- that
is more closely aligned with international standards, the U.K.’s
statistics office announced yesterday. The new index, along with
previously announced plans to create a gauge that includes
housing costs called CPIH, will take the number of inflation
indexes to nine.  “There is inflation in the amount of inflation measures,”
said Erik Britton, a director at Fathom Financial Consulting in
 London . “I don’t see what the point is of publishing RPI which
you have admitted isn’t fit for purpose and introduce a new
measure that may not get used.”  The Consumer Prices Advisory Committee started examining
the calculations that underpin the RPI after statisticians noted
a widening difference between it and the consumer-price index,
the basis on which the  Bank of England  sets monetary policy, due
to differences in the mathematical formulae used to calculate
price changes. Annual RPI inflation stood at 3 percent last
month, while CPI inflation was 2.7 percent.  A change to the formula would have required an assessment
by the Bank of  England  and possibly the approval of Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne . It threatened to reduce
government payments to investors in the 290 billion-pound ($468
billion) index-linked gilt market at a time when Osborne has
stressed the need to retain market confidence to keep  interest
rates  low.  No Point  “We really cannot see the point of introducing the new
RPIJ measure,” said  Michael Saunders , chief European economist
at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Nothing will be linked to the new
RPIJ measure: index-linked government debt will continue to be
linked to the existing RPI, as will private-sector pensions and
other contracts that are RPI-linked. The inflation target will
continue to be set in terms of the CPI.”  Yesterday’s decision equates with option one of four
proposed by National Statistician Jil Matheson last year and
follows a two-year assessment of the index. The RPI has
“significant value” for investors, she said. The U.K. Treasury
said it will continue to issue debt linked to the RPI and
consider further implications of the announcement “in due
course.”  “The current RPI -- and we are signaling the current
weaknesses in it -- is very widely used,” Matheson told
reporters in London. “We are balancing the need for continuing
the index with getting a new internationally benchmarked methods
series.”  Pensions Impact  Away from financial markets, others were also critical of
today’s decision. Nigel Green, chief executive officer of deVere
Group, a financial-consulting firm, said pensioners may be hurt
by the introduction of a new gauge.  “We suspect that the decision not to effectively reduce
RPI is now likely to accelerate the number of pension schemes
which will switch indexation from RPI to CPI,” he said in an e-
mailed statement.  Ros Altmann, director general of Saga, a group that
provides services to pensioners, welcomed the announcement,
saying Matheson had been right to listen to concerns over
dropping the RPI measure. Still, it’s “not ideal to have yet
another inflation measure,” she said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  