-- U.K. Army Get NYPD Pistol as Glock Bests Browning
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-k-army-get-nypd-pistol-as-glock-bests-browning-after-46-years.html
U.K. troops in  Afghanistan  will be
issued with side-arms from Glock GmbH, the provider of handguns
to two-thirds of U.S. police departments, after the Austrian
company displaced a Browning Arms Co. model used for 46 years.  A first batch of 2,000 Glock 17 Gen 4 pistols was delivered
last month by the Deutsch-Wagram-based manufacturer following a
9 million-pound ($15 million) contest to provide a total of
25,000 guns, the U.K. Ministry of Defence said today.  Troops including 9,500 stationed in Afghanistan will get
the Glock for personal protection and as a second armament in
case their SA80 rifle fails. A replacement for the Browning L9A1
was sought after the cost of servicing the aging weapon
escalated to the point where buying a new pistol was cheaper,
the ministry said.  “The Glock is a more effective, reliable, durable and
lighter-weight pistol,” Colonel Peter Warden, head of the light
weapons team, said in an interview at the Royal Artillery
barracks in Greenwich, where the model was demonstrated. “Every
soldier in Afghanistan will have the ability to have a pistol.”  The need for a personal side-arm in close-combat situations
was highlighted to U.K. forces on Jan. 7 when a soldier from the
28 Engineering Regiment was killed by a suspected insurgent
wearing Afghan National Army uniform.  Bid Rivals  Britain selected the Glock 17 ahead of the P30 and P226
from German manufacturer Heckler & Koch GmbH and Sig Sauer, even
after the latter model was used on an emergency basis in
Afghanistan. The Austrian gun also beat out the M&P9 from
Springfield, Massachusetts-based  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC) 
and the PX4 Storm made by Brescia, Italy-based Berretta Holding.  The Glock 17 weighs 905 grams (2 pounds) when loaded, 30
percent less than the Browning, and uses a magazine with 17
bullets rather than 13. It also comes with a new holster and
grip options to suit people of varying sizes.  Tests were carried out in Britain,  Norway , Brunei and at
the Pentagon’s Yuma Proving Ground in  Arizona  to evaluate
performance in all climates. Accuracy was gauged over a distance
of 25 meters, though the gun’s range is determined by a decision
to stick with 9mm, copper-jacketed and lead-filled bullets.  “Glock was the clear winner,” said Warrant Officer Mark
Anderson, a Royal Marine and the project’s requirements officer.
“Within two seconds you can put five rounds on a target.”  U.S. Dominance  Browning, based in Morgan,  Utah , wasn’t on the shortlist
and the MoD wouldn’t say if it was among 10 original bidders.
The British Army’s L9A1s will be fully phased out next year.  The Glock 17, which is being bought via Harrogate, England-
based  Viking Arms Ltd. , is already used by the Swedish and
Norwegian militaries and by Swiss Army special forces, according
to the manufacturer. In the U.K. the gun will be issued to Royal
Air Force and Royal Navy personnel, as well as the army.  In the U.S., Glock had a 65 percent market share in  law
enforcement  as of 2011, including the FBI and Drug Enforcement
Administration, according to company estimates. Officers often
have a choice, with the  New York  City Police Department
authorizing weapons including the Glock 19 for on-duty use and
the Glock 26 when off duty, according to spokesman  Paul Browne .  The U.S. army uses the Beretta 92FS model after a contract
award in 1985, topped up with a $64 million-order last year.  The British contract comes as the Glock family is embroiled
in an Austrian legal dispute over control of the business.  A hearing in Klagenfurt last year rejected a lawsuit from
founder Gaston Glock’s ex-wife Helga, who had claimed her stake
in the weapons maker was improperly shifted to him by advisers
following their divorce. An appeal is pending before a regional
judge in Graz, according to court spokesman Thomas Hofmann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  