-- U.S. Army’s Odierno Expects Decision Soon on South Korea Apaches
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-01-11T10:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-s-army-s-odierno-expects-decision-soon-on-south-korea-apaches.html
U.S. Army Chief of Staff General  Ray Odierno  said today he expects a decision soon on the U.S.
providing more military support to South Korea, including a plan
to deploy additional Apache attack helicopters there.  “We discussed the requirement, potentially, for additional
support here in Korea,” Odierno said at a briefing at Camp
Casey in South Korea. “We expect a decision on whether we will
provide additional capabilities here very shortly.”  A decision to expand military support comes as South Korea
prepares to take back wartime military command over its forces
from the U.S. North Korea re-ignited regional tensions last
month when it launched a long-range rocket in defiance of
opposition from the U.S.,  China  and other members of the United
Nations Security Council.  South  Korea  will start leading the annual Key Resolve
military drills conducted jointly with the U.S., Odierno said.
Earlier today he met his South Korean counterpart, General Cho
Jung Hwan, and U.S. Forces Korea Commander General James Thurman
as part of a two-day visit.  Odierno briefed Cho today on the Pentagon and the U.S.
Joint Chiefs of Staff approving the deployment of one Apache
attack helicopter battalion of 24 aircraft, Yonhap News reported
without citing anyone.  Last year, Thurman called for an additional attack-
reconnaissance unit, saying it was needed to improve combat
ability.  The U.S. gave South Korea peacetime operational control of
its military in 1994 and the current agreement between the two
countries calls for President-Elect Park Geun Hye’s government
to take over wartime command as well in 2015. The U.S. is moving
its 28,500 South Korea-based troops away from the demilitarized
zone with North Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  