-- U.S. LNG Profit Seen Elusive as Price Gap Closes: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-01-11T17:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-s-lng-profit-seen-elusive-as-price-gap-closes-energy-markets.html
Profits from selling U.S. liquefied
natural gas abroad may be elusive, belying the $60 billion race
for export licenses as the price gap between  Asia  and  North
America  shrinks from record levels.  The difference between U.S. and Asian gas is poised to drop
by more than 60 percent by 2020, leaving exporters facing a loss
of as much as $6 million per tanker, according to calculations
by Bloomberg based on data from Rice University in Houston. The
U.S. share of the global LNG market will be in “single
digits,” according to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which has stakes
in more than 25 percent of the world’s liquefaction capacity.  As many as 16 applications for LNG export projects from
 Texas  to Maryland and Oregon are being considered by the U.S.
 Department of Energy  as companies look to follow  Cheniere Energy
Inc. (LNG)  in exploiting record price differentials between the U.S.
and Japan, the world’s largest consumer. Buyers from Tokyo to
London are seeking supplies in the U.S., where prices are less
than a third of those in Europe and a fifth of Asian costs.  “The idea that the world will be flooded with spot LNG is
not going to happen,” said  Frank Harris , global head of LNG at
Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Returns are already getting
squeezed. By the end of the decade, the LNG market looks better
supplied, and spot cargoes from the U.S. won’t necessarily look
so attractive.”  Losses Increasing  U.S. natural gas has risen 73 percent from a decade-low in
April to $3.296 a million British thermal units in trading today
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. U.S. exports to Asia would
help damp the Platts Japan-Korea Marker, a daily price
assessment of Asia-bound LNG known as JKM, to a mean of $8.08
through 2020, from $17.80 yesterday,  Rice University ’s James A.
Baker III Institute for Public Policy said in a study.  The average cost of shipping U.S. natural gas to Japan will
be $9.05 from 2011 to 2020, assuming a U.S. price of $3.98,
leaving a loss of $0.96 per million Btu taking into account the
costs of transportation and liquefaction, the  study  shows.  Losses widen to $1.77 per million Btu in the decade to 2030
as the price at Louisiana’s Henry Hub, the U.S. benchmark, rises
to an average $4.69 and the JKM falls to $7.98, according to the
study, published Aug. 10.  The loss to the U.K. is $0.49 through 2020 and $1.23 from
2021 to 2030. U.K. next-month gas, the European benchmark, rose
0.4 percent today to the equivalent of $10.88 on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Domestic Use  “Applications for export licenses are around 29 billion
cubic feet a day,” Kenneth B. Medlock III, the study’s author,
said from Houston. That’s equivalent to about 48 percent of
 domestic consumption  in October, according to the Energy
Department. “I doubt we’ll see more than 6 billion,” he said.  The economic rationale for delivering LNG to Asia would be
significantly diminished at a U.S. price of about $6 per million
Btu, while in Europe it disappears at about $5, according to
James, Henderson, a research fellow at the Oxford Institute for
Energy Studies.  Interest in U.S. LNG exports blossomed in recent years as
growing supplies of gas from previously inaccessible shale rocks
and the fourth-warmest winter on record cut  Henry Hub  prices to
a 10-year low of $1.902 per million Btu on April 19 from as high
as $13.69 in 2008.  The average Japanese LNG price was $16.92 in 2012 to
October, peaking at $18.07 in July, according to data from the
nation’s  Finance Ministry . Prices soared from a mean of $9.04 in
2009 as utilities were forced to switch to natural gas in the
wake of the March 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster that led to
the temporary closure of all the nation’s reactors.  Price Gaps  “The arbitrage opportunity that is driving actors to seek
export permits and licenses for new liquefaction facilities is
based on current price differentials,” said Iain Grant, a
manager of special projects at Athabasca University in Canada
who has written about the political economy of natural gas
trading.  “But should we expect either the low Henry Hub prices or
the high Japanese prices to last long enough to justify the
massive effort that is underway to capitalize on it?”  Cheniere, based in Houston, is investing about $5 billion
in its 18 million metric ton facility at Sabine Pass in
Louisiana, which in April became the first facility in almost
half a century to receive approval to export to countries that
the U.S. doesn’t have a free trade agreement with. Shipments are
scheduled to start in late 2015 with 11 percent of capacity
available to the  spot market  and the rest tied up in long-term
contracts with  Korea Gas (036460)  Corp.,  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  and  BG Group
Plc. (BG/)   Louisiana Coast  Main Pass Energy Hub LLC applied in September for
authorization to export 3.22 billion cubic feet of natural gas a
day, or 23.5 million tons of LNG per year, from a site 16 miles
off the Louisiana coast, according to the Energy Department’s
website. Gulf Coast LNG Export LLC in January 2012 requested
permission to build a 2.8 billion cubic feet LNG terminal at the
Port of Brownsville, Texas.  In total, 29.21 billion cubic feet a day of projects have
applied for  licenses  to export LNG, according to the Energy
Department. Assuming investment costs similar to those at Sabine
Pass, they have a value of almost $60 billion.  Half of North America’s 120 million tons a year of LNG
export potential will be built,  Andy Brown , upstream director at
Shell, the world’s largest shipping operator of the fuel, told
reporters On Dec. 5. The U.S. share of the global LNG market
will be “modest,” he said.  The world’s biggest LNG tankers, known as Q-Max vessels,
can carry as much as 122,000 tons of the liquid fuel, or about
6.3 trillion Btu of natural gas.  NERA Report  All outstanding applications were waiting until after a
Department of Energy report into the probable effect on domestic
prices published on Dec. 5. Exports would have “net economic
benefits” for the U.S., according to the study, written by NERA
Economic Consulting.  While U.S. regulators decide how much gas they are prepared
to send overseas, export projects are coming online from
 Australia  to  Angola . Some 221 billion cubic meters of annual
liquefaction capacity will be added to the 413 billion currently
in existence over the next four years, according to Barclays
Plc. Of that, 115 billion will come from Australia.  U.S. natural gas prices will rise to $4.80 and $8.70 per
million Btu by 2035 with a reference case of $6.30, according to
the NERA study. The price increases by 14 percent above the base
case by 2020 and 6.4 percent by 2035 assuming low expansion of
LNG exports. Under a high and rapid expansion scenario, the
increase will be 20 percent by 2020 and 14 percent by 2035.  ‘Different Economics’  Long-term buyers of U.S. LNG who invest in shipping and
liquefaction infrastructure may be able to make significant
savings, according to Jonathan Whitehead, global head of
 commodities markets  at Societe Generale SA in London.  “It’s completely different economics for spot versus long-
term contracts,” he said. “A spot-shipping rate of $3 to Japan
from the U.S. Gulf coast is probably true, but over 20 years
it’s probably $1 and a bit. Liquefaction might be $2.”  Korea Gas, the world’s biggest LNG-buying company, agreed
last January to buy LNG from Sabine Pass based on Henry Hub
prices. The contract may help the utility pay 30 percent less
than supplies in Asia, which are traditionally indexed to oil,
the state-owned company said in April. Exports to Asia would
cost $9.35 per million Btu, based on a Henry Hub price of $3,
Cheniere said last year.  The introduction of contracts linked to Henry Hub instead
of crude will help speed a move away from oil indexation,
according to the Oxford Institute’s Henderson.  “Even if the volumes of North American gas that actually
arrive in Asia and Europe are relatively small, their impact on
prices and price formation across the globe could be significant
and long-lasting,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  