-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise as China’s Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-11T22:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/u-s-company-credit-swaps-hold-as-china-s-inflation-accelerates.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk advanced for the third time in five sessions after  China ’s
inflation climbed to a seven-month high.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1
basis point to a mid-price of 87 basis points at 4:29 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
increased 1.5 basis points this week.  The Chinese  consumer price index  rose 2.5 percent in
December from a year earlier, higher than a median estimate of
2.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today in Beijing. An increase in Chinese
inflation may heighten investor concern that the world’s second
biggest economy will curb stimulus, hampering economic growth
and hindering companies’ ability to repay debt.  China’s rising inflation is “good enough of an excuse for
investors to pull back,”  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market
analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Two-thirds of the increase was related to food
prices caused by the winter; being disappointed by one piece of
data isn’t sufficient to stop the  bond market  in its tracks,
it’s just an excuse.”  Food prices gained 4.2 percent in December from a year
earlier as vegetable prices rose 14.8 percent, the data showed.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, reported a
24 percent rise in fourth-quarter earnings, the San Francisco-
based bank said today in a statement. Margins narrowed as the
lender takes a bigger share of mortgage and commercial markets.  Corporate earnings aren’t “that bad” so far, according to
 William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  who helps oversee
$500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,
Massachusetts.  “Earnings were sort of infected by the political problems
at the end of the year, and there could be some bad news
embedded in that,” Larkin said in a telephone interview. “If
they start to disappoint, you’re going to see spreads widen.”  Twenty-two of the 27 companies of the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index that have reported fourth-quarter earnings  beat estimates ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  New Issuance  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  led companies in the
busiest week for dollar-denominated bond sales in 10 months.
Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
raised $3 billion and Torino, Italy-based Intesa issued $3.5
billion of debt as they headed sales of at least $52.4 billion,
the most since $60.4 billion in the five days ended March 9,
Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt gained 1
basis point to 4.79 percentage points today. Bonds of  utility
companies  advanced 6 basis points to 9.53 percentage points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Best Buy  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 6.6 basis points to 443.2 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Best
Buy Co. (BBY)  dropped 2.1 percentage points to 16.9 percent upfront as
of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Sales at the consumer-electronics retailer stabilized in
the U.S. during the holiday season after three quarters of
declines, bolstering founder Richard Schulze’s bid to take over
the company. Sales at domestic stores open at least 14 months
were unchanged in the nine weeks ended Jan. 5, the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company said today in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  