-- Lufthansa Drops Further Behind Air France Following BMI Disposal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-11T11:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/lufthansa-drops-further-behind-air-france-following-bmi-disposal.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  slipped
further behind European market leader Air France-KLM Group after
the German company’s disposal of U.K. carrier BMI led to a dip
in annual traffic, the standard measure for ranking airlines.  Lufthansa’s passenger traffic -- the number of customers
carried multiplied by the distance flown -- fell about 1 percent
to 206 billion revenue passenger kilometers, or RPKs, last year,
Bloomberg calculations based on data from the carrier show.  That’s 9 percent lower than at Air France-KLM, where the
total increased 2.1 percent to almost 224 billion RPKs, with the
gap between the pair widening from 5 percent in 2011. IAG, the
parent of  British Airways (IAG) , posted a gain of 4.4 percent to 176
billion, aided by its purchase of  London  Heathrow-based BMI from
Lufthansa, even after a drop in traffic at Spanish unit Iberia.  “Lufthansa’s idea was to grow at Heathrow but it wasn’t
able to get the scale it wanted,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst
at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “IAG straight away
rationalized and used BMI in an entirely different way.”  Cologne-based Lufthansa said yesterday that 2012 traffic
amounted to almost 205 billion RPKs, excluding BMI, which it
sold to IAG on April 20. The unit, which has since been folded
into BA, contributed 1.41 billion RPKs in the first three
months, according to figures from the German company, which
didn’t provide data for the first three weeks of April.  No. 1 by Passengers  Lufthansa transported 103 million passengers last year, up
2.4 percent on 2011, excluding BMI from both years, making it
the European No. 1 by that measure.  Air France-KLM (AF)  and IAG, as
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known, lured
77.4 million and 54.6 million travelers respectively.  Lufthansa Passenger Airlines, which includes the namesake
brand and discount division Germanwings, also transported 2.4
percent more passengers, while the Swiss and Austrian Airlines
units carried 3 percent and 1.8 percent more.  Lufthansa increased capacity only 0.6 percent in 2012,
excluding BMI, versus a 2.2 percent traffic increase on that
basis, so that the  load factor , a measure of occupancy, advanced
1.2 points to 78.8 percent.  London-based IAG added 2.8 percent more seats, barely half
the traffic gain, and also lifted occupancy 1.2 points, to 80.3
percent, it said Jan. 7. Air France-KLM, which has its
headquarters in Paris, lifted capacity 0.6 percent, giving the
same increase in occupancy for a load factor of 83.1 percent.  Europe ’s major airlines are reviewing their commitment to
flights within the region in the face of competition from
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , especially where services
don’t feed traffic onto their long-haul services.  “They’re all cutting short-haul where it’s not profitable,”
Goodbody’s O’Neill said. “Keep capacity discipline and you get
that demand squeeze and can push up prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  