-- Uganda Sees Tea Production Unchanged in 2013 on Erratic Weather
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-01-11T09:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/uganda-sees-tea-production-unchanged-in-2013-on-erratic-weather.html
Tea output in  Uganda ,  Africa ’s
third-biggest grower of the leaves, may remain unchanged in 2013
because of erratic weather and the increased cost of
fertilizers, the Uganda Tea Association said.  Production in the East African nation is expected to be
about 55 million kilograms (120 million pounds), the same as
last year, said George William Ssekitoleko, the association’s
executive secretary. Uganda ranks behind Kenya and Malawi as the
continent’s biggest tea producers.  “Weather is the main factor affecting our production and
this was the case last year when we had a prolonged drought,”
Ssekitoleko said by phone yesterday from Kampala, the capital.
“Farmers are applying less fertilizer because of the high
costs.”  Uganda exports about 97 percent of its tea via Mombasa,
site of the world’s largest tea auction in neighboring  Kenya .
Production in Uganda, which is also Africa’s biggest coffee
exporter, slumped for the second successive year last year from
56 million kilograms in 2011, having fallen from a historic high
of 59 million kilograms a year earlier, he said.  The country experienced the worst drought in 60 years over
the past two years, leading to food shortages. The association
has yet to receive this year’s weather forecast, which in the
past has been “unreliable,” Ssekitoleko said.  The cost of imported fertilizers has risen after the
Ugandan shilling weakened 7.4 percent against the dollar last
year, he said.  The Ugandan unit of  McLeod Russell India Ltd. (MCLR) , the world’s
largest tea grower, accounts for about a quarter of the East
African nation’s annual output of the crop, according to the
association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 