-- Tullow Doubles Exploration Charge, Plans 40 Wells in 2013
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-01-11T17:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/tullow-doubles-exploration-charge-plans-40-new-wells-in-2013.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
focusing on Africa and  Latin America , more than doubled write-
offs in 2012 on unsuccessful wells in Guyana, Suriname and
 Ghana . The company will drill 40 wells this year.  The company will write off $299 million from exploration,
up from $121 million in 2011, according to a statement today.
Including asset value reductions, Tullow recorded total charges
of about $670 million for 2012. It will spend $900 million this
year, targeting about 1 billion barrels of resources, with the
majority of wells to be drilled in  East Africa .  “2013 will be our biggest exploration year,” Chief
Financial Officer Ian Springett said in a phone interview.
“There are some important, potentially basin-opening wells.”  Tullow, based in London, has secured exploration projects
in Uruguay, Mozambique, Greenland and Guinea as it expands into
new frontiers. In December, it agreed to buy Spring Energy AS to
boost its exploration portfolio in  Norway . Tullow also decided
to exit the U.K. and  Netherlands  by selling its southern North
Sea gas production assets.  The stock fell 3.2 percent to 1,186 pence in London.  Tullow and  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  have started tests at the Twiga
South-1 exploration well in  Kenya , the latest discovery in the
East African nation.  Reservoir Limits  “Test flow rates are not expected to exceed 500 barrels of
oil per day interval due to the limits of the test equipment,
reservoir energy and the reservoir quality,” Tullow said in the
statement.  The company plans to produce 86,000 to 92,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day this year, up from 79,200 barrels pumped
last year. In November, Tullow had forecast average daily output
for 2012 of at least 80,000 barrels. Current output is in the
region of about 90,000 barrels a day, Springett said.  “Production for the year came in lower than guidance,”
Gerry Donnelly, a London-based analyst at FirstEnergy Capital
Corp., wrote in a report. “The  market sentiment  will also be
focused on flow test rate guidance at the low end of
expectations for upcoming test results from Twiga South in
comparison with flow tests rates from Uganda.”  In Ghana, the total well extraction capacity at the Jubilee
field is now in excess of 120,000 barrels of oil a day, allowing
tests of pumping equipment capacity in the next few weeks. The
company expects floating production vessel capacity to increase
to about 130,000 barrels a day by October after improving gas
handling operations, Springett said.  Successfully Resolved  “Jubilee production issues were successfully and cost
effectively resolved and gross production from the field is now
around 110,000 barrels of oil a day,” Chief Executive Officer
Aidan Heavey said in the statement.  Tullow said it plans to invest about $2 billion in projects
this year.  Tullow, which is developing fields in  Uganda  with Total SA
and Cnooc Ltd., in December said production is being held up by
government discussions over plans to build a refinery and export
pipeline. The delays prompted analysts including Brian Gallagher
of Investec Bank Plc to suggest the company may sell its Ugandan
assets.  “We are not planning to exit Uganda,” Springett said.
“We will continue to manage our portfolio, but right now our
focus in Uganda is getting the final  investment decision  and we
will see where we go after that.”  The company may sell part of its stake in the Tweneboa-
Enyenra-Ntomme  (TEN)  project off Ghana, Springett said. For the
time being, Tullow and its partners  Kosmos Energy Ltd. (KOS)  and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  are focusing on the field development
plan, the CFO said.  “We currently have a 50 percent share in TEN, the higher
end of percentage we like. Less is good,” Springett said. “We
are not in any discussions with anybody at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  