-- UN Developed-Country Carbon Drops to Record on EU Ban Proposal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-11T13:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/un-developed-country-carbon-drops-to-record-on-eu-ban-proposal.html
United Nations carbon credits for
December slumped to their lowest ever after the European Union
proposed to ban some offsets imported from countries including
Russia unless they undergo additional checks.  UN Emission Reduction Units issued after 2012 from
countries without new emission goals under the  Kyoto Protocol 
may be held in the EU registry as long as it is certain they
represent carbon cuts taking place before the end of last year,
according to a draft regulation presented by the European
Commission yesterday. ERUs for December plunged 61 percent, a
record drop, to 20 euro cents ($0.27) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange as of 11:59 a.m. in  London .  The EU proposal seeks to ensure the world’s largest cap-
and-trade market is closed as of this year to ineligible
international offsets that would represent emission cuts made as
of 2013 by nations without new climate goals. Emitters in the EU
carbon market are allowed to use the credits as a cheaper way of
complying with their pollution quotas.  “Russia and  New Zealand  would be immediately impacted by
the proposed ban, but Ukraine could also become subject to the
ban if its Parliament fails to ratify the second commitment
period of the Kyoto Protocol,” Andrea Du Rietz, an analyst at
New Energy Finance in London, said by e-mail today.  ERUs are generated under the UN Joint Implementation
program, which encourages investments in low-carbon energy by
industrialized countries in other nations that have emission
goals under the  Kyoto treaty . The first commitment period under
the protocol expired in 2012 and the second will run from 2013
to 2020.  EU Vote  EU nations are scheduled to vote on the proposal included
in a draft regulation on the bloc’s carbon registry on Jan. 23.
Should it be approved, ERUs representing cuts made before the
end of 2012 and approved by UN regulators for issuance under a
process known as Track Two will be allowed to be held until
March 2015, as envisaged in the existing law.  “If this proves not possible, they may be held if they are
certified as corresponding to emission reductions before Dec.
31, 2012 by an independent entity accredited by the Joint
Implementation Supervisory Committee,” according to the
commission’s  statement  yesterday.  That means that ERUs representing emission cuts made in the
2008-2012 period and issued after last year by countries such as
 Russia  in a procedure overseen by governments, known as Track
One, will be allowed only if they are certified by one of 11
independent entities accredited to UN  authorities , New Energy
Finance said.  Not Verified  “According to UN data, a significant number of Track 1
projects in countries that didn’t join the second Kyoto period
are not verified by those entities,” Du Rietz said.  The wording of the provisions related to ERUs raises some
questions as it could suggest the project owner or some other
participant would have to prove that verification under Track
Two was or is not feasible at all, a step that is “just
impossible,” according to Tuomas Rautanen, head of regulatory
affairs and consulting at First Climate in Zurich.  “The text is to be law and every word counts,” he said by
e-mail today.  The official proposal published yesterday is less stringent
than an original draft that the commission was consulting with
 member states  last year. In October the EU regulator sought to
bar altogether emitters from holding ERUs issued after 2012 by
countries that have national verification procedures and fail to
adopt new Kyoto goals.  The commission last year was also mulling a provision to
allow Track Two ERUs from countries without new emission goals
in place as long as they were issued before the end of April
2013 in respect of emissions reductions which took place until
2012. Some member states voiced concerns over those plans, two
people familiar with the matter said at that time.  Some sellers of ERUs may now roll their hedges forward from
March to December 2013 contracts, according to New Energy
Finance. The March contract, which earlier this month dropped to
a record low of 10 euro cents on eligibility risk, closed at 11
euro cents on the ICE Futures Europe exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  