-- United Technologies, Textron Lose Bid to End Crash Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-01-11T23:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/united-technologies-textron-lose-bid-to-dismiss-crash-case.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and
 Textron Inc. (TXT)  lost a bid to dismiss a wrongful-death lawsuit when
a federal judge ruled that Pennsylvania wasn’t an unreasonable
location to try a U.K. helicopter-crash case.  The accident happened Sept. 22, 2009, north of Liverpool,
when a helicopter made by United Technologies’ Schweizer unit
and powered by a Textron-Lycoming engine experienced an alleged
equipment failure and fell to the ground, killing flight
instructor Steven Lewis and student pilot Philip Gray, according
to court papers.  Schweizer and Lycoming are both located in Pennsylvania,
the wreckage has been shipped to  Delaware , and producing
technical witnesses and documents in the U.K. “would be much
more costly and less convenient than producing them in
Philadelphia,” U.S. District Judge Harvey Bartle wrote in a 21-
page ruling yesterday.  The lawsuit, citing product liability and negligence, was
filed in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas in September
2011 before being transferred to federal court. Representatives
of the Lewis and Gray estates are seeking a jury trial and
unspecified damages.  Lewis, 38, and Gray, 46, were flying on a clear, dry day
when the engine of the Schweizer  269C-1  lost power, according to
an article about the case published by the Liverpool Daily Post
on April 13, 2011.  Daniel Rose, a plaintiffs’ lawyer, said Bartle’s opinion
was “well reasoned and objective,” and he looks forward to
“getting to the merits” of the case.  Catherine Slavin, representing Providence, Rhode Island-
based Textron, and James Stroud, representing Hartford,
Connecticut-based United Technologies, didn’t immediately return
e-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Lewis v. Lycoming, 11-cv-6475, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  