-- US Airways Spurs Job Rush as 16,500 Vie for 450 Vacancies
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-11T18:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/us-airways-spurs-job-rush-as-16-500-vie-for-450-vacancies.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , the carrier
seeking to merge with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , received
more than 16,500 applications for 450 flight attendant positions
in its biggest hiring push for the job since 2010.  About 700 applicants have advanced to the interview stage
and 240 offers have been made, US Airways said yesterday in its
weekly employee newsletter. The influx echoes the rush for
flight-attendant jobs at  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , which said last
month that its 300 openings attracted 22,000 candidates.  Flight attendant positions, which are typically lower paid,
are attracting a surge in interest as exotic alternatives in a
still weak labor market, said  Gary Chaison , professor of
industrial relations at  Clark University . The U.S.  unemployment
rate  held at 7.8 percent in December after the November figure
was revised up from a previously reported 7.7 percent.  “It’s not your dream job but it’s a job,” Chaison, who is
based in Worcester, Massachusetts, said in a telephone
interview. “Particularly when there are so many people
graduating from colleges who are having difficulty finding jobs,
the flight attendants position is suddenly looking very nice.
You travel. It’s exotic.”  The first round of new US Airways flight attendants started
training this week, said Michelle Mohr, a spokeswoman. She said
the airline began accepting applications in November and will
continue to review candidates through February.  ‘Astounding’ Interest  “The interest around it has been astounding,” Mohr said
of the positions in a telephone interview.  In particular,  US Airways  is looking to hire speakers of
Hebrew or Portuguese to work on its flights to Tel Aviv and Rio
de Janeiro, and for service to Sao Paulo scheduled to begin in
May, she said.  Opportunity for international travel can be a big draw for
flight attendant candidates, Chaison said.  “Young students are willing to try a lot of things and a
flight attendant job is the epitome of a non-routine job,” he
said.  Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways drew 14,000 applications
for the 420 positions it posted two years ago. The airline has
no plans to hire more flight attendants beyond the 450
advertised positions, Mohr said. Delta has said it may expand
its latest round of hiring to as many as 400 positions.  U.S. passenger airlines  employed  384,310 workers in
October, down 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the U.S.
Transportation Department’s  Bureau of Transportation Statistics 
said in December. October’s total, the latest month for which
federal figures are available, was the lowest since May 2011.  US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S. carrier by passenger
traffic, is pursuing a tie-up with No. 3 American as that
airline restructures in bankruptcy. A merger would create the
world’s biggest airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  