-- US Airways’ Kirby Gains $1.37 Million After Stock Gain
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-11T21:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/us-airways-kirby-gains-1-37-million-after-stock-gain.html
US Airways  Group Inc. President
Scott Kirby, who has helped lead the carrier’s push for a merger
with bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , earned a $1.37
million profit from a sale of the company’s stock.  The disposal of 114,862 US Airways shares occurred on Jan.
8 when the stock hit the $15 trigger price set last year when
Kirby created the so-called Rule 10b5-1 plan, according to a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  filing . The shares were
valued at $3.10 when placed in the plan, the filing said.  Kirby set up the stock plan after US Airways disclosed on
Jan. 25 that it was studying an American merger, two people
familiar with the matter said yesterday, without giving a date.
Company rules bar changing such plans once they’re created, said
three people, who asked not to be identified because the matter
is private. US Airways has almost doubled since Jan. 25.  Rule 10b5-1 “permits persons to trade in certain specified
circumstances where it is clear that the information they are
aware of is not a factor in the decision,” such as having
preset terms for a sale, the SEC says on its website. The plans
are often viewed as protection against  insider-trading  claims.  “There’s nothing wrong with them,” Bruce Vanyo, national
co-head of the securities litigation practice at Katten Muchin
Rosenman LLP, said in an interview today. “It was designed by
the SEC quite a while ago to allow executives where their only
asset is stock of the company to be able to diversify safely
without risk of being accused of insider trading. It has a bona
fide purpose.”  Prevalent Use  Use of the plans is “quite prevalent,” Vanyo said,
although no one knows for certain how many exist because they
aren’t disclosed unless the sale of stock by a corporate officer
or director requires an  SEC filing .  US Airways declined to comment about Kirby’s sale, said
Kelly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the Tempe, Arizona-based
airline who works for public-relations firm Joele Frank,
Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher.  AMR Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  has said he expects
a decision to be made on a possible US Airways merger within
weeks.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR, which filed for  bankruptcy
protection  on Nov. 29, 2011, has said it prefers to remain
independent and consider mergers after it leaves Chapter 11.  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways, would pass United Continental Holdings
Inc. to become the world’s largest airline, based on passenger
traffic.  US Airways fell 2.4 percent to $14.78 at the close of
trading in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  