-- Venezuela Prices Rise at Fastest Pace in More Than Two Years
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-01-11T18:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/venezuela-prices-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-more-than-two-years-1-.html
Venezuelan consumer prices rose at
the fastest pace in two and a half years in December after the
government crimped imports, exacerbating shortages of staple
goods and fueling speculation of a devaluation.  Prices rose 3.5 percent from the month before, when they
gained 2.3 percent, the central bank said today, exceeding the
2.4 percent median estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The nationwide annual inflation rate rose to 20.1
percent from 18 percent in November, the bank said.  Since President  Hugo Chavez  won re-election in October, the
bolivar has fallen 40 percent to 17.8 bolivars per dollar on the
black market, where many non-essential imports are financed,
according to Lechuga Verde, a website that tracks the rate. At
the same time, shortages of goods ranging from toilet paper to
poultry have increased as the government restricts the supply of
dollars to the official market.  “Devaluation fears are driving people to exchange their
bolivars on the black market,”  Francisco Rodriguez , economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said on the phone from  New
York  on Jan. 8. “There has been a strong contraction of dollars
released at the official rate in the last two months.”  Barclays’ Alejandro Grisanti, Goldman Sach’s  Alberto Ramos 
and HSBC Holdings Plc’s Ramiro Blazquez predict the government
will weaken the bolivar as much as 50 percent by March 31.  Food prices, which account for 37 percent of the inflation
index, rose 5.7 percent in December. Alcoholic drinks and
tobacco, transport, and restaurants and hotels pushed consumer
prices higher last month, rising 4.9 percent, 3.3 percent and
3.1 percent respectively, the bank said.  ‘Bourgeoisie’ Businesses  The lack of dollars in the system is fueling the shortages
of eggs, rice, corn flour and other goods.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  has appeared several times on
state television in recent weeks, ordering the national guard to
seize producers it says are hoarding food supplies and promising
to make life difficult for “bourgeoisie” businesses he accuses
of trying to sabotage the economy.  Consumer prices in the capital Caracas rose 2.9 percent in
December while annual inflation quickened to 19.5 percent, the
bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  