-- Venezuela’s Maduro Arrives in Cuba to Visit Ailing Chavez
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-01-12T00:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/venezuela-s-maduro-travels-to-visit-ailing-chavez-in-havana-1-.html
Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  arrived in Havana today to visit President  Hugo Chavez ,
who hasn’t been seen in public for a month since going to the
Caribbean island for a fourth cancer operation.  Maduro was met at the Jose Marti airport by Cuban Foreign
Minister Bruno Rodriguez,  Cuba Debate  reported on its website.  “I’m going to continue with the work we do by visiting
with the family, medical team and our president,” Maduro said
earlier today from Caracas in comments broadcast on state
television.  Tens of thousands of Venezuelans took a symbolic oath of
loyalty to Chavez and the “right to build socialism in our
country” in Caracas yesterday, the date the ailing leader was
supposed to be sworn in for a new six-year term. They were
joined by officials from 27 Caribbean and Latin American
nations, including Bolivian President  Evo Morales  and
Nicaragua’s Daniel Ortega.  Venezuela’s Supreme Court on Jan. 9 approved a delay to the
swearing in ceremony, saying it was a mere formality. The ruling
means that Maduro, Chavez’s handpicked successor, will continue
to run affairs in South America’s biggest oil exporter for the
foreseeable future.  The government last provided an update on Chavez’s health
on Jan. 7. Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said Chavez’s
condition is stable after the government reported he had trouble
breathing due to a lung infection. Villegas didn’t provide
additional details.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  arrived
in Havana today to visit Chavez’s family members, Maduro said.
Fernandez planned on having lunch with former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro  and his brother, President Raul Castro, the Argentine
state news agency  Telam  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 