-- Vestas Jumps as China Green Plan Boosts Market: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-11T10:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/vestas-jumps-as-china-green-plan-boosts-market-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose today
the most among Copenhagen benchmark stocks after  China ’s plans
to boost  wind energy  looked set to raise prices and creditors
approved the world’s largest turbine maker’s lending facilities.  Vestas gained as much as 9.4 percent, making it the  biggest
winner  on the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX)  The stock rose 6.2
percent to 42.09 kroner at 11:32 a.m. in the Danish capital with
trading volume at 162 percent of the three-month daily average.  China will boost wind production capacity this year, adding
18 gigawatts, the National Energy Administration said this week.
China had production capacity of 63.5 gigawatts at the start of
last year, according to the most recent data available to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The increase probably will tie up
Chinese producers, leaving more of the global market to Vestas,
 Jacob Pedersen , an analyst with Sydbank A/S, said.  “With China’s market set to grow so much this year, Vestas
will have less competition elsewhere in the world as Chinese
producers will focus on delivering to their home market,”
Pedersen said by phone. “This will limit production
overcapacity and therefore have a positive impact on global
turbine prices.”  Vestas also said today it had obtained approval for its
credit facilities, extending share  gains .  The facilities
consist of bank lines of 1.16 billion euros ($1.53 billion) and
a 600 million-euro bond, Vestas said.  Stock in the Aarhus, Denmark-based company has jumped 32
percent so far this year, the most in the C20 index, after
plunging in 2012. The share lost 49 percent last year as
industry overcapacity and lower government subsidies for green
energy pressured turbine prices.  Pedersen, based in Aabenraa,  Denmark , has a neutral
recommendation on the Vestas share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  