-- Vietnam May Have Cut Policy Rates Too Quickly in 2012, IMF Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T07:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/vietnam-may-have-cut-policy-rates-too-quickly-in-2012-imf-says.html
Vietnam  still faces inflationary
pressures, according to the International Monetary Fund, which
said it would have preferred a slower pace of interest-rate cuts
last year by the country’s central bank.  The State Bank of Vietnam reduced borrowing costs for a
sixth time last year on Dec. 24, two weeks after the IMF  said 
the central bank should maintain its policy rate. The
 refinancing rate  was cut to 9 percent from 15 percent at the
beginning of the year, while the discount rate and the cap on
dong deposits were also also lowered.  Gross domestic product  grew at the slowest pace in 13 years
in 2012 as a slump in bank lending damped domestic demand, even
as the inflation rate slowed to 6.81 percent in December from
18.13 percent at the end of 2011. The monetary policy must focus
on ensuring that economic stability gained in 2012 can be
maintained this year, said Sanjay Kalra, IMF’s resident
representative for Vietnam.  “Going forward, there is still a case for being a little
bit more careful,” Kalra said at a conference in Ho Chi Minh
City today. “In terms of the balance of risks, it is perhaps
advisable to be a little bit late in terms of reducing policy
rates than being a little bit too early,” he said, adding that
easing would only flood the banking system with liquidity.  Vietnam’s economy may expand about 5.5 percent in 2013, the
government said on Dec. 10. Moody’s cut the nation’s credit
rating in September, citing “more pronounced weaknesses in the
banking system,” while the World Bank has said the country is
susceptible to a “premature loosening of policies” that could
lead to a resurgence of  inflation .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  