-- Vodka Bonds Toast Billionaire Taking CEDC Control: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-01-11T18:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/vodka-bonds-toast-billionaire-taking-cedc-control-poland-credit.html
Russian billionaire Roustam Tariko’s
deal to take control of  Poland ’s second-largest vodka maker sent
the company’s bond yields tumbling this year, while Moody’s
Investors Service warned of losses for some investors.  The yield on  Central European Distribution Corp. (CDC) ’s 430
million euros ($561 million) of notes due December 2016 dropped
8.3 percentage points from the peak on Nov. 23 as the risk of
default diminished, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield declined 54 basis points to 24.20 percent today.  Tariko, who owns Moscow-based  banking  and vodka group
Russian Standard Corp., signed an agreement on Dec. 28 that
gives him operational control over CEDC and ends a battle with
the company’s board over direction and strategy. The transaction
provides the distiller with as much as $107 million in new
capital, subject to the company restructuring its debt, a factor
that prompted Moody’s to cut its rating two days ago because of
concern about losses for existing bondholders.  “This is a game-changer for CEDC as it was on the brink of
collapse,” Andrzej Knigawka, chief analyst at ING Securities SA
in Warsaw, said by phone on Jan. 9. “For now, the risk of CEDC
not being able to pay back debt has been minimalized.”  The yield on CEDC’s 2016 bonds compares with an average of
4.68 percent in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s gauge for emerging-market
 consumer companies .  Funding Pot  Under the agreement, CEDC will receive access to as much as
$65 million in funding. In turn, CEDC created an Operational
Management Committee of its board of directors to be led by
Tariko and appointed Grant Winterton, a former general manager
of Red Bull  Russia  and senior manager at Coca-Cola Co., as chief
executive officer of the company.  Tariko is the largest CEDC shareholder with a 20 percent
 stake , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The transaction “is intended to stabilize CEDC’s business
and to pave the way for CEDC to address its balance sheet issues
in an orderly fashion,” the two companies said in a joint
statement on Dec. 28.  While yields have plunged from their peak, they climbed 1
percentage point from this year’s low of 23.1 percent on Jan. 4.
Moody’s cut CEDC’s  rating  by one level to Caa3, nine steps below
investment grade, on Jan. 9 and placed all the company’s ratings
on review for a further downgrade.  Battling Bondholders  The cut reflects the company’s “failure so far to secure
adequate financing” to repay $310 million of convertible notes
due March 2013 and concern that a previous strategic alliance
agreement will expire on Jan. 21, Paolo Leschiutta, a senior
credit officer at Moody’s, said in a statement.  Tariko “has won the power struggle” with CEDC’s former
management, Martin Svaerdborg, an analyst at Silkeborg, Denmark-
based  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , said in a research note on Jan. 2. But now
he “initiates a new struggle” with debt holders, he wrote.  While that will mainly be between the holders of the 2013
bonds and Russian Standard, it “cannot be ruled out that the
owners of the 2016 debt will also be hit,” Svaerdborg said.  “As a minimum,” Tariko will attempt to remove the change
of control covenant on the 2016 bonds that requires CEDC to
redeem the debt at a price of 101 cents on the euro should
Russian Standard assume a controlling stake, he said. The bonds
traded at a price of 63.75 today.  Nasdaq Listing  CEDC shares gained 2.5 percent in Warsaw today and are up
1.8 percent to $2.015 in  New York  trading. Nasdaq Stock Market
said on Jan. 7 it will initiate procedures to delist the company
for failing to hold its annual general meeting of shareholders
by the end of 2012. The company said the same day it will appeal
the ruling and hold a meeting “as soon as practicable.”  Nasdaq stayed the delisting and scheduled a hearing for
March 21, CEDC said in a filing yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar-
denominated  bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at
104 basis points at 7 p.m. in Warsaw, indexes compiled by
JPMorgan show. The spread between Poland’s 10-year zloty bond
and German bunds widened nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 244, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The zloty weakened 0.6 percent to 4.1095 against the euro,
following a 9.4 percent advance last year, the biggest gain
among more than 100 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Polish  credit-default swaps  increased two basis points to
77, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts cost 77 basis
points less than the average for countries in emerging  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  included in the  Markit iTraxx SovX
CEEMEA Index , versus a 70-point discount at the end of 2011.  Prevailing Risks  The deal with Tariko, Russia’s 65th-wealthiest man,
according to Forbes, will allow the maker of the Zelyonaya
Marka, Bols and Zubrowka vodka brands to refocus on operations
in Russia, where it “faces fierce competition amid an uncertain
business environment,” Knigawka at ING said.  Anna Zaluska, a Warsaw-based spokeswoman for CEDC, and Oleg
Yegorov, a spokesman for Russian Standard, both declined to
comment when contacted by e-mail on Jan. 9.  “Effectively, the operational control of the company is
now with Mr. Tariko,” Tanvi Arora, a Singapore-based credit
analyst at Lucror Analytics Pte Ltd., wrote in a note to clients
on Jan. 7. “Although CEDC managed to avoid a default for now,
considering its track record, execution risks prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  