-- Wal-Mart Asda’s McKenna Handed International Role in Shakeup
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-11T15:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/wal-mart-asda-s-mckenna-gets-key-international-role-in-shakeup.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  promoted the
chief operating officer of its Asda unit to a senior
international role in a move that analysts said may be
detrimental to the U.K. supermarket chain.  Judith McKenna will become executive vice president,
strategy and international development at Walmart International,
according to an internal e-mail sent to employees at Leeds,
England-based Asda and seen by  Bloomberg News .  “This is a loss to Asda, but is good news for the
competition,” Dave McCarthy, an analyst at Investec in  London ,
said by e-mail. “We regard Ms McKenna as top drawer.”  McKenna, who has spent 17 years at Asda and was considered
by analysts to be a potential successor to the supermarket
chain’s Chief Executive Officer  Andy Clarke , will move to Wal-
Mart’s Bentonville headquarters from April, the retailer said.  The executive, who oversees stores, distribution and
information systems, has helped the U.K. chain double its
multichannel sales in the past two years and prior to that led
the integration of 147 Netto stores as finance director.  “Ms McKenna is one of a rare breed, a finance director
that understands retailing and is in touch with the customer,”
McCarthy said. “Wal-Mart appears to share this view too” and
may be “grooming her for bigger things in the future.”  Tesco Revival  McKenna’s move comes as Asda, with more than 500 U.K.
stores, faces a reviving  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  in the U.K., as well as
increasing pressure from discount chains such as Aldi and Lidl.
Its market share slipped to 17.3 percent in the 12 weeks ended
Dec. 23 from 17.5 percent a year earlier, according to Kantar
Worldpanel data released this week.  McKenna’s role within Asda will be split, with retail
operations director Mark Ibbotson being promoted to the
executive team as retail director. He will oversee retail,
distribution and the online grocery business.  Karen Hubbard, who runs the chain’s smaller supermarket
format, will add multichannel strategy and the Asda Direct non-
food online unit to her remit. Chief Marketing Officer  Steve Smith  will also take on Asda’s financial-services business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  