-- What Facebook Should Know Before Building a Company Town
-- B y   H a r d y   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-11T21:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/what-facebook-should-know-before-building-a-company-town.html
In February 2011,  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
announced that it would move its headquarters to the former
campus of Sun Microsystems Inc. in  Menlo Park ,  California .  The site was first envisioned as providing work space for
about 3,000 employees. Then, in August, Facebook said it would
expand with Frank Gehry-designed office space for an additional
2,800 workers. The rebuilding is well under way, with 2,000
employees on site; merchants, from gourmet eateries to hair
salons, have set up on-campus outlets intended for Facebook
employees only. “It is the 21st century company town,” the
Silicon Valley futurist  Paul Saffo  told the Los Angeles Times.  Facebook is now figuring out where the influx of employees
will live. Some may be housed on the campus. Facebook has
partnered with a developer to build about 250 housing units.
According the San Mateo Daily Journal, however, the company may
face pressure to help develop thousands more units in an area
that has long neglected affordable housing.  The history of U.S. company towns shows that Facebook is up
against an old problem. Consider the case of Roebling,  New
Jersey , which was constructed at the turn of the 20th century by
the steelmaker John A. Roebling & Sons.  Brooklyn Bridge  The company produced the cables that were used in the
construction of the Roebling-designed bridges across the
Monongahela River, the Niagara River, the  Ohio River  and  New
York  City’s  East River  (the Brooklyn Bridge).  By the turn of the 20th century, high prices for imported
steel prompted the family to seek new steelmaking capacity, and
they realized there was insufficient land near their existing
works in Trenton, New Jersey, to meet their needs.  Instead, they chose a spot on the  Delaware River  that was
close to the Camden & Amboy Railroad. It was called Kinkora, and
later redubbed Roebling.  The area was devoid of housing, so the company decided to
erect a model town for its workers.  Washington A. Roebling 
wanted it known that the decision was a “plain business
necessity.” The company’s owners, he said, weren’t “posing as
idealists or reformers.”  In 1904, Roebling Steel bought 250 acres and set to work.
The project proved more complex than first imagined. It required
erecting buildings for a number of stores, constructing a water
system, paving streets and laying on gas and electricity. There
would also have to be a police force and a jail, along with
public schools. The company’s share of the cost would run to
$80,000. “The man who owns a town often wishes he had never
been born,” Washington Roebling ruefully said.  Roebling  contained 750 brick houses, equipped with gas and
electric utilities that were provided at minimum cost. There
were also two workingmen’s hotels.  In many company towns, liquor and saloons were barred, not
to mention bawdy houses. Coal towns paid local sheriffs to keep
an eye on any strangers -- and to rough up and evict any
perceived “union organizers.”  The Roeblings avoided such watchfulness, and even installed
a bar at the town’s inn. (“You can’t make a mollycoddle out of
a mill man,” Charles Roebling said.) It was a dictum of the
company that town residents “would be under no obligation to us
nor we to them as far as life in the city is concerned.”  As with other company towns such as Bethlehem Steel’s
Sparrows Point,  Maryland , Roebling had several classes of
houses, all with appropriately varying rents.  Row Houses  In Roebling, hourly workers lived in row houses near the
plant, skilled workers got semidetached houses closer to the
town center and managers received larger houses facing the
river. All buildings were maintained by the company, as were
lawns and the park.  In all company-owned towns, Sparrows Point and Roebling
included, workers who lost their jobs were evicted from company
housing. (Roebling leases allowed eviction on one week’s notice
if a man “got out of line.”) And at Roebling, as in the rest
of the  steel industry , working hours were 12 hours a day, 7 days
a week, moving to a three-shift day in the 1920s.  Yet life in Roebling wasn’t all work. The small town
featured a post office, a hospital, a bank, a library, an
auditorium, a Boy Scout hut and a baseball field. Roebling Steel
sponsored sports teams, including a football squad known as the
Blue Centers (honoring a feature of the company’s wire rope),
and basketball, bowling, tennis and quoits teams.  Roebling Steel became the world’s leading producer of wire
rope. But in 1953, the family sold its stake to the Rockefeller-
owned Colorado Fuel and Iron, which continued operations in the
town until 1974. The houses and commercial buildings had been
sold by the Roeblings in 1947, with tenants and other employees
getting right of first refusal.  So how should Facebook reinvent the company town for the
21st century? Its chairman and founder,  Mark Zuckerberg , might
want to have a look at the history of the experiments that came
before.  (Hardy Green is the author of “The Company Town: The
Industrial Edens and Satanic Mills That Shaped the American
Economy.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this blog post:
Hardy Green at  hardygreen1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 