-- Two Former OPEC Officials Named as Saudi King’s Advisers
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-01-11T16:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/two-former-opec-officials-named-as-saudi-king-s-advisers.html
Saudi Arabia appointed two of its
former OPEC officials as oil experts to a council that advises
the king on energy and economic matters, including Majid al- Moneef, a contender for the post of OPEC Secretary General.  Al-Moneef was reappointed to the Committee on Economic
Affairs and Energy, which is part of King Abdullah’s Shoura
Council, for another four years, his third term, according to a
royal decree issued today and carried by Saudi Press Agency.  He retired last year as senior economic adviser to the
country’s oil minister,  Ali al-Naimi . He was also formerly the
nation’s OPEC Governor and is the kingdom’s nominee to replace
OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri, who was given an extra
year in that post after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries was last month unable to pick a successor.  Saudi Arabia cut crude production to the lowest in 19
months in December, a Gulf official with knowledge of the
nation’s policy said yesterday, on condition of anonymity. The
world’s largest crude exporter has previously stated it would be
content with Brent crude at $100 a barrel, a level that prices
have stayed above since July. The kingdom needs to keep prices
high enough to fund social spending plans without incurring the
wrath of consuming nations for hurting the global economy.  Ahmed al-Ghamdi was appointed to the same committee in the
Shoura Council for first time, according to today’s decree. Al-
Ghamdi became an adviser to al-Naimi last year after stepping
down as the kingdom’s National Representative to OPEC, a post
one rung lower than OPEC Governor.  OPEC Top Job  Al-Ghamdi is one of the Saudi oil minister’s current
closest advisers along with Ibrahim al-Mohanna, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, Prince Faisal bin Turki, Abdulrahman Abdulkareem,
Khalid Abuleif and Abed al-Saadoun.  OPEC, which meets next on May 31, hasn’t yet announced how
or when it will select a replacement to Libya’s El-Badri as OPEC
Secretary-General. Al-Moneef was vying for the post against two
former oil ministers;  Iran ’s Gholamhossein Nozari and  Iraq ’s
Thamir Ghadhban.  Founded in 1960, OPEC has previously had one secretary-
general from each of the three nominee countries in the 1960s.
Each member state appoints a governor and a national
representative to OPEC.  An OPEC Governor sits on the board of the 12-nation
organization, helping control its budget and objectives while a
national representative’s duties include analyzing the oil
market. The secretary-general is the public face of OPEC and is
involved in coordinating emergency meetings when deemed
necessary.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria , Angola,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  