-- World's Richest Add $18 Billion as Facebook Fortunes Soar
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2013-01-11T22:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/world-s-richest-add-18-billion-as-facebook-fortunes-soar.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet added $18 billion to their collective net worth this week
as U.S. companies began reporting fourth-quarter earnings.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s co-founder and chief executive officer,
Mark Zuckerberg, gained $1.3 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. The largest social-networking service rose
10 percent during the week and hit a six-month high yesterday.
Investors are optimistic that the company will benefit from new
advertising efforts to drive revenue. The 28-year-old is worth
$14.6 billion, making him the 57th richest person in the world.  “Facebook has had a great week,” Matthew Houk, portfolio
manager at Horizon Kinetics LLC, said in an e-mail. The New
York-based firm manages about $7.2 billion. “However, one of
the factors that we focus on is companies with long product life
cycles. It remains to be seen whether  Mark Zuckerberg  can
establish Facebook as an enduring product that will generate
longer-term value for shareholders.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  kicked off the reporting season on Tuesday, with
the largest U.S. aluminum producer posting sales that beat
analysts’ forecasts amid higher-than-expected prices for the
metal. In China, inflation accelerated more than forecast to a
seven-month high yesterday as the nation’s coldest winter in 28
years pushed up vegetable prices, a pickup that may limit room
for easing to support an economic recovery.  The Standard’s & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.38 percent
during the week to close at 1472.05 in New York. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index fell 0.26 percent, closing at 287.08.  Slim, Buffett  Mexican telecommunications magnate  Carlos Slim , 72, remains
the richest person in the world, with a fortune of $77.1
billion, down $157 million for the week. Second is  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Bill Gates, 57, with $63.5 billion.  Europe’s richest man, Amancio Ortega, the 76-year-old
founder of the Zara clothing chain, is No. 3 on the index with a
net worth of $58.1 billion, $7.6 billion ahead of  Warren
Buffett . The 82-year-old chairman and chief executive officer of
Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said U.S. banks
have rebuilt capital to the point where they no longer pose a
threat to the economy.  “The banks will not get this country in trouble, I
guarantee it,” Buffett said in a phone interview last week.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  