-- Yahoo to Avon Push Outsider-CEO Hiring to 17-Year High
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-11T20:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/yahoo-to-avon-push-outsider-ceo-hiring-to-17-year-high.html
U.S. companies from  Avon Products
Inc. (AVP)  to  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  recruited externally for 29 percent of chief
executive officer hires in 2012, the most in at least 17 years
as desire for growth sparked demand for new leaders.  Avon’s hiring of Sherilyn McCoy from Johnson & Johnson and
Yahoo’s choice of Google Inc.’s Marissa Mayer helped fuel a 36
percent jump in outside CEO recruitment at Fortune 500 and
Standard & Poor’s 500 companies, according to Crist|Kolder
Associates. The Hinsdale, Illinois-based search firm analyzed
management changes at 669 companies through December.  External hiring is rising as companies that may have sought
to preserve management continuity through the recession look to
shake things up with fresh perspectives and more expansion-
oriented skill sets, according to  Hugh Shields , co-founder of
Chicago-based executive recruiter Shields Meneley Partners.  “During the recession, many of these CEOs were kind of
hunkered down in their positions and quite frankly, boards saw
termination of their CEO as additional risk to the
organization,” Shields said in a telephone interview. “Now as
the market has improved, what they’re seeing is the window has
opened up” and they’re more willing go outside for talent if
necessary.  Total CEO turnover in 2012 cooled to a rate of 9.3 percent,
just 0.4 percentage points higher than the 15-year low set in
2010, Crist|Kolder data show. Churn among chief financial
officers and chief operating officers rose to 13.8 percent and
26.5 percent respectively.  Increased Volatility  Increased volatility in executive roles typically reflects
more favorable economic conditions, according to Matt McGreal,
chief of the search firm’s corporate governance practice.  While turnover still trails pre-recession levels, demand
for new leaders is rising, said  Greg Gabel , managing director at
Canny, Bowen Inc., a New York-based boutique executive search
firm.  “People are maybe finally believing the recovery is
real,” he said in a phone interview. Companies are “looking at
potential acquisitions or at least in investing in the
businesses in terms of the talent.”  At New York-based Avon, the world’s largest door-to-door
cosmetics seller, McCoy was recruited in April after three years
of profit declines. She ended the reign of Andrea Jung, who
still serves as a senior adviser.  Recruiting From Rivals  Yahoo!, based in Sunnyvale,  California , hired Mayer in July
from rival Google to help turn around the company after sales
dropped for three years. Mayer, the fifth CEO in four years,
took after Scott Thompson resigned over inaccuracies in his
academic record.  Many corporations may be forced to scout executives at
their competitors after scaling back recruitment and succession
planning during the recession, according to Ana Dutra, Chicago-
based CEO of  Korn/Ferry International (KFY) ’s leadership and talent
consulting business.  “Companies cut down on leadership development programs and
coaching,” she said in a phone interview. “Now they’re finding
themselves essentially with a gap, with a void between the top
layers and the next layers of the organization.”  Another trend resulting from the improving economy: The
percentage of CEO hires with experience in financial jobs
dropped to the lowest level since 2006 last year after peaking
at 44.2 percent in 2007, according to the Crist|Kolder study.  It’s a sign there’s less need for an executive who can
shepherd a company through financial stress than for one who can
build revenue and leverage new markets, Crist|Kolder’s McGreal
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  