-- Yield Hunt Lifts Interest-Rate Structured Notes From 12-Year Low
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-11T08:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/yield-hunt-lifts-interest-rate-structured-notes-from-12-year-low.html
Interest rate-linked structured
notes, which had their worst month for sales in December in
almost 12 years, are making a comeback with investors seeking
higher returns as corporate bond yields near record lows.  Issuance of the securities totaled $940 million in the
first seven trading days this year, compared with $609 million
in the whole of December and an average $1.9 billion a month
throughout 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that
exclude the U.S. Last month’s sales were the least since banks
sold $342 million in January, 2001.  Corporate bond yields are approaching record lows and the
cost of default protection on European banks is now the least
since April 2011 after the  European Central Bank  offered
unlimited funding and its president,  Mario Draghi , pledged to do
whatever is needed to preserve the euro. Rate-linked notes can
pay coupons more than five times higher than vanilla bonds.  “With issuer credit spreads tightening last year, the hunt
for yield is going to become even more chronic,” said Sumit Mehta, head of inflation structuring with responsibility for
interest rate-linked structured products at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  in  London . “Some of the excess cash buffers
that have been built into the system will lead to structured
product demand.”  Default Insurance  The cost to insure against default the debt of the 25
European banks and insurers in the Markit iTraxx Financial index
has fallen 56 percent since July 26, the day Draghi vowed to
save the euro, to 124.5 basis points. Yields on corporate bonds
plunged 53 percent to 2.01 percent on Jan. 10 from 4.31 percent
a year earlier, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate
Index shows. Investors can get higher returns from buying the
bonds of issuers with greater credit risk.  DZ Bank AG, the biggest issuer of structured notes in 2012,
raised $237 million from rate-linked securities this year. The
Frankfurt-based lender sold 40 million euros ($53 million) of
callable step-up coupon securities on Jan. 2 that pay an initial
coupon of 1.7 percent before increasing annually to a final rate
of 2.6 percent.  Investors are also buying rate-linked notes because they
believe the volatility of  interest rates , which fell to the
lowest level since April 2010 in December, will further decline
this year, said Vincent Berard, head of interest rates and
foreign-exchange structuring at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in London. When
interest rates are less volatile, the options embedded in
structured notes are cheaper, resulting in lower potential
returns on notes.  Swaption Rate  The so-called 3m10y swaption rate, which is a measure of
volatility in three-month options for 10-year euro  interest-rate
swaps , fell to 57 basis points on Dec. 6 from 104.9 basis points
on June 15, the highest point of 2012, Bloomberg data show. The
rate now stands at 61.2  “January is usually the busiest month for note sales and
we are already seeing demand for callable rate structures, but
we will have to see if issuance will keep this pace for the rest
of the year,” said Thilo Rossberg, head of rates structuring at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart.  Investor demand for higher-yielding securities will benefit
other types of structured securities, including credit linked-
notes, which had the best year for sales in four years in 2012,
said Phil McCabe, head of structuring at  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc. (LLOY)   “In the current less leveraged market, a combination of
factors from low interest rates to tighter bank funding levels
and a flatter yield curve makes rate-linked notes appear less
attractive to some investors when compared to, say, credit-
linked alternatives,” said London-based McCabe.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  