-- ThyssenKrupp’s Eichler to Leave Supervisory Board Amid Probe
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-01-11T17:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-11/thyssenkrupp-s-eichler-to-leave-supervisory-board-amid-inquiry.html
Bertin Eichler, deputy chairman of
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s supervisory board, will leave it this year
amid an investigation into company-funded foreign travel.  Eichler won’t run again for a board position in 2013,
according to an e-mailed statement from the IG Metall labor
union, where he’s a member of the directorate.  Compliance staff at ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker, are probing Eichler over five trips that had a
partly “touristic character,”  Handelsblatt  reported today. He
had traveled to Cuba, Thailand, China and the U.S.  ThyssenKrupp has already ousted three executive board
members in an effort to repair a boardroom tainted by corruption
allegations and an ill-fated expansion in the Americas. The
company, which is cutting business units to five from eight and
building its non-steel base, scrapped its dividend for the first
time in December after posting a second straight annual loss.  What’s permitted and common isn’t always “correct,”
Eichler said in the IG Metall statement. He’ll pay the
difference between first- and business-class flights that he
took, he said.  Prosecutors in Essen, where ThyssenKrupp is based, are
still studying a foreign trip taken by Juergen Claassen, who
left the executive board last month, Wilhelm Kassenboehmer, a
spokesman for the prosecutors, said today by phone.  The steel producer is carrying out an internal probe into
“tours with executive board members and third parties,” Peter
Sauer, a company spokesman, said by e-mail, declining to
elaborate.  ThyssenKrupp fell 1.9 percent to 18.68 euros in  Frankfurt .  “Our leadership culture has failed in many areas of the
company,” Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  said last
month. “There were obviously some who thought that rules,
regulations and laws do not apply to everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  