-- 
5 States Have Credit Ratings Put on Review by Moody’s for U.S. Dependence

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-07-19T20:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/5-states-debt-ratings-on-review-by-moody-s-for-u-s-dependence.html
Five of the 15 states with top bond
ratings from Moody’s Investors Service may be downgraded because
their dependence on federal revenue makes them vulnerable to a
U.S. credit cut should talks to raise the debt limit fail.  Maryland,  South Carolina , New Mexico,  Tennessee  and
Virginia are under review, Moody’s said today. The action
affects $24 billion of general-obligation and related debt, it
said. The states are rated Aaa, Moody’s top municipal grade.  The credit evaluator said on July 13 it may cut the federal
government’s Aaa rating as congressional Republicans and
President Barack Obama’s administration failed to agree on
raising the U.S. debt limit. Moody’s said the next day it would
scrutinize top-rated states, municipalities, housing programs
and other debt issuers.  “Should the U.S. government’s rating be downgraded to Aa1
or lower, these five states’ ratings would likely be downgraded
as well,” New York-based Moody’s said today. Aa1 is Moody’s
second-highest rank. Any change in the state ratings would be
announced seven to 10 days after action on the U.S., it said.  Democrats and Republicans have yet to agree on raising the
government’s debt limit with an Aug. 2 deadline looming. Without
the ability to borrow, the Treasury would have to cut about $134
billion of spending during August, according to a report by the
Washington-based Bipartisan Policy Center.  Imperiled Funds  Such cuts could imperil money states receive for programs
such as Medicaid, which is the health-care program for the poor,
public-works projects and education. An impasse could also
rattle financial markets and push up  interest rates  for states,
whose bonds track Treasury securities.  The deadline hasn’t upset financial markets, where
Treasuries have gained as investors bought U.S. bonds on
speculation  Greece ’s struggle with its debt will spread in
 Europe .  Municipal-bond yields have also declined as issuers cutting
budgets curtailed borrowing. The Bond Buyer 20 Index, a measure
of yields on general-obligation bonds due in 20 years, dropped
to 4.51 percent last week, down from 4.65 a week earlier and as
much as 5.4 percent in January.  A bond sold by one of the states, South Carolina, to fund
infrastructure projects traded for a yield of 4.5 percent today,
unchanged from before the Moody’s announcement, according to
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data.  Long Shot  “Most participants are assuming there will not be a
default and there will not be an event that would create a
downgrade,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income research
for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “It’s kind of
a long shot.”  Today, President Obama backed a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting
plan by a bipartisan group of senators that would both increase
taxes and cut spending while raising the government’s ability to
borrow, spurring optimism that Congress will resolve the
deadlock of the debt limit.  Moody’s said it chose the five states because they are more
vulnerable to economic fluctuations and depend more than the
others on the federal government for employment and revenue.  Maryland , Virginia and New Mexico have relatively high
proportions of federal employees and contracts, the ratings
company said. New Mexico, South Carolina and Tennessee rely more
on Medicaid money than the national average, Moody’s said.
Maryland, Tennessee and Virginia are more sensitive to national
economic trends than most, according to the Moody’s report.  Well Positioned  A spokeswoman for Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, Raquel
Guillory, said the Moody’s announcement isn’t surprising, given
the state’s economic ties to the federal government. She said
the state has the ability to respond to financial problems
emanating from Washington.  “We’re positioned very well right now,” she said.  The 10 top-rated states that Moody’s said are less
vulnerable to downgrades are  Alaska ,  Delaware ,  Georgia ,  Indiana ,
 Iowa , Missouri,  North Carolina ,  Texas ,  Utah  and  Vermont . They
would be cut only in the event that the federal rating is
dropped by more than one level, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  