-- 
Adele, P.J. Harvey, Elbow Lead U.K. Mercury Prize Shortlist

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-07-19T11:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/adele-p-j-harvey-elbow-lead-u-k-mercury-prize-shortlist-for-best-album.html
Albums by Adele, P.J. Harvey and
Elbow are on the 12-strong shortlist for the U.K.’s 2011
 Barclaycard Mercury Prize  announced today.  Also on the list are CDs by  Anna Calvi , Everything
Everything,  James Blake  and Tinie Tempah.  The Mercury Prize, awarded annually since 1992, is
sponsored by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Barclaycard. The prize has often
been given to new or non-commercial acts and pits different
genres against one another, ranging from folk and jazz to hard
rock. The winner receives 20,000 pounds ($32,240), although the
boost from album  sales  can be worth much more.  The award focuses on musical quality. It doesn’t take into
account album sales, media profile or live performances. The 
leading titles all face handicaps. Because the judges often 
avoid CDs by big sellers, Adele's “21” may not be a likely 
choice despite its critical acclaim. Both Elbow and P.J. Harvey
have won the prize before, which may reduce their chances. 
Tinie Tempah may be helped by his success at the Brit awards. 
The Mercury winner will be announced on Sept. 6.  Among acts boosted in the past by a Mercury Prize were
rapper Dizzee Rascal (real name: Dylan Mills), who won in 2003
for “Boy in Da Corner,” and Badly Drawn Boy (a.k.a. Damon Gough), the 2000 winner for “The Hour of Bewilderbeast,” both
on the independent XL Recordings label. Last year’s winner was
the xx, with Speech Debelle the year before and Elbow’s “The
Seldom Seen Kid” (Fiction Records) in 2008. The Klaxons won in
2007 with “Myths of the Near Future” (Polydor).  Previous hit albums that were nominated for the Mercury
Prize but failed to win include  Robbie Williams ’s “Life Thru a
Lens” in 1998, when the award went to “Bring It On” by Gomez,
and “OK Computer” by Radiohead in 1997, beaten by Roni
Size/Reprazent’s “New Forms.”  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 