-- 
Madoff Investor Asks Appeals Court to Review $7.2 Billion Picower Deal

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-19T14:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/madoff-investor-asks-appeals-court-to-review-7-2-billion-picower-deal.html
An investor in Bernard Madoff’s
 Ponzi scheme  who unsuccessfully challenged a $7.2 billion
settlement by the U.S. with the estate of Jeffry Picower asked a
federal appeals court to review the district judge’s decision.  Adele Fox filed the appeal yesterday in response to U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa’s decision in May to uphold the
settlement with the billionaire’s estate. Rejecting Fox’s
argument that Madoff investors had a right to recoup funds from
the estate themselves, he said that “victimhood does not create
an interest in forfeited property.”  The settlement struck in December by the U.S. and the
Madoff firm’s liquidator  Irving Picard  dwarfs the $2.6 billion
of other funds set aside to date for distribution to the con
man’s investors. The appeal means the Picower funds will
continue to be tied up in court.  Picower, one of the largest of Madoff’s investors, may have
suspected the con man was running a Ponzi scheme, according to
Picard. Picower drowned in 2009, and his estate forfeited the
money to the U.S. and Picard.  The settlement also is being challenged by lawyer Helen Chaitman on behalf of investors.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking money
for Madoff investors, has estimated the principal lost by all
Madoff investors at $19 billion. He and his  law firm , Baker &
Hostetler LLP, have collected about $179 million in fees since
Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The
Fox district court case is U.S. v. $7.2 billion, 10-cv-09398,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  