-- 
Malaysia’s Interest Rates Remain ‘Quite Low,’ Governor Zeti Says

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-07-19T06:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/malaysia-s-interest-rates-remain-quite-low-governor-zeti-says.html
Zeti Akhtar Aziz,  Malaysia ’s central
bank governor, comments on inflation and  interest rates . She
spoke in an interview in Jakarta yesterday.  On Malaysian interest rates:  “We have what we called normalized our rates and we
normalized the rate to the level where it is now, where it is
still supportive of growth. At 3 percent, it still remains quite
low and there is still strong credit demand and this means that
it isn’t an inhibiting factor to growth. We have to make that
careful assessment because we also saw the first half of this
year, growth had slowed.  “Of course monetary policy is a forward looking instrument
and therefore we will look as we go forward whether indeed the
economy is firmly on the steady growth path that we would like
to achieve. That evaluation will be made every time we meet
periodically to decide on interest-rate policy.”  On scope for further increases:  “No,” the scope for further increases hasn’t been reduced,
she said. “We have to evaluate the conditions and going forward,
we don’t want to have second-round effects that result in high
inflation because that will erode purchasing power and that will
contribute to lower growth. It’s important to place priority on
inflation because, unattended, it will result in damaging future
growth prospects.”  On growth:  “We see the second quarter was affected by a number of
developments. Firstly, we saw commodity prices reached high
levels and this has had a dampening effect because it
contributed to inflation in two specific components -- fuel and
food. This represents a large part of consumption. This
contributed to dampening growth.  “Secondly, we had several disruptions take place -- the
disaster in Japan, weather conditions affected the  agriculture
sector , political developments in the  Middle East  and the debt
crisis in Euro zone. There were many of these adverse
developments. The circumstances in U.S. also.  “All these development affected the first half of this
year. The second quarter would reflect these kinds of
developments in our growth performance. Our domestic consumption
remains very robust and strong. Investment activity also became
more vibrant.  “These are positive developments that will sustain a
growth between four to five percent. It could be weaker than
what was earlier expected. But we expect in the second half of
this year, the growth would be much stronger because many of
these developments are resolving and  Japan  is beginning to
resume economic activity. Full-year forecast will be in the
range of 5 to 6 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  