-- 
Amazon to Begin Gathering Signatures for Vote on California Tax

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-07-19T13:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/amazon-cleared-to-gather-signatures-for-vote-on-california-tax.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
Internet retailer, will begin gathering signatures for a vote to
repeal a new California  law  that requires it to collect sales
taxes.  The Seattle-based company “will begin participating in the
process of collecting the signatures needed to have this jobs
referendum on next year’s ballot,” a spokeswoman, Mary Osako,
said in a statement yesterday after state Attorney General
Kamala D. Harris  approved  language for the petition.  Amazon.com has fought attempts by  New York ,  Texas ,  Rhode
Island  and  North Carolina  to force it to collect sales taxes on
purchases, saying the moves infringe on the federal government’s
power to regulate commerce among states. The company cut ties
with 10,000 California-based affiliates after Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a law imposing the tax on Internet retailers with a
physical presence in the state.  “With state unemployment at well over 11 percent, we’re
glad the people of California now have an opportunity to have
their voices heard on this issue,” Osako said in the statement.  At stake is more than the $317 million a year that the
California Assembly’s budget office  estimates  the state loses
when residents fail to pay taxes on items they buy online. The
showdown in Sacramento will help determine whether Internet
retailers are treated the same as brick-and-mortar stores across
the country, said Robert P. Strauss, a professor of economics
and public policy at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh.  All Eyes  “Lots of people will be watching to see what happens in
California,” Strauss, who has written about taxation of online
retailers, said by telephone July 15. “Everybody knows Amazon
is trying to redefine the retail trade by arbitraging on the tax
issue.”  Steven A. Merksamer , a Sacramento-based lawyer for Amazon,
said the Legislature defied a 1992 U.S. Supreme Court  ruling 
when it  approved  the tax measure in June as part of a series of
evening votes to balance the state’s budget.  The court ruling allows states to require retailers to
collect sales taxes only if they have a physical presence, or
nexus, in the state. Merksamer, in a July 14 phone interview,
said Amazon falls short of that standard in  California .  The California Retailers Association, a trade group of
department stores, supermarkets, drug stores and specialty
merchants, said voters would not be “bullied or fooled” by
Amazon’s attempt to seek a “special tax advantage” in its
largest market.  “Californians have a history of rejecting multibillion
dollar companies that try and get special deals on the ballot
for their own benefit and to the detriment of the state,” Bill Dombrowski, president of the association, said in a July 18
statement.  Amazon needs almost 505,000 signatures from California
voters to qualify the measure for the ballot next year,
according to the Secretary of State’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 