-- 
AMD’s Six-Month CEO Search May Overshadow Profit Improvement

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-19T21:47:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/amd-s-six-month-ceo-search-may-overshadow-earnings-improvement.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,
expected to report its largest annual profit this year since
2000, may find its improving results overshadowed by the lack of
progress in finding a new chief executive officer.  Six months after ousting Dirk Meyer over disagreements with
the board about strategy, the computer-chip maker is conducting
a second round of interviews with a number of candidates, said
two people with knowledge of the hiring process. AMD won’t be
ready to announce a new leader when it reports quarterly
earnings this week, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans haven’t been made public.  Meyer’s drive for better financial performance and on-time
delivery of new products weren’t enough for AMD’s board, which
pushed him out in January, saying the company wasn’t gaining
market share or getting into the mobile-phone or tablet chip
markets quickly enough. The failure to name a new leader after
more than six months is undermining investor confidence even as
profitability picks up.  “It’s urgent,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment
strategist at Walnut Creek, California-based YCMNet Advisors,
which manages $1 billion. “The company needs direction, and
right now, without a CEO, they’re operating in transition and
they need a very strong leader.”  The company had approached and been rebuffed by at least
four candidates to replace Meyer, people familiar with the
search said last month. Apple Inc. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , Oracle Corp. Co-President  Mark Hurd , EMC Corp. Chief
Operating Officer Pat Gelsinger and Carlyle Group Managing
Director Greg Summe spurned the chipmaker’s approaches, the
people said at the time.  Profit Forecasts  Sunnyvale, California-based AMD will announce second-
quarter earnings on July 21. It’s expected to report net income
of $49 million, or 7 cents a share, and sales of $1.58 billion,
the average of analysts’ estimates from a survey by Bloomberg. A
year earlier, the company had a loss of $43 million, or 6 cents
a share, on sales of $1.65 billion.  AMD is predicted to have earnings of 96 cents a share for
2011, according to the average analyst estimate. That would
represent its highest annual net income since 2000. The company
has reported a profit in only four of the past 10 years.  The semiconductor maker is looking for a CEO who can
implement a change in direction mandated by the company’s board,
led by Chairman Bruce Claflin.  ‘Well-Known’ Challenges  With Meyer, directors questioned when the company might
start selling chips that power mobile devices, a market where
sales are surging even as personal-computer sales slump. Meyer,
who succeeded  Hector Ruiz  as CEO in 2008, had said that AMD
needed to return to profitability and re-establish credibility
before starting to spend on new projects.  “The challenges of AMD are well-known, and for that reason
I believe it’s going to take some time to find the right
person,” Yoshikami said.  Founded in 1969, AMD has less than 20 percent of the PC-
processor market. The company’s new range of chips, called
Llano, will help it win market share in  notebook computers 
against  Intel Corp. (INTC) , according to Longbow Research analyst
JoAnne Feeney.  Rising profit hasn’t appeased investors like Daniel Morgan,
an Atlanta-based  fund manager  at Synovus Securities Inc., who
wants more evidence that AMD will be able to make a sustained
challenge to Intel. The company needs leadership that investors
can trust, Morgan said.  ‘Sense of Credibility’  “You’ve got to create some sense of credibility with
investors and analysts with your management team,” said Morgan,
who last recommended his fund buy the shares in 2006. Synovus
owns stock in Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker. “The
history of AMD is that they’ve never been able to do it. Until
they show that they can, it’s really hard for me to get on
board.”  AMD Chairman Claflin, a former manager in International
Business Machines Corp.’s PC division and CEO of 3Com Corp. from
2001 to 2006, has led the search for Meyer’s replacement.
Claflin doesn’t want to take the job himself, said  Drew Prairie ,
an AMD spokesman. The company’s interim chief executive, Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Seifert, has also ruled himself out as
a permanent successor.  “The search is obviously a priority,” Prairie said. “The
board continues to make good progress while ensuring we take the
time to select a person with the right vision, experience and
track record to lead AMD into the future and increase
 shareholder value  over time.”  AMD has dropped 29 percent since Meyer left on Jan. 10.
That compares with a 4.5 percent gain in the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index, and a 12 percent gain by Intel shares in
the same period. The stock rose 30 cents, or 4.9 percent, to
$6.48 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  For Synovus’s Morgan, the stock’s decline underscores a
record of poor decision making by AMD’s leadership.  “Why is the board making decisions that don’t benefit the
company but actually hurt it?” he said. “You just have a
history that’s hard to overcome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  