-- 
Land Securities Reduces Vacancy Rate to 3.9% After REIT Attracts Tenants

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-07-19T07:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/land-securities-reduces-vacancy-rate-after-winning-tenants.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust by value, cut its
vacancy rate after attracting tenants including Primark Stores
Ltd., Supergroup Plc’s Superdry and Hugo Boss AG.  The vacancy rate fell to 3.9 percent at the end of June
from 4.2 percent at the end of March, according to a statement
released by the London-based company today. The rate includes 1
percentage point of temporarily leased space and excludes 0.4
point of space for which tenants agreed to lease.  Chief Executive Officer Francis Salway has focused on
attracting more tenants to newly opened buildings such as its
partly owned  St. David’s mall  in Cardiff and  One New Change  in
the City of  London  financial district, to lower the vacancy rate
from 5.9 percent at the end of September 2010. He also sought
enough tenant commitments to partially fill the company’s
development projects before starting construction.  “We have a clear plan, we are executing it successfully
and it’s delivering,” Salway said on a conference call, adding
that the company was looking forward with “continuing
confidence and delivering more of the same.”  Land Securities was unchanged at 866 pence at 8:17 a.m. in
London trading, valuing the company at 6.7 billion pounds ($10.8
billion). The shares have risen 28 percent this year.  Eastern Quarry  The additional rental income generated by Land Securities
compensates for the revenue lost by divesting properties. The
177.1 million pounds raised from asset sales in the three months
to June 30 helped Land Securities finance development projects,
mainly in central London and certain shopping centers, such as
the Trinity project in the city center of Leeds in northern
 England .  While the bulk of Land Securities’ projects center on
London, a pickup in demand from food and fashion retailers led
Land Securities to plan investing in out-of-town big box retail
warehouse projects, valued at about 275 million pounds.  An additional 1 million square feet of space (92,900 square
meters) is planned, either by extensions to existing properties,
or through new construction, Salway said. Land Securities is
also seeking a partnership with a large homebuilder to develop
the Eastern Quarry area at Ebbsfleet in Kent, he said.  Debt fell to 37.5 percent of the value of the company’s
assets, compared with 39 percent three months earlier. Land
Securities will pay a quarterly dividend of 7.2 pence a share.  Land Securities is the best-performing U.K. REIT since it
released full-year earnings May 18 that showed stronger-than-
expected gains in the value of its properties. Its shares have
climbed almost 16 percent since the eve of its full-year
earnings through yesterday, compared with an average gain of 4.2
percent for the 11 stocks in the FTSE 350 REIT Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  