-- 
Anti-Doping Chief Sees More Drugmaker Agreements Before London Olympics

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-19T10:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/anti-doping-chief-sees-more-drugmaker-agreements-before-london-olympics.html
The international body that oversees
drug programs in sports is negotiating with “many”
pharmaceutical companies to share information in an effort to
prevent cheating, the group’s president said.  The  World Anti-Doping Agency  plans to announce multiple
agreements with drugmakers before the London 2012 Olympic Games
that would allow WADA scientists to embed with company
researchers during product development, John Fahey, president of
the Montreal-based agency, said in an interview. The goal is to
find and highlight drugs that athletes may use to improperly
improve their performance, he said.  “We’re starting to get some momentum in the process,”
Fahey, a former Australian finance minister, said by phone.
“This allows us to access the key information years before the
drugs are commercialized.”  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, said
this month it would help WADA find ways to detect drugs with
“performance-enhancing potential” by giving the agency
confidential information about its early-stage medicines that
could be abused by athletes.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , whose anemia drug
Mircera sold 255 million Swiss francs ($311 million) last year
and was allegedly used by cyclist Riccardo Ricco during the 2008
Tour de  France , also is collaborating with WADA.  “The key is to get with individual companies,” Fahey
said. “They’re more than willing to cooperate and to enable us
to get into the pipeline early.”  The Washington-based  Biotechnology Industry Organization , a
trade group that represents more than 1,100 companies including
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , in June  endorsed WADA’s
declaration  to identify compounds that could be used to cheat.
Fahey declined to name the companies WADA was negotiating with,
and said they number more than five.  ‘Danger Areas’  “Danger areas are drugs that deal with increased oxygen
transfer, muscle bulk, encourage respiratory production, improve
oxygen capacity,” Pauline Williams, a senior scientist at Glaxo
who oversees its work with WADA, said in a phone interview. “We
do have one high-risk one that we’re actually engaging in with
WADA,” she said, declining to specify the treatment.  It’s unlikely that any of Glaxo’s early-stage drugs would
warrant tests during next year’s Olympics, Williams said. She
said she doesn’t know how much the collaboration is costing the
company, which isn’t giving money to or receiving funds from
WADA.  Drugmakers have to be convinced that their research will
stay safe and confidential, Fahey said.  “The cost of development in many of these various drugs is
astronomical, and companies putting that money into research and
development clearly wish to protect their intellectual
property,” he said. “We have to be sure to sign stringent
agreements to protect from leaks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  