-- 
Apple Profit Seen Rising on Record IPad Sales

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-19T13:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/apple-profit-seen-rising-as-ipad-buying-makes-up-for-iphone-lull.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is set to post a 69
percent jump in quarterly profit when it reports results today,
after record buying of the iPad and Mac computer made up for
weaker demand for its aging iPhone 4.  Profit rose to $5.5 billion in the fiscal third quarter,
which ended June 25, according to the average prediction of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales gained an estimated 59
percent to $25 billion.  While Apple won’t release a new iPhone -- its best-selling
product -- until September, the company benefited from the March
debut of the iPad 2. According to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
Apple sold 7.7 million units of the tablet last quarter, topping
the previous three-month sales record of 7.3 million, set during
the  holiday shopping season .  “All I had to do is walk past the Apple store on my way to
work each morning and there were lines down the street for at
least a month after the iPad 2 launch,” said  Charlie Wolf , an
analyst at Needham & Co. “This quarter may end up being fairly
mild for the iPhone.”  As customers await the next iPhone, sales of the handset
may drop 8.3 percent to 17.1 million from the prior quarter,
according to the average estimate of 16 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Faster Chip  Apple is set to introduce a new iPhone with a stronger chip
for processing data and an 8-megapixel camera in September, two
people familiar with the product said last month. The iPhone 4,
with a 5-megapixel camera, sold 1.7 million units in its first
three days on sale at the end of the June quarter a year ago.
Unit sales have risen four straight quarters and in all but
three of the past 10 quarters.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based,
Apple, declined to comment.  Demand for iPads hasn’t been hurt by the release of rival
tablet computers from electronics companies, including Samsung
Electronics Co., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , Wolf said. In fact, global personal-computer
shipments came in less than forecast during the second quarter,
in part because of consumer demand for Apple’s iPad, according
to market research firms Gartner Inc. and IDC.  Apple’s Mac computers were an exception, as sales of the
iPhone and iPad brought in new customers. Apple leapfrogged Acer
Inc. and Toshiba Corp. to become the third-largest U.S. maker of
PCs in the second-quarter, according to Gartner. Tony Sacconaghi,
an analyst at Stanford C. Bernstein & Co., predicts 4.26 million
Macs sold, more than the 4.13 million record set in the fiscal
first quarter.  IPhone Boost  A new iPhone will provide a boost to Apple, especially
among users switching to a smartphone for the first time, Wolf
said. In the three months ending in May, 76.8 million people in
the U.S. owned smartphones, up 11 percent from the previous
three months, according to ComScore Inc. Overall, some 234
million Americans use mobile phones, ComScore said.  “The iPhone is likely to capture a significant percentage
of feature phone users who migrate to smartphones,” Wolf said.
“That is where the iPhone share should rise.”  Investors also will focus on gross margins, or the percent
of sales remaining after deducting the cost of production, said
 Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
 Portland ,  Oregon .  That figure is an indication of how much Apple spent on
components and manufacturing for the iPad, as well as the impact
of a patent settlement with Nokia Oyj on iPhone profit, he said.  Apple said in April that third-quarter gross margins would
be 38 percent, down from 41.4 in the second quarter. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg project 39.2 percent.  IPad 2  The third quarter will be the first full accounting period
to include sales of iPad 2, released on March 11. The company
has largely overcome initial supply shortages that hindered
sales, Hargreaves said.  Apple rose $3.21 to a record $377.01 at 9:34 a.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have rebounded
since weathering the worst first half since 2008, amid investor
concern about the condition of Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who is on medical leave as he battles a rare form of
cancer, and heightened competition from devices running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Even without a new model, some analysts are predicting
record iPhone sales. Mark Moskowitz of JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
Apple may sell 19.6 million handsets, up from the 8.4 million
the company sold during the third quarter last year and the
previous record of 18.7 million in the second quarter.  The release of the new iPhone, along with a new model
MacBook Air laptop computer, will push Apple’s stock higher in
the second-half of the year, Moskowitz said. The releases will
boost investor interest in Apple, he said in a research note.  “The return of the wow factor and new product cycles
should jettison the fear that had been dogging valuation the
last couple of months,” Moskowitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 