-- 
Apple Profit Tops Estimates on Record Sales

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-19T21:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/apple-s-profit-beats-estimates-on-iphone-ipad-sales-shares-surpass-400.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the biggest technology
company by market value, reported third-quarter profit that
topped estimates, lifted by record sales of iPhones and iPad 
tablets. The stock jumped to an all-time high in late trading.  Net income in the period more than doubled to $7.31
billion, or $7.79 a share, from $3.25 billion, or $3.51, a year
earlier, Apple said today in a statement. Sales climbed 82
percent to $28.6 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $5.87
a share and revenue of $25 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The report eased investors’ concerns that sales would
suffer from the lack of a new iPhone -- Apple’s best-selling
product -- which isn’t expected until September. The Cupertino,
California-based company also has been operating without the
day-to-day attention of Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who
has been on medical leave since January.  “Apple is a juggernaut and they prove it every quarter,”
said Mike Binger, an Apple investor at Thrivent Asset Management
in Appleton,  Wisconsin , which has about $70 billion under
management.  Apple shares jumped as much as 7.5 percent to $405 in
extended trading after the results were posted. The stock, up 17
percent this year, had closed at a record $376.85 in regular
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  IPhone Orders  Apple’s expansion into  China  and other fast-growing
economies helped make up for  slower growth  in the U.S. Apple
sold 20.3 million iPhones and 9.3 million iPads in the third 
quarter, which ended June 25. Mac computer sales were 3.95
million, short of a record. The iPad -- a product that’s less
than two years old -- is now Apple’s second-biggest source of
revenue, after the iPhone.  The company said profit in the fourth quarter would be
about $5.50 a share on sales of $25 billion. Analysts on average
predict $6.41 a share on sales of $27.7 billion.  Apple typically gives a lowball forecast, making it less
relevant to investors, said Thrivent’s Binger.  “The forecast is meaningless,” he said.  Gross profit margin, the percentage of sales left after
deducting production costs, was 41.7 percent last quarter,
compared with 39.1 percent a year earlier, Apple said.  “We’re thrilled to deliver our best quarter ever, with
revenue up 82 percent and profits up 125 percent,” Jobs said in
the statement. With the CEO and company co-founder on medical
leave, Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  is handling day-to-day
leadership.  Next CEO?  Since Jobs went on leave, some members of Apple’s board
have discussed CEO succession with executive recruiters, the
Wall Street Journal  reported  earlier today, citing unnamed
people familiar with the matter. The talks included at least one
head of a high-profile technology company, the Journal said.  The health of Jobs, who has struggled with a rare form of
cancer, is the only major concern for Apple, said Erick Maronak,
chief investment officer of Victory Capital Management Inc. in
 New York , which has about $2.5 billion under management.  “In the end it’s really all going to circle back to Jobs
-- his health, his role,” Maronak said. Apple is his firm’s
largest holding, accounting for about 5 percent, he said.  Jobs's health wasn't discussed on Apple's conference call
today, and no analysts inquired about it.  Apple’s Chinese sales reached $3.8 billion, up almost
sixfold from a year earlier. The company plans to open 30 stores
in the September period, including in  Hong Kong , broadening a
retail chain that generated $3.5 billion in sales last quarter.  “China was very key to our results,” Cook said on a
conference call. “We’re just scratching the surface. There is an
incredible opportunity for Apple there.”  Topping Projections  Apple typically reports results that exceed analysts’
estimates. The company had previously beaten the average earning
projection for at least 29 straight quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The biggest question with Apple is: Is this story
sustainable?” said Shaw Wu, an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. in San Francisco. “Obviously, it is.”  In the third quarter, Apple also sold 7.54 million iPod
media players, compared with the 8.5 million predicted by
analysts. That product is the oldest of Apple’s main mobile
devices, and it faces cannibalization from the iPhone and iPad,
which also can play music.  It was the first time since 2008 that the third-quarter
results didn’t include the release of a new iPhone. The new
model slated for September has a faster chip for processing data
and an 8-megapixel camera, two people familiar with the matter
said last month.  The company also is preparing to introduce a new Mac
operating system, called OS X Lion, and the iCloud service,
which let users store, synchronize and access content such as
music, pictures and documents across different Apple devices.  “We are extremely pleased with the momentum of our
business,”  Peter Oppenheimer , the company’s chief financial
officer, said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 