-- 
Arch Chemicals, UBS, Vincent McCrudden, Barclays, News Corp in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-19T10:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/arch-chemicals-ubs-vincent-mccrudden-barclays-news-corp-in-court-news.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman Rupert Murdoch
and his sons Lachlan and James were sued in Manhattan federal
court by a shareholder who says the phone-hacking scandal
damaged the company and who described their actions as
“damning.”  Gregory Shields, a News Corp. shareholder from California,
alleges Murdoch and the other defendants breached their
fiduciary duties by their actions, engaged in “gross
mismanagement” of News Corp. and wasted corporate assets.  Shields’s case is a derivative suit, a claim filed on
behalf of the company to enforce legal rights the company’s
officers and directors have allegedly failed to assert.  The defendants “made false and/or misleading statements as
well as failed to disclose material adverse facts about the
company’s business,” Shields said in the complaint. “News
Corp. has been damaged by News Corp. board’s failure to
adequately address the unlawful activities that have occurred at
the company.”  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left at
her office seeking comment about the suit. Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in
providing financial news and information.  Shields said the value of the company’s stock has been
reduced as a result of revelations that the company’s News of
the World tabloid in the U.K. hacked into the voice mail of
murdered teenager Milly Dowler. Since the scandal first broke,
News Corp. stock has declined by about 7 percent and may drop
further, he said. The final issue of the News of the World was
published July 10.  The case is Shields v. Murdoch, 11-CV-4917, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  SEC Freezes Assets of Swiss Firms in Insider Trading Case  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission won a temporary
asset freeze against three Swiss firms, claiming they profited
from insider trading in  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  shares.  The SEC, in a case filed July 15 in Manhattan federal
court, said two of the firms are controlled by Yomi Rodrig, a
Turkish trader living in Geneva. The three are accused of making
millions of dollars by buying Arch shares in the days before
Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza Group Ltd. announced on July 11
its plan to buy the specialty chemicals maker for $1.2 billion.
The agency won the asset freeze the same day it filed the suit.  Arch rose 21 percent in the week before Lonza said it would
buy all of the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company’s outstanding
shares for $47.20 each. Arch jumped an additional 12 percent the
day of the announcement to close at $47.37.  The companies allegedly controlled by Rodrig are Compania
Internacional Financiera and Geneva-based Coudree Capital
Gestion SA, according to the complaint. The third defendant,
Chartwell Asset Management Services, is described in the
complaint as an investment adviser based in Geneva.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  scheduled a hearing July 28
to consider whether to extend the asset freeze.  In 2005, Rodrig agreed to forfeit more than $4.8 million in
trading profits and pay a penalty of $1.4 million to resolve an
SEC claim that he violated short-selling rules. Rodrig  settled 
without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations.  “As I read the complaint, it simply says the trades were
suspicious,”  Ira Sorkin , a lawyer for Rodrig, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “That’s not the standard for trading on
inside information.”  The case is SEC v. Compania Internacional Financiera SA,
11-CV-4904, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Cuban Can’t Claim ‘Unclean Hands’ in SEC Case, Judge Says  Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks,
can’t argue the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
insider-trading case against him is mostly barred because the
agency investigated him in an improper manner, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater granted the SEC’s
request to remove Cuban’s so-called unclean hands defense in a
decision yesterday.  The defense is available “only in strictly limited
circumstances” including when misconduct “results in prejudice
to the defense of the enforcement action that rises to a
constitutional level and is established through a direct nexus
between the misconduct and the constitutional injury,” which
Cuban hasn’t shown, Fitzwater wrote in his ruling.  The SEC sued Cuban in 2008, accusing him of trading on
confidential information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com
Inc., a Canadian Internet search company, just before it
announced a private placement of shares.  “This was a minor legal skirmish over whether we could
bring this affirmative defense,” Lyle Roberts, a lawyer for
Cuban at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in  Washington , said in a phone
interview.  Cuban argued in a Feb. 4 court filing that, in its
investigation of him, the agency “engaged in egregious acts of
misconduct” and conducted the probe “in an unfair, biased and
improper manner.”  Cuban said the SEC was determined to bring an action
regardless of what evidence it uncovered and it didn’t give him
a fair opportunity to argue against such an action, which is
typically allowed.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  For more, click here.  UBS Wins Bid to Hear Ex-Client Payment Dispute in  Singapore   UBS AG (UBSN)  won a bid to have its $12.6 million lawsuit against
former client Scott Francis Tyne and his Telesto Investments
Ltd. heard in Singapore instead of  Australia , where Tyne sued
the lender.  UBS had demanded Tyne and Telesto pay the sum, which it
claims he owes, after arguing that he violated an understanding
not to sue. Tyne sued the bank in Australia alleging UBS
breached its duty to Telesto by selling it Kazakhstan bank bonds
that later defaulted.  “Singapore is not only the natural forum for the
determination of the dispute but is clearly and distinctly the
more appropriate forum,” Singapore High Court Judge Steven
Chong wrote in an 87-page July 14 ruling.  Telesto had borrowed $60 million from Zurich-based UBS and
had a shortfall in its account in October 2008 when the value of
its investments fell in the midst of the global financial
crisis, UBS said in its lawsuit. Tyne was the personal guarantor
for the loan taken out by Telesto, a trust company registered in
Jersey, the Channel Islands.  The Swiss bank ended an agreement not to sell his assets in
October, saying Telesto broke an understanding when it sued the
bank, according to the Singapore lawsuit. Tyne had waived his
claims against UBS by accepting a standstill agreement, the bank
said.  UBS’s lawyer Hri Kumar had sued to stop Tyne from pursuing
the case in Australia.  The case is UBS AG v. Telesto Investments Ltd. & Scott
Francis Tyne S801/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Galleon Fund Manager Cardillo to Pay $68,000 in SEC Suit  Michael Cardillo, who pleaded guilty in the Galleon Group
LLC hedge-fund insider trading case, was ordered to pay more
than $68,000 as part of a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission suit.  Cardillo pleaded guilty in January to securities fraud and
conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government. U.S.
District Judge Richard J. Sullivan yesterday ordered Cardillo to
pay $68,520, representing profits he gained as a result of his
conduct and other penalties. He was sued by the SEC in January.  Cardillo, who worked at Galleon from 2003 to 2009 in the
back office and was a trader and portfolio manager, testified in
May as a government witness at the insider-trading trial of
former Galleon trader Zvi Goffer, his brother Emanuel Goffer and
Michael Kimelman, who worked with both brothers at Incremental
Capital LLC after Zvi Goffer left Galleon.  The Goffer brothers and Kimelman were convicted in June on
charges of securities fraud and conspiracy stemming from one of
three overlapping rings tied to Galleon co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam.  Rajaratnam was found guilty May 11 in the largest insider-
trading prosecution in a generation. He was convicted on 14
counts of securities fraud and conspiracy and prosecutors say
may be given as long as 19 1/2 years in prison when he’s
sentenced.  The case is SEC v. Cardillo, 11-CV-549, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Former Commodities Trader Pleads Guilty in Threats Case  Former commodities trader Vincent P. McCrudden, accused of
threatening to kill financial regulators, pleaded guilty
yesterday.  McCrudden pleaded guilty to two counts of transmission of
threats to injure, before opening arguments were scheduled to
begin in his trial in federal court in Central Islip, New York.
The charges carry a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. His
sentencing was scheduled for Dec. 5.  McCrudden, 50, who also ran his own hedge funds, was
accused of threatening the lives of 47 current and former
officials, including Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman Gary Gensler.  McCrudden has been held without bail since he was arrested
Jan. 13 returning from Singapore. He was charged with
threatening the regulators in profanity-filled e-mails and,
after the CFTC sued him in December, Web postings. McCrudden had
said he was being persecuted for fighting back against unfair
regulatory actions that destroyed his career.  The government estimated that federal guidelines call for a
sentencing range for McCrudden of 27 to 33 months in prison,
Hurley said. In court yesterday, McCrudden said the execution
list was meant to be “provocative.”  “I had no intent to injury or bodily harm anybody,” he
said. He apologized to his victims and to his family.  “I’m not sure there was any one factor,” Barket said.
“Vince just realized it would be a better thing for him to
admit what he did.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Central Islip).  For more, click here.  Barclays Settles Part of Lawsuit by Ex-Bond Trader’s Fund  Barclays Plc (BARC)  settled part of an ongoing legal battle with a
hedge fund set up by one of its former bond and derivative
traders, which shut after the bank withdrew its money.  Nylon Capital LLP, founded by former Barclays proprietary
trader Alan Burnell, had sought 10.6 million pounds ($17
million) from London-based Barclays for expenses it said it was
owed following the closure of its flagship fund in 2010.
Barclays asked for a ruling that it didn’t have to return any of
the profits made on its initial investment in the fund.  In a ruling handed down yesterday, a U.K. judge said the
two sides had “reached agreement.”  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for  Barclays Capital , said the two
sides “resolved this matter to their mutual satisfaction” and
declined to comment further. Neil Bennett, a spokesman for the
hedge fund, said the process was ongoing and declined to comment
further.  Nylon Capital has made another claim for damages against
Barclays over the closure of its fund at the London Court of
International Arbitration. In a company filing in May, Nylon
Capital said the arbitration court found that Barclays breached
its contractual obligations when it “prematurely redeemed its
investment.” A hearing to assess damages hasn’t yet been set,
it said.  Burnell, former European head of  government bonds  and fixed
income derivatives at investment bank Barclays Capital, founded
Nylon Capital in 2004. Barclays provided 250 million pounds of
seed capital and took a minority stake in the partnership
managing the funds, court documents show.  When Barclays withdrew its money in 2009, Nylon Capital
liquidated its assets and returned the remaining cash to
investors.  The case is Barclays Bank Plc v. Nylon Capital LLP, Case
no. 10-00897, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London)  WexTrust’s Shereshevsky Gets 21-Year Prison Term for Fraud  WexTrust Capital LLC co-founder Joseph Shereshevsky was
sentenced to 21 years and 10 months in prison after pleading
guilty to defrauding victims of at least $9.2 million as part of
a Ponzi scheme.  Shereshevsky, 54, and WexTrust co-founder Steven Byers were
charged in 2008 with lying to investors in their now-collapsed
real estate fund. Many of their victims were members of the
Orthodox Jewish community. The penalty was at the top of the
range suggested by federal guidelines. Byers was sentenced to
more than 13 years in April.  “Mr. Shereshevsky very much had a controlling role in this
criminal enterprise,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin said in a
hearing yesterday in Manhattan. “Although he purports to be a
religious man, he preyed on his own community.”  Shereshevsky, the former chief operating officer of
Chicago-based WexTrust, pleaded guilty to mail fraud, conspiracy
and securities fraud in February. Chin said yesterday that
victims may have lost more than $20 million.  Prosecutors claimed Byers and Shereshevsky told investors
they planned to buy residential and commercial properties in
Illinois, North Carolina, Wisconsin, New York and elsewhere.
Instead, they paid investor returns and financed unrelated
projects, the government said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Byers, 08-cr-1092, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  News Corp. Says Lawyer to Lead Internal Phone-Hacking Probe  News Corp. appointed Anthony Grabiner, a U.K. lawyer and
chairman of retailer Arcadia Group Plc, to lead an internal
probe into phone hacking at its News of the World newspaper.  Grabiner, who represented Liverpool Football Club last year
in a legal battle with former owners Tom Hicks and George
Gillett, will head a committee investigating wrongdoing by
employees, News Corp. said yesterday. Grabiner will serve as an
independent director on the management and standards committee
with  Simon Greenberg , corporate affairs director at the News
International U.K. unit, and General Manager Will Lewis.  The 66-year-old Grabiner “will bring his undoubted
experience and intellect to this very important role,” News
Corp. Executive Vice President Joel Klein said in a statement.
“His appointment clearly demonstrates that we are serious about
putting things right that have gone wrong in the past.”  The move is a step for News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
to address the crisis at the News of the World that has forced
the closure of the 168-year-old Sunday tabloid, the resignation
of two senior executives and shelved News Corp.’s 7.8 billion
pound ($12.5 billion) bid for full ownership of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc.  The new committee will report to Klein, Murdoch’s top
adviser, and Viet Dinh on behalf of News Corp.’s independent
directors, the company said in the statement.  For more of this story, click here.  Obama to Pick Former Ohio Attorney General for Consumer Post  President Barack Obama said he will nominate former Ohio
Attorney General  Richard Cordray  to lead the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which opens this week amid continuing
political fights about its scope.  Cordray is currently the assistant director for enforcement
at the bureau.  After losing his bid for re-election in November, Cordray
was recruited by  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University
professor who developed the idea for the new agency and was
appointed by Obama last fall to set it up.  Warren’s prospects for becoming director of the bureau
suffered a setback last year when Christopher Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat then in charge of the Senate Banking
Committee, said she couldn’t win confirmation.  A onetime law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justices Byron
White and Anthony Kennedy, Cordray has personally argued seven
cases before the high court. He was also a five-time winner on
the quiz show “Jeopardy.”  As attorney general, he sued GMAC Mortgage LLC and its
corporate parent, Ally Financial Inc., accusing them of using
fraudulent affidavits in court cases over foreclosures in Ohio,
according to the state’s website. His office also managed
litigation against financial firms including American
International Group and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Cordray recovered “more than $2 billion” through the
lawsuits he brought, the White House said in its statement.  For more, click here.  Personal-Injury Lawyer Shkolnik Sued by Former Law Firm  Hunter Shkolnik, a lawyer who successfully represented
injured defibrillator users against  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX) , was sued by his former law firm over claims he
solicited clients for a rival.  Shkolnik, who left  Rheingold, Valet, Rheingold & McCartney
LLP  last week for  Napoli Bern Ripka LLP , allegedly took more
than 600 client files, confidential client lists and electronic
data from Rheingold’s computer system, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.
Rheingold is seeking a temporary restraining order while the
parties are engaged in arbitration.  “Shkolnik’s wrongful taking and use of the firm’s
confidential client information to solicit or attempt to induce
the firm’s clients to leave the firm threatens the lifeblood of
the firm,” Rheingold said in the filing.  Napoli Bern said July 12 that the firm would change its
name to Napoli Bern Ripka Shkolnik LLP to reflect Shkolnik’s
addition as a senior partner. Shkolnik spent more than 15 years
at Rheingold and led that firm’s complex and mass tort
litigation, according to Napoli’s statement.  “I’m allowed to contact my former clients and allowed to
be retained by them,” Shkolnik said yesterday in a phone
interview after a court hearing in the case. “I’ve moved on to
my new firm and look forward to servicing my old clients.”  A judge declined to grant Rheingold a temporary restraining
order, Shkolnik said. The firm’s senior partner, Paul Rheingold,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment. A call to
Rheingold’s New York offices seeking comment wasn’t immediately
returned.  The case is Rheingold Valet Rheingold Shkolnik & McCartney
LLP v. Shkolnik, Supreme Court of the State of New York County
of New York, 651945/2011.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  