-- 
Harrisburg Spurns Fiscal Recovery Plan, Putting Bond Financing at Risk

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-07-20T18:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/harrisburg-spurns-financial-recovery-plan-putting-bond-financing-at-risk.html
Harrisburg’s City Council rejected a
fiscal recovery plan, risking the loss of state aid and the
Pennsylvania capital’s ability to pay bondholders and workers.  The council yesterday voted 4-3 against the blueprint
proposed by state consultants that would have required the sale
of municipal assets and a wage freeze to pay debt five times its
general-fund budget. Now, Mayor  Linda Thompson  has 14 days to
develop an alternative way to pay the obligations and close the
city’s $5 million deficit.  “My first order of business is to reach out to our
creditors to make sure they are not hauling off into court and
gearing up to file massive lawsuits,” Thompson told reporters
in City Hall after the vote.  The rejection was a first for the state’s distressed-city
program, known as Act 47, which Harrisburg entered in December.
The municipality of 49,500 hasn’t found a way to shoulder the
debt burden caused by a failed incinerator project after two
years of seeking a solution. It almost defaulted on a general-
obligation bond last year and is projected to run out of cash by
the end of September.  “I don’t think bondholders will ever be comfortable with
the city again in terms of lending us money,” said Gloria Martin-Roberts, the council president, in an interview in the
 City Hall  chamber. “The council made a big mistake.”  Hoping for Better  The plan would have left the city with $26 million in debt
even after the sale of revenue-generating assets, leading
Councilman Brad Koplinski to oppose it. Nor did it include a
levy on commuters or a proposed 1 percent local sales tax that
would have raised $37 million annually, he said.  “The fate of our city is at stake and residents deserved a
plan that turns over every stone,” Koplinski said in an
interview. “We can do better.”  Councilwoman Susan Brown Wilson, who voted against the
plan, said the city should negotiate with creditors to lower
payments.  “The bondholders took a risk, and when you take a risk on
 Wall Street , guess what? Sometimes it’s a loss,” she said.  Thompson’s new proposal will reflect most of the
consultants’ initiatives, with modifications, she said in a
statement before the vote. She said she’ll ask a court to
increase property and income taxes if necessary.  “There are better days ahead and we will get through
this,” she said yesterday.  Strongarming a City  The council must act or the state can withhold aid, said
Martin-Roberts.  The city must make $3.3 million in general-obligation debt
payments on Sept. 15, according to bond documents. Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at the Philadelphia
financial-services firm Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said he
expects to see the state press for resolution of the matter.  “I’m disappointed but not surprised,” he said in a
telephone interview today. “The City Council from my 100-mile-
away viewpoint seems to be pretty intractable. I don’t think
they can make it without some help.”  Pennsylvania has already taken steps. The Legislature
passed a bill June 30 that bars the city from seeking  bankruptcy
protection  for a year at the cost of state aid.  Payment Ahead  Harrisburg needs $310 million to make bond payments,
restructure debt and repay Dauphin County, whose seat it is, and
insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which made payments
the city skipped on the waste-to-energy incinerator.  Assured shares traded at $15 today, unchanged from its
close yesterday before the vote.  A Harrisburg municipal bond maturing in 2019 traded
yesterday before the council vote at an average yield of 9.95
percent, down from 11.33 percent on April 15, the most recent
transaction recorded in data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dauphin County commissioners said in a joint statement
today that legal action against the city will continue until it
implements a recovery plan.  “We’re disappointed that Harrisburg City Council has
rejected the Act 47 plan and, once again, failed to take any
action that would chart a plan toward financial recovery,” said
the statement from commissioners Jeff Haste, Mike Pries and
George P. Hartwick. “We’re hopeful that Mayor Thompson will
offer a fair and workable proposal that utilizes much of the
work included in the Act 47 plan, and that the majority of City
Council will reconsider its action.”  Ashweeta Durani, an Assured spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that “We will continue to work with the city and county in
their efforts to resolve the city of Harrisburg’s financial
stability.”  Schankel, of Janney, said he doesn’t think the city would
be able to get respite from creditors without selling assets to
prove that it can’t make the payments.  “From the Street’s perspective, nothing has really
changed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  