-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold to Rally to $1,900, Taylor Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-07-20T21:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/asia-commodity-day-ahead-copper-climbs-to-three-month-high.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold to Rally to $1,900 by October, FX Concepts’ Taylor Says (1)  Gold’s rally to a record this month will extend to $1,900
an ounce by October, according to  John Taylor , founder of FX
Concepts LLC in  New York , the world’s largest currency hedge
fund.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Ethanol Rebounding on Tax Credit, Price Discount: Energy Markets  Ethanol’s rebound from its worst quarter since early 2010
shows no sign of ending as refiners boost blending to capture a
tax credit that may expire at the end of July and the biofuel
enjoys a discount to gasoline.  Argentine Grain Export Ports Blocked as Workers Reject Offer  Argentine grain and soybean export ports are blocked for
the third day of a five-day strike after workers rejected a
government salary offer, Laura Schweid, a union official, said
today in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires . An estimated
5,000 workers are on strike, she said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls From Three-Month High on U.S. Existing-Homes Sales  Copper fell from a three-month high after existing home
sales unexpectedly declined in the U.S., the world’s largest
user of the metal after China.  MINING:  BHP Increases Resources at Escondida Copper Mine in  Chile  (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd. increased mineral resources at its
Escondida complex in northern Chile after a four-year $381
million exploration program, ensuring it will be the world’s
largest copper mine “for decades to come.”  BHP Fourth-Quarter Iron-Ore Output Rises 14% on Expansion (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, said
fourth-quarter  iron ore  output rose 14 percent, driving an 11th
straight annual production record as Chinese demand pushes
prices to all-time highs.  KazakhGold May Have to Spend $1.4 Billion Buying Out Polyus (1)  KazakhGold Group Ltd., the mining company seeking to take
over its Russian parent OAO Polyus Gold, may have to spend $1.4
billion buying out minority shareholders opposed to the deal,
said UralSib Financial Corp.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls for Second Day as Haven Demand Ebbs on Euro Rebound  Gold futures fell for the second straight day on optimism
that policy makers in Europe are moving closer to resolving the
region’s debt woes, cutting demand for the precious metal as a
haven.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Advance for First Time in Three Days on Export Demand  Soybeans rose for the first time in three days on signs of
increasing demand for shipments from the U.S., the world’s
leading exporter.  Cotton Falls on ‘Severe Demand Destruction’;  Orange Juice  Drops  Cotton futures declined for the fourth time in five
sessions on signs that global demand will continue to slump.
Orange juice also dropped.  Corn Falls as Rain, Cooler Weather May Relieve U.S. Crop Stress  Corn futures fell the most in more than two weeks on
speculation that damage to the U.S. crop from a heat wave will
be limited by rain, cooler temperatures and high humidity in
Midwest growing regions.  Cattle Prices Drop as U.S. Heat May Curb Meat Demand; Hogs Fall  Cattle futures fell to the lowest price in more than a week
on speculation that extreme heat in parts of the U.S. will
reduce beef demand for outdoor grilling. Hog prices also
dropped.  Coffee Falls as  Brazil  Supply Concerns Ease; Sugar, Cocoa Climb  Coffee futures fell for the fifth straight session, the
longest slide in two months, on signs that supplies from Brazil,
the world’s biggest producer, will be enough to meet demand.
Sugar and cocoa advanced.  SHIPPING:  Vale Says Giant Iron Ore Carrier Will Go to  China  When Needed  Vale SA, the Brazilian miner building a fleet of the
world’s largest iron-ore carriers, said the first of its new
vessels will go to China after being diverted to  Italy  on its
maiden voyage.  Ore-Ship Rents Fall to Lowest Since May on Surplus of Vessels  Rents for capesize ships to haul iron ore to China from
Brazil, the world’s second-largest shipping route, reached the
lowest level in almost eight weeks as too many vessels competed
to load cargoes next month.  ECONOMIES:  Obama Open to Short-Term Debt Increase Tied to Major Deal (4)  The Obama administration signaled it may accept a short-
term increase in the U.S. debt limit only if it is combined with
a major agreement to cut the deficit.  EU Said to Weigh Using Bailout Fund for Crisis Credit Lines (3)  European officials are considering steps previously
rejected by  Germany , including the use of precautionary credit
lines, to prevent the spread of the region’s debt crisis, a
person close to the talks said.  Existing-Home Sales in U.S. Unexpectedly Decreased in June (3)  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly declined
in June to a seven-month low as the industry struggled to
overcome rising unemployment and foreclosures.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Retreat as Debt-Limit Concern Offsets Apple Earnings  U.S. stocks fell, a day after the best rally since March
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as concern the government
will fail to increase the debt limit overshadowed higher-than-
estimated earnings at Apple Inc.  Euro Gains Versus Dollar on Bets Europeans Will Reach Debt Deal  The euro advanced to the highest level in almost a week
versus the dollar as optimism increased that European
politicians will take steps toward a resolution of the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis at tomorrow’s summit.  Oil Rises a Second Day on U.S. Supply Drop,  Europe  Debt Talks  Crude oil  climbed for a second day after a report showed
that U.S. supplies dropped as refineries bolstered fuel output
and on speculation that European leaders will agree on steps to
address the region’s debt crisis.  Emerging Stocks Rise on Apple Earnings, Europe Debt Meeting  Emerging-market stocks rose for a second day after Apple
Inc.’s profit spurred gains in technology companies and banks
rallied before tomorrow’s European Union summit on the region’s
debt crisis.  SPORTS:  Woods Says Caddie  Steve Williams  No Longer Works for Him (1)  Tiger Woods  and longtime caddie Steve Williams will no
longer work together, the golfer said on his website.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 