-- 
Canada Stocks Rise as Europe Debt Concern Diminishes

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-21T21:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/atrium-innovations-hudbay-minerals-canadian-equity-preview.html
(Corrects analyst’s name in 14th paragraph in story that
ran July 20.)  Canadian stocks rose for a second
day as banks gained as surging European bonds signaled concern
over debt is easing and precious-metals producers rallied as the
 U.S. dollar  slipped.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the country’s largest
railroad, declined 1.3 percent after an analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc. lowered his rating on the company.  Zarlink
Semiconductor Inc. (ZL)  soared 51 percent after Microsemi Corp. said
it offered to buy the company.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the
country’s largest lender by assets, increased 0.9 percent as
investors speculated progress is being made to address the U.S.
budget standoff and European debt crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index advanced 7.91
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,340.83.  “The potential resolution of both of these certainly paves
the way for more risk-taking,” Robert “Hap” Sneddon,
president of money manager CastleMoore Inc. in Oakville, Ontario
and the Canadian Society of Technical Analysts, said in a
telephone interview. “We had gotten pretty oversold and were
due for some sort of a rally.”  The Canadian stock benchmark lost 2.9 percent in the three
months ending yesterday as investors speculated the European
debt crisis will spread beyond  Greece  and U.S. lawmakers failed
to reach a deal to raise the country’s debt ceiling. Oil futures
tumbled 9.9 percent during the period. Energy companies make up
27 percent of Canadian stocks by market value, according to
Bloomberg data.  U.S. Debt Plan  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday praised a $3.7
trillion debt-cutting plan proposed by a bipartisan group of
senators. The deal faces opposition from Republicans in the
House of Representatives opposed to tax increases. The
government will hit its debt limit if lawmakers don’t raise the
debt ceiling by Aug. 2, the Treasury Department says.  Bond yields fell in  Spain ,  Italy , Greece and  Portugal  after
a person close to the talks said European officials are
considering steps previously rejected by  Germany  to prevent the
spread of the debt crisis. The person declined to be named
because negotiations are in progress.  The S&P/TSX Banks Index climbed for a second day. Royal
Bank increased 0.9 percent to C$53.56.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the
fourth-biggest lender by assets, rose 0.6 percent to C$60.87.
Regional lender  Canadian Western Bank (CWB)  gained 1.1 percent to
C$30.78.  Dollar Falls  Precious-metals producers rose as the U.S. dollar fell
against all 16 other major currencies. Barrick Gold Corp., the
world’s largest gold producer, gained 1.1 percent to $46.71 as
the metal erased its losses for the day in electronic trading.
 Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-largest precious-metals
company by market value, advanced 2.1 percent to C$37.36.  Lake Shore Gold Corp. (LSG) , which operates in Ontario, sank 24
percent, the most in nine years, to C$2.16 to extend its two-day
plunge to 36 percent. At least five analysts have cut their
ratings on the shares since Lake Shore reduced its production
forecast yesterday.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s largest wireless
carrier, decreased 2 percent to C$37.36. Investors should switch
to competitor Telus Corp.,  Dvai Ghose , an analyst at Canaccord
Financial Inc., said in a note to clients.  Ghose cited Rogers’ higher valuation based on enterprise
value and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. In the first quarter, Rogers had a higher price
according to that gauge than Telus for the first time since at
least 1997. The analyst also pointed out Telus’s higher dividend
yield. Rogers yields 3.8 percent and Telus 4.1 percent.  Canadian National   Canadian National fell 1.3 percent to C$73.53 after Steve Hansen, an analyst at Raymond James, cut the shares to “market
perform” from “outperform.” In a note to clients, Hansen
cited the stock’s recent gains. CN increased 12 percent this
year through yesterday.  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , the country’s second-largest
railroad, dropped 1.7 percent to C$58.58 as Hansen cut his price
estimate on the shares.  Energy companies climbed after the U.S. reported a bigger
weekly drop in crude inventories than all 15 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ,
Canada’s second-biggest energy company by market value, rose 0.5
percent to C$40.67. Oilfield-services provider  Ensign Energy
Services Inc. (ESI)  advanced 5.8 percent to C$20.51 after agreeing to
buy the land drilling division of Rowan Cos. in a deal Ensign
valued at $510 million.  Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. (ATH) , PetroChina Co.’s partner in oil-
sands development, rallied 3.5 percent to C$15.46 after Cnooc
Ltd.,  China ’s biggest offshore oil producer, agreed to buy Opti
 Canada  Inc. for $2.1 billion and pledged to buy more energy
assets globally. Opti, Nexen Inc.’s partner in the Long Lake
project, filed for bankruptcy protection July 13. Nexen gained
1.9 percent to C$23.21.  Zarlink jumped 51 percent, the most in at least 27 years,
to C$3.60 after Microsemi said the Ottawa-based company had
rejected a takeover offer. Microsemi began an unsolicited bid of
C$3.35 a share today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  