-- 
Aurelius Got Early Updates on WaMu Talks, Lawyer for Shareholders Claims

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-19T18:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/aurelius-got-early-updates-on-wamu-talks-lawyer-for-shareholders-claims.html
Aurelius Capital Management LP used
its  law firm  to get non-public information about progress in
 Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) ’s bankruptcy, a lawyer for WaMu
shareholders said in court.  Aurelius, a hedge fund that invests in bankrupt companies,
learned through its law firm that secret settlement talks to end
WaMu’s bankruptcy were going as Aurelius hoped, the shareholder
lawyer, Parker C. Folse, said while questioning an Aurelius
official in court. The allegation was denied by the hedge fund
official, Aurelius Managing Director Dan Gropper.  “This doesn’t work on a wink and a nod,” Gropper said in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . “What you are
suggesting would not be appropriate.”  Shareholders claim that Aurelius and three other hedge
funds used inside information gleaned from two rounds of
settlement talks to buy and sell the most-profitable WaMu
securities.  In early 2010, Aurelius law firm Fried, Frank, Harris,
Shriver & Jacobson LLP was helping negotiate the details of a
multibillion dollar settlement among WaMu,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Folse said.  Shareholders want U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath to
reject for the second time WaMu’s reorganization plan.
Shareholders would get nothing under the plan.  Aurelius met with WaMu officials to talk about how to
implement a settlement, should a deal be struck, Gropper said.
During those meetings, Aurelius never received any non-public
information, Gropper said.  Public Information  He said the fact that there were settlement talks under way
in January 2010 was public. Details of the proposed settlement
weren’t, he said. That settlement was announced a few months
later and formed the basis of the current reorganization plan.  Aurelius and the other hedge funds, Centerbridge Partners
LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset Management LP,
all deny that they engaged in  insider trading . They have argued
in court papers and in hearings that the information they used
to buy and sell WaMu’s debt was either publicly available or
wasn’t “material,” and therefore its use was legal.  The former owner of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail, WaMu is
seeking Walrath’s approval for the reorganization plan that
would pay creditors more than $7 billion.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.
WaMu’s Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in
U.S. history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  