-- 
Wallabies Change Seven Starters for Tri-Nations Opener After Samoa Upset

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-19T04:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/australia-s-wallabies-change-seven-for-tri-nations-opener-after-samoa-loss.html
Australia  made seven changes to its
starting lineup for this week’s Tri-Nations rugby opener against
South Africa as it tries to rebound from an upset loss to Samoa.  James Horwill, who led the Queensland Reds to this year’s
Super Rugby title, returns for the first time since 2009 and
will partner Rob Simmons in the second row. Full-back Kurtley Beale, winger James O’Connor, fly-half  Quade Cooper , scrum-half
Will Genia and openside flanker David Pocock were also recalled.
South Africa named four Test rookies in its 22-man squad.  Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said that the starting 15 is
close to his strongest available lineup. Third-ranked Australia
opens the southern hemisphere’s annual championship against the
Springboks on July 23 at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium, six days after
beginning its 2011 campaign there with a 32-23 defeat to Samoa.  “Last Sunday was a massive wakeup call for the group,”
Deans said today. “We can’t turn back the clock on that
performance, it will stay with us as a reminder, but we do have
total control as to how we respond.”  Pat McCabe  was retained at inside center ahead of Anthony
Fainga’a and Matt Giteau, who was omitted from the 22-man squad
after playing at fly-half against Samoa. The Pacific Island
team, which entered the match as the 12-1 outsider, had only
managed a total of 26 points in four previous defeats to
Australia.  The Wallabies, who last won the Tri-Nations in 2001, were
criticized by former players and the Australian media for
resting several starting regulars and not treating the Samoans
with enough respect. Deans said after the game that Australia
had been overpowered in the physical exchanges against their
10th-ranked opponents.  Wallabies Jolted  “We’ve had that jolt but you can’t presume that we’ll be
better for that,” Deans said today at a televised news
conference. “We’ve got to make it good.”  South Africa , which left 21 injured players including locks
Victor Matfield and Bakkies Botha at home for its matches in
Australia and  New Zealand , handed Test debuts to Dean Greyling
and Werner Kruger, and No. 8 Ashley Johnson. Scrum-half Charl
McLeod may join them after being named on the reserves’ bench.  The team will be led by John Smit, one of five players in
the starting lineup to feature in South Africa’s 2007 Rugby
World Cup-winning squad.  The Springboks, who took over the No. 2 spot in the
International Rugby Board’s  rankings  following Australia’s loss
to Samoa, will defend their title in September and October in
New Zealand.  “The Tri-Nations is a perfect opportunity to be able to
play against the best teams in the world and see where you are
before you actually get over to New Zealand,” Smit said at a
news conference in Sydney. “We’ve got to be very careful that
we concentrate on where we are right now rather than think about
where we could be in a couple of months’ time.”  AUSTRALIA:  Kurtley Beale , James O’Connor, Adam Ashley-
Cooper, Pat McCabe, Digby Ioane, Quade Cooper, Will Genia, Ben
McCalman, David Pocock,  Rocky Elsom  (captain), James Horwill,
Rob Simmons, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, Sekope Kepu.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, Pekahou Cowan,  Nathan Sharpe ,
 Matt Hodgson , Scott Higginbotham, Nick Phipps, Anthony Fainga’a.  SOUTH AFRICA: Gio Aplon, Bjorn Basson, Juan de Jongh,
Wynand Olivier, Lwazi Mvovo, Morne Steyn, Ruan Pienaar, Ashley
Johnson, Danie Rossouw, Deon Stegmann, Johann Muller, Flip van
der Merwe, Werner Kruger, John Smit (captain), Dean Greyling.  Replacements: Chiliboy Ralepelle, CJ van der Linde,
Alistair Hargreaves, Jean Deysel, Charl McLeod,  Adrian Jacobs ,
Patrick Lambie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 