-- 
Mayans Ponder Cataclysm, Sacrifice Virgins in Paris Show: Review

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-07-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/mayans-ponder-cataclysm-sacrifice-virgins-in-paris-show-a-craig-copetas.html
The subject is the end of the world.  “Maya, Dawn of a Downfall,” an exhibition at the  Quai
Branly Museum  in Paris, highlights how modern masters of the
universe can best avoid the looming catastrophe.  “The Mayans were a complex society, light years ahead of
anything else in the Western hemisphere,” says Richard Hansen,
professor of Mayan studies at  Idaho State University , in a video
presentation. “They were an advanced urban civilization.”  Even so, it has been quite some time since a Mayan
corporate chieftain has sacrificed a virgin maiden to God of
Business Bolon Yokte Ku, a demanding deity who has the ears of a
jaguar and smokes cigars.  The exhibition -- held under the sponsorship of President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom Caballeros
-- occupies a floor filled with ancient  luxury goods , and
features a series of mesmerizing films. An hour spent
eavesdropping on the armed merchant class that ruled the
bloodthirsty Mayan empire is not all that different from
watching a cable-television news cycle.  The Mayan elite focused on trade, war and religion. The
luxury economy was mostly based on precious stones and metals,
obsidian and bird feathers. Everyone else grew vegetables,
cotton and cacao. Commercial transactions were ruled by “holy
lords,” who employed priests and astronomers to figure out the
best time to buy gold, sell corn and push children into sacred
fresh-water “cenotes,” or sink holes, to assuage the gods.  Captain’s Blood  “The religious ball game the ancient Mayans played also
held commercial significance,”  Yucatan University  Mayan-studies
professor Gualberto Zapata Alonzo explains during a tour we made
last year of the Mayan metropolis of Coba in  Mexico . “The blood
of the sacrificed captain was used as fertilizer.”  Branly’s “Dawn of a Downfall” exhibition walks visitors
through the culture’s chaos-with-cash-flow period, a stretch of
time that begins around 2500 B.C., with the first use of
obsidian as both a weapon and as a farm tool, until the empire’s
demise in 1524 A.D.  At the show, Juan Carlos Melendez Mollinedo, director of
 Guatemala ’s  National Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology , says
the Mayan empire collapsed because the holy lords got greedy.  “It was popular discontent toward the ruling class that
would have sparked off the internal chaos,” Melendez Mollinedo
says in one of the descriptive texts that guide visitors through
the exhibition. “That happened against a background of incessant
warfare that first caused the rupture.”  Looming Rupture  The next rupture is set for Dec. 21, 2012, the so-called
2012 Phenomenon that maintains the Mayans predicted a series of
cataclysmic or transformative events taking place on that date.  The movie “2012,” starring John Cusack and Woody Harrelson,
was released in 2009 and, according to  Box Office Mojo , grossed
$769 million globally. Depending on who’s doing the talking, the
2012 Winter Solstice will end with either the Earth being
devoured by a black hole, a collision with a planet called
Nibiru or the end of the Greek debt crisis.  But the marquee hobgoblin on display at “Dawn of Downfall”
is Frenchman Constantine Rafinesque, a professor of botany at
 Transylvania University  in Lexington,  Kentucky . Back in the
early 19th century, Rafinesque decoded the glyphs that
constitute the Mayan numerical system.  He also figured out that the Mayans were the first to
invent the concept of zero, using black glyphs to show profits
and red glyphs to signal losses. Then Rafinesque had an affair
with the wife of the university’s president and the school in
1826 revoked his tenure.  Transylvania Curse  Legend says he put a Mayan curse on Transylvania University
that occurs every seven years. Whether this annoyance is
authentic is difficult to pinpoint, though members of
Transylvania’s secret Hemlock Society swear it’s true.  “Dawn of a Downfall” takes the Mayan approach to the
Rafinesque myth and what experts will acknowledge has a
completely half-baked theoretical ring.  “Mayan philosophy is based on the belief that every
individual has an impact upon the harmony of the universe,”
reads the placard alongside a lower jaw bone ripped from a rich
man’s skull, the teeth filled with jade stones. “Each action
induces the divine response that it merits.”  “Maya, de l’Aube au Crepuscule” is at the Musee du Quai
Branly, 37 Quai Branly, 75007 Paris, through Oct. 2.
Information:  http://www.quaibranly.fr  or +33-1-5671-6000.  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 