-- 
Bachmann Says Migraines Wouldn’t Hinder Presidential Performance

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-19T20:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bachmann-says-migraines-wouldn-t-hinder-presidential-performance.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann  said migraine headaches she experiences
wouldn’t hamper her performance should she win the White House.  “Like nearly 30 million other Americans, I experience
migraines that are easily controlled with medication,” the
Minnesota congresswoman said today in a statement e-mailed by
her campaign. “Let me be abundantly clear: My ability to
function effectively has never been impeded by migraines and
will not affect my ability to serve as commander in chief.”  Bachmann’s migraines and use of medications to deal with
them were  reported  today by the Daily Caller website. The story
also said the condition has led to at least three hospital stays
for her. The Bachmann statement didn’t respond to the report of
hospital stays.  In a statement headlined “Bachmann Responds to Migraine
Reports,” she said the condition has not kept her from
maintaining a robust schedule as she seeks her party’s 2012
presidential nomination.  “Since entering the campaign, I have maintained a full
schedule between my duties as a congresswoman and as a
presidential candidate traveling across the nation to meet with
voters in the key, early primary and caucus states of  Iowa ,  New
Hampshire  and  South Carolina ,” she said. “I have prescription
medication that I take whenever symptoms arise and they keep the
migraines under control.”  Bachmann, 55, said she didn’t want the matter to become a
distraction from her campaign.  “While I appreciate the concern for me and my health, the
greater concern should be the debate that is occurring in
 Washington  over whether or not we will increase our debt,
spending and taxes,” she said.  -- Editors: Don Frederick,Jeanne Cummings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  