-- 
Baidu to Pay Record Labels for Beyonce, Gaga Music in China

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-07-19T20:20:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/baidu-inc-reports-signing-of-licensed-music-service-agreement.html
Baidu Inc., owner of China’s most
popular Internet-search engine, agreed to pay record labels to
offer songs by artists including Beyonce, Lady Gaga and Frank
Sinatra, ending a six-year dispute over piracy.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Universal Music Group  and  Warner Music Group
Corp. (WMG)  will receive undisclosed fees for allowing their content
to be downloaded for free to users of Baidu’s Ting and MP3
services, the Chinese search-engine operator said in a statement
today. The four companies will end all outstanding litigation,
according to the statement.  The deal paves the way for the Chinese company to ease
concerns that led the U.S. Trade Representative to call Baidu a
“notorious market” for helping sustain piracy. For the record
labels, the accord allows them to capitalize on the world’s
biggest Internet market, where almost all music downloads are
estimated to be illegal.  “China has a long way to go yet, but the deal serves as a
good baseline to work from,” said Ed Peto, managing director at
Outdustry, which represents western music companies in  China .
“Baidu will need to show sustained commitment over the coming
few years before this deal can be seen as a proper watershed.”  Bidu rose $4.43, or 3 percent, to $151.25 at 10:04 a.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
increased 58 percent this year.  The Beijing-based company, which handles about 80 percent
of the country’s Web-search traffic, expects the agreement to
lead to a “precipitous drop” in the piracy rate, spokesman
Kaiser Kuo said.  “This is a mutually profitable deal,” Kuo said by phone
today.  Record companies  will benefit from sales of advertising
linked to their music, in addition to license fees, he said.  Chinese Piracy  China has a music piracy rate of “virtually 100 percent,”
the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said
in its 2011 report released in January.  One-Stop China -- a venture between Universal Music,  Warner
Music  and  Sony Music  -- will license its catalogs and new
releases, including songs in Mandarin and Cantonese, to Baidu,
according to the statement.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal, Sony and Warner Music previously
lost rulings in Chinese courts when seeking damages from Baidu
for copyright infringement.  Baidu was named in the U.S. Trade Representative’s
“notorious markets” list published in March for helping
sustain piracy and counterfeiting. Google Inc., Baidu’s closest
competitor in China’s search-engine market, started a music
service in the country in 2009.  Baidu “won’t lose money” from the agreement with One-Stop
China, as sales of advertising will more than offset the cost of
license fees, Kuo said.  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search-engine,
accounted for 18.9 percent of revenue generated in China’s
search-engine market during the second quarter, declining from
19.2 percent three months earlier, according to research firm
Analysys International. Baidu’s market share increased to 75.9
percent from 75.8 percent, the researcher said.  Baidu is adding services and bolstering partnerships with
technology companies including Microsoft Corp. to lure Web users
in China from domestic rivals  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  