-- 
Moynihan’s No-New-Capital Stance Draws Scrutiny After BofA’s Record Loss

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-19T22:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bank-of-america-s-chief-pressured-by-analysts-on-capital-after-record-loss.html
Brian T. Moynihan , who vowed that
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s strength would never be questioned again
when he took the top job, found himself bombarded with queries
yesterday about whether the bank needs to raise more capital.  The answer is no, Moynihan told analysts during a
conference call after reporting an $8.83 billion loss at the
bank where he’s chief executive officer. On a day when stock
markets rallied and rival  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  posted its biggest
gain since last year, Bank of America slumped 1.5 percent as
falling revenue fed doubt among analysts.  “Nobody believes their theory that they don’t need to
raise capital,” said Michael Shemi, a director at
Christofferson, Robb & Co., a New York-based firm with $1.4
billion in assets that invests in credit markets. “There’s
clearly a credibility gap with management. If you were to listen
to their end-of-2010 earnings call, the sentiment was around the
dividend and returning money to shareholders. All that’s gone
out the window.”  Bank of America slid 15 cents to $9.57 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, extending its drop this year to
28 percent -- the worst in the 24-company KBW Bank Index. The
record loss included $14 billion in costs tied to resolving
claims from investors or insurers who said they were duped into
buying or backing defective mortgages from the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based firm, ranked first among U.S. lenders by assets.  The bank may face more costs tied to bad mortgages as it
reimburses investors for loans that went sour and settles state
and federal probes. Mike Mayo of Credit Agricole Securities USA
asked Moynihan how much “conviction” he has that the bank
won’t need to raise capital if it suffers a ratings cut or
losses tied to the European debt crisis.  Dividend Dispute  “You were considering the possibility of a dividend
increase by the end of the year, and now several investors asked
about the idea of a potential capital raise,” Mayo said.
“We’ve gone full circle here.”  Moynihan, 51, said the bank reduced reliance on short-term
funding and is monitoring risks to its investments.  “The level of conviction is, given the economic scenarios
which are moving along, but at a very slow pace, is that we
don’t see it,” Moynihan told Mayo.  Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said it’s “not
helpful to look backward” at management decisions and that the
second-quarter mortgage charges, first disclosed on June 29,
presented a new opportunity to guide analysts and investors.  “What we came out with on the 29th was to set people with
expectations that we’re comfortable with,” Thompson said in a
telephone interview. “We set out some different guidance at
that point, and as we wrap up things for the second quarter, we
were at the top end of the range that we’d given.”  JPMorgan, Citigroup  Doubt is reflected in the bank’s stock price, which trades
at less than half of book value, compared with a price-to-book
ratio of 1.2 for Wells Fargo and 0.9 for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   JPMorgan, ranked second by assets, said last week that
profit rose 13 percent to $5.43 billion as revenue climbed on
gains from underwriting stocks and bonds.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the
third-biggest, said profit surged 24 percent to $3.34 billion on
higher investment-banking fees.  Bank of America told investors in its annual report that,
subject to approval by regulators, it intended to raise its
dividend in 2011. The payout was cut to a penny a share in 2009
during the depths of the financial crisis. Moynihan said in
December 2010, “I don’t see anything that would stop us,” only
to have the  Federal Reserve  block the request. The bank said it
would resubmit its plan, then said an increase might be deferred
until at least next year.  Basel Rules  Under rules prepared by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , Moynihan has to achieve a 9.5 percent ratio of
capital to risk-weighted assets between 2013 and 2019. That’s
based on a 7 percent minimum and a 2.5 percent surcharge imposed
on the largest companies whose collapse would pose a threat to
the banking system. Analysts Richard Staite of Atlantic Equities
LLC and  Jason Goldberg  of  Barclays Capital  have said it may take
$50 billion to close the capital gap.  The bank projects it will have a ratio of  6.75 percent  to 7
percent by the beginning of 2013, down from a forecast of 8
percent in April. The company has said it can close the gap
through earnings from its operations, including its retail
branches, the Merrill Lynch brokerage and the corporate and
investment banking units.  “We still don’t have a clear picture of what the earnings
power of this company is, and until you get that I think people
are still going to sit on the sidelines,”  Paul Miller , an
analyst with FBR Capital Markets, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “A lot of analysts are going to lower their
ratings.”  Capital Level  Wells Fargo said its Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel
I guidelines stood at 9.16 percent at the end of June, up from
7.61 percent in the year earlier period. The lender estimated
that the ratio under Basel III rules would be 7.3 percent at the
end of June, according to the bank’s statement.  “We’re growing capital very quickly now,” Wells Fargo CEO
 John Stumpf  said on his bank’s conference call yesterday. “I
don’t worry about us getting to whatever our number will be.”  Moynihan said in late 2009, after he was named CEO, that
his goals included making sure the bank would never again need
government help after taking $45 billion in federal bailout
funds. He called that task a “solemn duty” in an essay
published in 2010 in the Charlotte Observer. The bank’s earnings
statement yesterday said the company is “creating a fortress
balance sheet.”  Countrywide Fallout  While his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , arranged to pay
back the U.S. during his final days in office, Moynihan was left
with the fallout of Lewis’s takeovers, including the 2008
purchase of Countrywide Financial Corp. That deal saddled the
bank with claims and costs for defective home loans of more than
$30 billion on Moynihan’s watch. He also had to write down the
value of MBNA Corp., the credit-card issuer Lewis bought.  Bank of America was guided by decision-making that was a
“disgrace,” said Charles Munger, the vice chairman of  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., in a July 1 conference.
Berkshire has sold its stake in Bank of America and is the
largest investor in rival Wells Fargo which, according to
Munger, did a better job than most big banks of “avoiding the
common stupidities.”  The San Francisco-based firm said
yesterday quarterly profit climbed 29 percent to $3.95 billion.  ‘Very Focused’  Bank of America plans to scale back private-equity
investments and run off a loan portfolio and may sell mortgage-
servicing rights as part of a plan to reduce so-called risk-
weighted assets monitored by regulators. The company projects it
will lower the holdings by as much as $250 billion to achieve
its goal of $1.8 trillion in the assets by the end of 2012.  “We’re very focused on looking out and moving MSR assets
through sale in those instances where it makes sense,” Thompson
said on the conference call yesterday. “You can expect to see
us continue to reduce assets in the way that we’ve done over the
course of the last six quarters.”  Moynihan has sold an insurance business and an investment
in BlackRock Inc. since becoming CEO early last year. The bank
is weighing the sale of at least part of its $21 billion stake
in China Construction Bank Corp., three people briefed on the
plans said last month. The sale would simultaneously raise cash
and reduce assets that are penalized under the capital rules.  The bank said it has about  $16.7 billion  at risk in  Greece ,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain , compared with about $16.9
billion at the end of the first quarter. The figure excludes
about $1.7 billion in credit-default protection bought by the
bank, the company said in a supplemental statement.  “We were very active and early in getting after this
exposure, starting in the first quarter of 2010,” Thompson
said. “We feel very good about where the exposure is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 