-- 
BofA Posts Record Quarterly Loss on Costs of Bad Home Loans

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-19T20:43:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bank-of-america-posts-record-loss-on-costs-from-bad-home-loans.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  posted the
biggest quarterly loss in the lender’s history after Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  booked more costs tied to
defective mortgages and revenue continued to slide.  The second-quarter loss of $8.83 billion, or 90 cents a
share, compared with profit of $3.12 billion, or 27 cents, a
year earlier, the lender said today in a statement. Ed Najarian,
head of bank research at International Strategy & Investment
Group, called revenue “fundamentally” weak and  Paul Miller  at
FBR Capital Markets said doubts about earnings power may prompt
analysts to lower their ratings.  Moynihan, 51, is working to move Bank of America past the
fallout from lax home lending by reaching settlements with
mortgage bond investors and insurers and setting aside funds for
future claims. The bank, the largest U.S. lender by assets, said
it’s able to get funds at attractive rates and Moynihan rejected
suggestions from analysts during a conference call that the
company may need to raise capital.  “We need more confidence in the numbers,” Miller said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television. “A lot of analysts are
going to lower their ratings.”  Bank of America dropped 15 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $9.57
as of 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.
Shares of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm have dropped
28 percent this year, the worst showing in the 24-company KBW
Bank Index.  Revenue Slides  Revenue plunged by more than half to $13.5 billion because
of previously disclosed mortgage costs. Excluding that charge,
revenue slid 10 percent from the year-earlier period and 2.2
percent from the first quarter.  The mortgage unit’s loss widened to $14.5 billion from $1.5
billion a year earlier, on the previously announced settlement
costs and additions to provisions.  Analysts asked Moynihan to explain how much “conviction”
he had that the bank wouldn’t need to raise capital under
various scenarios, including a slowing U.S. economy, European
sovereign-debt defaults and a ratings downgrade.  “You were considering the possibility of dividend
increases by the end of the year, and now several investors
asked about the idea of a potential capital raise -- we’ve gone
full circle here,” said Mike Mayo, an analyst at Credit
Agricole Securities USA.  Moynihan told analysts he didn’t see the need for raising
capital, and the company’s statement said the bank continued to
strengthen what it called a “fortress balance sheet,” with a
Tier 1 common equity ratio of 8.23 percent and tangible common
equity at 5.87 percent.  Montag’s Unit  Profit at global banking and markets, run by Thomas K.
Montag, advanced 73 percent to $1.56 billion from a year
earlier. Sales and trading revenue of $3.8 billion was $666
million more than a year earlier, the bank said.  Investment
banking  fees of $1.6 billion, excluding self-led deals, rose 28
percent from a year earlier. Fixed-income, currency and
commodities revenue was $2.7 billion, $467 million higher than a
year earlier.  The wealth and investment management business run by Sallie
L. Krawcheck reported a $506 million profit, 54 percent higher
than a year earlier when it had a charge related to an asset
sale. Revenue rose 7 percent from a year earlier to $4.5 billion
as the unit added deposits and financial advisers.  Lower Provision  Provisions for future credit losses dropped 60 percent, the
bank said, and profit excluding one-time gains and losses was 33
cents a share, beating the 29-cent average estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The overall loss was smaller
than the most pessimistic forecast given last month by the
company, which estimated the deficit could range from $8.6
billion to $9.1 billion.  Moynihan has called his company a “tale of two cities”
because its non-mortgage operations are making money. He is
seeking to boost results from commercial lending, wealth
management and investment banking and limit damage from home
loans originated before he became CEO. Global commercial banking
reported the highest net income since the second quarter of
2009, according to the bank.  Bank of America told investors June 29 it would book more
than $20 billion in second-quarter charges from faulty
mortgages. The sum includes funds to settle claims from
institutional investors that the Countrywide unit used false or
missing information to create home loans that later defaulted.
Regulators criticized Countrywide’s lax underwriting, which left
the firm near bankruptcy before Bank of America bought it for
$2.5 billion in July 2008.  Settlement Sums  The settlement followed a $3 billion accord in January to
resolve similar claims from  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and an
April agreement with bond insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  valued
at $1.6 billion. If  home prices  decline beyond internal company
estimates, the bank may need to set aside more capital for
soured mortgages, executives have said.  The costs make it harder for Moynihan to keep pledges that
he’ll boost the company’s dividend ahead of new international
standards. The firm has to achieve a 9.5 percent ratio of
capital to risk-weighted assets between 2013 and 2019 under
rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Capital Needed  Using guidance given by Bank of America on June 29, the
company may need to raise about $50 billion to conform to the
rules, which were designed to build a buffer against losses and
avert a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. Firms can get to
their goals by retaining earnings or reducing riskier assets
that require a lender to hold more capital against losses.  The bank is weighing the sale of at least part of its $21
billion stake in China Construction Bank Corp., three people
briefed on the plans said last month. The sale would
simultaneously raise cash and reduce assets that are penalized
under the capital rules.  Banks have been releasing reserves for loan losses set
aside during the recession, helping some firms beat analysts’
estimates for second-quarter results.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said
last week that profit for the three months ended in June rose 13
percent to $5.43 billion on a surge in investment banking and
more on-time payments by credit-card customers.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
said earnings increased 24 percent to $3.34 billion on higher
investment-banking fees and reduced reserves.  “At least they’re making progress,” said Brian Charles,
an analyst at R.W. Pressprich & Co. in New York. “Their losses
do continue to come down away from mortgages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  