-- 
Bank of Canada Keeps Key Rate at 1%, Says Stimulus Steps Will Be Withdrawn

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-19T15:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bank-of-canada-says-policy-interest-rate-will-rise-dropping-eventually-.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its main
interest rate unchanged and said borrowing costs will increase
as the economy recovers, with policy makers dropping the word
“eventually” to describe the timing of their next move.  The target for overnight loans between commercial banks
remained 1 percent, where it’s been since September, as forecast
by all 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Ottawa-
based bank also raised its outlook for so-called core inflation
and affirmed the economy will reach full output by the middle of
2012 while trimming this year’s growth forecast.  “To the extent that the expansion continues and the
current material excess supply in the economy is gradually
absorbed, some of the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will be withdrawn,” the central bank said in
a statement. “Such reduction would need to be carefully
considered.”  The Canadian dollar and bond yields rose as investors bet
today’s statement could mean rate increases come sooner than
previously forecast. Policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney ,
46, focused on faster inflation at home as well as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a weak  U.S. economy . The annual inflation rate was
3.7 percent in May, the fastest since 2003 and above the bank’s
2 percent target.  “By taking out the word eventually, it’s signaling the
wait for interest rate hikes isn’t going to be as long as the
markets were assuming,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.  Dollar Strengthens  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.9 percent to 95.15 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 11:11 a.m. in Toronto, from 95.97 cents
yesterday. It earlier reached 94.82, the strongest level since
May 3. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0510.  The yield on the two-year Canadian government bond rose 7
basis points to 1.46 percent, and the yield on the December
bankers acceptance contract rose to 1.47 percent from 1.38
percent.  The bank today reiterated that inflation will exceed 3
percent “in the near term” because of temporary increases in
food and energy costs, with the rate expected to slow to 2
percent by mid-2012.  Policy makers also said that  core inflation , which excludes
eight volatile items, “is slightly firmer than anticipated”
because of “temporary factors” and the cost of some services.
Core inflation will “remain around 2 percent” through 2013,
they said, faster than their April prediction that it would be
remain below 2 percent until the second quarter of next year.  Slower 2011 Growth  Economic growth this year will be 2.8 percent, the bank
said, less than its April  forecast  of 2.9 percent. While
household spending will be stronger than previously forecast,
exports will be weaker, the bank said. The forecasts for 2.6
percent growth in 2012 and 2.1 percent in 2013 were unchanged.  The bank also said that its outlook “assumes that
authorities are able to contain the ongoing European sovereign
debt crisis, although there are clear risks around this
outcome.”  “The bank has been very straightforward, they are going to
raise rates,” said Andrew Gretzinger, part of a team that
manages C$17 billion in assets for Manulife Asset Management in
Toronto. “With all the concerns out there with  Greece , the
European Union and the U.S. debt ceiling issue, that’s creating
a drag.”  Gretzinger, the most accurate forecaster of Canadian data
for Bloomberg News surveys in 2009 and 2010, said the rate
increase will come late this year or next year if the global
risks worsen.  Persistent Dollar Strength  Policy makers also said that growth in the U.S., which buys
three-quarters of Canada’s exports, has been weaker than
expected and the “persistent” strength in the Canadian dollar
is a drag on exports.  “We expect to see continued gradual economic recovery as
we’ve seen for much of the past year,” restaurant chain Tim
Hortons Inc. Chief Financial Officer Cynthia Devine said on a
June 7 conference call. She also said that high gasoline prices
and commodity costs represent a “wild card” for the company.  Carney will hold a press conference at 11:15 a.m. New York
time tomorrow after the bank publishes its Monetary Policy
Report, a quarterly economic forecast paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  