-- 
Basel Regulators Force Banks to Cut Plans for Contingent Convertible Bonds

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-07-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/basel-regulators-force-banks-to-cut-contingent-convertible-plans.html
Global regulators’ decision to stop
banks using contingent convertible bonds to meet planned capital
rules may cut the market for the securities by about half.  Lenders will only be able to use common equity to meet
additional capital requirements for the world’s largest banks,
 Mario Draghi , chairman of the  Financial Stability Board , which
has to approve proposals put forward by Basel regulators, told
reporters in Paris on July 18. His comments came after the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  last month blocked the use of
securities such as contingent convertibles to meet the rules.  Draghi’s “announcement snuffed out any chance of re-
visiting the issue,”  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  analysts led by Antonio Guglielmi, head of banking research, said yesterday. “While
CoCos certainly will have their uses, it seems the investment
banks will be allocating less resources to developing this
product given the market, at least from an issuer’s perspective,
has shrunk considerably.”  When  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-largest
lender, sold $9 billion of CoCos in February,  Standard & Poor’s 
said the market could eventually surpass $1 trillion -- three
times the value of all high-yield bond offerings last year.
Analysts said  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  would follow. Apart from Bank of Cyprus’s 1.3
billion-euro ($1.8 billion) CoCo in March, offerings have dried
up, and investors say sales may only ever total $500 billion.  ‘Much More Selective’  “Are we going to see a $1 trillion market? No,” said
Mirko Santucci, head of Credit at Swisscanto Asset Management
AG, which started a fund to invest in CoCos in May. “Will it
get to $500 billion? Maybe. Will we be there in two years? No.
Will we be there in five to seven? Probably.”  The decision leaves firms such as Swisscanto and  Pacific
Investment Management Co. , which started a fund to buy CoCos in
May, looking to invest in other bank securities such as
subordinated debt and hybrid instruments.  “This doesn’t kill CoCos, but the market will be much more
selective than many expected,” Philippe Bodereau, the Pimco
executive in charge of the Pimco Capital Securities Fund, said
in a telephone interview. “Regulatory support has diminished
just as investor interest begins to grow.”  Deutsche Bank and RBS declined to comment. Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  told U.K. lawmakers on June 8
the lender was “very close” to having a regulatory compliant
CoCo after spending “an awful lot of time” with the FSB and
the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority. A spokesman for London-
based Barclays declined to comment further.  U.S. Opposition  The Basel Committee ruled last month that 30 systemically
important financial institutions will have to hold an additional
1 percent to 2.5 percent of total risk weighted assets in core
Tier 1 equity to reflect the danger they pose to global markets.
European banks had been pushing to use hybrid securities to meet
the requirements, a plan opposed by their U.S. counterparts and
rejected by the Basel Committee.  “A lot of people thought there would be at least a partial
role for CoCos,” said Wilson Ervin, an adviser to Credit Suisse
chief executive  Brady Dougan  and former chief risk officer at
the Zurich-based lender. “Some momentum has been lost.”  CoCos will stay under review, and lenders will be free to
use them to meet local capital standards, the Basel panel said.  Still, banks that need to raise capital to meet pending
targets are unlikely to wait, according Kinner Lakhani, a bank
analyst at Citigroup in  London . Investors are pushing banks to
act sooner rather than later to bolster capital, he said in a
telephone interview.  “The situation is very much up in the air,” said Pimco’s
Bodereau. “We will not just invest in CoCos.”  Specialist Funds  Pimco is among at least four firms to start specialist
funds this year targeting CoCos, subordinated bonds and other
bank securities. Swisscanto started Bond Invest CoCo in May. The
fund swelled to 123 million Swiss francs as of July 15. Banca
Esperia and hedge fund Algebris opened a joint CoCo fund in
March which had grown to 175 million euros by July. European
Credit Management Ltd., manager of about 9.8 billion euros, is
seeking investors for a new fund.  “We would have preferred to see at least some element of
the SiFi buffer to be funded by CoCos,” said Satish Pulle, a
portfolio manager at London-based European Credit Management.
“I still expect the market for CoCos to be fairly large, but it
may take years rather than months to get there.”  CoCos, which have a fixed maturity and pay interest, either
convert into equity or are written off completely if a trigger
is breached -- usually if capital ratios fall below a set level.
So far, only  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender, Rabobank, the Dutch lender, Bank of Cyprus, the
country’s largest lender, and Credit Suisse have issued a total
of $24 billion of the securities.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is among U.S. banks that have said
they won’t sell the bonds. That’s in part because the  Internal
Revenue Service , unlike its European counterparts, treats CoCos
as equity rather than debt: issuers’ interest payments on
convertible bonds aren’t tax deductable.  “For issuers it is a big deterrent,” said Stephen Fiamma,
U.S. tax partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in London.
“Banks and lawyers are working hard to come up with the holy
grail of an instrument that meets both Basel requirements and
the IRS requirements for tax deductibility. Until that happens,
why would any bank bother with CoCos?”  A French bank selling a CoCo with a 9 percent coupon could
claim the 33 percent corporation tax back, bringing the interest
costs down to 6 percent after tax. A  U.S. bank  would pay the
full 9 percent, according to Fiamma. The cost of equity for
banks is more than 10 percent, he said.  “If European banks all adopt CoCos, and U.S. banks are
forced to hold equity, it would represent a significant
competitive advantage,” European Credit Management’s Pulle
said. “I would expect the U.S. banks to find a way to get
around the regulatory and tax considerations.”  CoCo Bonds  European and Asian banks may still use CoCos to meet
 capital requirements  imposed by national regulators above the 7
percent core Tier 1 minimum set by  Basel III . In October, the
Swiss government asked its banks to hold 19 percent of the total
value of risk weighted assets as  Tier 1 capital , of which 9
percent can come in the form of CoCo bonds. Swedish and Danish
regulators have said banks may be able to use the securities to
meet additional capital rules.  Banks are also permitted under Basel III to hold 1.5
percent of their risk-weighted assets in non-core Tier 1 and 2
percent in Tier 2 capital, principally subordinated bonds. Under
 Basel II , non-core Tier 1 capital included hybrid instruments,
securities that won’t be permissible under Basel III. Barclays
Capital analysts Simon Samuels and Mike Harrison estimated in a
February report that banks will need to replace about 350
billion euros of hybrids, in large part with contingent
convertibles. They declined to comment further for this story.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  