-- 
Twenty-Eight Banks Qualify for Basel’s Too-Big-to-Fail Surcharge

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/basel-says-28-systemic-banks-would-qualify-for-capital-surcharge.html
Twenty-eight banks would face
capital surcharges if international rules to rein in too-big-to-
fail lenders were applied today, global regulators  said .  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  disclosed how
authorities will apply the levies for the world’s most
systemically important banks, guiding investors in calculating
extra funds that the lenders must raise. The Financial Stability
Board yesterday published separate  plans  to ensure the orderly
winding down of failed banks and shield taxpayers from bailing
them out.  “Based on the current rules of applying the assessment
methodology, 28 banks would be subject to the additional loss
absorbency requirement due to their global systemic
importance,” the Basel group said on its website yesterday. The
surcharge plans were endorsed by the FSB in Paris on July 18.  Regulators are at loggerheads with some banks over the
additional capital rules, with lenders arguing the requirements
may harm the global economic recovery.  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  are among bankers who have suggested
that the new rules will constrain lending and hurt the economy.  The Basel Committee is seeking views on its formula for
determining which lenders should have to hold from 1 to 2.5
percentage points more capital according to the risk they pose
to the global economy.  At least four lenders would currently qualify for the
highest level of surcharge, the group said. The number of
companies covered by the rules will “likely evolve over time as
banks change their behavior,” it said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)   HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA may face the highest additional  capital requirements ,
Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note last month. Other lenders
that may be subject to the highest surcharge include Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , Morgan Stanley said.  Banks that fail to meet the surcharge rules face curbs on
paying out dividends, the Basel Committee said. Those lenders
would also have to bolster their reserves within deadlines set
by national regulators.  CoCo Bonds  Banks will be obliged to use core Tier 1 capital to meet
the surcharge rules. This mainly includes ordinary shares and
retained earnings, the Basel Committee said.  Contingent convertible bonds, known as CoCos, won’t be
allowed to count toward the requirements as they are “largely
untested,” the Basel group said. CoCos are bonds that convert
into ordinary shares when a bank’s reserves fall below a certain
level.  “It will not take long for analysts to come up with their
own lists of which banks are likely to be affected,” Markus
Heidinger, a partner dealing with financial regulation at law
firm Wolf Theiss in Vienna, said in an e-mail.  The Basel group said the surcharges are necessary because
of the threat systemically important lenders would pose to the
global economy if they failed.  They “will enhance the going-concern loss absorbency of
global systemically important banks and reduce the probability
of their failure,” Stefan Ingves, the Basel Committee’s
chairman, said.  The Basel Committee’s publication could further increase
pressure on some lenders to raise their capital levels following
last week’s publication of the European Union’s bank stress
tests.  Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank of  Scotland ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA
and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  may face pressure from investors to boost
capital after scraping through the exams, according to analysts.  Additional Costs  “For banks qualified as systematically important there are
two sides to the coin: the downside will be additional costs,
the upside could be a positive label of being higher capitalized
and a positive effect on ratings,” Heidinger said.  Banks will face surcharges based on their size,
interconnectedness with other institutions, scale of their
international activities, complexity and ability to be
substituted by other companies, the Basel Committee said.  The additional capital rules would be applied on top of
requirements for all internationally active lenders that were
set last year by the Basel Committee. It set a deadline of Aug.
26 for comments.  The FSB proposals include granting regulators
“statutory bail-in” powers to impose losses on bondholders at
failed lenders.  Bondholder Losses  The board asked for comments on how the normal compensation
hierarchy for creditors may hamper efforts to wind down failing
banks, according to a website statement. The FSB set a deadline
of Sept. 2 for responses.  The Basel Committee said last month that it had completed
its work on the capital surcharge rules, and sent them onto the
FSB for approval. The FSB brings together finance ministry
officials, central bank governors and regulators from the G-20
countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 