-- 
Bearish Rand Bets Climb to Ten-Month High on Strikes, European Debt Crisis

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-20T07:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bearish-rand-bets-climb-to-10-month-high-on-strikes-europe-debt.html
Traders are more bearish on the rand
than at any time in the past 10 months as debt crises in  Europe 
and the U.S. sap demand for higher-yielding assets and a strike
by South African fuel workers threatens economic growth.  The extra cost of contracts granting the right to sell the
rand rather than buy it has increased by as much as 98.75 basis
points, or 0.9875 percentage point, since July 6 to 312.5 basis
points, based on the currency’s one-month risk-reversal rate on
July 18. Expectations of swings in the rand have risen the most
among emerging-market currencies in the past five days,
according to contracts measuring implied volatility.  Traders are predicting losses against the dollar in coming
weeks as European leaders struggle to agree on a second Greek
bailout, and the U.S. moves closer to an Aug. 2 deadline to
extend the nation’s debt ceiling. In  South Africa , pumps at more
than 300 gas stations ran dry as strikes entered a ninth day.  “Volatility is climbing, and risky assets such as equities
and emerging markets are selling off,” Standard Bank Group Ltd.
analysts led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan said in a
research note yesterday. “The rand, which is regarded by many
as one of the best barometers of global risk appetite, has been
particularly hard hit. In South Africa, ongoing industrial
action is adding to the rand’s selling pressure.”  Weakening Trend  The rand weakened as much as 3.4 percent this month to a
two-month low of 7.0035 against the dollar on July 18. The
currency pared some of those losses as rising commodity prices
boosted demand for shares in the country’s mining companies,
rebounding to 6.9137 percent as of 8:55 a.m. in Johannesburg.
Options traders trimmed bearish bets today, with the risk-
reversal rate dropping 12.5 basis points 300 basis points.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which sank 1.2 percent on
July 18, advanced 0.8 percent today.  “The overriding trend is still” for a weaker rand, Nema Ramkhelawan, a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said by phone yesterday. “We have a lot of
uncertainty riding on the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and
the U.S. debt ceiling. The next three days are going to be
telling for the rand.”  The rand may decline to 7.08 per dollar in the coming days
after breaching an important resistance level of 7,  Standard
Bank  said. The likelihood of the rand retreating 2 percent from
yesterday’s level to 7.08 in the next week was 34 percent,
according to implied volatility from options trading, calculated
when the rand was at 6.9315.  Greek Rescue  European Union leaders plan to meet for the second time in
a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock over a new Greek
rescue. Holdings of South African assets have fallen, with
foreign investors selling 1.97 billion rand ($284 million) of
South African stocks and bonds in the first two days of this
week, after buying 2.77 billion rand of securities last week,
according to the JSE Ltd., which operates the nation’s stock and
bond exchanges.  Oil workers yesterday rejected a pay offer by employers,
prolonging a strike which has caused fuel shortages in Gauteng
province, the industrial hub of  Africa ’s largest economy. Gross
domestic product rose an annualized 4.8 percent in the first
quarter from a revised 4.5 percent in the final three months of
2010, Statistics South Africa said in a May 31 report. Growth
will average 3.6 percent in 2011, according to the median
estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Strike Impact  “It is yet to become clear how much of an impact the
recent industrial action will have on domestic trade, but it
poses a notable downside risk to our GDP forecast of 3.8 percent
in 2011,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said
in a July 18 research note.  The rand has declined 4.7 percent versus the dollar this
year, the second-worst performance after the Turkish lira among
developing-nation currencies monitored by Bloomberg. South
Africa’s currency will probably weaken to 6.95 per dollar by
year-end, according to the median estimate of 24 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from 6.30 to 7.80 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  