-- 
Beatle’s $600,000 Ferrari on Sale; Art-Market Confidence Rises

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-07-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/beatle-s-ferrari-priced-at-600-000-as-confidence-grows-art-market-buzz.html
A Ferrari 365 GTC is for sale priced
at 375,000 pounds ($600,000) after its owner discovered that the
car once belonged to the musician  George Harrison .  A search of registration records showed that the blue coupe
had been bought new by the Beatle for 4,000 pounds in 1969,
according to the present seller, U.K. classic-Ferrari specialist
 Talacrest . The car inspired Harrison’s friend, fellow guitarist
 Eric Clapton , to become a Ferrari collector.  “I’d never seen one in the flesh before and my heart
melted,” Clapton wrote of the car in his autobiography. “It was
like seeing the most beautiful woman on earth.” Even though he
could not drive at the time, he soon acquired the first of
several Ferraris, also for 4,000 pounds. Harrison sold his GTC
in the mid-1970s.  Some exceptional cars are making record prices at auctions,
especially those with links to celebrities. A 400GT 2+2
Lamborghini described as being owned by  Paul McCartney  fetched
122,500 pounds earlier this month. Last October, RM Auctions
sold a 1972 Lamborghini Miura, whose first owner was the singer
 Rod Stewart , for 694,400 pounds, beating an upper forecast of
560,000 pounds.  Art Confidence  Optimism in some parts of the art market has returned to
the boom time levels of May 2007, according to a survey
published last night. The biannual ArtTactic Confidence
Indicator for the U.S. and European contemporary-art markets
stands at 74, an 8.3 percent increase on December 2010 and its
fifth straight increase.  The survey of 130 collectors and market professionals comes
after increased demand at auctions in  New York  and London and at
fairs such as Art Basel. Wealthy individuals, concerned about
possible recession, are buying art in the hope that it is a
“non-correlated” asset, the survey said.  Still, the ArtTactic Risk Barometer rose 12.6 percent to
the same level as May 2008, shortly before the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. About 70 percent of respondents
saw economic uncertainty as the greatest threat to the art
market.  “Art being sold as a store of value should carry a
warning,”  Anders Petterson , founder of the London-based research
company, said in an interview. “There’s a handful of top works
by established blue-chip artists that wouldn’t be affected by a
crisis. Otherwise, if something happens, there will be an
overall market contraction. I don’t think it will be much
different from last time.”  In 2009, prices of some heavily traded living artists
slumped by as much as 50 percent. Since then,  Sotheby’s (BID)  and
Christie’s International contemporary-art auctions have been
increasingly dependent on high-value works by established
postwar names such as  Andy Warhol  and  Lucio Fontana .  Rivals in Asia  London contemporary-art dealer  White Cube  is opening a
branch in  Hong Kong  as it lures business from Asian
billionaires. Its rival,  Gagosian , opened a branch in the former
U.K. colony in January with a Damien Hirst show. Both
dealerships were among 260 exhibitors at the fourth annual
edition of the Hong Kong International Art Fair in May.  White Cube , which represents Hirst, Tracey Emin and Jake
and Dinos Chapman, has acquired a gallery at 50 Connaught Road
Central, it confirmed in an e-mail yesterday. The two-story
space has been leased for three years and will open in early
2012.  “Asia is the big growth area,”  Philip Hoffman , chief
executive officer of the London-based  Fine Art Fund , said in an
interview. “Though the Chinese still tend to concentrate on
their own art and antiques, there’s growing interest from some
Asian buyers in the established brand names of western
contemporary art. Hirst is a hit.”  White Cube is also planning to add to its two  London 
galleries in St. James’s and Hoxton with a third space in the
southwest of the city. It has acquired a 15-year lease on a
former warehouse at Bermondsey St., and its new gallery there
will open near the end of 2011.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 