-- 
Besson Says France Isn’t Considering Special Tax on Total

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-07-19T19:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/besson-says-france-isn-t-considering-special-tax-on-total-1-.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson
said the government isn’t considering a special tax on oil
producer  Total SA. (FP)   “Total does not make profits in  France  because what they
earn through distribution they lose on refining activities,”
Besson said following a meeting in Paris with Total Chief
Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie. A new tax “isn’t
being studied.”  Total has been under pressure from consumer groups and the
government over rising gasoline and diesel prices at French
service stations. Lawmakers have also complained that the
profit-making French  oil company  doesn’t pay taxes in the
country.  A study by the government indicates that over the six
months through July 11 Total passed on to consumers lower crude
prices just as quickly as any increases, Besson said.  The probe removes “suspicion that Total was earning some
extra profits” by being slow to pass on to consumers drops in
 oil prices , he said. “We are asking for complete transparency
on prices and margins.”  France’s use of fuels such as gasoline and diesel fell 3.1
percent to 4.3 million cubic meters (27 million barrels) in June
from a year earlier, an industry group said today.  Gasoline sales decreased 3.8 percent while diesel
consumption declined 2.9 percent, according to the Union
Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, also known as UFIP.  European margins on processing crude into gasoline, diesel
and other fuels fell 48 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, according to data published June 15 by Total, the
continent’s largest refiner.  Prices for fuel products dropped more than benchmark  Brent
crude  in the second quarter because of weaker demand, squeezing
profits for refiners. Falling profits and demand have forced
refiners including Petroplus Holdings AG,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and Total to reduce capacity through sales and closures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  