-- 
BHP Fourth-Quarter Iron Ore Output Rises 14% on Expansion

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-07-20T16:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bhp-reports-june-quarter-iron-ore-production-35-5-million-tons.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, said fourth-quarter  iron ore  output rose
14 percent, driving an 11th straight annual production record as
Chinese demand pushes prices to all-time highs.  Output was 35.5 million metric tons in the three months
ended June 30, compared with 31.2 million tons a year earlier,
Melbourne-based BHP said today in a statement. That compares
with UBS AG’s estimate of 34.5 million tons.  BHP reported annual production records across four
commodities and 10 operations as prices for iron ore, coal and
copper reached their highest levels. The company in March
approved $7.4 billion in spending on iron ore mines in  Western
Australia  to boost capacity to 220 million tons a year by 2014.  “BHP continues to benefit from organic growth and strong
production,”  Paul Galloway , a London-based analyst for Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd., wrote in a report today. “Elevated commodity
prices during the fourth quarter should support BHP’s full-year
financial results.”  The company rose 1.7 percent to 2,364.5 pence by the 4:30
p.m. close of London trading. It earlier climbed 1.9 percent to
A$43.44 in Sydney, the biggest one-day advance since May 26.  BHP, scheduled to report full-year earnings next month, may
post a 76 percent jump in net income to $22.3 billion, according
to the average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese Demand  “The business continues to grow and key project investment
will only see it larger in the years to come,” Peter Esho,
chief market analyst at Sydney-based City Index Australia Pty,
wrote in a report today. “We expect earnings to broadly meet
market expectations.”  Vale SA (VALE3) , the largest iron-ore producer, said this month it
sees no slowdown in demand from China as the country seeks to
build 36 million low-income houses in the next five years. Rio
Tinto Group, the second-largest mining company, last week
reported a 12 percent jump in iron ore output in the quarter.  Production of petroleum, BHP’s third-biggest earner last
year, rose 6 percent in the quarter to 43.2 million barrels of
oil equivalent, boosted by the purchase in March of shale assets
from Chesapeake Energy Corp. for $4.75 billion in cash.  BHP is set to increase its shale business with the agreed
$12.1 billion takeover of U.S. shale gas producer  Petrohawk
Energy Corp. (HK)  announced last week. This will make it the world’s
seventh-largest oil and gas producer.  Wet Weather  The production report “was strong and ahead of our
forecasts across nearly all divisions,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Grant Sporre, Rob Clifford and Paul Young wrote today
in a report. They raised their estimate for fiscal 2011 profit
1.3 percent to $21.8 billion, according to the report.  Output of coking coal, BHP’s fourth-largest revenue earner,
slid 28 percent from the prior quarter to 7.92 million tons as
it continued to be crimped following record floods in Queensland
state. The mines also face the threat of further strikes this
quarter after workers first held rolling stoppages last month.  “The remnant effects of wet weather that persisted for
much of the 2011 financial year continued to restrict our
Queensland” coal business, the company said. “We continue to
expect production, sales and unit costs to be impacted, to some
extent, for the remainder of the 2011 calendar year.”  Energy coal output rose 13 percent to 18.3 million tons,
BHP said. Copper fell 6 percent to 272,300 tons.  China ’s iron ore demand will rise 8.5 percent this year,
based on a revised estimate of the country’s steel output last
year, Sheffield, England-based MEPS (International) Ltd. said
yesterday. Iron ore demand will climb to 1.07 billion tons from
986 million tons last year, MEPS analyst Rafael Halpin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  