-- 
Billionaire Chey Tae Won Sees Shareholder Losses With Hynix Bid: Real M&A

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-07-20T06:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/billionaire-chey-tae-won-sees-shareholder-losses-with-hynix-bid-real-m-a.html
SK Telecom Co., the worst-performing
telecommunications stock in east  Asia , has decided that the best
way to increase  shareholder value  is to pursue a bailed out
chipmaker and a bankrupt video-rental chain.  South Korea’s biggest mobile-phone operator said this month
it will bid for a stake in  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the
computer-memory chipmaker rescued by its lenders in 2001. The
decision comes after Seoul-based SK Telecom lost an auction to
buy  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , which was sold in liquidation in April. SK
Telecom, which has declined 35 percent in dollars in the past
five years, doesn’t have any overlapping businesses with either
Hynix or Blockbuster, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The interest in Hynix has cost SK Telecom’s shareholders
more than a billion dollars as the company tries to stem its
first sales decline on record in a market where there are more
mobile-phone subscriptions than people. Billionaire Chey Tae Won’s  SK Group  is pushing the phone unit into what could be its
biggest investment, fueling concern South Korea’s family owned
conglomerates, or “chaebol,” are reviving practices of over-
expansion that fueled the Asian financial crisis in the 1990s.  “They are kind of desperate, but there are certainly
better ways for them to spend their money” than Hynix, said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., which oversees about $1.5 billion. “I
don’t see any sense in making that kind of transaction.”  Due Diligence  Jun Sung Chul, a spokesman for SK Telecom, said the company
will make a “reasonable decision after accurate due diligence”
for its Hynix bid. Park Seong Ae, a spokeswoman for Icheon,
South Korea-based Hynix, declined to comment.  A group of nine creditors plans to sell all or part of a 15
percent stake in Hynix that it gained through a government-
initiated bailout in 2001 after an industry slump.  SK Telecom and STX Group, the conglomerate led by shipping
magnate Kang Duk Soo, 60, submitted letters of interest before a
July 8 deadline. There were no other bidders, according to  Korea
Exchange Bank (004940) , which is leading the sale. The stake is currently
valued at about $2 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since July 7, when the  Seoul  Economic Daily reported that
SK Group was considering a bid for Hynix, shares of SK Telecom
have lost nearly 10 percent and touched an eight-year low last
week. The decline has wiped out 1.3 trillion won ($1.2 billion)
from SK Telecom’s market capitalization in less than two weeks.  SK Telecom rose 0.4 percent to 144,000 won today, after
saying it will buy back about 202 billion won of its stock in
the next three months.  Mobile Penetration  SK Telecom, which gets 96 percent of its revenue from
providing mobile-phone service, is turning to Hynix to boost
growth as the nation’s carriers struggle to win more customers.  South Korea  had 51.36 million mobile-phone subscribers at
the end of March, more than the nation’s population of about 49
million, according to data compiled by SK Telecom. Analysts
estimate that sales at SK Telecom will decrease 0.5 percent to
15.4 trillion won this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The decline would be the first since at least 1992.  “There aren’t many areas in the local telecommunication
industry where SK Telecom can invest,” said Lee Jin Woo, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at KTB Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $10 billion in assets.  SK Telecom last month became the nation’s first mobile-
phone provider to agree with regulators to lower bills for
consumers as the government tries to curb inflation. That
agreement may cost it 413 billion won in operating profit next
year, according to Tong Yang Securities Inc.  No Connection  Analysts estimate SK Telecom will earn 2.44 trillion won in
operating income in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While buying Hynix would let SK Telecom rely less on mobile
phones, the rival bid from STX and the likelihood that SK
Telecom will have to buy more than 15 percent may force the
company to spend as much as 4 trillion won, Sam Min, an analyst
at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to clients dated July 11.  South Korea’s fair trade law requires that holding
companies own at least 20 percent of an affiliate’s outstanding
shares. The purchase would “wipe out” SK Telecom’s net free
cash flow and leave it with an additional 2 trillion won in
debt, Seoul-based Min said.  “We were pretty frustrated” by SK Telecom’s bid for
Hynix, said Kim Hue Jae, an analyst at Daishin Securities Co. in
Seoul. “It involves a huge sum of money, and I really don’t see
a connection between Hynix and their main business.”  At the end of March, SK Telecom had 5.6 trillion won in
debt and 2.1 trillion won in cash and short-term investments,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It also generated more free
cash than 99 percent of non-financial companies in the 779-stock
 Kospi index (KOSPI) , the benchmark gauge of South Korean common equity.  History Lesson  Using SK Telecom’s cash pile to buy an unrelated business
may show SK Group is putting the chaebol’s interest ahead of
shareholders, according to China Merchants’ Wan.  Chaebol were originally modeled on  Japan ’s zaibatsu
conglomerate system, and with the government’s support, came to
control many of South Korea’s biggest businesses.  SK Group is run by Chey, 50, South Korea’s seventh-richest
man with an estimated worth of about $2 billion, according to
Forbes magazine. The conglomerate, whose roots stretch back
seven decades when it began as a textiles maker, has grown into
the nation’s third-largest chaebol with 86 units sprawled across
energy, financial services and telecommunications.  While the chaebol helped transform South Korea into an
industrialized economy after the  Korean War , they were crippled
as the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998 pushed affiliates
that borrowed too much money toward insolvency.  IMF Bailout  The debt-driven model was one reason that South Korea had
to turn to the  International Monetary Fund  for a bailout in the
1990s as the financial crisis battered the economy.  Still, “the chaebol has an important part to play” in
South Korean business even today, Wan said. “This may be why,
even though the transaction doesn’t have synergy, they decided
to go ahead” with the Hynix bid, he said.  Prior to announcing its interest in Hynix, SK Telecom bid
$284.5 million for Dallas-based Blockbuster, which was once the
world’s largest movie-rental chain and filed for bankruptcy in
September. That was topped by Dish Network Corp.’s $320 million
winning offer in April.  SK Telecom, which gets almost all its sales in South Korea,
gave no explanation about why it wanted to buy Blockbuster.  Hynix and Blockbuster haven’t been the only targets that
raised concern SK Telecom wasn’t putting its shareholders first.  ‘A New Low’  Eight years ago, SK Telecom bought a stake in  Posco (005490) , South
Korea’s largest steelmaker, from another member of the SK Group
that needed to raise money. SK Telecom said at the time the
purchase was part of a deal to keep Pohang, South Korea-based
Posco from selling its holdings in SK Telecom.  The transaction triggered an 8.1 percent decline, slicing
$1.2 billion from SK Telecom’s market capitalization in a single
day, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We noted some improvement on the company’s investment
decision-making but this deteriorated with the Blockbuster bid
and has reached a new low with Hynix,” David Lee, an analyst at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Seoul, said in a report July 11.  The Hynix stake would make SK Telecom the biggest
shareholder in the world’s second-largest maker of memory chips
used in everything from tablet computers to mobile phones, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Hynix reversed two years of losses that exceeded 5
trillion won to report a record profit last year, SK Telecom
would be getting into a market marked by boom-and-bust cycles
and multi-billion-dollar capital investments each year.  Hynix, whose profit tends to follow semiconductor prices up
and down, will spend 3.4 trillion won on plants and equipment
this year, it said in January. That’s more than five times the
amount SK Telecom paid in dividends in 2010.  “If they buy it cheaply, there can be some positives,”
said KTB Asset’s Lee. “But Hynix is a company that requires
heavy investments. So for shareholders, it could mean a transfer
of wealth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  