-- 
Gruesome ‘Lear’ Connects Striving Kids, Aging Parents: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-19T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/blindingly-gruesome-lear-connects-striving-kids-aging-parents-review.html
It’s something many of us can relate
to: An ageing parent grows paranoid and forgetful, with a
propensity to make poor decisions and an entourage of 100
knights.  “ King Lear ” at the  Park Avenue Armory  is a grand yet
familiar tragedy, the latest offering by the visiting  Royal
Shakespeare Company .  Greg Hicks, with unruly white locks, resembles Richard Harris or Jeff Bridges onstage, an imperial Lear oozing passion
even after his career-ending goof to abdicate his throne and
turn his kingdom over to the two most obsequious of his three
daughters.  Whether barking orders or wandering homeless in his
underwear and with a crown of newly picked flowers, Hicks
movingly suggests a once-powerful figure now diminished by
Alzheimer’s disease, his dementia cresting and falling.  I was surprised to read that the actor is 58. With his
skeletal frame and gray wig he looks well into retirement. His
stamina suggests otherwise.  David Farr’s direction is cinematic and heavy on special
effects, including metal clanking and electrical short circuits.
The blinding of the Earl of Gloucester (Geoffrey Freshwater) is
so realistic many in the audience shielded their eyes.  The clown is played by a woman, Sophie Russell, with a
cockney accent, suggesting a father-daughter relationship as she
tells Lear inconvenient truths.  As for Lear’s real daughters, Samantha Young is a quiet and
controlled Cordelia, who describes her love for dad as more
ponderous than her tongue. The connivingly dutiful daughters
Regan and Goneril are played by Katy Stephens and Kelly Hunter,
who do nasty nicely. Tunji Kasim projects amiable benevolence,
which seemed misplaced as Edmund, Gloucester’s illegitimate and
plotting son.  The costumes mix period dress with World War I uniforms
and weapons, which didn’t entirely make sense but didn’t
detract. The production runs nearly 3 1/2 hours; still, it’s a
fast-paced, invigorating night out.  “ King Lear ” runs through Aug. 12 in repertory with four
other Shakespeare plays at Park Avenue and East 67th Street.
Information: +1-212-721-6500;  http://www.lincolncenter.org 
Rating: ***  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 