-- 
Bloomberg TV Expands Distribution Lead Across Asia-Pacific

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-19T14:04:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bloomberg-tv-expands-distribution-lead-across-asia-pacific.html

Press Release  Bloomberg TV Now Most Widely Distributed 24-Hour Financial News
Channel in  Singapore ,  Hong Kong  and Other Key Regions  Hong Kong -- Bloomberg Television today announced that through a
concentrated distribution drive, the global 24-hour business
news channel has expanded its reach by over 20% this year and
achieved a distribution lead in strategic territories across the
Asia-Pacific region.  As a result of several substantial contract renewals and new
distribution sales initiatives, Bloomberg Television is now the
most widely distributed full-time, pan-regional business and
financial news channel in the region’s key financial hubs of
Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia and Korea.  Bloomberg Television
reaches some of the world’s most affluent and influential
viewers in terms of household income, asset value and education
levels.  In Singapore and  Australia , Bloomberg Television is the only
international business and financial news channel available on
all major pay TV platforms.  In Singapore, Bloomberg TV is now
available to every StarHub and mioTV household, totaling over
840,000 subscribers.  In Australia, Bloomberg Television can be
seen in more than 2.2 million households via leading pay TV
providers Foxtel and Austar.  In addition to reaching every subscriber of NOW TV in Hong Kong,
Bloomberg Television has also renewed its carriage on iCable and
is now newly available on several additional targeted packages
as well as the basic tier. Total 24/7 household distribution of
Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong now stands at over 1.6
million.  In  Korea , Bloomberg Television can be seen in more than 3.2
million households including via leading platforms C&M, KT Qook
TV and CJ Hello Vision.  Bloomberg TV is now available in over 12 million households
across the region, with each of these households benefiting from
access to Bloomberg Television on a 24/7 basis.  Gary Groenheim, Commercial Director of Bloomberg Television,
Asia-Pacific, said, “These distribution gains are a significant
achievement as well a great vote of confidence from our
distribution partners in the value and relevance of Bloomberg
Television as the preferred choice when it comes to global
business and financial news. Together with our revitalized on-
air look, new programming and new Hong Kong studio, 2011 is
already a stand-out year for us.”  About Bloomberg Television  Bloomberg Television, currently available in more than 270
million homes worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most
affluent and influential viewers in terms of  household income ,
asset value and education levels.  With hubs in New York,  London 
and Hong Kong, the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage
of the people, companies and ideas that move the markets.
Programming includes “First Up” with host Susan Li (7-9 a.m.
HKT),“On the Move Asia” with host Rishaad Salamat (9-11 a.m.
HKT) and “Asia Edge” (11-12 p.m. HKT).  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net   #<728521.6697419.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
 