-- 
BNY Mellon Second-Quarter Profit Rises as Market Lifts Assets

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-07-19T10:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bny-mellon-second-quarter-profit-rises-as-market-lifts-assets.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s biggest custody bank, reported a 12 percent increase in
second-quarter earnings as rising fees from overseeing assets
offset the drag created by lower  interest rates .  Net income climbed to $735 million, or 59 cents a share,
from $658 million, or 54 cents, a year earlier. Analysts had
expected the New York-based company to earn 55 cents a share,
according to the average of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer Robert P. Kelly has made
acquisitions, including last year’s $2.31 billion deal to buy
PNC Financial Services Group Inc.’s global-investment services
business, to offset the impact of near-zero interest rates,
which hurt income from lending cash and securities. Second-
quarter earnings were also hurt by low trading volumes, said
 Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Portland,
Maine.  “This stock will really rip if we finally start to see
higher interest rates,” Cassidy said in a telephone interview
before the earnings were released.  The  Federal Reserve ’s has kept its main lending rate close
to zero since December 2008 to revive the economy. In addition
to eroding lending margins, low rates cut profit from fixed-
income securities and force the bank to waive fees on money-
market funds.  The average daily trading volume on the New York Stock
Exchange in the three months ended June 30 was 959 million
shares, compared to 1.41 billion shares in the same period a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Facing Lawsuits  BNY Mellon has declined 18 percent this year in New York
Stock Exchange trading, trailing the 3.8 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the 9.9 percent loss in the
S&P’s 18-member asset manager index.  State Street Corp. (STT)  has
fallen 7.3 percent since the start of the year.  BNY Mellon and Boston’s State Street, the third-largest
custody bank, have been accused in lawsuits of inflating the
price of some foreign-exchange transactions and acting to
conceal those markups. BNY Mellon is facing lawsuits from
Virginia, Florida and Pennsylvania.  Last month, Massachusetts Treasurer Steven Grossman said
the bank overcharged the Massachusetts public pension system by
$30.5 million since 2000.  BNY Mellon has denied wrongdoing in all the cases, saying
customers were informed about the bank’s pricing policy and had
the option of using other vendors for their trades. Timothy Keaney, head of BNY Mellon Asset Servicing, in May told a
conference in  London  that institutional investors had not slowed
their foreign-exchange trading with the bank.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street and BNY Mellon also
manage investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in  Boston  at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  