-- 
Boeing’s Uniquely American Right to Take Flight: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/boeing-s-uniquely-american-right-to-take-flight-edward-glaeser.html
Americans, and their companies, have
long benefited from their freedom to move throughout our
country.  In the 19th century, we moved in search of natural
resources, exchanging the stony soil of  New England  for the rich
soil of Iowa. In the 20th century, Americans were more likely to
migrate in search of better political environments, like the
blacks who fled the Jim Crow states of the South.  The profound role that mobility has played in our country,
enabling repeated reinvention, causes me to be deeply worried
about the possibility that a National Labor Relations Board
complaint will prevent  Boeing Co. (BA)  from moving plane production
from Washington state to South Carolina.  I am an economist, not a lawyer, and I have nothing to say
about the legal issues surrounding the NLRB’s complaint. I am
sure the NLRB is doing what it understands to be its legal duty,
preventing retaliation against union activity.  Yet I also dearly hope that the judicial process will
affirm the right of companies, and people, to freely choose
their locations. The  U.S. economy  -- especially our challenged
manufacturing sector -- needs more, not less, freedom to adapt
and innovate.  The story of America is one of constant geographic
movement. In 1816, before  DeWitt Clinton  had dug his ditch, it
cost as much to move goods 30 miles over land as it did to ship
them across the Atlantic, and Americans remained tethered to the
Eastern Seaboard.  Transportation Network  Over the course of the next century, we built a great
transportation network of canals and rail that made it possible
to transport more than just whiskey from Western farms. We left
the Atlantic Coast to take advantage of the continent’s riches -
- Midwestern land, California gold, Pittsburgh coal, Minnesota
iron -- and that migration made us more prosperous.  In 1870,  Iowa ’s farms were producing  40 bushels of corn  per
acre, while Maryland farmers were making do with 22 bushels.
 Frederick Jackson Turner  wrote almost 120 years ago that
“American history has been in a large degree the history of the
colonization of the Great West.”  Turner argued that American institutions were shaped by
those who were “crossing a continent” and “winning a
wilderness.” Consequently, he said, the closing of the frontier
was “the closing of a great historic movement.”  Rise of Cities  But we didn’t stop moving. While 19th century Americans
spread out, searching for nature’s bounty, those of the 20th
century came together in cities and metropolitan areas, seeking
the productive advantages of urban proximity.  East of the  Mississippi ,  population growth  was faster in
more sparsely populated counties in every decade of the 19th
century except for the war-torn 1860s, and it was faster in more
populated counties during every decade between  1900 and 1970 .  During the past decade, population growth was, on average,
negative in the fifth of U.S. counties with the least population
density, and more than 12 percent in the  most densely populated
ones .  The story is a little different for blacks, whose decision
to leave the rural South for the northern cities was motivated
as much by politics as by economic advancement.  Richard Wright’s novel “Black Boy” eloquently connects
migration with freedom: “I headed north full of a hazy notion
that life could be lived with dignity, that the personalities of
others should not be violated, that men should be able to
confront other men without fear or shame, and that if men were
lucky in their living on earth they might win some redeeming
meaning for their having struggled and suffered here beneath the
stars.”  Migration Pressure  These movements of population also have beneficial
consequences for the areas that migrants are leaving. More than
50 years ago,  Charles Tiebout  started the field of local public
finance, and argued that the ability of citizens to “ vote with
their feet ” can induce localities to clean up their act.  Robert
Margo  has provided evidence suggesting that the potential black
exodus improved conditions even for blacks who stayed in the Jim
Crow South, because white Southern leaders were worried about
losing their  labor force .  The historian  Alan Grimes  wrote that Western states
instituted female suffrage as “a kind of political bait to lure
women from the East.’”  Although pre-World War II industrialization fueled the
growth of Midwestern cities, the postwar trend has been toward
Southern states with more pro-business policies.  Right to Work  The economist  Thomas Holmes  examined the effect of right-
to-work laws by comparing the growth of manufacturing in
neighboring counties on opposite sides of state borders. Between
1947 and 1992, manufacturing grew 23 percent more on the anti-
union side of the state line.  Although the movement to  pro-business states  surely helped
keep U.S. manufacturing globally competitive, some analysts
argue that the free migration of people and businesses creates a
race to the bottom, where local attempts to right social wrongs
are undermined by the ability of companies to leave.  There is surely some truth to this view, but the right
response to this problem isn’t to limit mobility. We should want
our companies to move where they can be most productive. The
right response is to address social inequities with national,
rather than state or local, policies.  And that takes us back to the  NLRB complaint , which alleges
that Boeing’s president said he is “moving the 787 Dreamliner
work to  South Carolina  due to ‘strikes happening every three to
four years in Puget Sound.’”  Avoiding Unions  Holmes’ work strongly suggests that manufacturing companies
have been moving to avoid union power and find lower labor costs
for more than 60 years.  Perhaps company presidents should never admit that they
consider labor conditions when moving production, but they
surely always will and that isn’t a bad thing. When a company
moves to a lower-wage state, it is both making itself more
competitive and boosting labor demand in a poorer place.
Surely, equity enthusiasts should cheer when jobs come to low-
income areas.  The U.S. has benefitted enormously from migration. For
centuries, people and companies have been free to choose
locations that meet their needs. We need our industries to be as
nimble and innovative as possible, and we should all worry about
any legal precedent that restricts the ability of U.S.
manufacturing to compete.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Edward L. Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 