-- 
Booming Cotton No Boon to African Farmers Milked by Monopolies

-- B y   C a m   S i m p s o n   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-19T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/booming-cotton-no-boon-to-farmers-in-africa-milked-by-regional-monopolies.html
Amado Kafando tilted his head back,
smiled and pumped his fists into the west African sky. “We
praised God, and said, ‘At last!’” said Kafando, 45, standing
amid the mud huts where he lives with 11 children and no
electricity.  His elation followed news on March 7 that the price of
cotton, a crop he plants each summer in rows broken by a cow-
tethered plow, hit a record $2.197 a pound, capping a two-year
surge of 430 percent. Finally, he said, cotton could fulfill the
promise of its nickname in his homeland of  Burkina Faso : white
gold.  Within weeks, Kafando was clenching his fists again, this
time in anger.  The government and regional cotton monopolies, which
Burkinabe farmers must sell to, announced they would charge
growers 38 percent more for fertilizer -- and pay them as little
as 39 percent of the world price at the time for their crop.  “It was as if they pulled our legs out,” he said.  Thousands of the nation’s farmers took to the streets in
May, threatening to do the unthinkable -- boycott planting the
top cash crop in one of the world’s poorest countries.  A few days earlier, on the other side of the Atlantic
Ocean, Jerome Vick settled into an oxblood-colored leather chair
and declared that he would do precisely the opposite. “We’re
going to put in as much cotton as we can,” said Vick, 61,
waving his gnarled hands toward the 5,000 acres (2,023 hectares)
his family farms in Wilson, North Carolina.  Profit Locked In  The Vicks have already locked in a price of about $1.25 a
pound -- more than double what Kafando will get -- for about 40
percent of their harvest later this year. If the Carolina
weather cooperates and prices stop their recent slide, they
expect a profit as high as $1 million, enough to add 300 acres.  The divergent fortunes of Kafando and Vick aren’t the
result of differences in product quality. As it’s grown in the
field, hand-picked west African cotton can be superior to that
sprouting on the flatlands of North Carolina or  Texas .  Nor is it about subsidies. Throughout much of the last
decade, U.S. price supports were credited with Vick’s prosperity
and  blamed  for the poverty in Kafando’s country. They
artificially depress world prices, the argument went, robbing
African farmers of the only cash most get each year. It was a
debate that derailed World Trade Organization talks in 2003.  With cotton prices this year reaching record levels even
though U.S. support programs remain, it’s clear the conventional
narrative ignored more significant forces right outside the
gates of African farms, said John Baffes, a senior economist at
the World Bank who studies the  global cotton  trade.  Cutting Payments  Burkinabe farmers have no choice but to sell to government-
sanctioned monopolies whose shareholders include trading firms
such as Paris-based Geocoton and Paul Reinhart AG of Winterthur,
 Switzerland . In March, as cotton was hitting its highest price
since the U.S. was recovering from the Civil War, a committee
dominated by the monopolies altered the formula for setting the
price each farmer gets. That cut payments for last season’s crop
by 39 percent and reduced the base price announced in April.  This should have been a year “when people can finally get a
few dollars and put a metal roof on their house,” said Thomas
J.  Bassett , a geography professor at the  University of Illinois 
who has been studying and writing about west African cotton
farmers for more than 20 years. “These mechanisms result in
poverty for producers and wealth for companies and traders. It’s
subtle and it’s dastardly.”  Regional Monopolies  Representatives for the three regional cotton monopolies in
Burkina Faso -- SOCOMA, Faso Coton and Sofitex -- declined
multiple requests for interviews for this story. They also
denied requests for financial statements or other disclosures.  Among the biggest shareholders in SOCOMA and Faso Coton are
closely held international commodities trading firms. They enjoy
privileged positions, according to an internal April 2010
report done for the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization , sitting in the middle of a supply chain stretching
from African cotton fields to factories that make bluejeans, T-
shirts and other clothing.  Yannick Morillon, chief executive officer of Paris-based
Geocoton, the majority shareholder of SOCOMA, defended changes
to the price formula this year. SOCOMA would have suffered a 6
million euro ($8.4 million) loss if the formula hadn’t been
changed, Morillon said. Cotton companies in Burkina Faso had
contracted to sell most of their fiber before the price surged
in the second half of 2010, according to a March 31 report by
consultants hired to propose changes to the formula.  Cotton ‘Collapse’  “The economic equation wasn’t possible any longer,” he
said in an interview at Geocoton’s headquarters off the  Champs
Elysees . “And if the entire industry collapses, it’s the
farmers that are affected.”  Any loss of cotton profits cuts deep in the rural and often
impoverished villages of west and central  Africa , where the
livelihood of about 10 million people depends on the fiber.
About 3 million of them are in Burkina Faso, a landlocked
country where the  World Bank  estimates that one out of six
citizens relies on cotton.  Past a one-room mosque, two red dirt roads converge upon an
assemblage of businesses run out of huts built from twisted tree
limbs. One sells gasoline in glass bottles that once held a
Burkinabe brand of whiskey called Roi Robert. A couple of liters
of fuel are all most people need in the village of Bakata, where
cars are rare but the whine of mo-peds and the dust clouds they
kick up are ever-present.  Village Patriarch  The village, 17 miles from the nearest paved road, is where
Amado Kafando was born and raises cotton today. Among the
salesmen’s stalls more than 30 years ago, he noticed people
beginning to treat his father differently; some nodded or even
bowed slightly as the patriarch approached. The family had just
sold its first cotton harvest.  “I saw that with cotton, everything becomes possible,” he
said.  Until that year, survival dominated the family’s daily
existence. Like many here, the Kafandos had grown only
subsistence crops -- corn and millet -- because there were nine
children for Kafando’s father to feed. Now their crop was
exported into the global commodities market.  Kafando still slept in a mud hut, a mat separating his wiry
frame from the earthen floor. He briefly attended an informal
village school housed behind mud walls. To this day, he said, he
can write little more than his own name.  Since taking over after his father died in 1988, Kafando
has roughly doubled the family’s lands to about 25 acres. He
grows a mixture of cereals for food and cotton for cash.  A Better Life  While his own children sleep on mats instead of beds, just
as their father did, now there is money for school fees and
uniforms. “I’m not a wealthy man,” Kafando said, “but cotton
has improved our  living conditions .”  If cotton money helps Kafando’s kids learn to read, they
will be ahead of the more than  71 percent  of their countrymen
who are illiterate, according to the United Nations, in a place
where many children are sent into the fields rather than the
classroom.  Education can also improve their health in a nation where
their father, although only 45, is well beyond middle age.  Life
expectancy  here stands at just 54.  Using data on health, education and other socioeconomic
indicators, the U.N. Human Development Report ranked Burkina
Faso 161st out of 169 nations last year. About 46 percent of
Burkina Faso’s 17 million people  live in poverty , according to
the World Bank.  The Perfect Crop  Cotton, which constituted 23 percent of the country’s
exports in 2009, is the perfect crop for the fields where
Kafando’s father first planted the fiber. It needs steady rains
for sowing, matching Burkina Faso’s June-to-August rainy season
before maturing for harvest in October and November.  Bolls as big as baseballs and light as feathers also
flourish in the flatlands of eastern  North Carolina , where
Jerome Vick’s father gave him 25 acres -- “my salt,” he calls
it.  Increasing the size of his farm has been an obsession for
Vick since he and his wife developed those 25 acres in 1975 with
$25,000 obtained from the First Union bank after two other loan
rejections.  “We both wanted to farm, but we didn’t have anything but
desire,” said Vick, who had worked at a fertilizer company in
Wilson and at  Carolina Farm Credit , a rural lender. In the early
years, they grew tobacco and cucumbers.  Daughter’s Inspiration  The family tried cotton because of the Vicks’ daughter,
Charlotte Ferrell. They first planted a few hundred acres of it
in 1991 after she returned from a two-year program at North
Carolina State University’s  Agricultural Institute , where she
had studied planting methods.  Then, the market turned. Though spikes occurred in 2003 and
2008, cotton averaged just 55 cents a pound from January 2000 to
the start of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Last year, just ahead of the sowing season, Vick’s son
Lynwood, who manages the cropland, decided to memorialize his
displeasure.  “I took out a big black Magic Marker and wrote ‘NO COTTON
IN 2011’ on a piece of paper and stuck it up in my office,” he
said.  The family turned those fields and hopes to soybeans. On
Sept. 20, though, more than halfway into the Northern
Hemisphere’s growing season, cotton for December delivery rose
above $1 a pound in New York trading for the first time since
1995, as low world stocks and strong demand from  China  surprised
forecasters.  Slam Dunk  Lynwood Vick looked up in his office and eyed his
handwritten prohibition on cotton. “I balled it up and threw it
in the trash,” he recalled, leaning back and extending his arm
as if shooting a basketball.  Cotton was up 62 percent in the 12 months ending last
September. Prices continued to surge into this year. After so
many lean seasons, cotton significantly outpaced all 18 other
commodities in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index, a
commodities indicator, during its two-year, 430 percent climb
that peaked in March, Bloomberg data show.  The Vicks did an about-face, dedicating 150 percent more of
their land to cotton than in 2009. They planted about 2,000
acres of the fiber this year.  Unlike Kafando, the Vicks have direct access to the world
market. Through a broker, the family has contracted 42 percent
of its expected harvest to Allenberg Cotton Co., a unit of
Paris-based Louis Dreyfus SAS, at an average price of about
$1.25 a pound.  Hopes Stirred  The same market stirred hopes for similar prosperity in
Africa, where Kafando followed the rising price of cotton on the
radio or through friends surfing the Internet.  Functionally illiterate, Kafando said he doesn’t understand
the formula used to pay him, let alone how changes to it this
year will leave him with more income than last season yet much
less than he could have earned. When he heard the price that
monopolies were offering, he knew something was amiss.  “The price has multiplied by three or four times, so at
our level it should be multiplied three or four times as well,”
Kafando said. Instead, he said, the monopolies “are getting
fat, and we are the ones who are feeding them.”  Anger throughout Burkina Faso prompted a government public
relations campaign aimed at persuading producers to abandon
their calls for a boycott -- and even to increase production.
Provincial and village-level farm union representatives were
invited for confabs across the  country .  On a hot bright morning in May, Kafando rode his black,
Chinese-made scooter 17 miles down a rutted dirt road to catch a
bus. It would take him 275 miles along the country’s main paved
roadway to one such gathering, at a Catholic conference center
in Bobo-Dioulasso.  Sales Pitch  Like parishioners at a packed Sunday service, Kafando and
more than 200 other men filled two columns of chairs. At the
front of the room behind a long table decorated with lavender
bunting sat Laurent Sedogo, the nation’s agriculture minister.  A poster proclaimed farmers should enter into a “new and
dynamic contract” with the cotton companies and the government,
which had vowed to boost production this season to 600,000
metric tons, 71 percent more than the 350,000 tons picked,
processed and sold in the last one.  As Sedogo made his case, a downpour began to clatter on the
conference center’s metal roof. The farmers, who had been
praying for rainfall during the planting season, jerked their
heads toward the windows.  ‘God is With Us’  “It means that God is with us,” Sedogo told the men, his
voice booming over a public-address system. “And since God is
with us, you should also be with us.” Some farmers guffawed,
others applauded politely. Kafando barely budged.  A few miles away the next day, more than 70 local union
representatives packed long benches in a meeting hall no bigger
than a classroom, debating how to counter Sedogo’s message.  “We don’t have any guns. We don’t have tanks. We have only
our hoes and our plows,” said one angry farmer, 43-year-old
Zobon Drissa, prompting a burst of raucous applause. “So when
we return home, we must tell the others to continue to fight.”  Other than refusing to plant, though, there’s little they
can do under the rules of the local cotton market because
farmers must sell to the regional monopoly. The system in
Burkina Faso, and in much of French-speaking west Africa, is a
legacy of colonial times. A French state-owned textile company,
Geocoton’s predecessor, established cotton buying and production
monopolies in partnership with African state-owned companies,
including  Sofitex , now majority-owned by the Burkinabe
government.  Family Business  Today, the second-largest stake in Faso Coton is held by
Reinhart through direct and indirect ownership. A family
business that’s bought cotton since 1788, the firm remains one
of the world’s largest traders in the fiber, according to the
U.N.’s Food and Agriculture Organization. Reinhart declined to
comment in an e-mailed statement.  The cotton monopolies give Kafando and the other farmers a
base price set each spring through a formula controlled by a
committee that includes the three monopolies and the president
of the national cotton growers union.  Introduced in 2006, the formula was meant to more closely
align the prices paid to farmers with the depressed world market
of the last decade. In return, the growers were to get more
transparency in how prices were reached, and a promise: They’d
be paid based on world averages, not on the selling savvy of the
monopolies.  Formula Change  Yet this year, as the world price set records, crucial
components of the formula were changed. Six of eight revisions
hit farmers, slashing pay 39 percent for the season that ended
in March, according to data in the March 31 report by the
consultants who came up with the new mechanism.  Some of the best-performing months in the history of the
cotton market were removed from pricing averages, while poorer
ones were weighted in. Months in which the monopolies failed to
sell also got booted from the averages. That meant farmers paid
the price for the companies having missed most of the surge in
global fiber rates since mid-2010, the report shows.  Wilfried Yameogo, the Burkinabe government official who
oversees the cotton sector, denied that the formula was
overhauled to benefit the monopolies, calling the changes
ordinary reforms that were in the works long before cotton’s
price peak.  “It’s not the opinion of the cotton companies, it’s the
opinion of experts,” Yameogo said in an interview, referring to
the consultants’ March report.  Health Preservation  Karim Traore, president of the national cotton growers
union in Burkina Faso, defended the formula change as necessary
to preserve the health of the cotton companies.  “I want to make money from my harvest, but we need to have
a balance so everyone gets their share,” Traore said. “The
consultants told us that if the prices stayed as they were, the
cotton companies were going to close their doors. But farmers
can’t live without cotton companies. And cotton companies can’t
live without farmers.”  The companies and the growers union, which holds
government-financed stakes in each of the three cotton
monopolies, provide training and seminars on how to improve
yields.  Bassett, the Illinois professor, said farmers unions,
especially in Burkina Faso, are either too close to the cotton
companies to bargain over prices for their members or incapable
of marshaling the technical expertise needed for a robust
defense.  “Who is protecting the interests of producers?” Bassett
said. “The cotton companies represent their own interests.”  ‘Signals of Collusion’  Sales between the monopolies and their trader-owners are
opaque, and “signals of collusion are quite apparent,”
according to the internal April 2010 paper for the U.N.’s
Food and Agriculture Organization. Reinhart is first on a list
of “approved customers” for Faso Coton’s fiber posted on the
regional monopoly’s website.  “An improvement of governance would be to make information
more transparent,” said Lorenzo Giovanni Bellu, an economist
for the U.N. agency who co-wrote the report. “That would be
good for everybody.”  After the formula changes were approved, the pricing
committee announced on April 25 that the nation’s growers would
get the equivalent of about 59 cents a pound for their cotton
lint. That’s less than half the price Vick has locked in so far
for the same product.  Subsidy Impact  While subsidies for Vick’s fellow U.S. farmers aren’t an
issue this year, during the past decade price supports in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  India  and China cut prices for cotton in Africa by
about 15 percent, said Jose Tissier, deputy director of the
agricultural and rural development division of the French
development agency.  The mechanism in Burkina Faso gives cotton producers there
access to credit and certainty that all of the crop will be
sold, Tissier said, without endorsing the changes to the price
mechanism made by the cotton companies and growers union.  By late June in this record year, the Burkina Faso
government responded to the boycott threats by trimming the
price hikes in fertilizer, the cost of which has surged this
year. The offering price for cotton was left unchanged.  Some protest leaders urged farmers into the field. Others
wouldn’t budge. A number of extremists ripped cotton plants from
the ground of larger landholders, according to images shown on
national television.  Season of a Lifetime  For all of them, cotton’s recent slide on world markets has
added to their sense that the crop planted this year represents
the season of a lifetime. Growers chasing the record prices will
drive global cotton production even higher in the year starting
Aug. 1, according to the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee , dampening prices.  Ferrell, the Vicks’ daughter and business manager, watched
cotton futures slip under $1 a pound last week, though she hopes
prices will go back to $1.10 or higher.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  predicted
in a July 15 report that cotton may rebound to $1.30 a pound.  She’s more concerned about the weather. “The scariest
thing for me is a hurricane,” Ferrell said. “If it comes in,
say, the second week of September, your cotton isn’t ready for
harvesting, there’s nothing you can do.”  In the heart of U.S. cotton country, west Texas, the worst
drought in more than a century is withering what farmers expect
to produce.  Farm Fretting  Jerome Vick is fretting more than his daughter. “With
prices as they are now, I don’t see any $1 million farm in the
plan,” he said. “That 300 acres is going to take a while.”  Wherever the price settles by harvest time, though, Vick
said his experience this season illustrates the benefits of an
open market.  “We’ve sold enough that we have locked in a profit,” he
said. “That’s the advantage we have over farmers in west Africa.
We can lock in enough to make sure we at least break even, then
we can gamble on the upside, on the profit.”  Vick wants this season’s yield to underwrite his legacy,
building his farm to a size that would allow it to last for
generations.  “Expanding our land can guarantee a place for my children
to farm,” said Vick, whose hands remain gnarled from a bout of
Guillain-Barre syndrome that nearly killed him in 2002.  Although 16 years younger than Vick, Kafando is just nine
years shy of reaching life expectancy in  Burkina Faso . He too
wants to increase the security of his family. He had hoped to
use the historic cotton prices to spread a small amount of
wealth beyond the fields they farm, perhaps by starting an
enterprise that runs from one of those shacks made of twisted
tree limbs.  “Cotton farming is very difficult,” Kafando said. “You
may be strong today, but tomorrow you can become weak.”  “I used to dream of opening businesses and employing my
brothers, putting money in the bank every day. Now I’m afraid it
might be too late.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cam Simpson in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Katz  in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  