-- 
Borders’ Bezos Champagne Toast Marked Start of Chain’s Demise

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-07-19T16:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/borders-champagne-toast-to-amazon-s-bezos-marked-start-of-chain-s-demise.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) ’s almost certain
liquidation may have begun with a toast a decade ago celebrating
its decision to pay Amazon.com Inc. to run its website.  At an August, 2001, party near Borders’ headquarters in Ann
Arbor,  Michigan , then-Chief Executive Officer Gregory Josefowicz
brandished a bottle of Champagne and said Amazon founder Jeffrey Bezos had sent a case to show his gratitude.  “I remember thinking this is the weirdest thing that we’re
drinking Champagne bought by  Jeff Bezos , and it was the last
thing we wanted to do,” Manish Vyas, who was then a manager at
Borders’ online unit, said in a telephone interview this week.
“It ended up being a customer-harvesting vehicle for Amazon.”  The book-selling industry would undergo a revolution.
Amazon’s online store was already giving consumers an excuse to
avoid physical locations. Then in 2007, Amazon introduced its
Kindle e-reader, followed by  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook two
years later and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet in 2010.  Borders never recovered its momentum, posting five straight
years of losses totaling more than $900 million. In February, the
chain sought  bankruptcy protection . After finding no bidders
that creditors would approve, the company agreed to sell its
assets to liquidators.  If the  bankruptcy court  approves the deal at a hearing on
July 21, liquidators led by Hilco Merchant Resources and Gordon
Brothers Retail Partners LLC will start winding down the
operations as early as July 22.  Facing Headwinds  “We were all working hard towards a different outcome, but
the headwinds we have been facing for quite some time, including
the rapidly changing book industry, e-reader revolution and
turbulent economy, have brought us to where we are now,”
Borders President Mike Edwards said in a statement yesterday.  Tom and Louis Borders founded Borders with one location in
 Ann Arbor  in 1971. By 1992, Kmart had acquired the chain of 21
stores for about $190 million and combined the retailer with its
Waldenbooks unit. In 1995, Kmart renamed the unit Borders Group
Inc. and sold it through an initial public offering.  The era of book superstores had arrived. Before long,
Borders and Barnes & Noble locations had spread across the U.S.,
putting pressure on independent book sellers and providing
gathering places where customers browsed and sipped coffee.  Barnes & Noble founder  Leonard Riggio  called the
superstores American piazzas and their cultural impact reached a
zenith with the 1998 romantic comedy, “You’ve Got Mail,” which
featured  Tom Hanks  playing a bookstore magnate to Meg Ryan’s
indie shop owner.  Keeping Pace  When Borders cut the deal with Amazon back in 2001, the
chain was determined to keep up with its larger rival, Barnes &
Noble, which was rapidly opening stores. Borders doubled its
big-box locations to 400 by 2002 from 200 in 1996.  While the Amazon partnership wouldn’t make the Borders
website profitable, it would allow the company to focus on the
superstore customer, Josefowicz said in an interview with
Bloomberg News at the time.  “Borders divorced themselves from the online customer by
allowing Amazon to close the sale,” said Michael Norris, an
analyst for Simba Information Inc., a  Stamford , Connecticut-
based research consultant. “I’m convinced that’s the moment
things went bad for them.”  Meanwhile, the brick-and-mortar business became
increasingly difficult. Selling CDs and DVDs had become an
important part of Borders’ business, generating $600 million in
sales, or 17 percent of total revenue, by fiscal 2006. Three
years later, CD and DVD sales had dropped by 38 percent as
downloading services such as Apple’s iTunes took market share
and more consumers shopped online.  More Competitors  The book business didn’t get any easier, either. As the
superstores rose in number, so did the number of mass-market
retailer such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  selling
bestsellers, which are essential to luring customers to physical
bookstores.  Amazon grabbed more market share after debuting its Kindle
e-reader in 2007. Borders, meanwhile, took three years to take
back its website and didn’t debut it until 2008, 13 years after
Amazon sold its first book over the Internet and just in time
for the worst recession in 70 years.  By then Borders, wracked with annual losses, had little
money to spend on a strategy for digital books. The chain
outsourced the problem by investing in Kobo Inc., a Toronto-
based e-reader company. A year ago, Borders introduced an
e-book store powered by Kobo and started selling Kobo e-readers  
in its stores the following month.  Shrunken Business  At its height in 2005, Borders had more than 1,200
bookstores as far away as  Singapore , 15,000 employees and sales
of $4 billion. In the coming weeks, the company expects to close
its remaining 399 stores and dismiss 10,700 employees.  For Joe Taylor, who says he drops about $1,000 a year at
the Borders in Davenport,  Iowa , the chain’s demise is personal.  “I’ll more than miss the store; the employees there are
friends,” said Taylor, 56, of nearby Hampton,  Illinois , who
drops by sometimes just for a cup of coffee. “I’m deeply
invested in Borders as one of their customers and I’ll miss it
greatly. I’m preparing myself for losing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  