-- 
Bowdoin Says No Need for SAT While Buying College Board Scores

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bowdoin-says-no-need-for-sat-while-buying-college-board-scores.html
Colleges from  Bowdoin  in  Maine  to
Pitzer in California dropped the SAT entrance exam as a
requirement, saying it favors the affluent, penalizes minorities
and doesn’t predict academic success. What they don’t advertise
is they find future students by buying names of kids who do well
on the test.  Pitzer buys as many as 100,000 names a year based on test
scores from the College Board, owner of the SAT, to search for
applicants, even after the school became “ test-optional ” in the
2003-2004 year. Wake Forest University, which stopped requiring
the SAT or rival ACT test for students entering in 2009, also
buys names, as does Bowdoin, which made scores optional in 1969.  Students are being duped by some schools into thinking that
test scores don’t matter, when they matter a great deal for
marketing outreach and prestige, said Leon Botstein, president
of Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson,  New York , which neither
requires the tests nor buys names. Test-optional colleges that
buy names of high-scoring students are hypocritical, he said.  “They take a stance that looks principled but is
strategic,” Botstein said in an interview. “They say ‘I’m going
to show myself to be open,’ but in reality they’re completely
buying into the definition of a good student that is guided by
the test.”  The College Board sells names to more than 1,000 colleges,
using biographical information students provide when they
register for the preliminary SAT and SAT exams. Students can opt
out of having their names in the company’s search service. The
company and its competitor, Iowa City, Iowa-based ACT Inc., both
nonprofit, sell names for  33 cents  apiece.  Reaching Out  Bowdoin, in Brunswick, Maine, was the first school to
become test optional, according to FairTest, a nonprofit
advocacy group in  Boston . Bowdoin adopted the  policy  to let
applicants decide whether test results “accurately reflected
their academic ability and potential,” according to the school’s
website. Since then, dozens of schools have followed suit, a
trend that accelerated in the past 10 years as more colleges
questioned possible biases in the tests.  That hasn’t stopped universities from using the test in
other ways.  Smith College , an all-women’s school in Northampton,
 Massachusetts , paid the  College Board  about $20,000 in the past
academic year for names of students with “above-average” scores,
according to Audrey Smith, the dean of enrollment.  Founded in 1871,  Smith  buys about 60,000 names annually,
including those of 10,000 high school sophomores, which “might
be inconsistent” with its test-optional policy, Smith said.  “This is one of the very few ways to directly get at young
women who we know are going to college next year,” Smith said in
an interview. “This is a good way to introduce ourselves.”  Rankings Rise  There are about 1,600 four-year, nonprofit colleges in the
U.S. and fewer than 5 percent don’t require a standardized
entrance exam for admissions for their main body of students,
said Kathleen Steinberg, a spokeswoman for the  College Board ,
citing  Carnegie Foundation Classifications . FairTest spokesman
Bob Schaeffer said the percentage of  test-optional schools  is
“much higher.”  Almost all schools that used the College Board’s Student
Search Service -- with a database of some 6.5 million student
names -- before going test optional continue to use it to
recruit applicants, Steinberg said.  Another benefit to test-optional colleges of recruiting
students with high test results is that it can help raise their
average entrance-exam scores, a metric used in determining some
national rankings and a measure of prestige. Since students who
don’t test well may refrain from submitting scores, that leaves
high performers, or those who can afford prep courses and pay
fees to retake the test several times, to bolster a school’s
average scores.  Stopped Making Sense  Between 60 percent and 80 percent of applicants to test-
optional schools submit their SAT scores, Steinberg said in an
e-mail, citing College Board data.  In 2004 , Pitzer President Laura Trombley wrote that the SAT
“doesn’t really make any sense anymore.” The school, one of
seven institutions comprising the Claremont Colleges in
 California , ranked 70th in the 2002 U.S. News & World Report
list of  liberal arts colleges . That year, the school’s average
SAT score for verbal and math combined was 1,234, according to
Pitzer data. In 2004, after it went test optional, its ranking
climbed to 59, while the average score rose to 1,246. By 2010,
it ranked 46th, while the score reached 1,293.  “It helped certainly to improve our rankings,” Trombley
said. “That’s going to have a positive effect if our SAT scores
improved.”  Name Recognition  Pitzer, founded in 1963, buys names of students based on
test scores, majors and geography, according to the college. The
school doesn’t have the name recognition of some schools and
needs to seek out qualified students, said Trombley, who sees no
contradiction in buying the names.  “We wanted to welcome more students and not eliminate a pool
of students,” she said.  Buying names of students based on their test scores doesn’t
run contrary to Bowdoin’s  test-optional policy , said Scott
Meiklejohn, the school’s dean of admissions and financial aid.  “If there were a convenient way to search for and reach out
to 11th graders based on who is going to submit a wonderful
essay, or who exhibits exceptional curiosity and motivation in
the classroom, or who earns outstanding teacher recommendations,
or who has shown a serious commitment to interesting activities
outside the classroom..., I would use it,” Meiklejohn said in an
e-mail.  The liberal arts school with about 1,750 students, received
test scores from 83 percent of the most recent class of
applicants, Meiklejohn said.  ‘Fair and Valid’  Wake Forest University  announced its test-optional policy
in 2008.  In a letter  to faculty and staff at the time, it said
that standardized testing continued to be biased against many
minority students, “who scored significantly lower than white
students.” The Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based school held a
conference the following year on admissions policy and
standardized testing, drawing participants from universities
such as Harvard, Princeton and Yale.  “The SAT is the most rigorously researched and designed
test in the world, and is consistently shown to be a fair and
valid predictor of college success for all students, regardless
of gender, race, or socio-economic status,” said Peter Kauffmann, a spokesman at the New York-based College Board. “The
idea that differences in test scores among different groups of
students is somehow the result of testing bias is an idea that
is largely rejected within mainstream psychology.”  The SAT has been known by various names over the course of
its history, including Scholastic Aptitude Test, Scholastic
Assessment Test and SAT Reasoning Test.  Scott Gomer, a spokesman for ACT, declined to comment on
the criticism about possible biases in standardized tests.  ‘One of Many’  Wake Forest  buys names of students based on test scores,
self-reported grade-point average, geography and Advanced
Placement performance, admissions dean Martha Allman said. It
reaches out to students through mailings, the Internet and high
school visits, she said.  “If we were only buying the names of  SAT  high scorers and
those were the only names we were recruiting and inviting to
campus, yes that would be contradictory,” Allman said in an
interview. “The SAT is one of many factors.”  Courtney Abernathy, who will enter Wake Forest this year as
a freshman, earned a 3.9 grade-point average at her Plymouth,
 New Hampshire , high school. She decided against submitting her
test scores to the college because her results were average, she
said.  Abernathy said she wasn’t bothered that some classmates may
have been recruited when the school bought their names.  “It does get Wake Forest’s name to students who score high,
and gives people like me who didn’t score high a fair chance to
get accepted.”  ‘Somewhat Contrary’  The  College of the Holy Cross  in Worcester, Massachusetts,
dropped the standardized test requirement beginning with the
class that entered in 2006. It stopped buying names about eight
years ago because it was no longer cost effective, said Ann Bowe
McDermott, the director of admissions.  Instead, the school spent the money to help pay for travel
and add staff to recruit applicants outside of  New England  and
low-income and minority students, she said in an interview.  “If we were buying the names of students who scored very
high on the SATs, to buy those names would be somewhat contrary
to the message we would send about the importance of
standardized testing,” McDermott said.  The following table lists some of the four-year, nonprofit
colleges that are test optional and buy names of students from
testing companies, such as the College Board and ACT Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 