-- 
BP-Backed Energy Group Spends $38 Million on U.K. Carbon Capture

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-07-19T16:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bp-backed-energy-group-spends-38-million-on-u-k-carbon-capture.html
The  Energy Technologies Institute ,
backed by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and the U.K. government,
agreed to invest 23.5 million pounds ($38 million) in a carbon-
capture trial project as Britain studies ways to curb emissions.  The ETI will work with U.K. engineering company Costain
Group Plc to construct a pilot plant at a coal-fired power
station to capture as much as 95 percent of its carbon dioxide
output, the institute said today in a website  statement . It aims
to have the facility built, operated and tested by mid-2015.  Britain, due to shut more than 11,000 megawatts of coal and
oil-fed power capacity by the end of 2015, is examining ways to
meet energy demand while reducing emissions. Energy and Climate
Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  this month outlined proposals for
Electricity Market Reform, which include imposing an emissions
limit of 450 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour on new
power stations, aimed at preventing the construction of coal-fed
plants without carbon capture and storage, or CCS.  CCS technology gathers carbon dioxide that’s released in
power generation and stores it underground.  The ETI declined to say where it plans to build the pilot
plant when contacted today by phone. The project may be located
in the U.K. or elsewhere in Europe, according to Nigel Richardson, a spokesman for the institute.  “Pilot projects like these will help develop and reduce
the costs of the next generation of capture technologies and are
an essential step on the road to deployment,” Energy Minister
Charles Hendry told a forum in  London , according to the
statement.  The ETI is a partnership between BP, Shell,  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , EDF Energy Plc, EON AG,  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  and the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  