-- 
Brazil’s Real Climbs as European Resolution Spurs Economic Growth Optimism

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-07-19T21:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/brazil-s-real-climbs-as-european-resolution-spurs-economic-growth-optimism.html
Brazil ’s real rose after speculation
that European lawmakers may reach an agreement to resolve the
region’s debt crisis spurred economic growth optimism and
boosted demand for commodities.  The real advanced 0.7 percent to 1.5635 per dollar at 5
p.m.  New York  time, from 1.5745 yesterday.  Oil rose the most in a week in New York on speculation that
European lawmakers will reach an agreement to resolve the
region’s debt crisis and as U.S. housing starts surged in June.
The real’s appreciation is being driven by increasing commodity
prices, said Alfredo Barbutti, chief economist at Liquidez DTVM
Ltda in Sao Paulo.  “The rise today is more in line with what we’re seeing
abroad,” Barbutti said by phone.  All 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
gained against the dollar. European Union government chiefs plan
to meet for the second time in a month on July 21, aiming to
break a deadlock over a new Greek rescue. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the international value of the greenback, fell 0.5
percent.  Yields on most Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
declined after unemployment in June in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy was higher than analysts projected.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most traded in Sao Paulo, declined one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.46 percent. The yield on the
contract due in January 2017 dropped two basis points to 12.44
percent.  The jobless rate fell to 6.2 percent in June, from 6.4
percent in May and 7 percent a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said today in a report distributed in  Rio de
Janeiro . The rate, the lowest ever for June, compared with a
median forecast of 6.1 percent from 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  