-- 
Brazil Real-Estate Stocks Gain on Rossi Sales, BTG Ratings

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-19T20:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/brazil-real-estate-stocks-gain-on-rossi-sales-btg-ratings-1-.html
Brazilian real-estate companies
advanced after homebuilder  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  reported a jump
in sales and Banco BTG Pactual SA recommended buying brokerages
 LPS Brasil Consultoria de Imoveis SA (LPSB3)  and Brasil Brokers
Participacoes.  Rossi gained 2.2 percent to 11.50 reais at 4:15 p.m. New
York time. Lopes was unchanged at 33.30 reais after jumping as
much as 2 percent earlier, while Brasil Brokers increased 0.7
percent to 7.35 reais. The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index climbed
0.7 percent, its second advance in the past 12 sessions. The
benchmark Bovespa index rose 0.4 percent.  Rossi,  Brazil ’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by revenue, said
in a filing that preliminary second-quarter contracted sales
rose 24 percent to 882 million reais ($563.8 million) from a
year earlier. Lopes and Brasil Brokers were initiated with
“buy” ratings at BTG as they offer “safer ways to play the
housing space at this point, while offering unique exposure to
the attractive secondary market,” according to a note to
clients dated yesterday.  “With higher returns and less risk, we believe the brokers
deserve premiums vs. the builders, while they also look
attractive when compared to most domestic consumer-related
sectors,” BTG analyst Marcello Milman said in the note. Rossi
“was able to increase launches significantly maintaining good
sales performance,” he wrote in a separate report today.  Property companies have led declines in  Sao Paulo  this year
on concern rising  interest rates  will hurt demand while record-
low unemployment will boost labor costs. The benchmark real-
estate index lost 21 percent this year through yesterday,
compared to a 15 percent decline for the Bovespa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  