-- 
Brazil June Unemployment Falls to Lowest Level Since January on New Hiring

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-19T18:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/brazil-june-unemployment-falls-to-lowest-level-since-january-on-new-hiring.html
Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to
its lowest since January as  Latin America ’s biggest economy
shakes off efforts by policy makers to cool growth and
inflation.  The jobless rate fell to 6.2 percent in June, from 6.4
percent in May and 7 percent a year earlier, the national
statistics  agency  said today in a report distributed in Rio de
Janeiro. The rate, the lowest ever for June, compared with a
median forecast of 6.1 percent from 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The numbers are strong, with the job market growing even
at full employment,” said Gabriel Goulart, analyst at Mercatto
Gestao de Recursos who helps manage $1.6 billion at the Rio de
Janeiro-based asset management company. “It shows the economic
deceleration is very soft.”  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini is expected to
raise the benchmark interest rate, which now stands at 12.25
percent, for the fifth time in 2011 tomorrow to cool demand and
slow the fastest inflation in six years.  Brazil  will create more
jobs in the second half of the year than it did in the first,
Labor Minister Carlos Lupi said today, reiterating his
prediction that a record 3 million formal jobs will be generated
in 2011.  Traders are betting on a quarter-point increase in the
benchmark rate tomorrow, according to Bloomberg estimates based
on interest rate futures.  Inflation Pressure  Recent data show that the economy continues to expand at a
pace that puts pressure on inflation. Retail sales recovered in
May following an unexpected decline the previous month.
Industrial capacity utilization was 82.4 percent in May, the
same level it was in December before the central bank began
raising rates.  Consumer confidence  rose in June from May.  The yield on interest rate futures maturing in January
2012, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.46 percent at 2:05 p.m. New York
time. The real strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.5659 per  U.S.
dollar .  Brazil’s economy created 215,393 government-registered jobs
in June, the Labor Ministry said today, less than the median
forecast of 227,500 jobs from 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  ‘High Level’  The labor market is showing signs of “stabilizing at a
high level,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM
Capital Markets in Sao Paulo.  “It’s too early to say that the labor market is showing
signs of cooling,” Rostagno said in a telephone interview.
“This won’t change the central bank’s outlook.”  Consumer prices rose 6.71 percent in the year through June,
the fastest pace since 2005. The central bank aims to slow
inflation back to the midpoint of its target in 2012. The
government targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points. Tombini said he expects inflation to start
slowing after August.  Consumer prices will rise 5.37 percent over the next 12
months, according to the median estimate in a July 15  central
bank survey  of about 100 economists published on July 18. The
figure was up from 5.29 percent the previous week.  Prices, as measured by the IPCA index, will rise 6.31
percent this year and 5.20 percent in 2012, the survey found.  Quiznos, Banks  Among companies increasing their workforces is Quiznos, the
closely held Denver-based sandwich chain, which plans to open
200 locations in Brazil over the next 7 to 10 years to boost
growth. Burger King Holdings Inc. said in June it aims to reach
1,000 restaurants in Brazil in the next five years, up from 108
now.  Tullett Prebon Plc, a London-based inter-dealer broker,
said it will expand its Brazilian office by 50 percent to 120
people in the next two years to boost product offerings after
acquiring a local firm, according to a July 15 interview with
Richard Higgs, managing director for emerging markets.  The  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s Brazil unit intends to
boost its staff by more than 20 percent this year to expand
operations in the South American country, President Zeca
Oliveira said May 19.  Brazil’s government may propose a cut in the  payroll tax ,
Carlos Alberto Barreto, head of the federal tax agency, said
today. The government is also considering possible measures to
make up for the loss of tax receipts if the payroll tax were
cut, including an increase in the tax on profits known as the
CSLL and a new tax on corporate revenue, he told reporters in
Brasilia.  Any changes in the  tax code  must first be approved by
Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  