-- 
Breast-Cancer Patients Under 40 May Keep Fertility With Drug, Study Finds

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-19T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/breast-cancer-patients-may-keep-fertility-with-drug-study-finds.html
Younger women with early-stage
 breast cancer  who took a drug to suppress their ovaries were
more likely to avert early menopause caused by chemotherapy,
researchers found.  The treatment, triptorelin, helped patients avoid the
permanent loss of their fertility that can be prompted by
chemotherapy’s toxic doses, according to research published
today in the Journal of the  American Medical Association .  Two out of every five women under 40 who undergo
chemotherapy for breast cancer lose the ability to conceive
children, the researchers said. The use of triptorelin reduced
the rate of early menopause by more than 17 percentage points,
according to the results of a late-stage clinical trial called
Promise-GIM6.  “Because the prevention of early menopause is the
essential condition for fertility maintenance, women may more
easily accept chemotherapy,” Lucia Del Mastro, an oncologist at
the National Institute for  Cancer Research  in Genoa,  Italy , and
the study’s lead author, said by e-mail. “This strategy
increases the probability of ovarian function maintenance but it
doesn’t assure the fertility.”  Triptorelin may stave off menopause and increase the
probability of staying fertile by reducing levels of the hormone
that stimulates the ovaries. Because chemotherapy targets areas
with “rapid cellular turnover,” ovaries that are rendered
dormant with the drug may be protected, Del Mastro said.  Reproductive Life  Doctors diagnose almost 25,000 women younger than 45 with
breast cancer every year, wrote Hope Rugo and Mitchell Rosen of
the University of  California ,  San Francisco , in an accompanying
editorial. Each month of chemotherapy cuts reproductive life by
more than a year, the researchers said. Concern that infertility
may occur influences treatment decisions in more than a quarter
of all cases, the researchers found.  “Young survivors of breast cancer consider premature
menopause, sexual dysfunction, and infertility the most
distressing aspects of their cancer experience,” they wrote.  The triptorelin strategy could be combined with procedures
such as freezing an embryo to further increase the chances that
a woman facing chemotherapy may have a child afterward, Del
Mastro said.  The scientists evaluated 260 patients in the trial, which
began in 2003. Almost 26 percent of the women who received only
chemotherapy had early menopause, compared with 7.9 percent of
the group receiving both chemotherapy and triptorelin, the
researchers found.  About 25 percent of patients treated only with chemotherapy
got back some function of their ovaries, compared with 29
percent in the triptorelin group. So far, one woman who was
treated with only chemotherapy became pregnant, compared with
three who took the drug.  The triptorelin used in the study was supplied by French
drugmaker  Ipsen SA. (IPN)  The Italian National Institute for Cancer
Research funded the trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  