-- 
BSkyB License Is Lawmakers’ Next Target on Link to Chairman James Murdoch

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T12:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bskyb-license-is-lawmakers-next-target-on-james-murdoch-link.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., which
already abandoned its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) bid for
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  because of a
phone-hacking scandal, is now being challenged on whether it
should be allowed to keep its existing stake.  An examination by regulators of BSkyB’s directors and
owners may also determine whether James Murdoch can stay on as
non-executive chairman of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator. The
younger Murdoch, who has overseen the News International U.K.
arm since 2007, said this month the company misled Parliament
and he regretted approving settlements to some hacking victims.
Those alleged hacking incidents happened before he took over.  Ofcom , the U.K. broadcast regulator, has the power to
revoke BSkyB’s license should it rule that executives are not
“fit and proper” to hold it. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
opposition Labour party leader  Ed Miliband  have intensified
calls to review the Murdochs’ influence in local media as the
managers give evidence to a parliamentary committee today.  News
Corp. (NWSA)  said today that the company has held U.K. broadcasting
licenses for many years.  “News Corp. executives and non-executive directors have
shown themselves completely unable to control what was going on
in the paper and make sure the company’s acting within the
law,”  Chris Bryant , a Labour lawmaker, said in an interview.
“That raises questions about whether they should have any stake
in BSkyB.”  Investments  BSkyB rose as much as 2.4 percent to 730.5 pence in London
trading and was up 2.2 percent as of 1:17 p.m.  “News Corp. has held a number of broadcasting licenses in
the U.K. for many years. The company was the founding
shareholder in BSkyB and has actively supported its development
for more than 20 years,” News Corp. spokeswoman Miranda Higham
said today via phone. “News Corp. has contributed greatly to
the choice and quality of broadcasting in the U.K.”  Ofcom evaluates “any relevant misconduct” when deciding
whether a license holder is “fit and proper.” The watchdog
said late yesterday that it started meeting relevant authorities
investigating the phone-hacking scandal as part of its own
assessment of BSkyB and its owners. The regulator may act if it
finds evidence that a person is unfit to own a license, even
before the conclusion of a criminal investigation, it said.  “We strenuously refute any suggestion that Sky is not a
’fit and proper’ holder of a broadcasting license,” BSkyB
spokesman Robert Fraser said in an e-mail. “No such claim has
been made in over 20 years of operation.”  Edwards’ Dilemma  This is the first time Ofcom Chief Executive Officer Ed Richards has had to deal with a “fit and proper” test of this
type. The test was used last year to revoke a license held by
adult entertainment companies Bang Channels Ltd. and Bang Media
Ltd. for airing too sexually explicit materials on their “Tease
Me” channels for pre-watershed hours.  “He’s politically aware, but that doesn’t make him a
political player,”  Stewart Purvis , a former partner at Ofcom
and professor of television journalism  at City University  in
 London , said about Richards’ role. “He has to make it clear
that Ofcom knows what’s going on, but is also aware of the
constraints which the law rightly puts upon them.”  Concerns about individual directors can be resolved by
removing them from the board, said a person with knowledge of
the matter who declined to be named because deliberations are
confidential.  Dropped BSkyB Bid  News Corp. abandoned its bid for the remaining 61 percent
in BSkyB on July 13 after the phone-hacking scandal caused
unified opposition in the government to the deal. The scandal
has wiped about $8 billion off News Corp.’s market value since
the Guardian reported on July 4 that the News of the World
tabloid in 2002 hacked into the voice mails of murdered
schoolgirl Milly Dowler and deleted messages.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  James Murdoch, 38, became CEO of BSkyB in 2003 and left
that post in 2007 to run News Corp.’s television, newspaper and
digital operations in  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East . At the
time, he was named non-executive chairman of BSkyB.  Settlements  In announcing the closure of the News of the World July 7,
the younger Murdoch said that out-of-court settlements he
approved while running News International were “wrong.” The
settlements were criticized in Parliament during an emergency
debate a day earlier, when Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson  said
Murdoch should face criminal charges and was unsuitable to be a
director.  “If James Murdoch were to be charged, then that would seem
to me that you have a linkage,” City University’s Purvis said.
“What would you do then, would you say BSkyB loses its license
or would you say that you need to find a new chairman?”  Rebekah Brooks, the former News of the World editor who
stepped down last week as News International CEO, was arrested
in London July 17.  Les Hinton , who was overseeing News
International at the time of the alleged phone-hacking, resigned
the same day.  Earlier this month, police arrested another former News of
the World editor,  Andy Coulson . Last week, police detained a
former deputy to Coulson, Neil Wallis.  Regulation  “What’s happened is a consequence of having very, very
weak regulation of media ownership,” said John Cryer, a Labour
lawmaker representing a London seat. “We’ve allowed Murdoch to
buy up whatever he wanted, whenever he fancied. Other countries
have far better rules to prevent individuals amassing stakes in
the media. We’ve got to move toward that.”  News International also publishes the Times and Sunday
Times newspapers in the U.K.  One of BSkyB’s largest shareholders is closely monitoring
Murdoch’s position although it hasn’t held discussions with
independent directors, a person close to the investor group
said, declining to be named because the matter is not public.  In addition to the police and parliamentary probes, Cameron
appointed Lord Justice Brian Leveson to conduct a judicial
inquiry into phone hacking, the behavior of the press, police
and politicians, and media regulation.  The U.K. government won’t give Ofcom’s Richards any
instructions as the regulator an independent body, a person
familiar with matter said yesterday.  Investigation  Ofcom had initially investigated News Corp. when it
attempted to buy BSkyB. As political pressure surrounding
allegations that the News of the World had hacked into
voicemails and paid police for stories mounted, Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  asked Ofcom whether they could trust News
Corp.’s proposed undertakings.  As the Murdochs appear before lawmakers today, at stake is
not only the company’s reputation.  James Murdoch ’s future may
also be on the line.  “If it’s proved in any way, shape or form that James
Murdoch was aware of what was going on and he didn’t stop it, he
has a problem,” said  Steve Malcolm , an analyst at Evolution
Securities who has a “reduce” rating on BSkyB shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  