-- 
Bug Music Said to Seek Sale, Draw Interest From Buyers

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-20T19:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bug-music-said-to-seek-sale-draw-interest-from-potential-buyers.html
Bug Music Inc. , a closely held music
publisher, is pursuing a sale of the company and drawing
interest from private-equity firms and strategic buyers, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Los Angeles-based company is seeking $330 million to
$400 million in a sale, said the people, who weren’t authorized
to talk publicly. First-round bids are due next week and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is running the auction, they said.  Bug Music, acquired in 2006 by an investor group led by
private-equity firm Spectrum Equity Investors, completed 35
acquisitions in the past five years, buying songs and music
catalogs that generate licensing fees, the people said. Online
services from Spotify Ltd. and Amazon.com Inc. that let users
access songs on multiples devices are boosting revenue and
investor interest in music companies, they said.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, a joint venture of Sony
Corp. and the estate of  Michael Jackson , is among 30 companies,
including advertising agencies, that signed a nondisclosure
agreement to receive an offering book, said two people. Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony/ATV in  New York , declined to comment.  Before the 2006 buyout, Bug Music collected royalties on
behalf of artists and didn’t own the rights to songs. The
investors have transformed the business from one that focused on
copyright administration into one that now owns 425,000
copyrights itself. Revenue from that business accounts for 85
percent of total sales.  Kings of Leon  Bug Music, whose roster includes Kings of Leon and Bruno
Mars, last month acquired Countdown Media, a  supplier  of cover
music with a catalogue of 80,000 recordings. With Countdown, Bug
Music accounts for as many as 7 million annual track sales on
Apple Inc.’s iTunes, one of the people said.  The company is forging partnerships between its artists and
songwriters, which includes former “ American Idol ” judge Kara
DioGuardi, to create new recording and spur new  music sales , the
person said.  Bug Music  leased  20,000-square-feet at 6100 Wilshire Blvd.
in  Los Angeles , including 3,200-square-feet of recording studios
and a 17th-floor space where performances can be shown live
online, the company said June 23 in an e-mailed statement.  The company also has rights to tracks including “What a
Wonderful World,” “Fever” and “Happy Together,” as well as
songs by  Johnny Cash  and Stevie Ray Vaughn.  Spectrum, founded in 1994 by Brion Applegate and William Collatos, raised six funds representing $4.6 billion of private-
equity capital, according to the company’s  website .  The Spectrum fund that owns a stake in Bug Music is
reaching the end of its investment period and, as a result, must
start divesting holdings, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter. Other assets in the fund include  Ancestry.com
Inc. (ACOM)  and SurveyMonkey.com LLC, said one of the people. Over the
past year, Spectrum has generated $1.5 billion in proceeds by
selling portfolio companies outright or their selling shares,
the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  