-- 
Bulgarian Opposition Parties Targeted in Two Bomb Blasts

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-07-19T09:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bulgarian-opposition-parties-targeted-in-two-bomb-blasts-2-.html
Bombs exploded at the offices of two
Bulgarian opposition parties before a no-confidence vote in
Prime Minister’s Boiko Borissov’s minority Cabinet this week.  The blasts went off around 4 a.m. today at the headquarters
of the  Order, Law and Justice  party and an office of the
 Democrats for Strong Bulgaria  party in central Sofia, Police
Chief Valeri Yordanov said by phone today. The explosions
damaged the front doors and windows in both buildings, he said.
No casualties were reported.  “The timing and the amounts of explosive in each case
indicates the bombs were aimed to intimidate rather than kill
anyone,” he said.  The parties plan to support a no-confidence vote later this
week after Borissov’s government failed to win European Union
approval to join the Schengen zone, which allows passport-free
travel, amid accusations it hasn’t curbed crime. Borissov has
rallied the support of the nationalist Attack party and several
independent lawmakers, ensuring he has majority backing.  The  European Commission  will release tomorrow its regular
monitoring report on Bulgaria’s and  Romania ’s efforts at
fighting crime and corruption. After that, countries opposing
the two Black Sea nations’ Schengen entry, including  France ,
 Germany  and The Netherlands, will make a decision on their
admission.  “Given the timing, the bombs are aimed against the
government and the country, rather than the offices,” Borissov
said in an interview with TV7 television station today. “This
kind of negative publicity badly affects investment.”  Election Campaign  The blasts also took place during election campaigns ahead
of an Oct. 23 vote for president and city councils. The Order,
Law and Justice party, which has seven lawmakers in the 240-seat
Parliament, set up 100 billboards throughout Bulgaria, saying
“I will fire Boiko Borissov,” the party’s leader Yane Yanev
told reporters last week.  The EU has repeatedly urged  Bulgaria  to do more to fight
organized crime and corruption since the Balkan country joined
the 27-nation bloc in 2007. Borissov’s Gerb party came to power
in June 2009, pledging to jail corrupt politicians and crime
groups, leading to the jailing of some police officers and
mayors.  The police staged widely publicized arrests of allegedly
corrupt ministers and several crime groups involved in
kidnappings, smuggling and racketeering, which did not result in
convictions.  Past Arrests  Many of the arrested individuals, including former Defense
Minister Nikolai Tsonev, have been cleared of most of the
charges and are suing the police for brutality and violation of
human rights during the arrests. That prompted the opposition to
demand the resignation of Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov,
who also manages Gerb’s election campaign.  On Feb. 10, a bomb exploded at the offices of Galeria, a
Bulgarian weekly newspaper that is critical of Borissov’s
government, damaging neighboring buildings. Ten previous bombs
in the past decade have exploded at politicians’ offices, homes
and cars without injuring anyone, according to police data.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  