-- 
Bulgaria Faces EU Crime Test After Bombs Rock Party Offices

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-07-19T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/bulgaria-faces-eu-crime-test-after-bombs-rock-party-offices.html
Bulgaria will today receive a
 European Union  report on its readiness to join the bloc’s
passport-free zone as authorities in the Balkan country
investigate blasts at opposition party offices.  Bulgaria and  Romania  were told in February to boost efforts
to fight crime and corruption to be admitted to the so-called
Schengen region. Today’s report will criticize Bulgarian
institutions for their lack of coordination and failure to
provide evidence to convict arrested criminals, the  Sega 
newspaper said yesterday, citing a draft.  The poorest and newest members of the 27-nation EU rank as
the most corrupt after  Greece , according to Berlin-based
 Transparency International . Bombs exploded at the offices of two
Bulgarian opposition parties yesterday before a no-confidence
vote in Prime Minister’s Boiko Borissov’s minority Cabinet this
week. No casualties were reported.  “The bomb explosions show the links between politicians
and terrorist methods employed by the criminal world have not
been completely severed,” Tatyana Burudzhieva, a political
scientist at the Sofia University, said by phone yesterday.  The explosives went off at the headquarters of the  Order,
Law and Justice  party and an office of the  Democrats for a
Strong Bulgaria  party in central Sofia, police said. The blasts
damaged doors and windows in both buildings. The timing and the
amounts of explosives used indicate the bombs were aimed to
intimidate rather than kill, Sofia Police Chief Valeri Yordanov
said.  ‘Do Everything’  Borissov’s Gerb party came to power in June 2009, pledging
to jail corrupt politicians and crime groups. He faces his third
no-confidence vote later this week, for failing to curb crime
and win EU approval to join the Schengen zone. He has ensured
majority backing by rallying the support of the nationalist
Attack party and several independent lawmakers.  “We trust that the Bulgarian authorities will do
everything to bring the perpetrators of this act to justice,”
Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen, spokeswoman of the European Commission,
the EU’s executive, told reporters in Brussels yesterday. “We
will make a presentation of the report and focus on the
substance tomorrow.”  The EU’s Feb. 18 interim report said  Bulgaria  needs to
focus on the adoption of an effective law on asset forfeiture
and the establishment of an authority to identify and sanction
conflicts of interest. Romania has to start an independent
review of its judicial system and prepare a new legislative
framework in civil and criminal law, it said.  ‘Specific Proposals’  EU warnings have prompted probes of Cabinet ministers,
business leaders and lawmakers. Neither nation has managed to
convict a senior politician, except for minor corruption cases
involving mayors and police officers.  “We all want to see Bulgaria as a country where laws are
respected and people trust the judicial system,” Kristalina
Georgieva, the EU commissioner responsible for International
Cooperation,  Humanitarian Aid  and Crisis Response, told
reporters in Sofia yesterday. “The report includes specific
proposals that will require government actions.”  After the report, countries opposing the two Black Sea
nations’ Schengen entry, including  France ,  Germany  and the
Netherlands, will make a decision on their admission.  Romania and Bulgaria joined the EU in 2007 with repeated
warnings that they had to step up the fight against corruption
to ensure fair distribution of EU aid. Romania, the bigger of
the two, stands to receive 32 billion euros ($45 billion) in EU
aid through 2013. Bulgaria may get 11 billion euros.  Arrested Ministers  In the past two years, Bulgarian police arrested ministers
on corruption charges and criminal groups involved in
kidnappings, smuggling and racketeering, which didn’t result in
convictions.  Many of the arrested individuals, including former Defense
Minister Nikolai Tsonev, have been cleared of most of the
charges and are suing the police for brutality and human-rights
violations. That prompted the opposition to demand the
resignation of Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who also
manages Gerb’s election campaign.  Bulgarians will vote in presidential and municipal
elections on Oct. 23. The Order, Law and Justice party, which
has seven lawmakers in the 240-seat Parliament, set up 100
billboards throughout Bulgaria, saying “I will fire Boiko
Borissov,” party leader Yane Yanev told reporters last week.
Yesterday’s bombings are part of the campaign, the premier said.  Against Government  “Given the timing, the bombs are aimed against the
government and the country, rather than the offices,” Borissov
said in an interview with the TV7 television station yesterday.
“This kind of negative publicity badly affects investment.”  The benchmark  SOFIX index (SOFIX)  rose 3.25 percentage points to
421.16, while the cost of insuring Bulgarian debt in the credit-
default swap market fell 2.3 percentage points to 253.97.  Investors shrugged off the bombings because of the size of
Bulgaria’s fiscal reserves, which would help shield the country
from the euro area’s debt crisis, said Timothy Ash, chief
economist for emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London .  “What matters at the moment is Greek and Italian bank
links and the ability of the Bulgarian government to manage any
potential pressure on the banking system,” he wrote yesterday
in an e-mailed note. “We tend to think Bulgaria is relatively
well placed given the size of the fiscal reserve.”  Bulgaria’s fiscal reserve was 5.2 billion lev ($3.8
billion) at the end of June, according to the  Finance Ministry .
Bulgaria is recovering from its worst recession in more than a
decade. The economy grew 3.4 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier and the six-month budget gap narrowed to 0.9
percent of gross domestic product from 2.2 percent in January-
June 2010.  Fitch Ratings  in May raised the outlook on Bulgaria’s
credit rating to positive, citing improved economic and
financial stability. Moody’s Investors Service said April 5 it
may raise Bulgaria’s credit rating because government finances
are “healthy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  