-- 
California Cities Sue State Over Redevelopment Budget Cuts

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-07-19T00:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/california-cities-sue-state-over-redevelopment-budget-cuts.html
California  was sued by cities
challenging new legislation that would require redevelopment
agencies to turn over about $1.7 billion to the state.  San Jose  and Union City, along with the California
Redevelopment Association and the League of California Cities,
asked the California Supreme Court today to overturn two laws.
The cities claim the statutes violate a ballot initiative
approved by voters in November, Proposition 22, preventing the
seizure of revenue dedicated to local government.  “Prop 22 prohibited the state from taking redevelopment
agency money,” Steve Mayer, a partner at law firm Howard Rice
Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin in San Francisco, said today in
a phone interview.  The budget California lawmakers approved last month keeps
alive more than 400 redevelopment agencies that California
Governor  Jerry Brown  had sought to close, though it requires
them to turn over about $1.7 billion. Courts have ruled against
the state for previous attempts to raid their revenue.  “California voters overwhelmingly passed Proposition 22
just eight months ago to stop state raids, shifts and diversions
of local redevelopment funds,” Chris McKenzie, executive
director of the League of California Cities, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “The governor and legislature have blatantly
ignored the voters and violated the State Constitution.”  Jacob Roper, a spokesman for state Controller John Chiang,
named as a defendant in the complaint, declined to comment.  ‘Legally Sound’  “We’re confident that this measure  -- which was passed by
the Legislature and signed by the governor - is legally sound,”
H.D. Palmer, spokesman for the California Department of Finance,
another defendant, said in an e-mail.  “Redevelopment agencies
were created by an act of the Legislature in 1945, and they can
similarly be dissolved by an act of the Legislature.  We cannot
afford to be spending more than a billion dollars a year on
local redevelopment projects at a time when our core services -
including education and public safety - are being cut.”  The state supreme court ordered the state to respond to the
petition and gave the cities and the two groups until July 29 to
file their reply, Mayer said.  Under California’s 65-year-old redevelopment law, if a city
or county creates a redevelopment area to address urban blight,
the agency receives related property-tax revenue increases that
may result, known as the tax increment.  A copy of the petition was provided by the League of
California Cities. The filing wasn’t immediately available in
the court’s electronic docket.  The case is California Redevelopment Association v.
Matosantos, S194861, California Supreme Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  