-- 
Cameron Beats Sarkozy in Battle for Bond Cash: Chart of the Day

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/cameron-beats-sarkozy-in-battle-for-bond-cash-chart-of-the-day.html
Investors are treating the U.K.’s
stagnant, high-deficit economy on  Europe ’s fringe as a safer
place for their cash than France at the heart of the euro area.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the gap in yields between
French and U.K. bonds signals a change in perception of the two
nations as the sovereign crisis engulfs the region. Debt sold by
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is outperforming
French securities, a turnaround from the situation from October
2009 to March.  “France is closer to the epicenter of the debt crisis and
that’s why U.K. yields pushed down in line with German bunds,”
said Andy Chaytor, a rates strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “That’s a pretty clear message that says
the U.K. is a safer haven for your capital.”  In some ways  France  is stronger than Britain, with
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s nation achieving 1 percent economic
growth in the first quarter, double the rate across the Channel.
What’s dragging France down is contagion from Europe’s so-called
periphery and the exposure of its banks to the nations worst
affected by the crisis.  France’s budget deficit was 7 percent of national output as
of the end of 2010, compared with the U.K.’s 10.4 percent,
according to Eurostat, the European statistical office in
Brussels.  Gilts rallied this year, sending 10-year yields to 3.02
percent, the lowest since November. They beat French notes,
which yield 3.35 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  