-- 
Cameron Bids to Limit Phone-Hacking Damage

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/cameron-faces-parliament-in-bid-to-take-control-in-phone-hacking-crisis.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will attempt today to stop the News of the World phone-hacking
scandal inflicting further damage on his government as he faces
the biggest crisis since he came to office last year.  Having cut short a trip to Africa, Cameron is back in
London to map out the details of a judicial inquiry to lawmakers
in a special session of parliament at 11:30 a.m. The prime
minister needs to regain control of a deepening crisis,
political analysts say. One way would be to apologize for
appointing Andy Coulson, the ex-editor of the News Corp.
newspaper arrested last week in the phone-hacking probe, as his
communications chief in 2007. Coulson quit that job in January.  Cameron is “bleeding, and he needs to stop the bleeding,”
Tim Bale, professor of politics at the  University of Sussex  and
author of “The  Conservative Party  From Thatcher to Cameron,”
said in a telephone interview. “He has to show that he has got a
grip on the situation, and he can do that by making sure the
inquiries start soon and that he is getting to the bottom of the
problem.”  The scandal has so far led to the closure of the News of
the World, cost two of London’s most senior police officers
their jobs and triggered resignations among top News Corp.
executives. It caused the company’s 80-year-old chairman,  Rupert Murdoch , to declare that yesterday was the most “humble” day
of his life as he was quizzed by lawmakers. Opposition Labour
Party leader  Ed Miliband  has led criticism that Cameron was slow
to order a probe into the affair and should have done more to
stop  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
now dropped.  Immediate Challenge  The immediate challenges for Cameron are to stop Miliband
from gaining an electoral advantage from the crisis, and to
prevent his authority from being eroded within his own
Conservative Party and the coalition administration. Cameron’s
government needs to hold together to drive through the deepest
public-spending cuts since World War II.  Almost daily shifts in events since July 4, when the
 Guardian newspaper  reported that the News of the World hacked
into the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl Millie Dowler in 2002,
have prevented Cameron from drawing a line under the crisis.  As he flew back yesterday from Lagos,  Nigeria , his party
issued a statement saying that Coulson may have been given
informal advice before the election by Neil Wallis, a former
deputy News of the World editor who has also been arrested over
phone-hacking.  ‘Lance the Boil’  The prime minister “needs to say it was a mistake hiring
 Andy Coulson ,” Patrick Dunleavy, a professor of politics at the
 London School  of Economics and Political Science, said in a
telephone interview. “He could say sorry, that’s probably a
good idea. It would lance the boil.”  The decision to hire Coulson has been at the center of the
criticism of Cameron, though he’s also come under pressure over
his friendship with Rebekah Brooks, another former News of the
World editor who quit last week as chief executive officer of
News International, News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  “Lots of people were warning him saying this isn’t a good
idea, there are really some substantial allegations about Andy
Coulson,” Miliband told ITV yesterday. He said he wasn’t
calling for Cameron to resign “because you shouldn’t be over
the top in these things.”  The prime minister says there was no reason to doubt
Coulson’s assurances that he had no knowledge of phone-hacking
under his editorship. He quit the News of the World in 2007
after a reporter and a private detective were jailed. Coulson
left his government job in January as allegations of wrongdoing
at the newspaper mounted and was arrested on July 7.  News Corp. Links  On July 15, Cameron published details of his meetings with
executives of media organizations since he took office in May
2010. They showed more than 40 percent of his contacts had been
with executives of News International. Cameron also entertained
Coulson in March, two months after Coulson stepped down.  Brooks, who also gave testimony to lawmakers yesterday,
played down her links with Cameron, saying she’d never been to
the prime minister’s office in  London ’s Downing Street since he
took power, though she’d regularly visited his predecessors,
 Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown .  Cameron decided to extend the session of parliament,
originally due to end yesterday, by a day to make what he called
a “big statement” on the judicial probe into the police
investigation of phone-hacking and media regulation. He will
also try to move beyond the story that has dominated British
politics this month.  Economy, Jobs  “People want us to get on with governing the country as
well as dealing with hacking,” he told reporters in Lagos
yesterday. “We’re not going to take our eye off the ball of
getting our economy to grow and jobs for our people, making sure
we’ve got strong immigration and welfare policies and doing all
the things that frankly the British people are crying out for
their government to get on with.”  That’s precisely what he should be doing to restore his
standing, said Tim Montgomery, who runs the grassroots Tory
website ConservativeHome.com.  “Cameron needs to change the conversation,” Montgomery
said in an interview. “He needs to do what  Bill Clinton  did at
the height of the Monica Lewinski affair when all the media
cared about was sex and he kept saying that as president he
would do things people care about, like the economy.”  So far Cameron’s standing with voters hasn’t suffered from
the crisis. A  YouGov Plc poll on July 17 and 18  showed 42
percent of voters saying they would back Labour at an election
compared with 37 percent saying they would back the
Conservatives, little changed from a July 7 survey that gave
Labour a 6 percentage-point lead.  Erosion of Support  More immediately, though, Cameron must be wary of any
erosion of support within his own party, according to  Andrew Hawkins , chairman of ComRes Ltd., a London-based polling
company.  “For the first time in this parliament there is open
speculation about his position,” Hawkins said in
a phone interview. “Colleagues in the House of Commons will
question his judgment over Coulson’s appointment, over his
handling of the crisis and over his decision to go to  Africa ”
as the crisis was unfolding.  Even so, analysts are not expecting a longer-term hit to
the Conservatives’ chances of holding on to power at the next
general election, scheduled for 2015.  “The impact on the country at large I don’t think is going
to be that dramatic once the poll ratings settle down,” Hawkins
said.  There may be “a long-term drip, drip corrosive effect” on
Cameron’s authority, said Bale. “Whether this is serious enough
to compromise the chances of the Conservatives getting re-
elected at the next election I very much doubt.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Lagos, Nigeria, at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  