-- 
Canada June Composite Leading Indicators (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T12:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/canada-june-composite-leading-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of  Canada ’s
leading indicators report from  Statistics Canada .  The composite index rose 0.2% in June after a 0.8% gain in
May. In June, 4 of the 10 components declined compared with none
the month before. Most of the reversals occurred in
manufacturing, where all 3 components swung from gains in April
to declines or no change in May. Much of the downturn in
manufacturing originated in the auto sector, where the
disruption of the global supply chain originating in  Japan ’s
tsunami disaster temporarily slowed assemblies in Canada in the
spring.  The ratio of manufacturing sales to inventories fell for
the first time in seven months, led by the drop in auto
shipments. The average workweek at factories also posted its
first decline in 10 months. New orders for durable goods were
unchanged, remaining at the high level established after a 9.3%
surge in April as a result of the booking of several large
orders in the  aerospace industry .  Household spending remained mixed. The housing index
increased 0.3%, as housing starts in June reached their highest
level of the year. Gains in housing helped to sustain growth in
furniture and appliance sales. However, spending on other
durable goods fell 0.3%, partly because a shortage of some
vehicles from Japanese-owned producers appeared to delay
purchases.  Elsewhere, the leading indicator for the United States rose
by 0.4% for the second straight month, as exports and business
investment increased to offset a slowdown in  consumer spending .
The Toronto stock market in June posted its largest drop since
last summer, led by a retreat in energy prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  