-- 
Carney May Keep 1% Rate as Worldwide Debt Risks Outweigh Canada Inflation

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/canada-may-keep-rate-at-1-as-global-risks-outweigh-inflation.html
The  Bank of Canada  will probably
keep its main interest rate unchanged for a seventh straight
meeting today, as economic risks posed by indebted foreign
governments outweigh concerns about quicker domestic inflation.  The Ottawa-based central bank will keep the target for
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where
it’s been since September, said all 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, in a decision due at 9 a.m. New York time.  Governor  Mark Carney  said last month the European debt
crisis could drive up borrowing costs and slow the economic
recovery. In the U.S., which buys three-quarters of Canada’s
exports, lawmakers are trying to reach an agreement to raise the
debt ceiling by Aug. 2 and avoid a default that Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said would lead to a “huge financial
calamity.” Canadian policy makers may still reiterate that
 interest rates  will eventually rise after inflation reached the
fastest since 2003 in May.  “They are blocked from responding to domestic issues
because of these very deep and very real foreign concerns,”
said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “It’s almost an on-off switch: either
things settle down and they get back at tightening quickly or
it’s going to be a long time before we talk about tightening.”  The bank altered its wording at the last announcement May
31, saying its key rate would rise “eventually” as the economy
recovers, changing language it had used since September.
Investors will read today’s press release for further changes to
that phrase, and will look for highlights of the bank’s
quarterly economic forecast that will be published tomorrow.  ‘Ready to Hike’  “It comes down to this mix, that  Canada  is looking
relatively better, and the rest of the world is looking worse,”
said  Eric Lascelles , chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada
Global Asset Management, which oversees about C$250 billion
($261 billion). “They need to be ready to hike if market and
economic events justify it in September,” the next rate
decision, he said.  Economists predict the bank will raise rates to 1.25
percent by the end of September and to 1.5 percent by year-end,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey. By contrast, investors
are betting on at most one quarter-point increase this year,
with the six-month overnight index swap rate remaining at 1.05
percent yesterday. The swap rate represents what investors think
the central bank policy rate will average over that period.  The Bank of Canada’s main policy goal is keeping inflation
at 2 percent. The  consumer price index  accelerated to 3.7
percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest pace since March
2003. Carney  said last month  inflation will be above 3 percent
“in the short term” because of high energy costs and the
temporary effect of provincial tax increases.  Slowing Inflation  The central bank predicted in April that inflation will
slow to 2 percent by mid-2012, which is also when policy makers
said the economy would return to full output. Since then, Carney
said economic growth in the second quarter may be slower than
the 2 percent annual pace the bank estimated in April.  “I wouldn’t characterize the economy at this point as
being overly robust,” BCE Inc. Chief Financial Officer Siim Vanaselja said at a June 9 investor presentation. BCE is
Canada’s largest telephone company.  Automobile production was disrupted by  Japan ’s tsunami and
earthquake, and Canada reported its fourth straight trade
deficit on July 12. Other recent reports suggest the domestic
economic recovery is progressing, including a jobless rate that
fell to a 2-1/2 year low last month and a 21 percent rise in
building permits in May.  “We expect to see continued gradual economic recovery as
we’ve seen for much of the past year,” restaurant chain Tim
Hortons Inc. Chief Financial Officer Cynthia Devine said on a
June 7 conference call. “You also see the consumer under
continued pressure.”  Even with slow economic growth, the policy interest rate
can’t stay at 1 percent if the economy recovers next year,
Lascelles said. “They are taking a bit of a gamble,” he said.
“It is increasingly difficult to justify a policy rate as low
as it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  