-- 
Canada Dollar Reaches an 11-Week High After Carney’s BOC Rate Statement

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-19T21:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/canada-s-dollar-rises-as-stocks-oil-gain-before-bank-of-canada-decision.html
Canada ’s dollar reached the
strongest in 11 weeks after the  Bank of Canada  kept its main
interest rate unchanged and said borrowing costs will increase
as the economy recovers.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose against all
except one of its 16 most-traded peers, the  New Zealand dollar ,
as global stocks and crude oil rallied, boosting demand for
riskier assets. The statement accompanying the central bank’s
interest-rate decision dropped the word “eventually” to
describe the timing of its next move.  “The Bank of Canada produced a very modestly more hawkish
statement than expected,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration. “What they’re
indicating is that they’re one step closer to raising interest
rates again. You’re starting to see some currency strength there
independent of what’s happening throughout the dollar bloc.”  The currency appreciated as much as 1.2 percent to 94.82
cents per  U.S. dollar , the most since May 3. It reached 94.46 on
April 29, the strongest in more than three years. Canada’s
dollar traded at 95.01 cents at 5:01 p.m. in Toronto, from 95.97
cents yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0525.  Market Rates  All 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  would leave the target for
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent.  The yield on December 2011 bankers’ acceptances surged 8
basis points after the Bank of Canada statement today, trading
at 1.46 percent, from 1.38 percent yesterday. It reached 1.36
percent on June 24, the lowest closing price since the contract
started trading in December 2008. Bankers acceptances settle at
an average of 18 basis points above the target rate, according
to Bloomberg data back going to 1992.  “The market views the Bank of Canada statement as quite
hawkish and the Canadian dollar has jumped over half a cent,”
Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank
of  Montreal ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, said via e-mail.
“Inflation pressure was cited several times and the market has
priced in 70 percent of hike in December now.” BMO expects two
interest-rate increases, at the October and December meetings,
he said.  Policy Plan  “To the extent that the expansion continues and the
current material excess supply in the economy is gradually
absorbed, some of the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will be withdrawn,” the central bank said in
a statement. “Such reduction would need to be carefully
considered.”  The central bank will release its monetary policy report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow, with a press conference by Carney 45
minutes later.  The Bank of Canada may raise its policy rate in September
if Canada’s economy continues to grow and European and U.S.
policy makers address their debt burdens, according to  National
Bank of Canada .  “If it was only based on the domestic considerations, the
Bank of Canada would raise its rates today, but you cannot look
at it in a vacuum,” said Paul-Andre Pinsonnault, senior fixed-
income economist at National Bank Financial Group, a unit of the
bank, by telephone from Montreal. “You have to look at what’s
happening to the Canadian dollar and what’s going on globally.”  Bonds Fall  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on
benchmark two-year securities nine basis points higher to 1.48
percent. The price of the 2 percent security maturing in August
2013 dropped 19 cents to C$101.03.  Crude oil futures climbed 2.2 percent to $98.05 a barrel on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Oil is Canada’s biggest
export. The MSCI World Index of stocks in developed economies
gained 1.5 percent.  “Markets are more willing to add risk to their portfolios
today,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of
Nova Scotia, said by phone from Toronto.  The loonie appreciated the most versus the Swiss franc
among major currencies as investors squared positions before a
July 21 meeting of European Union leaders.  “Markets remain nervous ahead of the Thursday emergency
meeting,” Sara Yates, a foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays
Plc, said by phone from  London . “What we’ve run into perhaps is
some profit taking in Swiss franc positions. There’s uncertainty
about what the outcome of that meeting will be, and the market
is nervous ahead of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  