-- 
Central, East Europe Needs ‘Firewall’ From Euro Debt Crisis, RenCap Says

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-07-19T11:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/central-east-europe-needs-firewall-from-euro-debt-crisis-rencap-says.html
Central and eastern  Europe  needs a
“firewall” from possible defaults in the euro region, where
leaders struggle to fix a sovereign debt crisis, said the head
of Russian brokerage Renaissance Capital.  Greece  will probably be the first to default among the
nations using the euro and may be followed by others with
high-debt restructuring needs if the European Union fails to
prevent it from spreading, Renaissance Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Jennings said in an interview in Bucharest yesterday.  “The Europeans are just trying to pretend that gravity
doesn’t exist,” Jennings said, calling defaults of some euro-
region countries “inevitable. I don’t think you can rely on
Europe making the right decisions, so as a country you have to
firewall yourself from that process.”  European leaders need to persuade investors they will
hammer out a solution to the Greek debt crisis, which has
already spread to Ireland and  Portugal  and is threatening to
infect Italy. Greece is waiting for a second international
bailout, while record bond yields threaten to boost financing
cost for Spanish and Greek debt, rekindling concern it will
spread eastward through banking and trade links.  Southeast Europe, including Romania, Bulgaria and Serbia,
is most at risk, because of its proximity to Greece, and an
escalation of the crisis would hurt more western European
banks, Erik Berglof, chief economist at the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, said on July 14.  Greek Parents  Almost a third of Bulgaria’s banks and 17 percent of
Romania’s are owned by Greek parents including Piraeus Bank
SA, Alpha Bank SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA. Greek lenders
own 15 percent to 25 percent of the banks in the non-EU states
of Macedonia,  Serbia  and Albania.  Romania, the largest Balkan country, is in a “strong
fiscal position,” after making “tough” decisions to meet
 International Monetary Fund  and EU demands, said Jennings,
whose company is half-owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail
Prokhorov . It has operations in  Russia , Eastern Europe and the
Commonwealth of Independent States.  Still, it needs to adopt further reform measures to
ensure it is strong enough to survive, he said.  “If the fire spreads far enough and fast enough, what
the markets will do, they will attack, and it will be devil
take the hindmost,” he said “So it’s absolutely critical
that Romania puts itself in a position where in a worst
European case scenario it is a winner, not a loser.”  Wage Cuts, Taxes  The country, which received two international bailouts
since 2009, cut public wages and increased a value-added tax
to trim its  budget deficit  to less than 3 percent of GDP in
2012 from 6.5 percent in 2010.  Romania ’s credit rating was raised to investment grade
for the first time in almost three years this month by  Fitch
Ratings . The economy expanded 1.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, ending a two-year contraction as demand
for exports increased.  It “definitely” ranks “significantly better than
average” in the region, below Poland and higher than
similarly rated Hungary, which is “very exposed to a
potential real fire in Europe,” Jennings said.  Moody’s Investors Service also gives Romania a comparable
Baa3, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates the country’s debt at BB+,
its highest speculative grade.  Restructuring Needs  The cost of insuring Romania’s bonds against non-payment
stood at 279 basis points yesterday, below higher rated
 Italy ’s 331 basis points,  Spain ’s 385 and Hungary’s 325 basis
points, according to data from CMA. CDS prices rise as
investor perceptions of the borrower’s creditworthiness
deteriorate.  “Several countries in the euro zone need to restructure
their debt,” Jennings said. “There are several countries
that almost certainly will need to leave the area, there will
be the need to support and recapitalize banks that were
exposed to those write-downs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
{Andra Timu} in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  