-- 
CFTC Proposal May Give Clearinghouses More Time to Accept Swaps

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-07-19T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/cftc-proposal-may-give-clearinghouses-more-time-to-accept-swaps.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may re-propose a Dodd-Frank Act rule to allow
clearinghouses more time before they must decide whether to
accept and guarantee trades in the $601 trillion swap market.  CFTC commissioners meeting in Washington today will
consider easing  a proposal  that called for clearinghouses to
immediately accept or reject executed trades. The new proposal
would require decisions as soon as technologically possible,
“milliseconds or seconds, or, at most, a few minutes, not hours
or days,” according to a CFTC summary of the rule.  “The proposed rule promotes market participants’ access to
central clearing, increases market transparency and supports
market efficiency,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a
statement prepared for the meeting.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last
year, aims to reduce risk in the swaps market after largely
unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members, seek to
mitigate risk by guaranteeing trades and standing between buyers
and sellers.  The CFTC proposal released in March was opposed by groups
such as the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
Inc., the  Futures Industry Association  and  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the
world’s largest futures exchange. Requiring immediate decisions
on trades would be “imprudent” and would limit “essential
risk-management tools and inject a high-degree of systemic
risk” into the market, CME Group Chief Executive Office Craig S. Donohue said in an April 11  letter  to the CFTC.  Citadel Support  Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based hedge fund started by  Ken Griffin , supported the earlier proposal, arguing that real-time
decisions would allow traders to hedge prices more efficiently
and eliminate bilateral credit risk, Adam Cooper, Citadel’s
chief legal officer, said in a June 3  letter . The  Swaps and
Derivatives Markets Association , whose members include  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MF)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , also supported the March
proposal, according to the group’s  website .  The revised measure would also establish rules governing
documentation standards between swap dealers and their clients.
It would prohibit swap dealers from limiting the number of
counterparties a client may trade with and from restricting the
size of a position a client may take, according to a CFTC
summary of the rule.  Scott O’Malia , one of two Republicans among the CFTC’s five
commissioners, said the proposal alleges that  a voluntary
industry agreement  drafted by FIA and ISDA “may restrict open
access to clearing and harm competitive trading.”  ‘An Accommodation’  “The final agreement reflected an accommodation -- even if
imperfect” -- of the interests of both buyers and sellers,
O’Malia said in prepared remarks outlining his opposition to the
proposal.  The CFTC is also scheduled to consider final Dodd-Frank
rules related to the process for reviewing swaps for mandatory
clearing and the removal of references to credit ratings from
agency regulations.  The commission delayed consideration of a final rule
governing whistleblowers to await information from the U.S.
 Government Accountability Office , the non-partisan investigative
arm of Congress, about how to use whistleblower funds, Gensler
said yesterday in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  