-- 
Chi-X Europe Says Trading Volume Gained 18% as Market Share Rose

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-19T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/chi-x-europe-says-trading-volume-gained-18-as-market-share-rose.html
Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. said trading
volume rose 18 percent in the first half as the region’s biggest
alternative trading system continued to take market share from
traditional exchanges.  The number of trades on the system climbed to 154.3 million
from 131.2 million in the same period a year before, the London-
based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The value of
trading increased to 860.9 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) from
849.9 billion euros.  Chi-X Europe is is in talks to be acquired by Bats Global
Markets Inc., operator of the second-largest alternative trading
system in Europe. The merger was referred to the U.K.
Competition Commission last month and the regulator is due to
issue a report by Dec. 2.  “Chi-X Europe has maintained its pattern of growth and
continues to be the largest pan-European stock exchange despite
the period of uncertainty surrounding the proposed sale of the
company,” Chief Executive Officer Alasdair Haynes said in the
statement. “What is particularly pleasing is that the second
half of the year has got off to an excellent start.”  Second-quarter trading rose 6 percent to 76.5 million from
72.1 million in the comparable period a year ago, the company
said. The value of trading fell 16 percent to 406.4 billion
euros “in line with the reduced values traded on other European
exchanges,” Chi-X said.  Chi-X Europe was the first alternative trading platform in
Europe to compete with traditional exchanges such as  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and Deutsche Boerse AG by offering
lower fees and faster trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  