-- 
China Said to Have Kept Cooking-Oil Price Caps as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-19T18:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/china-said-to-keep-cooking-oil-price-caps-as-inflation-gains.html
China , the world’s biggest consumer
of vegetable oils, is maintaining caps on prices and hasn’t
announced plans to sell from state stockpiles, according to two
people briefed on the government’s policy.  The government controls prices through private accords with
suppliers, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. The caps
have been removed, the Quanzhou Evening News reported July 17,
citing an unidentified government official. A call to the
newspaper seeking comment yesterday wasn’t immediately returned.  “The government clearly has no intention to loosen its
grip on the market,” said Tommy Xiao, an analyst at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co.  Inflation in China has breached the government’s 4 percent
ceiling every month this year, with consumer prices rising 6.4
percent in June from a year earlier, the fastest pace in three
years. The central bank raised  interest rates  five times since
October to stem the gains.  Wilmar International Ltd., which has about half China’s
retail cooking-oil market, isn’t aware of a lifting of the caps,
a spokesman for the Singapore-based company said July 18. He
declined to be identified by name, citing company policy.  The government offered the biggest refiners soybeans and
vegetable oils from state stockpiles at discounted prices
earlier this year to compensate for the caps.  Li Pumin, deputy secretary general of the National
Development and Reform Commission in Beijing, didn’t answer a
call to his office seeking comment. The NDRC is the nation’s top
economic planner.  --William Bi, Editors: Richard Dobson, Stuart Wallace  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3030 or
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  