-- 
China’s 30% Gain in Tax Revenue Counters Risks from Local-Government Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-19T06:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/chinese-tax-revenue-surges-30-countering-risk-from-local-government-debt.html
China ’s tax revenue rose 29.6
percent to 5 trillion yuan ($773 billion) in the first half of
the year, giving officials more room to maneuver as they grapple
with swelling local-government debt.  The gain,  reported  by the Ministry of Finance on its
website today, compared with a 32.4 percent increase in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  “Stable” economic growth and rising company profits
helped to bolster revenue, with inflation also playing a role,
the ministry said. The fiscal strength that encouraged  Standard
& Poor’s  to raise China’s debt rating in December may help the
nation to absorb any fallout from banks’ loans going bad after
stimulus spending that began in 2008.  “Strong  tax revenue  should strengthen the fiscal
position,” said Chang Jian, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Hong Kong  who formerly worked for the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority and the  World Bank . “There should be little worry
about tax and fiscal revenue growth as the economy keeps growing
at 8 to 9 percent.”  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent as of 1:45
p.m. local time on concern banks’ fundraising will drain capital
from existing shares and policy tightening measures may slow the
economy. China Merchants Bank Co. earlier announced a plan for a
rights offer.  Tax ‘Capabilities’  Gross domestic product increased a more-than-forecast 9.5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier. The nation’s
first audit of local government debt found liabilities of 10.7
trillion yuan at the end of last year after investment vehicles
were used as channels for stimulus spending.  While a “sizable bailout” will be required, China’s
“local debt problem does not have to trigger a banking crisis
or a macro-economic slowdown,”  Stephen Green , the Hong Kong-
based head of Greater China research at Standard Chartered Plc.,
said in an e-mailed note, dated yesterday and received today.
“The central government’s balance sheet and tax collection
capabilities combined with strong nominal growth should mean
this challenge can be met.”  Revenue from personal income tax rose 35 percent from a
year earlier and money from resource taxes climbed 45 percent,
according to the  finance ministry , which also cited improvements
in collection.  ‘Most Exposed’  In the short-term, the Ministry of Finance should budget
for infrastructure spending to provide liquidity for troubled
projects and stabilize “the most exposed banks,” Green said.
Other measures could include transferring “a large chunk” of
the financing-vehicle loans to a major policy bank, he added.  “Critically, once the immediate challenge has been met,
China needs to rebuild its fiscal and financial systems to
ensure that the same mistakes are not repeated the next time an
economic crisis hits.”  China’s financial strengths outweigh “sizable” contingent
liabilities in the banking system that could materialize in any
extended economic slowdown, ratings company S&P said last year,
when it raised the nation’s debt rating to AA-, the fourth-
highest level. The government holds a world-record $3.2 trillion
of foreign-exchange reserves.  Today’s data “shows the government has the room to cut tax
for both companies and individuals, especially small and medium-
sized enterprises, as a way to boost employment and
consumption,” Chang said.  China is adjusting income tax this year, raising the entry
level to 3,500 yuan per month from 2,000 yuan, effective Sept. 1.
In addition, a plan to expand the resources tax has been
submitted to China’s cabinet, the State Council, the Shanghai
Securities News reported yesterday, citing an official at the
State Administration of Taxation.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  John Liu .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  