-- 
Christie Plans to Lift New Jersey Suspension on Medical Marijuana Program

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-07-19T19:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/christie-plans-to-lift-new-jersey-suspension-on-medical-marijuana-program.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he plans to lift a suspension on implementing the state’s
medical-marijuana program.  Christie, a first-term Republican and former U.S.
prosecutor, told reporters he doesn’t believe federal law-
enforcement officials will go after dispensaries of medical
marijuana or state workers who help to implement the program.  “I believe that the need to provide compassionate pain
relief to these citizens of our state outweighs the risk we are
taking in moving forward with the program,” Christie said today
in Trenton.  Former Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat who Christie
succeeded, signed a law in 2009 legalizing marijuana for
medicinal use in New Jersey by those suffering from cancer,
acquired immune deficiency syndrome and other afflictions.  Christie, who took office in 2010, initially sought to
reduce the number of marijuana dispensaries and to place more
regulations on how the drug was grown and prescribed, saying he
wanted to prevent abuse.  In December, the governor announced a compromise that would
allow six centers statewide to grow and dispense pot. It would
also limit the potency of the prescribed drug.  Christie said last month he would delay New Jersey’s
medical-marijuana law until getting clarification from U.S.
authorities over whether workers would face federal charges. The
sale and possession of pot is illegal under federal law, even
for medical use.  Risk Worth Taking  “It’s a risk worth taking” to alleviate pain, Christie
said. New Jersey’s medical-marijuana law allows for a “narrow,
medically based program,” he said.  New Jersey’s health department will contact the six
dispensaries today and expects to hear back from them within a
week about their readiness to open, Christie said. The state
plans to move forward “as expeditiously as possible,” he said.  Sixteen states and the  District of Columbia  have legalized
marijuana for medical purposes, according to the Marijuana
Policy Project, a Washington-based group that wants the drug
legalized and regulated for all users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton Statehouse at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  