-- 
TCI’s Veldhuijzen Says India Mining Bill Is ‘Counterproductive’

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-19T15:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/tci-s-veldhuijzen-says-india-mining-bill-is-counterproductive-.html
Oscar Veldhuijzen, a partner at The
Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP, comments on the
impact of  India ’s draft mining bill on  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  The fund
is the second biggest investor in the company after the nation’s
government. TCI has $10 billion under management, of which about
10 percent is invested in Coal India.  A panel of Indian ministers on July 7 cleared the draft
bill that proposes to make coal mining companies pay 26 percent
of their profit for local development. Coal India’s stock
dropped a record 8 percent the next day. The bill has to be
cleared by the country’s Cabinet before being approved by
Parliament.  “The profit sharing clause is counterproductive as it will
discourage mining companies from investing in and expanding
production, as investment returns would drop sharply and the
perception of regulatory risk would increase.  ‘‘A more effective way to support local communities would
be to increase  Coal India ’s dividends and distribute the
government’s proceeds directly to the projects and people who
require financial support.  ‘‘We expect Coal India’s pretax profits to quadruple in six
years because the number of employees is expected to decrease by
25 percent as they retire. Production is expected to grow by
about 50 percent, while pricing will improve as the company
begins to sell more washed coal.  ‘‘We are a long-term investor in the company and are
looking to increase our stake. We have been buying on
weaknesses. Coal India is by far the best investment opportunity
in India. It is a sleeping monster.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  