-- 
Civica Raises 600 Million Euros in IPO Following Bankia

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-20T09:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/civica-raises-600-million-euros-in-ipo-following-bankia.html
Banca Civica SA, the lender formed
from the merger of four Spanish savings banks, raised about 600
million euros ($849 million) in its initial public offering,
pricing its shares at the bottom of the marketed range.  Civica sold 222 million shares at 2.70 euros apiece,
according to a statement yesterday. The Madrid-based bank
originally planned to sell stock at as much as 3.80 euros. The
lender has an option to sell another 12 percent of the shares
given sufficient demand.  Civica and larger rival Bankia SA, whose IPO also occurred
this week, priced shares at a discount to peers to draw in
shareholders as  Spain ’s borrowing costs reach euro-era records.
Bankia raised more than 3 billion euros after slashing its IPO
price by as much as 26 percent.  “These banks sold shares at a time of maximum stress for
Spain and its financial system, and the pricing reflects that,”
said Ofelia Marin, head of analysis at Banca March in Madrid.  Five Spanish lenders failed this year’s European Union
stress tests after regulators found they didn’t have enough
capital to withstand a potential crisis. Both Civica and Bankia
passed, with a core Tier 1 capital ratio above the required 5
percent.  Banca Civica received total orders worth 1.1 billion euros
and allocated 58 percent of shares to retail investors, 40
percent to institutional investors and 2 percent to staff,
according to the statement. Demand from institutional investors
was 1.3 times their portion while demand from retail investors
was 2.3 times, the bank said.  Civica was priced at 0.4 times to 0.52 times its estimated
book value, two people with direct knowledge of the deal said
last week. The ratio for the average of eight listed Spanish
banks was 0.67 as of July 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at  
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  