-- 
Coca-Cola Profit Jumps 18% as Sales Gain in Latin America

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-07-19T20:07:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/coca-cola-earnings-increase-18-as-sales-gain-in-latin-america.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, said second-quarter profit rose 18 percent as
sales in Latin America and  Asia  gained.  Net income advanced to $2.8 billion, or $1.20 a share, from
$2.37 billion, or $1.02, a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit
was $1.17 a share, topping the $1.16 average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has built new plants in
emerging markets and pushed more profitable package sizes
overseas to help offset limited U.S. pricing gains this year.
Second-quarter net operating revenue climbed 13 percent in Latin
America and 15 percent in Coke’s Eurasia and Africa division.  “The surprise is not that international markets grew but
the rate at which they grew,”  Philip Gorham , a senior equity
analyst for Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said today in an
interview. “Coke is investing in distribution in emerging
markets and gaining points of sale.”  Coca-Cola rose $2.20, or 3.3 percent, to $69.32 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 5.4 percent this year, while PepsiCo Inc. increased 4.9
percent.  Total sales rose 47 percent to $12.7 billion, helped by
last year’s acquisition of the company’s largest distributor.
The average estimate of 11 analysts was $12.4 billion.  Volume sales in  China  grew 21 percent. The company is
attempting to boost profit there by introducing smaller packages
that fetch more revenue per ounce and are more affordable.  ‘More Choice’  “The consumer is telling us they want more choice,” Kent
said today in an interview. “We’ve been implementing this
successfully in  Latin America  and in parts of Eurasia but not
everywhere.”  The Japan earthquake and tsunami will cut full-year
earnings per share by as much as 5 cents, more than the 2 cents
to 4 cents forecast last quarter, according to the statement.  Coca-Cola boosted sales volume in  North America  by 4
percent, helped by new distribution of Dr. Pepper brands
acquired in Coca-Cola’s purchase of its largest bottler last
year.  The company said it will increase drink pricing in its
North American market by 3 percent to 4 percent in the second
half of the year after boosting it by 1 percent to 2 percent in
the quarter.  Coca-Cola repeated a forecast that commodity costs for the
year may rise by as much as $700 million. The increase is fueled
by the higher cost of oil-based plastics used in bottles, as
well as rising costs for metals, sweeteners and fruit for juice.  PepsiCo said in April it planned to raise prices on food
and beverages to help make up for higher costs for corn,
packaging plastic and other commodities. PepsiCo, which gets
about two-thirds of sales come from snacks, has said total
commodity costs may increase $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion this
year, from a base of $18 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net . 