-- 
Columbia University Student Pleads Guilty in Drug Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-19T17:51:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/columbia-university-student-pleads-guilty-in-drug-case-1-.html
A Columbia University student
accused of running an on-campus drug dealing operation pleaded
guilty to selling cocaine to an undercover officer.  Harrison David, 20, agreed to the plea today before Judge
Michael Sonberg in  New York  state Supreme Court in  Manhattan  in
exchange for six months in jail and five years of probation.
David, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts , on June 21 rejected a plea
bargain for one year in prison and two years probation. He is
scheduled for sentencing on Aug. 30.  “We believe the additional three years of supervised
release will serve the interest of justice in this case,”
Assistant District Attorney William Novak said.  David’s attorney,  Matthew Myers , said he agreed to the plea
because he felt the previous offer of one year in prison was
“somewhat harsh” for David, who he said was a “respectful,”
“brilliant kid” with a “very bright future.”  “I think it was a fair resolution,” Myers told reporters
outside court after David pleaded guilty to selling cocaine to
an undercover officer on Aug. 24 at an apartment on West 113th
Street where he was staying last summer.  Defense Requests  Four other students -- Christopher Coles, 21, of
Philadelphia; Adam Klein, 21, of Closter,  New Jersey ; Jose
Stephan Perez, 20, of Atlanta; and Michael Wymbs, 22, of New
York -- refused deals to plead guilty to drug-related charges
that would have earned them each five years’ probation. They are
scheduled to return to court Sept. 23.  Novak has rejected defense requests to divert the cases to
state drug-treatment courts, saying the sales were motivated by
profit, not addiction.  The five students were arrested in December after a five-
month investigation named “Operation  Ivy League .” The arrests
followed raids on fraternity houses and residences on the
university’s Manhattan campus.  David, a sophomore engineering student, is currently
suspended by the school and is likely to be expelled given his
guilty plea, Myers said. He remains free on bail until his
sentencing and is staying in  Florida  with an uncle, a former
corrections officer who is a “strict disciplinarian,” Myers
said.  “He’s moved on with his life,” Myers said of David, who
was accompanied at today’s court appearance by his father, Dave
David, a Boston-area  cosmetic surgeon .  Ecstasy, LSD  Prosecutors said undercover officers spent $11,000 buying
drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, with most of the sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities.  Alleged suppliers Miron Sarzynski, 24, and his girlfriend,
Megan Asper, 22, were arrested in October in the East Village
neighborhood of Manhattan. Another alleged cocaine supplier,
Roberto Lagares, 31, was arrested in December in  Brooklyn , New
York. None of them attended Columbia.  Sarzynski pleaded guilty to second-degree criminal sale of
a controlled substance and first-degree attempted kidnapping and
was sentenced to six years in prison. Asper pleaded guilty to
third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and
was sentenced to 45 days in prison. Lagares pleaded guilty to
criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and
was sentenced to six years in prison.  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students and is
one of eight schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the
Ivy League. Graduates include President  Barack Obama  and  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  Robert Hornsby , a spokesman for Columbia, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York State
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 