-- 
Commodity Shipping Rates Decline for Eighth Session on Glut

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e b o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-07-19T17:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/commodity-shipping-rates-decline-for-eighth-session-on-glut.html
Commodity shipping costs declined
for an eighth consecutive day because of a surplus of vessels
competing to transport  iron ore .  The Baltic Dry Index, an overall measure of transportation
costs for raw materials cargoes, fell 0.7 percent to 1,330
points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. The largest
decline was for capesize ships most commonly used to haul iron
ore, which fell 1.8 percent to $11,112 a day.  “In the coming months, we expect freight rates to drift
lower, albeit slowly,” Barclays Capital analyst Miswin Mahesh
in London, said in an e-mailed report today. Charter rates for
all bulk carriers will stay low until the end of 2011, with the
capesize fleet affected more than smaller vessel types because
it was growing fastest, according to the report.  Global bulk carrier fleet growth is outpacing demand, with
supply forecast to rose 10.8 percent in 2011, while cargo
shipments rise 6.6 percent, Urs Dur, an analyst at  Lazard
Capital Markets Ltd.  in  New York , said in a research note
distributed by e-mail yesterday.  “While demand numbers remain somewhat firm, oversupply and
still slower demand from  Japan  are keeping rates very
depressed,” according to the note. “No break to the upside
looks in the cards in the very near term.”  The dry bulk fleet has expanded 7 percent in the six months
ending June 30, said SSY Consultancy & Research Ltd., a unit of
London shipbroker Simpson Spence & Young, in a monthly report
distributed by e-mail yesterday.  Charter rates for supramax and handysize bulk carriers, the
smallest tracked by the gauge, also fell. The cost to hire a
supramax ship was 0.1 percent lower at $13,256 daily, a five-
month low, data showed.  Rents for handysize ships declined 0.2 percent to $10,219,
losing 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  