-- 
Copper Reaches Three-Month High as U.S. Housing Starts May Gain

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-19T11:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/copper-advances-to-a-three-month-high-as-u-s-housing-starts-may-increase.html
Copper rose to a three-month high in
 New York  before figures that may show builders in the U.S. broke
ground on more houses, signaling stronger demand for the metal.  Construction began on 575,000 houses at an annual rate, up
2.7 percent from May, according to the median projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Copper, used in pipes,
wiring and roofing, has gained this month even as concern about
Europe’s debt crisis and talks to raise the U.S. borrowing limit
spurred some investors to shun risk.  “U.S. housing-starts and building-permits data will be
released today, which are important for base-metals prices,”
Edelweiss Comtrade Ltd. said in a report.  Copper for September delivery advanced 5.15 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $4.4545 a pound by 7:44 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices reached $4.4735, the highest level since April 12.
Copper for three-month delivery climbed 0.9 percent to $9,786 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  European leaders will meet this week for the second time in
a month as they strive to agree on funding a second Greek
bailout and buttressing their efforts to stem rising bond yields
in the region. In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  is urging
lawmakers to agree to a deficit-cutting deal as the Aug. 2
deadline for raising the debt ceiling approaches.  Sovereign Debts  “The overwhelming worry at the moment is on the macro
side, particularly the sovereign-debt risks,” said Duncan Hobbs, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. With those
concerns persisting, “it’s difficult to see a really strong
rally breaking out.”  Still, Comex copper has climbed 4 percent in July as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of equities slid 1.2 percent.
Concern that supply may run short of demand bolstered prices as
Rio Tinto Group said last week its second-quarter production of
mined copper slid 24 percent. Larger rival BHP Billiton Ltd. is
due to release quarterly figures tomorrow.  “Even with debt-default jitters in  Europe  and the  United
States  remaining a constant head wind for global growth
prospects, base-metals prices have barely budged,” Edelweiss
said.  China , the world’s biggest copper consumer, will have to
import more of the metal in the second half than in the first
six months, which will help drive prices to new highs in the
fourth quarter, said Ren Gang, head of Maike Futures Co.’s
research department.  “Physical market conditions are generally improving” in
China, Macquarie’s Hobbs said. “Investors outside of China
looking at base-metals markets see compelling fundamental
stories in a number of markets.”  Zinc for three-month delivery on the LME rose 1.7 percent
to $2,472 a ton after reaching $2,482, the highest level since
April 13. Orders to withdraw the metal from New Orleans
warehouses climbed 1,100 tons to 48,900 tons after surging more
than sixfold yesterday.  Aluminum, lead, nickel and tin advanced in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  