-- 
Cotton May Drop 11% as Share of Textile Market Wanes, Olah Says

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-07-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/cotton-may-drop-11-as-share-of-textile-market-wanes-olah-says.html
Cotton, which has slumped 54 percent
since touching a record, may decline an additional 11 percent as
its share of the global textile market dwindles, according to
Olah Inc., an apparel manufacturer and consulting group.  Prices may fall to 90 cents a pound “soon” as usage of
cotton in clothing, home furnishings and industrial products
will fall to 30 percent by Dec. 31 from 40 percent a year
earlier, said Robert Antoshak, a managing director for Olah who
has been tracking the market for 30 years.  The company says its
customers have included Gap Inc. and Levi Strauss & Co.  Cotton jumped to a record $2.197 in March on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York  as adverse weather damaged global crops and
economic growth lifted buying from Chinese textile mills. In the
U.S., cotton accounted for 18 percent of all fibers used in May,
down from 22 percent in December, according to government data.  “Cotton rising to $2 did some irreparable damage to
demand,” Antoshak said yesterday in an interview in New York.
“Companies began using more blends everywhere and we saw that
happen especially in home textiles.”  Demand from China, the world’s biggest importer, may weaken
as high costs encourage consumers to switch to cheaper synthetic
fibers, said Chen Tao, the chairman of Louis Dreyfus (Beijing)
Commodities Trading Co., on July 6 in Dalian. Imports by  China 
fell 27 percent in May, according to customs data.  Cotton for December delivery rose by the exchange limit of
4 cents, or 4.1 percent, to settle at $1.008 yesterday on ICE.
Prices fell 12 percent last month, the third straight drop.  “With demand declining, the weakness will continue short
term as prices are still high compared to 60 to 70 cents that
cotton traded at for a very, very long time,” Antoshak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 