-- 
CSX Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates as Shipping Climbs Amid Recovery

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-07-19T20:46:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/csx-profit-beats-second-quarter-estimates-as-shipping-climbs-amid-recovery.html
CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest eastern U.S.
railroad, posted higher second-quarter profit than analysts
estimated as the economic recovery boosted shipping volumes.  Profit rose 22 percent to $506 million, or 46 cents a
share, beating the average estimate of 44 cents from 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with net income of $414
million, or 36 cents, in the same period last year, the
Jacksonville, Florida-based company said today in a statement.  Carloads at North American Class 1 railroads, the largest
based on revenue, advanced about 4 percent in the quarter,
Bloomberg analysis shows. Last week, CSX raised its planned
spending for the year by $200 million to buy railcars and take
advantage of growing overseas demand for U.S. coal.  CSX “is well positioned to benefit from Eastern intermodal
strength, export coal growth, the ongoing economic recovery, and
a well-capitalized balance sheet,” Jason Seidl, a New York-
based analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a note to clients
last week. He recommends buying the stock.  Total shipment volume advanced 3 percent, led by gains in
intermodal deliveries, which can be moved by rail, highway and
sea. Revenue per unit surged 10 percent, led by coal and
intermodal gains.  Quarterly sales rose 13 percent to $3.02 billion, topping
an average estimate of $2.97 billion from analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  CSX gained 47 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $25.95 at 4:18 p.m.
after the close of regular trading in  New York .  CSX is the first rail carrier to report second-quarter
earnings. Union Pacific Corp. is scheduled to release its
results July 21, and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  plans to report July
26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  