-- 
DAX Futures to Remain Trading Within a Range This Week: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/dax-futures-to-remain-trading-within-a-range-this-week-technical-analysis.html
Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  futures expiring
in September may remain below 7,302 this week, as the contracts
have “stabilized” in a range at that point, according to
technical analysts at Commerzbank AG.  Since April, the futures contract on the benchmark gauge
for German equities has been trading within a range between
7,015 and 7,650, a group of Frankfurt-based technical analysts
led by Achim Matzke wrote in a report yesterday. A “summer
rally” took the contract as high as 7,498 on July 7. It was at
7,127.50 as of 6:50 p.m. Frankfurt time yesterday.  The DAX Index’s September futures have fallen 5.5 percent
from this year’s high on May 2 amid concern the European fiscal
crisis will derail the economic recovery. The underlying gauge
itself, which tracks 30 companies traded on the Frankfurt Stock
Exchange, declined 5.6 percent over the same period.  “A continuation of the trading range should be on the
agenda,” the strategists said in the report. “Trading should
be determined on the one hand by the beginning of the earnings
season in the U.S. and in  Europe  and, on the other hand, by news
flow regarding possible solutions with a view to the
indebtedness of the countries.”  European stocks sank to a seven-month low yesterday,
extending the drop from this year’s high to almost 10 percent,
after results from bank stress tests failed to allay concern
that the region’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading.  U.S. Debt Limit  Concern American lawmakers will fail to reach a deal on the
nation’s debt limit two weeks before a deadline has weighed on
U.S. equities. A default by the U.S. would cause more panic than
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, former
Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers  told  CNN  in an interview
broadcast yesterday.  DAX futures would probably decline further if the index
breaches the current support zone of 7,015, but “at the moment,
we lack indications that the future is going to leave the
sideways movement with a sell signal,” Sophia Wurm, one of the
technical analysts who wrote the report, said in a telephone
interview. “We currently assume that the support zone of 7,015
will hold.” If it does decline further, the next support level
would be around 6,830, Wurm said.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study price
graphs to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  