-- 
DBS’s Gupta Says China Can Absorb ‘Unproductive’ Bank Assets

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-07-19T05:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/dbs-s-gupta-says-china-can-absorb-unproductive-bank-assets.html
Piyush Gupta, chief executive
officer of  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , southeast Asia’s largest
bank, comments on the short-term risks in  China  and the
implications of Basel rules for Asian banks.  On Chinese bank lending:  “The Chinese banks put on nearly $2 trillion in loans in a
two-year period. That’s a lot of loans. And if you reckon that
anything from 10 to 20 percent of them went into unproductive
investments, that’s nearly $300 billion of assets that are
potentially unproductive. At some stage, they will have to come
out of the tangible book values of these banks.”  “China as a country has the capacity to absorb those kinds
of numbers.”  On China’s outlook:  “Medium term, I would bet on China.”  “We think  Asia  will power through. In the short term, there
is uncertainty. Inflation at 6.5 percent is a serious issue in
China. Some of the implications of the local-government
financing vehicles in the short term could create a bouncy ride.
There’s no question that the second half of the year will be
slow. But if you think three, five or 10 years out, it’s a good
bet to make.”  On Basel III rules:  “If you look at most Southeast Asian banks, and Singapore
banks are an example, we’ve been running core Tier 1 north of 11
percent for the entire decade. And that’s true for most Asian
countries that were impacted by the crisis. Therefore no matter
what level of stress you put into the system, most of the Asian
players can quite handily address those stress situations.”  “You could argue that the book value of some of the
Chinese banks is questionable. But by and large the Asian banks
are really strongly capitalized. So the Basel III implications
are not very onerous for most Asian countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  