-- 
Diamond Price Gains to Slow After Surging in First Half, Petra’s CEO Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-07-19T09:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/diamond-price-gains-to-slow-after-surging-in-first-half-petra-s-ceo-says.html
Rough diamond price gains may slow
in the second half of the year after surging in the first six
months on rising demand from  China  and  India , according to Johan Dippenaar, the chief executive officer of  Petra Diamonds Ltd. (PDL)   “We will probably see a six month period of consolidation
while people take stock,” he said in a telephone interview
today. “We’ve seen prices perform well and it’s on the back of
real demand.”  Prices of rough, or unpolished, gems jumped more than 49
percent in the first six months, building on two straight annual
gains of more than 30 percent, according to WWW International
Diamond Consultants Ltd. Prices have advanced as mine operators
struggle to meet Chinese and Indian demand after slashing output
during the global financial crisis.  China has surpassed Japan as the second-largest buyer of
diamonds, behind the U.S., which consumed about 38 percent of
world output last year, according to  De Beers , the biggest gem
producer. China and Japan each represented 11 percent of diamond
jewelry demand last year, with India at 10 percent, it said.
U.S. demand grew 7 percent, while in India it expanded 31
percent and in China by 25 percent, De Beers said.  “Supply will remain tight and that in itself will underpin
pricing,” Petra’s Dippenaar said.  Petra, based in Hamilton, Bermuda, said annual sales rose
24 percent as prices increased. Gross mine revenue climbed to
$220.6 million in the 12 months through June from $177.7 million
a year earlier, the company said in a statement.  Petra expects to complete the purchase of the Finsch
diamond mine in  South Africa  from De Beers in the “coming
weeks,” Dippenaar said. Buying the mine will help Petra more
than double last year’s production of 1.1 million carats, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  