-- 
Euro Weakens Versus Yen as European Leaders Prepare to Meet on Debt Crisis

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-20T06:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/dollar-maintains-gain-against-franc-as-obama-endorses-deficit-cutting-plan.html
The euro fell against the yen before
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet amid concern European leaders will fail to reach a
solution to the region’s debt crisis at a summit tomorrow.  The dollar maintained a two-day gain against the Swiss
franc after President  Barack Obama  endorsed deficit-cutting
measures as a step toward raising the debt ceiling and avoiding
default. South Korea’s won led gains in Asian currencies and the
Singapore dollar climbed to a record as a rally in shares across
the globe stoked demand for higher-yielding assets. The
Australian dollar held onto yesterday’s advance before a report
forecast to show sales of existing U.S. homes rebounded.  “The Europeans are too divided over what to do, so our
expectations are pretty low for this meeting,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Sydney. “We like selling the euro on rallies.”  The euro declined to 111.83 yen as of 7 a.m. in  London  from
112.07 yen in  New York  yesterday. The 17-nation currency was at
$1.4142 from $1.4156. The dollar bought 82.45 Swiss centimes
from 82.41 centimes yesterday. The Japanese currency traded at
79.07 against the greenback from 79.18.  Australia’s dollar was at $1.0714 from $1.0733, after it
climbed 1.2 percent yesterday.  Euro-area leaders are preparing for the second meeting in a
month to hammer out a solution to the Greek debt crisis, which
pushed the euro to $1.3837 last week, the lowest since March.
Sarkozy will dine with Merkel and will leave Berlin on the
morning of July 21 to travel to Brussels for the debt summit,
his office said in an emailed statement.  ‘Spectacular Step’  European leaders are at odds with one another and with the
 European Central Bank  over demands by Germany and Finland that
private investors bear some of the burden of a new Greek
bailout. While Merkel said yesterday the crisis can’t be
resolved in “one spectacular step,” Greek counterpart  George
Papandreou  said in an interview that the summit could be a
“make-or-break moment” for the euro region.  Greece’s sovereign-debt crisis risks contaminating the rest
of the euro region even if officials avert a default, the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday.  Westpac’s Callow suggested investors sell the euro on
advances above $1.4250 over the next few days.  Singapore Record  The South Korean won climbed 0.4 percent to 1,055.30
against the U.S. currency, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Singapore dollar  reached S$1.2139 per dollar, an
all-time high, before trading at S$1.2147.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares advanced 1
percent after the MSCI World Index rose 1.5 percent yesterday.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index climbed
0.8 percent.  Obama called the revival of the plan from the Gang of Six,
a bipartisan group of U.S. Senators, “good news” that may help
speed up negotiations on the deficit and raising the federal
debt ceiling. He pledged this week to veto a Republican proposal
to impose mandatory budget cuts. The government says it has
until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay its debt expires.  Home Sales  Purchases of previously owned homes, which make up about 95
percent of the U.S. market, climbed 1.9 percent in June from
May’s six-month low to a 4.9 million annual rate, according to
the median projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a National Association of Realtors’ report today.  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig 
said yesterday the  U.S. economy  will continue to grow “at a
modest pace” of 2.5 percent to 3 percent in 2011 and 2012.  “Even though the U.S. may print better data, the question
is when does the U.S. raises rates,” said  Tony Allen , global
head of foreign-exchange trading in Sydney at  Australia  & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “As long as the news gets better,
the Aussie can go up.”  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia,
compared with as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors
to the South Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  