-- 
Dollar Rises Against Yen as Obama Endorses Bipartisan Deficit-Cutting Plan

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-19T21:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/dollar-rises-against-yen-as-obama-endorses-bipartisan-deficit-cutting-plan.html
The dollar rose versus the yen for
the first time in three days as President  Barack Obama  endorsed
deficit-cutting measures proposed by a bipartisan group of
senators, easing concern the U.S. is moving closer to default.  The U.S. currency pared its drop against the euro as Obama
called the revival of the so-called Gang of Six proposal “good
news.” The euro earlier reduced gains as Germany’s  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said debt turmoil can’t be resolved in one step
and the  International Monetary Fund  said the Greek crisis risks
infecting the rest of the  euro zone .  “The talk of the Gang of Six coming together and maybe
helping facilitate some agreement on the debt ceiling, possible
fiscal adjustments, that’s really been the catalyst for this
move,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . “It’s a squeeze of
any dollar short positions. The dollar is coming back across the
board.” A short is a bet a currency may decline.  The dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to 79.18 yen at 5 p.m.
in New York, from 79.04 yesterday, after falling as much as 0.3
percent. The euro increased 0.3 percent to $1.4156, from
$1.4112, after advancing as much as 0.7 percent. The 17-nation
currency rose 0.5 percent to 112.07 yen, from 111.55.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rallied as
stocks and crude oil advanced.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose against
all of its 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, advancing
as much as 1.5 percent to a record 85.73 U.S. cents.  Australia ’s
dollar gained 1.2 percent to $1.0733.  Gain in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.6 percent, while
crude oil for August delivery increased 2.2 percent to $98.05 a
barrel. A rally in Treasuries pushed yields on 10-year notes
down five basis points to 2.88 percent.  The Swiss franc, a haven in times of financial turmoil,
weakened against all of its major counterparts, sliding 1.1
percent to 1.1664 versus the euro after appreciating yesterday
to a record 1.1374. The currency declined 0.8 percent to 82.41
centimes per dollar after gaining yesterday to a record 80.33.  Obama said the revival of the Gang of Six plan may help
speed up negotiations on the deficit and raising the federal
debt ceiling. He pledged yesterday to veto a Republican proposal
to impose mandatory budget cuts. The government says it has
until Aug. 2 before its ability to pay its debt expires.  European Summit  European Union leaders are preparing for a summit on July
21 to hammer out a solution to the Greek debt crisis, which
pushed the euro to $1.3837 last week, the lowest since March.  Merkel’s comments damped expectations that government
leaders can make progress on the region’s debt problems at this
week’s summit.  “Those who want to take political responsibility, and
that’s what the government wants and takes seriously, know that
responsibly there won’t be one spectacular step” this week,
Merkel told reporters in Hanover,  Germany , today. “It’s
entirely about creating a controlled, composed process of
gradual steps and measures.”  Policy makers are divided on how to prod investors into
financing a new Greek bailout package and whether the euro area
should issue euro bonds to help debt-laden nations tap markets.  Europe ’s leaders have failed to convince investors that
they are capable of resolving Greece’s debt crisis, running the
risk of derailing the global recovery, the IMF said in a
statement released today.  IMF View  Greece’s problems risk infecting the rest of the euro
region even if officials avert a default, threatening the global
economic recovery, the IMF said.  “The IMF is taking a very independent view, and it does
not want to be seen as complicit in any type of rubber-stamping
approval of a bailout of the peripheral members,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more
than $20 trillion in assets under administration.  The euro gained earlier against the dollar after Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said negotiations over a
second bailout package for  Greece  should be “positive for the
viability of the public debt” and safeguard the nation’s
banking system. The aim is to avoid even a selective default on
the nation’s debt, he said in an interview, according to an e-
mailed statement today from the Athens-based  Finance Ministry .
He said a resolution of debt turmoil is attainable.  The Canadian dollar appreciated as much as 1.2 percent to
94.82 versus the U.S. currency, the strongest level since May 3.
The  Bank of Canada  kept its target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent and said borrowing costs
will increase as the economy recovers. Policy makers dropped the
word “eventually” to describe the timing of their next move.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  