-- 
Dominique Strauss-Kahn Accusers’ Lawyers Meet With Prosecutors in New York

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-19T23:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/dominique-strauss-kahn-accusers-lawyers-meet-with-prosecutors-in-new-york.html
Manhattan  prosecutors met with
lawyers for two women who separately accused former
International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn of
attacking them.  David Koubbi, a lawyer for writer Tristane Banon, who told
French authorities Strauss-Kahn attempted to rape her in 2003,
declined to comment to reporters as he left the Manhattan
district attorney’s office today. With him was Kenneth P.
Thompson, who is representing a hotel maid who accused Strauss-
Kahn of sexually assaulted her in a New York Hotel room in May.  Strauss-Kahn has pleaded not guilty to the charges in New
York and has filed a complaint with Paris prosecutors accusing
Banon of slander. A hearing is set for Aug. 1 in the  New York 
case.  “The investigation is continuing,”  Erin Duggan , chief
spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said
today in an e-mail. She declined to comment on the meeting.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was freed from home confinement this
month while awaiting trial in New York after prosecutors said
the case against him was hurt by the accuser’s “substantial
credibility issues.” According to a letter dated June 30 and
filed with the court by prosecutors, the 32-year-old hotel
housekeeper from  Guinea  lied to a grand jury about her actions
right after the alleged attack, as well as on her tax returns
and in an application for asylum.  ‘I Want Justice’  “I want justice for the victim,” Thompson said after
today’s meeting, which lasted about 2 1/2 hours. “She was
sexually assaulted in that room and the truth matters. We want
her to be able to tell her account.” Thompson also declined to
say what happened in the meeting.  Thibault de Montbrial, a Paris-based attorney for the maid,
also came out of the Manhattan district attorney’s office with
Koubbi and Thompson.  Banon filed a criminal complaint in  France  against Strauss-
Kahn this month, saying he assaulted her in February 2003 when
she went to interview him for a book. Her accusation came after
Strauss-Kahn was freed from home confinement in Manhattan.  Paris police questioned Banon about her complaint on July
11. They have since met with her mother, Strauss-Kahn’s ex-wife
and his daughter Camille, who was a friend of Banon at the time
and now lives in New York.  French police investigating Banon’s claims also will
question  Francois Hollande , the front-runner for the Socialist
Party presidential nomination, a spokeswoman for Paris
prosecutors said today. Hollande has said that he had heard
something about Banon’s claims, said Agnes Labregere-Delorme,
the spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 