-- 
Nowotny Signals ECB May Bend on Greece

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-19T11:44:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/ecb-might-compromise-on-defaulted-greek-bonds-as-collateral-nowotny-says.html
European Central Bank council member
 Ewald Nowotny  suggested the bank may compromise and allow a
temporary Greek default as officials scramble to fix a sovereign
debt crisis that’s spreading to  Italy  and  Spain  before a
leaders’ summit in two days.  As Spanish financing costs surged at a 4.45 billion euro
($6.31 billion) treasury bill auction today, policy makers are
trying to ease a split that’s pushed interest rates on Spanish
and Italian 10-year debt above 6 percent for the first time
since the euro debuted 12 years ago. The ECB has until now
argued that any Greek default could spark a new financial
crisis, derailing a German push to make investors help foot the
bill for a second bailout of the country.  “Nowotny is well known as someone who talks a lot,” said
 Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at ABN Amro Bank NV
in Amsterdam. “He might be revealing that there’s a little bit
more flexibility than what was perhaps assumed. On the other
hand, we have to be a bit careful with Nowotny. I’d be
cautious.”  Nowotny, who heads  Austria ’s central bank, issued a
statement today concerning the “interpretation” of his earlier
comments in an interview with CNBC. He is in “complete
agreement” with ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  that the aim
is to “avoid any situation that would make it impossible for
the ECB to continue to accept Greek sovereign bonds as
collateral,” the statement said.  ‘Range of Options’  In the CNBC interview broadcast this morning, Nowotny said
there’s “a full range of options and definitions, from a clear-
cut default, selective default,  credit event  and so on.”  “This has to be studied in a very serious way,” he said.
“There are some proposals that deal with a very short-lived
selective default situation that will not have major negative
consequences.”  The comments helped boost financial markets amid
speculation a solution to the crisis will be found. The euro
rose to $1.4197 at 12:20 p.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.4028
yesterday. Yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds retreated
from euro-era highs as stock markets rallied.  Spanish yields fell 17 basis points to 6.10 percent as of
12:35 P.m. in  London , while Italy’s yield dropped 23 basis
points to 5.72 percent. Greek two-year yields surged to 38.5
percent.  Eurobond Fix  Some finance ministers have started to zero in on Eurobonds
as part of the fix for a crisis that has ricocheted through the
euro region for more than 18 months and is now threatening to
engulf two of its biggest members. While jointly issuing bonds
with  Germany  may help debt-laden nations tap markets at lower
 interest rates , it could also raise borrowing costs for  Europe ’s
largest economy.  European Union leaders are meeting on July 21 to hammer out
a solution to the Greek debt crisis, which has already spread to
Ireland and Portugal. While Germany wants private investors to
participate in a second bailout package for  Greece , Trichet says
the central bank won’t accept Greek  government bonds  as
collateral for loans in the event of a default or “credit
event.”  By contrast, Nowotny said it’s up to the Frankfurt-based
central bank to decide what collateral it accepts and it
“should not be totally dependent on rating agencies.”  ‘Our Decision’  “It is our own responsibility, our own decision,” he told
CNBC. “We have proved this in the case of Ireland, Greece and
 Portugal , with regard to what kind of collateral we accept. So
there is a certain case for independence. But of course, not
with regard to rating agencies but with regard to our own
statutes, there are limitations.” He reiterated that view in
his subsequent statement.  EU President Herman van Rompuy has asked leaders to meet in
Brussels to discuss “the financial stability of the euro area
as a whole and the future financing of the Greek program.”
Yesterday, stocks declined around the world, the euro fell and
the cost of insuring European sovereign debt rose to records
amid concern the euro region isn’t any closer to solving the
crisis a year after Greece’s initial rescue.  A summit was originally mulled for last week before being
postponed amid German fears it would backfire without a pact on
private-sector involvement. Germany’s government says no extra
aid is possible without bondholders staying exposed to Greek
debt.  ‘Continue to Fight’  “I don’t expect European leaders to reach a decision this
week,” said  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at Julius Baer
Group in  Frankfurt . “They’ll continue to fight over whether to
include bondholders or not. Still, a Greek debt restructuring
wouldn’t be a solution to the problem.”  The euro-region recovery is losing momentum as leaders
struggle to contain the crisis. In Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, investor confidence dropped to the lowest in 2 1/2
years in July, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said today. European economic confidence dropped in
June and manufacturing growth slowed.  Nowotny said a full Greek default must be avoided. “That
would have very grave consequences, especially with regard to
the ECB and the ability of the ECB to accept Greek collateral,”
he told CNBC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  