-- 
Edison Shareholders Said to Be Seeking Italian Chairman in EDF Agreement

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-19T16:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/edison-shareholders-said-to-be-seeking-italian-chairman-in-edf-agreement.html
Edison SpA (EDN) ’s shareholders may seek
an Italian chairman with veto power as part of an agreement to
cede control of the company to Electricite de France SA, said
two people with knowledge of the talks.  The concession could help assuage government concerns that
a deal will put  Italy ’s second-biggest power company into
foreign hands, said the people who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations are private. The agreement would
involve a swap of some Edison assets, with the Italians seeking
a higher valuation of the natural gas businesses they would
receive. Italian shareholders also want EDF to pay a premium for
any of the 30 percent of Edison they may eventually sell.  A preliminary agreement reached in March between EDF and
Italian shareholders that gave EDF control in exchange for
assets and cash was held up by the Italian government. On July 7
Brescia-based utility A2A, the largest Italian shareholder, said
it would recommence negotiations seeking better terms.  A2A didn’t respond to e-mails or phone calls seeking
comment. Edison declined to comment today. A2A said in a
statement yesterday that no decisions had been made about what
to offer EDF. A spokeswoman for EDF also declined to comment.  “A figurehead chairman with little control and the
Italians at 30 percent seems like a scenario that the French
might accept, I doubt the French would give away any real power
though,” said Massimo Intropido, head of Milan-based financial
research firm Ricerca Finanza. “In the end everybody wants this
deal to go through, the French want to get on with business and
the Italians need the money.”  Selling Assets  A2A is cutting costs and selling assets to reduce debt
which was 3.9 billion ($5.5 billion) euros in 2010. The company
posted 542 million euros in writedowns and depreciations in
March partly related to its stake in Edison.  Edison shares have fallen 9.6 percent from a year ago. They
gained 1.6 percent to close at 84.05 euro cents today in Milan.
A2A and EDF have both fallen about 15 percent in the same
period.  Edison’s biggest shareholder is Transalpina di Energia, a
company half-owned by Paris-based EDF and half by Delmi SpA,
which in turn is owned by A2A and other Italian companies.
Transalpina has a 61.2 percent stake in Edison. Taking into
account direct and indirect stakes, EDF controls about 50
percent of the Italian utility.  Edison’s shareholders have until Sept. 15 to reach an
agreement, after which EDF and Delmi have to proceed with an
auction of Edison shares. If a new preliminary agreement is
reached the Sept. 15 deadline may be put off further to allow a
final deal to be hammered out, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  