-- 
Medvedev Seeks to Woo Merkel With Gas as Nuclear Plants Close

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-07-19T17:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/medvedev-seeks-to-woo-merkel-with-gas-as-nuclear-plants-close.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said OAO Gazprom should export more natural gas to Germany after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided to close all of the country’s
nuclear-power plants by 2022.  Russia , the biggest supplier of gas to Germany, will
“focus more on natural gas exports” after Merkel decided in
June to accelerate plans to phase out nuclear power, according
to the text of a Medvedev speech distributed today in Hanover,
Germany. Russia also aims to woo German utilities in “asset
exchanges and ecologically clean technology transfers,”
according to the text.  Gazprom expects Germany’s exit from nuclear power to boost
demand for its fuel supplies, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Medvedev said July 8. Russia’s export monopoly needs
to cuts its prices to win more custom, Merkel told reporters
today, adding that Germany may only need about 10 gigawatts a
year from 2015, an amount that isn’t an “an over-sized
target.”  Merkel is under pressure to consider alternatives to
nuclear power, which generated 23 percent of Germany’s
electricity in 2010, according to the  Economy Ministry .  “It’s up to German companies to decide whether they buy
more Russian gas,” Merkel told reporters after the talks. “The
cheaper it’s priced the more likely it is to be bought.”  ‘Cold Shoulder’  Merkel’s “right to cold-shoulder” Medvedev’s offer to
expand gas supplies, said Claudia Kemfert, who heads the Berlin-
based DIW economic institute’s energy unit, in an interview
today. “Russian gas is simply too expensive and touting
sweeteners like asset exchanges and a slice of the cake in
modernizing Russia’s energy grid aren’t convincing.”  Bound to long-term contracts with Gazprom, prices paid by
utilities for gas imports may hamper German plans to build more
gas-fired power generators, Kemfert said.  German gas-import prices jumped on average 28 percent in
January-May compared with the same period a year ago, the
Economy Ministry’s BAFA unit said July 15.  Germany  paid 12.1
billion euros ($17.1 billion) for gas imports compared with 9.3
billion euros a year ago, while in volume terms imports rose 1.1
percent to 1.76 million terajoules, the Eschborn, Germany-based
unit said.  RWE, Germany’s second-biggest utility, has said it plans to
build three coal-fired plants by 2013. As yet, it has no plans
to build gas plants.  Russia is seeking German partnerships in a bid to modernize
its energy infrastructure by 2020, Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko told reporters yesterday.  Gazprom and Essen-based RWE said July 14 they would expand
cooperation, including in the U.K. Gazprom has made the power
industry a priority for European expansion, CEO Alexei Miller
said on the same day.  German-Russian trade may reach a high of 70 billion euros
($99 billion) in 2011, beating the previous record of 58 billion
euros set in 2008, according to the German BDI industry
association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Hanover at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Hanover at 
 iarkhpov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  