-- 
Egypt’s Beblawi ‘Committed’ to Market Economy, Strong State

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-19T13:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/egypt-s-beblawi-committed-to-market-economy-strong-state-1-.html
Egypt ’s Finance Minister-designate
Hazem El Beblawi said he supported a market economy and that it
was not “intelligent” to rule out loans as an option.  “I am committed to the market economy with a strong
government,” El Beblawi, who was also named deputy prime
minister, said in a phone interview. “It’s not an intelligent
action to exclude lending from your options. Also, it’s not wise
to go and rush and accept loans from anywhere.”  Egypt’s economy is still reeling from the turmoil that
accompanied the revolt that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  and
hit revenues from tourism and other industries. The economy
contracted by 4.2 percent in the quarter that ended in March and
investment saw an annual decrease of 26 percent in the same
period, the central bank said on June 9.  El Beblawi said he didn’t have enough information about the
circumstances under which Egypt reached an agreement to borrow
$3 billion from the  International Monetary Fund  and then ruled
immediate plans to take the funds.  “I don’t know what they proposed and why we accepted in
the first place and then refused it,” he said. “Loans can be
bad and can be good. It all depends on the needs of the country,
on the terms, on how they are used.”  Finance Ministry officials have said they saw no immediate
need to borrow the money after lowering the budget deficit
target for the fiscal year that started this month to 8.6
percent of gross domestic product. Egypt won’t require
assistance from the IMF or  World Bank  as long as Gulf allies are
willing to help, El Beblawi’s predecessor,  Samir Radwan , said on
July 4.  Regaining Trust  El Beblawi said his main challenge when he assumes his
position would be “to regain the credibility and trust of the
people.”  “Nothing can happen overnight. Any improvement, it will
have to take time in order to show results,” he said.  He said investors should realize that Egypt’s potential
after the “bottleneck” is “really very good and promising.”  El Beblawi has yet to be sworn in. The swearing-in of new
ministers named by Prime Minister Essam Sharaf in a bid to
placate protesters have been delayed until Sharaf recovers from
health issues, the state-run Nile News reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net . 