-- 
Electrolux Plunges as Profit Misses Estimates on Slowing Demand

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-19T07:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/electrolux-sees-profit-drop-as-surge-in-raw-material-costs-bites.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, dropped the most in more than one year
in Stockholm after reporting second-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Net income dropped to 561 million kronor ($85.6 million)
from 1.03 billion kronor, Stockholm-based Electrolux said in a
statement today. Analysts predicted 677 million kronor. Shares
of Electrolux dropped as much as 12 percent, their steepest
decline since February 2010.  Chief Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin, an American who
took over at the start of the year, faces the challenge of
pushing through price increases against a backdrop of rising
costs and declining demand in the U.K., Italy and  Spain .
Business in Europe has been a “disappointment” as competition
intensifies and McLoughlin predicted the second half will remain
“difficult.”  “Expectations for Electrolux have moved down
significantly over the course of the year, so the scale of the
earnings miss is particularly concerning,” Lisa Randall, a
Nomura analyst in  London  who recommends investors buy the share,
said by telephone. “The market is going to take the view that
the situation in Europe isn’t going to improve anytime soon.”  Shares of the maker of Frigidaire appliances, today’s
biggest decliner in the STOXX 600 index, traded 11 percent lower
at 128.5 kronor as of 9:16 a.m. local time. Electrolux has
fallen 33 percent this year.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the No. 1
appliance maker, has declined 15 percent. The U.S. company
reports on July 21.  Perfect Storm  Sales fell 12 percent to 24.1 billion kronor, in line with
the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  “The main issue is price pressure in  Europe  and low
volume,” said Randall.  The company plans to continue to lift prices, including in
 North America  next month. In Europe, it will raise appliance
prices between 5 percent and 7 percent starting in October.  “The second quarter was a period when our most important
earnings drivers worked against us; declining volumes, lower
prices and increased product costs,” said McLoughlin.  The CEO is shifting focus to emerging markets to bolster
growth, as well as targeting acquisitions. Last week, Electrolux
reached a final agreement to buy Olympic Group of Egypt to tap
demand in North Africa and the  Middle East .  The current economic situation is opening up opportunities
for consolidation, McLoughlin said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  