-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance on Commodity Prices, IBM’s Profit Forecast

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-07-19T07:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-commodity-prices-ibm-s-profit-forecast.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paced
by raw material producers and technology shares, after commodity
prices climbed and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  lifted
its profit forecast, fueling speculation earnings will withstand
the European and U.S. debt crises.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.4 percent to
1,126.63 at 3:58 p.m. in  Manila . The gauge dropped 1.2 percent
yesterday.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index climbed
0.8 percent, while Russia’s Micex index increased 0.5 percent.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.7 percent, the
steepest loss in a week.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services company, lifted
its full-year earnings forecasts after posting second-quarter
sales that beat analyst estimates. Catcher Technology Co. jumped
by the daily limit in Taipei after three brokerages raised their
share-price forecasts, while  Realtek Semiconductor Corp. (2379)  rallied
as Morgan Stanley upgraded the company.  “Debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe  are casting shadows
of doubt over the global recovery,” said Jonathan Ravelas, who
helps manage about $1.5 billion at Manila-based Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc. “Investors are looking for pockets of growth
amidst this growing uncertainty so there’s renewed interest in
sectors that will deliver earnings.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 2.2 percent this
year, trailing a 1.8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed markets. Stocks in the index for developing equities
are valued at 10.8 times estimated profit, less than the
multiple of 12.5 times for developed countries.  Europe, U.S. Debt  The emerging-market index has retreated 6.7 percent since
May 2, when it reached the highest in almost three years,
dragged down by concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread
and monetary tightening from  China  to India will curtail growth.
European Union leaders are trying to convince investors a second
Greek bailout agreement will be reached in a July 21 meeting,
while U.S. lawmakers are struggling to broker a deal on raising
the nation’s debt ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Catcher, which makes metal casings for Apple Inc.
computers, jumped 6.9 percent after Citigroup Inc. and Macquarie
Group Ltd. both raised their share-price estimates by 22
percent. Realtek Semiconductor increased 6.9 percent, the
sharpest gain since Sept. 3, after the chip designer was raised
to “equal-weight” from “underweight” at Morgan Stanley.  IBM said second-quarter revenue rose 12 percent to $26.7
billion, topping a $25.4 billion average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company raised its full-year earnings
forecast to at least $13.25 a share, compared with analysts’
average estimate of $13.21. Apple Inc. and Intel Corp. are among
other U.S. technology companies set to release results this
week.  Tata Consultancy, Samsung  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , an Indian software company,
added 1.8 percent in Mumbai and Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s
largest chipmaker, rose 1.1 percent.  Korea Zinc Co. jumped 4 percent in  Seoul , while Jiangxi
Copper Co. increased 0.9 percent in  Hong Kong . Gold rallied for
a 12th day to a record high, copper gained for a third day in
 London , while oil rose 0.8 percent in  New York .  China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest
lender, lost 1.4 percent to the lowest close since June 20 amid
plans to raise as much as 35 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) in a
rights offer. The bank will offer 2.2 shares for every 10
existing shares held by investors at a price that will be set
later, it said in a statement yesterday.  SAIC Motor Corp., China’s biggest automaker, slid 2 percent
to the lowest level since June 22 in  Shanghai  after Sinolink
Securities Co. said more local governments may introduce
measures to limit car purchases. FAW Car Co., Volkswagen AG’s
partner for passenger cars in China, slumped 2.5 percent in
Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  