-- 
Tepco Will Start Removing Fukushima’s Spent Fuel Rods Within Three Years

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-07-19T15:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/tepco-to-start-spent-fuel-rod-removal-from-fukushima-within-three-years.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said it’s
on track to bring its crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station to safe status as soon as October and plans to start
removing rods from the spent fuel pools within three years.  The utility known as Tepco issued a monthly update to its
so-called road map to bring under control the worst atomic
crisis since Chernobyl 25 years ago. Four months after an
earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling and power at the
plant, Tepco said stable cooling has been achieved at the
station 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo.  Getting the reactors cool, preventing more hydrogen
explosions and reducing the amount of radiation being emitted
were the initial targets of the  road map  announced in April. No
schedule was given for removing the melted fuel and
decommissioning the reactors in Fukushima prefecture, where
160,000 people have been forced to flee their homes.  “No country has ever removed fuel from the pools inside
such damaged buildings,”  Japan ’s nuclear crisis management
minister  Goshi Hosono  said at a press conference yesterday. “It
will be a challenge, and it is difficult to give a time frame.”  Three of the plant’s six reactors melted down and a fourth
reactor building was damaged in one of the explosions that hit
the complex in the early days of the disaster.  Thinking in Decades  “The problem is the melted fuel inside the reactors,”
said Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto
University , said by telephone. “That is something you need to
think about in terms of decades.”  Tepco’s road map envisages bringing the reactors to a safe
status known as cold shutdown within six to nine months from
when the plan was unveiled on April 17. The government and the
utility said they will stick to that time frame.  The government yesterday described cold shutdown as a state
where the temperature at the bottom of a pressure vessel is held
at 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit) or below, and radiation
emissions from the containment vessel are under control.  During the first phase, which lasted three months, much of
the work has been focused on decontaminating highly radiated
water that flooded basements and trenches around the damaged
reactors as the utility doused the units to keep them cool.  Water overflowed from damaged reactors, impeding efforts to
bring the situation under control. Since Tepco’s decontamination
unit started last month, its operation has been intermittently
halted due to leaks and other malfunctions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  