-- 
Merkel Says Debt Crisis Can’t Be Resolved in Single Step at July 21 Summit

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-19T15:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/merkel-says-europe-debt-woes-can-t-be-solved-in-one-step-at-july-21-summit.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
Europe’s fiscal crisis can’t be solved in one go, damping
expectations that government leaders may resolve the region’s
debt woes at a July 21 summit.  “There won’t be one spectacular step” this week, Merkel
told reporters in Hanover, Germany, today. “It’s entirely about
creating a controlled, composed process of gradual steps and
measures.”  Merkel’s comments come as European officials struggle to
agree on measures to fight a crisis that is spreading from
Greece and today sparked a jump in Spanish financing costs after
a treasury bill auction. Policy makers are split on how to prod
investors into financing a new Greek bailout package and whether
the 17-nation euro area should issue eurobonds to help debt-
laden nations tap markets.  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.4177 at 4:01 p.m. in
Berlin, from $1.4112 yesterday, after earlier rising 0.7
percent. The yield on 10-year German  government bonds , the
region’s benchmark, increased six basis points to 2.71 percent.  “I don’t expect European leaders to reach a decision this
week,” said  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at Julius Baer
Group in  Frankfurt . “They’ll continue to fight over whether to
include bondholders or not. Still, a Greek debt restructuring
wouldn’t be a solution to the problem.”  Second EU Summit  European Union leaders plan to meet for the second time in
a month on July 21 in Brussels, aiming to break a deadlock over
a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. There are no
current plans for euro region finance ministers to convene as a
group before the leaders’ summit, said an EU official, who
declined to be identified because preparations for the meeting
are ongoing.  Spanish and Italian bond yields surged yesterday, piling
pressure on officials to end the turmoil. Spain and Greece sold
6.08 billion euros ($8.6 billion) of bills today. The Treasury
in  Madrid  said it sold 3.79 billion euros of 12-month bills at
an average yield of 3.702 percent, compared with 2.695 percent
the last time the securities were sold on June 14.  Merkel said the euro region’s problems must be solved
“from the core,” which means reducing debt and increasing
competitiveness.  Governments Squabble  Europe’s debt crisis has worsened this month as EU
governments squabble with each other and with the  European
Central Bank  about what to do. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said July 10 that Europe is at the “epicenter” of a debt
crisis that concerns the entire developed world and urged the
euro area to do the “maximum” in terms of governance reforms.  Merkel’s comments came after Austrian Finance Minister
Maria Fekter said EU leaders would seek a “comprehensive
solution” to  Greece ’s debt crisis and stop the contagion threat
at their summit. She told reporters in Vienna today the European
Financial Stability Facility probably needs “more flexibility”
and that Greece may need longer repayment times for its rescue
loans.  EU leaders have a “menu of options,” Francois Perol, head
of the French Banking Federation, told reporters today in Paris.
“Some might be interested by forms of buyback, others by
renewal formulas,” he said, declining to give further details.  Greek Yields Surge  Yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year and Greek two-year
bonds hit euro-era records yesterday. Spanish 10-year yields
fell 15 basis points to 6.17 percent as of 11:09 a.m. in  Rome ,
narrowing the spread over German bunds to 346 basis points.
Greek two-year yields surged 113 basis points to 37.10 percent,
while  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield dropped 23 basis points to 5.74
percent.  Some finance ministers have started to zero in on eurobonds
as part of the fix for a crisis that has ricocheted through the
euro region for more than 18 months and is now threatening to
engulf two of its biggest members. While jointly issuing bonds
with  Germany  may help debt-laden nations tap markets at lower
 interest rates , it could also raise borrowing costs for Europe’s
largest economy.  The European Affairs spokesman for Merkel’s Bavarian
Christian Social Union ally in parliament, Thomas Silberhorn,
said joint euro region bond sales would “overstretch
solidarity” between the region’s members as they would force
donor countries such as Germany to accept liability for the
debts of all other members.  ‘Credit Event’  While Germany wants private investors to participate in a
second bailout package for Greece, Trichet says the ECB won’t
accept Greek government bonds as collateral for loans in the
event of a default or “credit event.”  EU President Herman van Rompuy has asked leaders to meet in
Brussels to discuss “the financial stability of the euro area
as a whole and the future financing of the Greek program.”
Yesterday, stocks declined around the world, the euro fell and
the cost of insuring European sovereign debt rose to records
amid concern the euro region isn’t any closer to solving the
crisis a year after Greece’s initial rescue.  A summit was originally mulled for last week before being
postponed amid German fears it would backfire without a pact on
private-sector involvement. Germany’s government says no extra
aid is possible without bondholders staying exposed to Greek
debt.  The euro-region recovery is losing momentum as leaders
struggle to contain the crisis. In Germany,  Europe ’s largest
economy, investor confidence dropped to the lowest in 2 1/2
years in July, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said today. European economic confidence dropped in
June and manufacturing growth slowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leon Mangasarian at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  