-- 
Hermes Lifts Revenue Target as Second-Quarter Sales Beat Analyst Estimates

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-19T09:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/hermes-lifts-revenue-target-as-second-quarter-sales-beat-analyst-estimates.html
Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the French
maker of Kelly handbags and silk scarves, raised its target for
annual revenue growth and said first-half operating profit
should grow “significantly” more than sales.  Revenue will probably gain 12 percent to 14 percent at
constant exchange rates, the Paris-based company said today,
raising the forecast from as much as 10 percent. The bagmaker,
in which  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  owns a 20.2 percent
stake, also said its full-year underlying operating margin will
be close to the record level of 2010 and reported an 18 percent
increase in second-quarter sales, beating analysts’ estimates.  “Hermes is well positioned in a buoyant luxury-goods
market, delivering fast sales and earnings growth while
maintaining its status as one of the most exclusive brands
around,” Pierre Lamelin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Paris,
said in an e-mailed note. He rates the stock “underperform.”  The quarterly revenue increase was led by the Asia-Pacific
region where wealthy consumers are purchasing more high-end
watches and accessories. Worldwide sales of  luxury goods  may
rise 8 percent this year as demand strengthens in the U.S. and
 Europe  and emerging-market shoppers splurge on costly handbags
and other items, Bain & Co. said in May.  Second-quarter revenue at Hermes rose to 668.4 million
euros ($941 million) from 566.9 million euros a year earlier.
The average estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg was
635.6 million euros. Excluding currency shifts, revenue climbed
22 percent, the company said. The quarterly growth rate was the
highest in more than a decade, according to Lamelin.  Psychological Threat  Hermes rose 95 euro cents, or 0.4 percent, to 221.70 euros
as of 11:12 a.m. in Paris trading. The shares have jumped 41
percent this year, the third-biggest gain in the 11-member
Bloomberg European Fashion Index, which has risen 5.7 percent.  Hermes’s pretax profit margin for the first half of 2011
widened by four to five percentage points following the sale of
a stake in Jean-Paul Gaultier’s fashion label, the company said.
It will report full results for the period on Aug. 31.  Growth will be slower in the second half than in the same
period of 2010 because the final six months of last year were so
strong, Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Thomas  said in a
telephone interview. He also said he is concerned by the
international financial situation.  “Our business is highly psychological and when people feel
there is a bad mood internationally, there is instability, there
is a threat on the economy, then people buy less,” Thomas said.
“There could be effects on our business in the second half.”  Production Capacity  Excluding currency shifts, second-quarter revenue jumped 24
percent in the Asia-Pacific region, excluding  Japan , where sales
rose 0.5 percent, Hermes said. Sales advanced 22 percent in the
Americas and 21 percent in Europe on the same basis.  Sales of leather goods increased 9 percent at constant
exchange rates, while revenue from silk ties and scarves gained
27 percent. Apparel and fashion accessories sales climbed 34
percent on the same basis. Women’s shoes are performing
“extremely well,” Thomas said.  Hermes, which is hiring more craftsmen and women, is able
to increase production capacity more quickly for apparel and
fashion accessories such as gloves and jewelry than for  leather
goods , where growth is limited by the number of skilled workers
the company has, Thomas said.  “I don’t want to compromise our product quality” to meet
demand for leather goods, Thomas said. “I prefer to limit our
growth rate.”  Watch revenue rose 23 percent, excluding currency swings.
Hermes’s full-year sales growth from timepieces may be reduced
after this year’s earthquake in Japan, the head of the company’s
watch unit said in March. Perfume sales advanced 4 percent on
the same basis, while tableware sales rose 38 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  