-- 
EU Plans to Renew 48.5% Tariff on Chinese Bikes for Three Years

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-19T08:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/eu-plans-to-renew-48-5-tariff-on-chinese-bikes-for-three-years.html
The European Union plans to renew a
tariff on bicycles from China to help EU producers including
 Accell Group (ACCEL)  NV compete with cheaper imports, a step that would
extend 18-year-old trade protection.  The EU intends to re-impose the 48.5 percent duty to punish
Chinese exporters of bicycles for selling them in the 27-nation
bloc below cost, a practice known as  dumping . In a concession to
Chinese manufacturers and European importers, the extension
would be for three years rather than the usual five years.  “The anti-dumping measures on bicycles should be
maintained,” the European Commission, the EU’s trade authority
in Brussels, said in a draft decision obtained by Bloomberg
News. “It is appropriate to limit the current measures to three
years.”  European trade protection against Chinese bicycles dates to
1993, when the EU introduced a 30.6 percent anti-dumping duty on
imports from  China . The bloc renewed that levy in 2000 before
raising it to the current 48.5 percent in 2005 at the same time
as introducing anti-dumping duties as high as 34.5 percent on
imports from  Vietnam .  The EU let the levies against Vietnam expire a year ago
while opening an investigation into whether to renew the 48.5
duty against China, a step that automatically kept the measure
in place at least for the duration of the probe. The plan for a
three-year extension, which must be approved by EU governments
by mid-October, is the outcome of the inquiry.  Three-Year Renewal  The investigation resulted from an April 2010 request by
the European Bicycle Manufacturers Association, which claimed
that letting the trade protection against China lapse would
likely result in a continuation of dumping by Chinese bike
exporters and a recurrence of injury to EU producers, according
to the commission. About 20 million bicycles are sold in the EU
annually.  China’s share of the EU bicycle market fell to 3.1 percent
in the 12 months through March 2010 from 4.4 percent in 2007,
the commission said in its proposal for a three-year renewal of
the duty. China is the world’s largest bike manufacturing
country with production of about 80 million bicycles, of which
55 million are for export, according to the commission.  John Clancy , the commission’s trade spokesman, wasn’t
immediately able to comment on the planned duty renewal when
reached today by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leon Mangasarian at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  