-- 
EU Struggles to Convince on Greek Deal at Summit as Borrowing Costs Rise

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-19T10:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/eu-struggles-to-convince-on-greek-deal.html
European leaders are struggling to
convince investors that they will agree on a second Greek
bailout at a summit this week as record bond yields boosted
financing costs at sales of Spanish and Greek debt.  European Union government chiefs plan to meet for the
second time in a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. Spanish and
Italian bond yields surged yesterday, piling pressure on
officials to end the turmoil.  Spain  and Greece sold 6.08 billion
euros ($8.6 billion) of bills today.  “As another D-day looms on Thursday, we have few soothing
words,”  Suki Mann , senior credit strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  London , wrote in a note to investors. “Greece appears
beyond repair, Italy is on the brink and the chances are that
the euro might be no more very soon.”  EU President Herman van Rompuy asked leaders last week to
meet in Brussels to discuss “the financial stability of the
euro area as a whole and the future financing of the Greek
program.” Yesterday, stocks declined around the world, the euro
fell and the cost of insuring European sovereign debt rose to
records amid concern the euro region isn’t any closer to solving
the crisis a year after  Greece ’s initial rescue.  The euro fell toward its lowest in a week against the
dollar on concern summit leaders won’t agree on steps to contain
the crisis. It traded at $1.4176 at 12:02 p.m. in Frankfurt, up
0.5 percent on the day.  German Optimism  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said Germany is confident the summit will produce an
agreement to fund another bailout for Greece, which received a
110 billion-euro rescue in May of last year from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund .  “We must master this challenge,” Seibert said yesterday
in Berlin. Germany is “positive that we’ll have a package for
Thursday that will secure Greece’s debt sustainability in the
long term,” added Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus.  With European debt markets in turmoil before the summit,
both Greece and Spain sold treasury bills today. Spain auctioned
4.45 billion euros in 1-year and 18-month bills. Greece sold
1.625 billion euros of 3-month bills.  ‘Price Concession’  Yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year and  Greek two-year
bonds hit euro-era records yesterday. Spanish 10-year yields
fell 15 basis points to 6.17 percent as of 11:09 a.m. in Rome,
narrowing the spread over German bunds to 346 basis points.
Greek two-year yields surged 113 basis points to 37.10 percent,
while Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped 23 basis points to 5.74
percent.  “We didn’t see a huge price concession, it was in line
with the secondary market so overall it was a decent auction,”
said Giuseppe Maraffino, a fixed income strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in London. “I don’t see problems in terms of demand.
The focus is at what price the Spanish and Italian Treasuries
are able to issue.”  European leaders are at odds with one another and with the
 European Central Bank  over demands by Germany and Finland that
private investors bear some of the burden of a new Greek rescue.
The summit also comes after European bank stress tests on July
15 failed to allay investor concern that lenders were prepared
for a Greek default and that euro-area governments had the
ability to bail them out.  Stress Tests  “With this week’s summit, the results of the stress tests
will only be secondary,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels, told  Owen Thomas  on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Look” on July 18. “Just tough talk is not sufficient
any more. We really need to see a breakthrough.”  Bankia SA, the lender pursuing one of Spain’s largest
initial public offerings, slashed its IPO price by as much as 26
percent to appeal to wary investors amid the debt crisis. The
bank set the share price at 3.75 euros each, after originally
planning to sell shares at 4.41 euros to 5.05 euros apiece,
according to an e-mailed statement sent late yesterday.  A summit was originally mulled for last week before being
postponed amid German fears it would backfire without a pact on
private-sector involvement.  Germany ’s government says no extra
aid is possible without bondholders staying exposed to Greek
debt. By pushing for a voluntary rollover of Greek debt that
risked pushing Greece into technical default, Germany also
incurred the wrath of the ECB.  ‘Highly Credible’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told the Financial Times
Deutschland in an interview published over the past weekend that
 Europe  can surmount the crisis and the euro remains “a highly
credible currency.” He reiterated that the ECB will not accept
bonds from a nation that defaults as collateral.  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said yesterday that
he was “confident” an agreement on Greece would be reached at
the summit that would satisfy the ECB. “We are working hard for
a solution that would allow avoiding a selective default or a
 credit event ,” Baroin told journalists in  Washington .  The ECB may be willing to accept Greek bonds as collateral
in the event of a short-term selective default, council member
 Ewald Nowotny  suggested today. “There is a full range of
options and definitions, from a clear-cut default, selective
default, credit event and so on,” Nowotny told CNBC in an
interview. “This has to be studied in a very serious way.”  Among topics for the talks is a potential overhaul of the
440 billion-euro rescue fund to enable Greece to better pay its
bills. Euro-area finance chiefs last week revived the idea of
allowing countries to use loans from the fund to repurchase and
cancel their own debt in secondary markets.  ‘Common Bond’  The fund would need to be increased to near 2 trillion
euros and “and become a de facto common bond type instrument,”
to solve the crisis, Royal Bank of Scotland economists including
 Jacques Cailloux  said in a research note published on July 13.  The market rout may be convincing Germany that the ECB is
right about avoiding a default event, said  Marco Valli , chief
euro-area economist at UniCredit SpA in Milan.  “We’re really running out of time” and Germany “will
take a step back and accept that private-sector involvement will
occur mostly via EFSF buybacks,” Valli added, referring to the
region’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 