-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Gold May Extend Best Run in 31 Years

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-07-19T07:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/europe-commodity-day-ahead-gold-may-extend-best-run-in-31-years.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold May Extend Best Run in 31 Years on U.S.,  Europe  Debt Woes  Gold may extend its longest winning streak in more than
three decades as U.S. and European sovereign-debt woes spurred
haven demand.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Record Mine Profit as Shipping Slumps on Glut: Freight Markets  The largest glut of ships in history means the cheapest
freight rates relative to iron-ore prices in at least a decade,
helping Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd. to generate record
profit.  Wages, Commodities Point to More Fed Easing: Chart of the Day  Falling wages and commodity prices are likely to clear the
way for the  Federal Reserve  to foster economic growth through a
third round of quantitative easing, according to Bruce Bittles,
Robert W. Baird & Co.’s chief investment strategist.  Booming Cotton No Boon to African Farmers Milked by Monopolies  Amado Kafando tilted his head back, smiled and pumped his
fists into the west African sky. “We praised God, and said, ‘At
last!’” said Kafando, 45, standing amid the mud huts where he
lives with 11 children and no electricity.  Potash Cartel’s ‘Cupboard Is Bare’ for  India  After China Accord  Canpotex Ltd., the North American cartel of potash
producers, has no spare supply to sell to India this quarter and
won’t resume negotiations with Indian buyers until “late” in
the period, Mosaic Co. Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko
said.  Onahama Smelter Struggles to Restart After Quake, Radiation  Onahama Smelting & Refining Co., majority owned by Japan’s
third-largest copper producer Mitsubishi Materials Corp., is
unable to resume full operations as repair work to port
facilities damaged by the March quake continues and radiation
fears keep vessels away.  Citigroup Hiring Offensive Bets on Energy Bankers to Boost Fees  Six months after Stephen Trauber became Citigroup Inc.’s
global head of energy, his group is at the forefront of a hiring
offensive designed to return the firm to the top tier of
 investment banking .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Gain for Third Day on Expectations of China Imports  Copper may advance for a third day on expectations for
increased Chinese imports in the second half to replenish
stockpiles.  MINING:  OZ Minerals Second-Quarter Copper Output Little Changed (1)  OZ Minerals Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest copper producer
by market value, said second-quarter output of the metal was
little changed and production is on track to meet its full-year
forecast.  PRECIOUS METALS:  India’s July Gold Imports May Decline on Prices, Group Says (1)  Gold imports by India, the world’s largest bullion consumer,
may be “slack” this month as record prices cool demand,
according to the Bombay Bullion Association.  AGRICULTURE:  Thai Rubber Output to Gain 4.6% as More Trees Begin Production  Rubber output in  Thailand , the biggest producer, will gain
4.6 percent this year as growers begin to tap more trees,
according to Thai Hua Rubber Pcl, the nation’s third-largest
exporter.  Corn Climbs as Midwest Heat-Watch Prevails, Threatening Yields  Corn futures advanced on concern hot weather will persist
in parts of the U.S., the world’s largest producer and exporter,
adding to concerns about crop conditions that have worsened in
the past week. Wheat also gained.  Rains in Western  Australia  Seen Further Helping Grain Harvest  Western Australia may produce more food grain than forecast
last month after rains boosted crop- yield prospects, according
to CBH Group, the state’s largest grain handler.  Palm Oil  Drops on Concern of Higher Production, Lower Exports  Palm oil declined for a third day on concerns that output
will continue to grow through the peak production period and
exports may drop after the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.  SHIPPING:  Panama  Will Let Ships Waive Carbon-Emission Rules Until 2019 (1)  Panama, which has the world’s largest register of ships,
will let vessel-owners delay adhering to new rules on reducing
 carbon emissions  until 2019, said Gilberto Arias, the country’s
ambassador in  London .  ECONOMIES:  China ’s Surging Tax Revenue Counters Local-Government Debt Risk  China’s tax revenue rose 29.6 percent to 5 trillion yuan
($773 billion) in the first half of the year, giving officials
more room to maneuver as they grapple with swelling local-
government debt.  India Sees Growth Imperiled With Greek-Like Tax Evasion (1)  As Rama Murthy completes the sale of his three-bedroom
apartment in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad, he accepts
from the buyer a bag full of rupees -- a part of the purchase
price the tax man will never see.  RBA Board Had ‘More Time’ to Assess Inflation, Minutes Show (2)  Australia’s central bank had scope to extend an interest-
rate pause because risks posed by Europe’s debt crisis and a
slower-than-forecast domestic recovery eased inflation concerns,
minutes of its July 5 meeting showed.  OTHER MARKETS:  Asia Shares Decline for Fourth Day as Euro Trades Near Week Low  Asian shares fell for a fourth day, led by Japanese banks
and exporters, while the euro traded near a one-week low versus
the dollar amid concern European leaders will fail to agree on
steps to contain the region’s crisis at a summit this week. Gold
snapped an 11-day rally.  Goldman Sachs Lifts Target for  Japan  Topix on Supply Rebound (2)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its outlook for Japanese
stocks, citing the likelihood of upward earnings revisions by
companies and an earlier-than-forecast recovery of supply chains.  Oil Gains From Two-Day Low as U.S. Supplies Counter Debt Concern  Oil climbed in  New York  as signs of shrinking crude
stockpiles in the U.S. and rising demand in China countered
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will temper fuel
consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  