-- 
Former Industrial Enterprises of America CEO Found Guilty

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-19T21:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/ex-industrial-enterprises-ceo-found-guilty-in-80-million-stock-fraud-case.html
Former Industrial Enterprises of
America Inc. Chief Executive Officer James W. Margulies was
found guilty by a  New York  jury in connection with an $110
million stock fraud.  Margulies, 47, of  Cleveland , was convicted in New York
state Supreme Court of grand larceny, scheming to defraud,
conspiracy, violation of general business law and falsifying
business records. Sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 9.  Margulies and another former Industrial Enterprises chief
executive, John D. Mazzuto, 62, of Palm Beach Gardens,  Florida ,
were indicted in May 2010 in what prosecutors described as a
pump-and-dump scheme.  Mazzuto, a Yale University graduate and ex-managing
director at the former Chemical Bank, pleaded guilty to two
counts of grand larceny, scheming to defraud and violation of
general business law and testified against Margulies during the
trial.  Acting state Supreme Court Justice Gregory Carro set bail
at $1.5 million, more than twice the amount of Margulies’ bail
at arraignment. Prosecutors had sought an increase because
Margulies is considered a flight risk, noting that his wife
opened a bank account in  Panama .  “The defendant’s pump-and-dump scheme artificially
inflated stock prices before he sold off the shares, leaving
honest investors holding worthless stock,” Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus R. Vance said in a statement.  ‘Family Man’  The defense said during the trial that Margulies was a
“family man” and a successful lawyer who was duped by Mazzuto,
whom they called the “principal architect” of the scheme.  “We quarrel with the verdict and we intend to appeal,”
said Martin Adelman, one of Margulies’ attorneys.  Prosecutors said Mazzuto used the $12 million he got from
the company to buy a $3 million home in Southampton, New York,
and a $2.5 million home in  Palm Beach Gardens , and spent more
than $500,000 for travel on private jets.  Margulies used $7 million to get out from “under a
mountain of debt,” pay off a $1 million mortgage on his home
and pay $450,000 in back taxes, Assistant District Attorney
Garrett Lynch said in closing arguments last week, according to
the transcript.  “Yes, Mazzuto was the architect, absolutely, but James
Margulies was the engineer and the builder,” Lynch said. “He
is the one who figured out how to get it done and he got it
done.”  Shell Company  Mazzuto testified that in 2002 he acquired a controlling
interest in a closely held Lakewood, New Jersey-based
industrial-gas provider called EMC Packaging Inc.  He said merged EMC into Advanced Bio/Chem Inc., a Texas-
based publicly listed shell company with no operations. He said
he changed the combined company’s name to  Industrial Enterprises
of America Inc. (IEAM)  and hired Margulies to coordinate production of
financial statements.  Mazzuto and Margulies then registered 15 million shares of
the company’s stock with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to issue to employees and consultants, prosecutors
said. Instead, they began giving millions of shares to friends,
family members, business associates and their alma maters, among
others.  Some of the recipients were direct beneficiaries, meaning
they sold the stock and pocketed the proceeds, while others
acted as conduits, selling shares and sending the money back to
the company or entities and accounts controlled by Mazzuto and
Margulies, prosecutors said.  Boost Share Price  In 2006, Mazzuto and Margulies did a reverse 10-for-1 stock
split, increasing the value of each outstanding share tenfold,
prosecutors said. The largest number of shares, 3.5 million,
went into an attorney trust account opened that same year by
Margulies, prosecutors said.  Margulies sold the shares for about $17.7 million within
six months, directing more than $13 million back to the company
to artificially inflate  cash flow  and boost the share price,
prosecutors said.  Mazzuto resigned as CEO and interim finance chief in
February 2008, when Margulies briefly took over both positions,
according to a company statement. Margulies also resigned and
Industrial Enterprises sought  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection 
in May 2009.  Stockholders sued the company in federal court in  Manhattan 
in November 2007, accusing Mazzuto and Margulies and others of
making false representations about Industrial Enterprises’
financial condition. The court approved a settlement in the case
on May 31.  Plea Agreement  Mazzuto testified that he decided to approach prosecutors
in December about a plea agreement to reduce his sentence after
having a difficult time during the seven months he spent in
jail. Both face as long as 25 year in prison on the most serious
charges. Mazzuto is scheduled to appear in court again on
Sept. 20.  Prosecutors had agreed to recommend a sentence of one to
three years in prison if he cooperated and complied with his
plea agreement, until Mazzuto was arrested twice earlier this
year for driving under the influence of alcohol. Prosecutors are
no longer obligated to recommend the more lenient sentence.  Prior Convictions  Mazzuto testified last month that he is an alcoholic who
drank until he was “senseless” and has three prior convictions
involving domestic violence. He said he has been married six
times, was in the midst of a divorce and filed for personal
bankruptcy in 2002.  In January, Yale agreed to pay a $1 million settlement to
Industrial Enterprises for the value of shares Mazzuto gave the
university in 2007, according to the Yale Daily News. The
original donation was $1.7 million. The school said in a
statement that it had no knowledge of fraudulent activities and
accepted the gift of shares in good faith, according to the
paper.  The case is People v. Margulies, 2503-2010, New York state
 Supreme Court  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 