-- 
Ex-Macquarie Property Head Moss Seeks Comeback With Charter Hall REIT Bid

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-07-19T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/ex-macquarie-property-head-moss-seeks-comeback-with-charter-hall-reit-bid.html
Bill Moss, who founded Macquarie
Group Ltd.’s property unit before leaving in 2007, is seeking a
return to one of the real estate trusts he helped create with a
bid to take control of Charter Hall Office REIT.  Moss, who has muscular dystrophy, focused on philanthropic
work after expanding Sydney-based Macquarie’s property and
banking unit from a staff of two in 1984 to more than 1,600
employees overseeing A$23 billion ($24.5 billion) of assets. He
set up advisory and fund management firm  Moss Capital  in 2009.  Three  hedge funds  with stakes in Charter Hall Office last
month said they want Moss to take over management of the REIT
to replace  Charter Hall Group (CHC) , which they say hasn’t acted in
the best interests of shareholders. Moss agreed and has pledged
lower management fees and said he’ll mull Australian asset
sales and a share buyback if voted as manager of the Sydney-
based trust.  “I got very interested when I heard the story of how the
unit holders didn’t have a say, and I didn’t agree with that,”
Moss, 55, said in an interview in Sydney. “There are a lot of
things that should change with respect to corporate governance.
This industry is ripe for change.”  The hedge funds -- Orange Capital LLC, Luxor Capital Group
LP and Point Lobos Capital LLC -- have called for an investor
meeting around July 27 to vote on management of the Office REIT.
They own a combined 19 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Macquarie Sale  Macquarie,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, agreed to
sell the management rights and stakes in its real estate funds
to Charter Hall in February 2010 as it severed ties to some of
its listed funds. Charter Hall last year proposed selling half
of the office REIT’s U.S. properties into a joint venture it
would manage, before abandoning the plan and seeking buyers for
all the assets.  “Shareholders never had a say when Macquarie sold the
management rights to Charter Hall,” Moss said. “And when an
attempt was made to sell U.S. assets to a Charter Hall-related
entity, they again didn’t have a say.”  Charter Hall’s independent directors have rejected Moss’s
assertion and urged  Charter Hall Office REIT (CQO)  shareholders to
vote against a change of management. The group this week said
it will conduct a corporate governance and fee review for the
Charter Hall office and retail REITs.  Moss Capital  Moss Capital, which now has 20 staff, plans to double in
size and would consider expanding outside Australia if
investment opportunities arise, Moss said.  “After I’d been out of the market for some time, I
realized the corporate contacts you have disappear very quickly
when you leave the top tier,” Moss said.  Moss left Macquarie with a A$40 million payout, the Sydney
Morning Herald reported on Aug. 21, 2010. Moss declined to
comment on the payout. Moss, who suffers from facio-scapulo-
humeral dystrophy, donates all his salary to charity and offers
his services free to anyone who helps his FSHD Global Research
Foundation, a non-profit organization that funds medical
research on the condition, he said.  Moss said he realized something was not right with his
body when he went from the fastest runner in his school to the
slowest by age 12, and developed difficulties catching a ball
and getting up after a tackle during sports. When he was
diagnosed, a neurologist told him he would be in a wheelchair
by age 50. Moss credits the fact that he has defied that
prediction to his determination.  ‘Still Walking’  “When you’ve got a disease that’s slow and aggressive, it
forces you to adapt in different ways,” he said. “When I
found out I had it, I worked out that whatever I was going to
be by the age of 50, I had to be by the age of 40. ”  Moss is working on a book, titled “Still Walking,” which
he calls his “half-time report” about his experiences at
Macquarie and the funds management industry. He aims to release
it by the end of the year, he said.  The move to replace Charter Hall is the first foray by
Moss Capital into managing a listed property trust. Moss now
runs unlisted property, solar and debt funds and manages
syndicates for clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  