-- 
Texas, 20 Other States Support Missouri Challenge to Obama Health-Care Law

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-07-19T16:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/texas-20-other-states-support-missouri-challenge-to-obama-health-care-law.html
Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott 
and officials from 20 other states filed court papers supporting
a Missouri challenge to the Obama administration’s health-care
reform law, his office said in a statement today.  Missouri Lieutenant Governor Peter Kinder and six state
residents sued U.S. officials last July claiming the law is
unconstitutional because it requires people to buy health
insurance. U.S. District Judge Rodney W. Sippel dismissed the
case in April and Kinder appealed.  Abbott and officials from other states filed a brief
yesterday asking the federal appeals court in St. Louis to
reinstate the lawsuit. The states claim that the mandatory
insurance provision of the health-care law violates the Commerce
Clause of the U.S. Constitution.  “By attempting to compel people to participate in
commerce, the individual mandate far exceeds the federal
government’s Commerce Clause authority to regulate commerce,”
the states said in the brief. “Sanctioning such a power would
eliminate all meaningful limits on Congress’s authority and
sound the death knell for our constitutional structure and
individual liberties.”  The lawsuit is one of multiple challenges to the health-
care reform law, including a separate lawsuit filed in  Florida 
by that state’s attorney general and joined by the 20 other
states supporting the Missouri appeal. U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson found in that case that Congress exceeded its power
in requiring that almost every American obtain insurance
starting in 2014. Vinson’s decision has been appealed.  Law Upheld  The Cincinnati-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in
a 2-1 ruling on June 29, became the first appellate panel to
rule in favor of the law. The court affirmed a Detroit federal
judge’s decision last year to throw out a challenge by the Ann
Arbor, Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center, a Christian-based
public interest law firm.  The states that joined Texas in the amicus brief for the
Missouri suit are Florida, Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Colorado,
Georgia, Idaho,  Louisiana , Maine, Michigan, Nebraska, Nevada,
North Dakota,  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,  South Carolina , South Dakota,
Utah,  Washington  and Wisconsin.  Two cases filed in  Virginia  are also under appeal. The 4th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, on May 10
heard the Obama administration’s challenge to a lower court
ruling that found, in a lawsuit brought by Virginia Attorney
General Kenneth Cuccinelli, that the individual mandate was
unconstitutional. U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson left the rest
of the act standing.  The Richmond panel also heard an appeal by Lynchburg,
Virginia-based Liberty University, which sought to reverse Judge
Norman K. Moon’s dismissal of its challenge to the law.  The Missouri case is Kinder v. Geithner, 1:10-cv-00201,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri ( St. Louis );
the appeal is Kinder v. Geithner, 11-1973, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the 8th Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 