-- 
Fed Bank Directors Expressed ‘Heightened Caution’ on Outlook for Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-19T19:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/fed-s-regional-bank-directors-expressed-heightened-caution-on-outlook.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks expressed “heightened caution” about the pace
of improvement in the economy, according to minutes of Board of
Governors’ meetings in May and June.  The directors of the 12 banks “generally noted that recent
economic data had been weaker than expected, and they expressed
a heightened caution about the likely pace of improvement in the
economy over coming quarters,” according to the minutes
released in  Washington  today, which summarize discussions at the
regional banks.  The minutes show that directors of the Fed’s regional banks
shared Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view in a press conference
last month that some of the “headwinds” facing the economy,
such as weakness in housing, “may be stronger and more
persistent than we thought.”  “Several directors attributed the slower pace of recovery,
in part, to factors that were likely to be transitory, but they
expected the recovery would only be moderately strong even after
those factors had dissipated,” according to the record of the
meetings.  Previous summaries of discount rate meetings included the
sentence that “most directors recommended that the current
accommodative stance of monetary policy be maintained.” Today’s
release said instead that “most directors recommended that the
current primary credit rate be maintained.”  Four Meetings  The minutes covered four meetings from May 9 through June
20 to discuss the Fed’s discount rate, which it charges on
emergency loans to banks. Recommendations about changing the
rate, which has been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were
the same as in previous meetings, with 10 of 12 banks preferring
no change. The  Kansas City  and  Dallas  Fed banks recommended
raising the rate to 1 percent.  A separate set of minutes for the policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee’s June 21-22 discussion about monetary
policy were released last week. The FOMC next meets in
Washington on Aug. 9.  Directors pointed to price increases and regulatory
uncertainty as some of the reasons for the slowdown.  “Many directors said that recent increases in the prices
of food and energy had damped consumer spending and sentiment,”
today’s minutes said. “Other directors expressed concern that
uncertainty about fiscal and regulatory policies was weighing on
business investment and hiring.”  Pre-Crisis Structure  Fed banks in Dallas and Kansas City last month said an
increase in the discount rate by a quarter-point would be a step
toward “a pre-crisis discount rate structure.”  None of the Fed’s 12 banks has changed its recommendation
on the rate since June 2010. The Fed’s Washington-based Board of
Governors expressed “no sentiment” for a change and kept it at
0.75 percent last month.  As of July 13, banks were borrowing $5 million in primary
credit from the Fed discount window. The discount rate is 50
basis points above the Fed funds rate, which has been kept at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The central bank raised the discount rate in February 2010,
a move it described as a “normalization” of lending terms and
not a tightening of monetary policy. Prior to August 2007, the
Fed kept the rate, also known as the primary credit rate, 1
percentage point above the target for the benchmark federal
funds rate.  Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks. The requests are subject to final
review and determination by the  Fed Board , which consists of the
central bank’s five Washington-based governors. They review
requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  