-- 
FirstRand Will Likely Pay Special Dividend From Unit Sale, Investors Say

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-07-19T15:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/firstrand-will-likely-pay-special-dividend-from-unit-sale-investors-say.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,  South Africa ’s
second-biggest financial-services group, will pay a special
dividend following the 4 billion-rand ($570 million) sale of one
of its insurance units, according to investors and analysts.  FirstRand will distribute all of the proceeds from the sale
of Outsurance Holdings Ltd., said Mervin Naidoo, a financial-
services analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) ’s Johannesburg unit with
an “overweight” rating on the stock. He expects a special
dividend of 68 cents a share. The company probably will also
need to consider a three-year capital plan because it has excess
cash beyond the Outsurance money, he said.  The median estimate for FirstRand’s special dividend is 62
cents a share, according to a Bloomberg survey of five analysts
and fund managers.  South African banks “are well capitalized and this has
resulted in market speculation on what the banks may do with any
excess capital,” Sam Moss, FirstRand’s investor-relations
director, said in response to an e-mailed query. “We can’t
comment on this speculation but expect to clarify our position
to shareholders when we announce our year-end results in
September.”  FirstRand, based in Johannesburg, said on June 21 the sale
of its 45 percent interest in Outsurance to Rand Merchant
Insurance Holdings Ltd. had been completed. The stake was worth
3.64 billion rand, and FirstRand said it sold its Outsurance
preference shares for a further 401 million rand. In the six
months to December, the lender paid a dividend of 35 cents, up
from 28 cents a year earlier, and  reported  a core Tier 1 capital
adequacy ratio, a key measure of financial strength, of 13.6
percent.  ‘Too Much Capital’  “We believe FirstRand’s payout ratio should be higher than
45 percent because it’s holding too much capital,” said Faizal Moolla, a banking analyst at Avior Research Ltd. in  Cape Town 
with a “buy” rating on the company. “A special dividend would
go a long way toward having a leaner  capital structure  and
boosting the return on equity. FirstRand is overcapitalized.”  FirstRand rose 13 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 19.60 rand in
Johannesburg trading, making it the second-biggest gainer on the
six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index. The company is scheduled
to report full-year results on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  