-- 
R.J. Reynolds Loses Bid for Appeal of $28.3 Million Verdict

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-19T23:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/florida-supreme-court-declines-to-hear-reynolds-tobacco-appeal.html
Florida’s Supreme Court declined to
hear  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co.’s appeal of a $28.3 million
verdict in a case that the cigarette maker argued may affect
thousands of so-called Engle tobacco claims in the state.  The court, in a one-page order today, turned aside the
company’s bid for an appeal of the 2009 verdict in favor of
Mathilde Martin, who claimed her husband, Benny Ray Martin, died
from a smoking-related disease. The decision leaves in place a
lower state appeals court ruling that affirmed the verdict.  Reynolds, a unit of Winston Salem, North Carolina-based
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , sought to have the Florida Supreme Court
review the lower appeals court ruling, arguing that the trial
court misapplied a 2006 decision by the  Florida  Supreme Court in
the Engle case. The Engle decision ended a statewide class
action filed on behalf of Florida smokers.  In the 2006 ruling, named after  Howard Engle , the lead
plaintiff in the class action, the court said that some jury
findings in the case could be applied by former class members
who file individual claims.  Reynolds to Appeal  David Howard , a spokesman for R.J. Reynolds, said the
company is disappointed the Florida Supreme Court won’t review
the lower court’s decision, which he said deprived the company
of its constitutional right to a fair trial. Reynolds will try
to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, Howard said.  “This signals that Engle remains good law, now and
forever, in Florida,” said Matt Schultz, a lawyer for Martin.  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit, the biggest
U.S. cigarette maker, faces claims from about 8,900 Engle
plaintiffs, the company said in its most recent quarterly filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. About 8,600 have
filed claims against Reynolds, the company said in its quarterly
 SEC filing . About half the claims are filed in state court, half
in federal court.  Smokers and their families have won verdicts in about two-
thirds of the 44 or more Engle claims tried to verdict,
including one for $80 million against Reynolds in November.  Engle, a Florida pediatrician who died in 2009, was the
lead plaintiff in a statewide class action filed in 1994 on
behalf of smokers who were addicted to nicotine and developed
cancer or other smoking-related illnesses as a result.  Three-Phase Trial  In the first part of what was intended to be a three-phase
trial, a Miami jury decided a series of common questions
relating to the companies’ conduct and to the health effects of
smoking. In the second phase, the jury awarded $145 billion in
punitive damages to the class.  In its 2006 ruling, the Florida  Supreme Court  rejected the
$145 billion verdict and ruled that the case couldn’t continue
as a class action.  At the same time, Florida’s high court upheld most of the
Phase I factual findings and said they would apply in all of the
individual suits filed by smokers who had been part of the Engle
class. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the case.  The Engle findings, which include that the companies sold
defective products, concealed the dangers of smoking and acted
negligently, typically are read to jurors by Florida judges in
cigarette liability cases.  The companies argue that trial judges, in the Martin case
and others, have applied the findings too broadly and aren’t
requiring smokers to prove all the elements of their claims.  Benny Martin, a long-time smoker of Lucky Strike
cigarettes, died of  lung cancer  in 1995. A jury in Pensacola,
Florida, found Reynolds 66 percent responsible and Martin 34
percent responsible, awarding $3.3 million plus $25 million in
punitive damages.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Martin, SC11-483,
Florida Supreme Court (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 