-- 
Freemasonry, Al-Qaeda Secrets Exposed in Frankfurt for Puzzlers

-- B y   R a j i v   S e k h r i
-- 
2011-07-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/freemasonry-al-qaeda-symbols-exposed-for-puzzle-fans-at-frankfurt-schirn.html
Al-Qaeda, a hashish club, and the
Freemasons are among the secret societies whose symbols are
exposed at the  Schirn Kunsthalle  in  Frankfurt .  “Secret Societies,” a collection of 100 exhibits by 52
contemporary artists, is like a game, with lists, diagrams and
symbols to decipher. Those who enjoy a puzzle can try spotting
the hidden photos of the 19 suspects in the Sept. 11, 2001
terrorist attacks on the U.S. In an artwork by Jonathan
Horowitz, their mugshots are scattered across the museum,
reflecting the fear that evil lurks around every corner.  The aim of the exhibition is “to make public something that
is clandestine,” says co-curator Cristina Ricupero. Yet, she
says, “We don’t want to reveal anything.”  So she doesn’t explain where the dark secret lies in Edward
Kay’s painting. From a distance, “Family Secret” looks harmless
-- a happy family posing for a photo against a blue sky. On
closer inspection, their clothes and faces are flecked with gray
brush strokes, creating a sense of foreboding.  “Acephale,” by the British artist Cerith Wyn Evans, is a
seven-foot neon sculpture of a headless man, holding fire in one
outstretched hand and a dagger in the other. It is a symbol of a
cult by the same name founded in the 1930s by French writer
Georges Bataille, who was close to the surrealist movement.  Ulla von Brandenburg uses symbols of freemasonry in “Karo
Sieben” (Seven of Diamonds). Spanning an area the size of a
theater stage, her artwork resembles a colored checkerboard,
with squares big enough to play a sinister human chess.  Cannabis With Balzac  “The Hashish Club,” by Danish artist Joachim Koester, is a
dimly projected video of cannabis leaves fluttering in the wind.
If you gaze at it for a minute or more, the artist says it will
evoke the dim atmosphere of Hotel Lauzun in Paris, where Charles
Baudelaire, Eugene Delacroix and Honore de Balzac met to
experiment with mind-altering substances.  Like those being initiated into secret societies, visitors
may not know what is going on, or how to interpret signs from
groups as varied as the Ku Klux Klan or the New Negro Escapist
Social and Athletic Club. If that’s the case, the curators say
the show has achieved its purpose.  “When you throw light on a secret, it disappears. We want
to show the secret without killing it,” says Alexis Vaillant,
the co-curator.  The show runs until Sept. 25. For more information, go to
 http://www.schirn.de  or call +49-69-2998-820.  (Rajiv Sekhri is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajiv Sekhri in Frankfurt at 
 rsekhri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 