-- 
Galleon Prosecutor Set for ‘Closure’ as Rajaratnam, Chiesi Face Sentencing

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/galleon-prosecutor-sees-closure-as-rajaratnam-chiesi-face-sentencing.html
When former hedge-fund consultant
Danielle Chiesi appears at her sentencing for  insider trading 
tomorrow, one lawyer who helped build the case against her and
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam won’t be there.  Joshua Klein left the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office on
Jan. 19, 2010, exactly one year before Chiesi pleaded guilty to
three counts of conspiracy to commit  securities fraud . Wiretaps
and other evidence Klein helped gather led to Chiesi’s guilty
plea and Rajaratnam’s conviction following a trial.  “I won’t be in the courtroom, but I’ll be watching,”
Klein, 43, said in an interview from Petrillo Klein LLP, the
Manhattan law firm he co-founded last year with former
prosecutor Guy Petrillo. “When you live with a case for a long
time, you cannot completely separate yourself from it.”  Rajaratnam, 54, will be sentenced on Sept. 27. A  Manhattan 
federal jury convicted him in May of 14 counts of insider
trading for using inside tips to make $63.8 million. He faces 15
1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in prison, prosecutors said at the
time of his conviction.  Chiesi, who worked at New Castle Funds LLC, admitted in
January that she passed Rajaratnam illegal tips that she got
from sources including  Robert Moffat , a former International
Business Machines Corp. executive who has also pleaded guilty.
Chiesi, 45, faces as long as 46 months behind bars under U.S.
guidelines. She agreed this month to pay $540,000 to settle
related allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  ‘Wide, Sweeping’  Since August 2009, federal prosecutors in New York have
charged 49 people with insider-trading crimes. Of those, 44 have
been convicted, according to the government. No one has won a
dismissal or acquittal. Five cases are pending.  The Galleon case was a “wide, sweeping one” that
splintered off into many directions, said William Johnson, who
supervised Klein in the Manhattan federal white-collar crime
unit. Klein took control of the Rajaratnam investigation in the
fall of 2008 while other prosecutors oversaw probes into other
traders and hedge-fund consultants, he said.  “The case was in good hands with Josh,” Johnson said.
“He’s very strategic.”  After Klein went into private practice, the Galleon
prosecution was handled by  Reed Brodsky , Jonathan Streeter and
Andrew Michaelson, whose faces graced newspaper pages after the
Rajaratnam jury returned the guilty verdicts.  It was Klein and Lauren Goldberg, another prosecutor at the
time, who helped build a criminal case that began as early as
2003 as a civil investigation by the SEC. They took the novel
step of using wiretaps to catch their targets in the act of
sharing inside information.  Hit a Wall  By March 2008, the government had “hit a bit of a wall”
and needed wiretaps to proceed, Goldberg testified at a hearing
last year. After a judge approved wiretapping, investigators
recorded about 2,400 conversations of Rajaratnam, Chiesi and
others. Prosecutors played about four dozen of the recordings at
Rajaratnam’s trial, including chats between the hedge-fund
tycoon and Chiesi.  Klein began working on Galleon after winning a trial
conviction in 2008 of fund manager Alberto Vilar for stealing
money from investors. He took control of the Galleon probe after
Goldberg moved on to other cases.  Klein “was the guy putting it together,” lawyer Jeffrey
Bornstein said in an interview. Bornstein represents portfolio
manager Richard Choo-Beng Lee, who pleaded guilty in 2009 and
provided evidence against Rajaratnam. “He was a very
formidable, strong-willed advocate for the government.”  Longest Sentence  Also in 2008, Klein won a 10-year prison sentence for
former Credit Suisse Group banker Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem,
who was convicted in an unrelated insider-trading case. That
sentence was the longest in any insider trading case in
Manhattan since at least 2003.  With Michaelson sharing what he learned as an SEC lawyer
about Galleon’s stock trading, Klein tapped almost a decade of
prosecutorial experience handling narcotics and white-collar
crime cases. He began monitoring wiretaps, holding plea
negotiations with cooperating witnesses and making tactical
decisions.  One key concern was ensuring that the probe stayed
“narrow” and didn’t veer into unwarranted directions, Klein
said. He also wanted to ensure that investigators didn’t make
legal mistakes defense attorneys would later attack.  Zvi Goffer   Neither Klein, a graduate of the University of  Michigan  and
 Harvard Law School , nor Goldberg, now general counsel to
cosmetics maker Revlon Inc., would discuss how they built the
Galleon cases. Other prosecutors including Andrew Fish, who on
June 13 won a conviction at the insider-trading trial of ex-
Galleon trader Zvi Goffer, were also mapping strategy in the
expanding investigation.  After Rajaratnam’s arrest on Oct. 16, 2009, the judge set
bail at $100 million, later reduced. Klein initially argued
against bail, citing “overwhelming” evidence that included
wiretaps “very clearly” depicting insider trading, a
characterization with which jurors agreed 17 months later.  “There was so much going on” the day of the Rajaratnam
and Chiesi arrests, Klein said. “We had accomplished the task
of putting together the case.”  By the time Klein left the prosecutor’s office, eight
defendants had pleaded guilty and other pleas were in the works.
Klein said he would have “loved” to try the Rajaratnam case.
Still, he doesn’t regret leaving government service.  ‘You Never Know’  “You never know if a case would go to trial,” said Klein,
who didn’t attend any of Rajaratnam’s trial. “I would read
about the case, I would monitor what was going on, but I was
juggling a lot of things trying to build a  law firm .”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Alan Kaufman , the lawyer for
Chiesi, and  Jim McCarthy , a spokeswoman for Rajaratnam, declined
to comment.  Klein said he felt a sense of “closure” with the
Rajaratnam verdict.  “I congratulated the trial team,” he said. “I definitely
did feel a sense of having achieved certain goals, and of having
had an input in making a dent in combating a certain type of
activity that has proven difficult to identify and prosecute.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  