-- 
Gasoline Futures Advance on Weaker Dollar, Stronger Equities

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-19T19:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/gasoline-futures-advance-on-weaker-dollar-stronger-equities.html
Gasoline gained as equities climbed
on better-than-expected corporate earnings and as a weaker
dollar increased the investment appeal of commodities.  Futures rose 0.6 percent as U.S. equities advanced after
companies from International Business Machines Corp. to Coca-
Cola Co. reported profits that topped estimates. The dollar fell
0.2 percent against the euro as of 2:49 p.m. in  New York  on
speculation Greek’s debt crisis may be closer to resolution.  “Prices are higher primarily on a stronger euro and
stronger equities,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading
advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,
Connecticut.  Gasoline for August delivery rose 1.75 cents to settle at
$3.1149 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
have gained 2.7 percent this month after a 3.8 percent decline
in June.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.7 percent as of
2:47 p.m. in New York amid optimism that U.S. lawmakers were
nearing a deal to cut the  budget deficit  and avoid default.
President  Barack Obama  endorsed a deficit-cutting proposal by a
bipartisan Senate group known as the Gang of Six.  European leaders are preparing to meet July 21 to discuss
how to contain the region’s credit crisis that’s spreading from
Greece to Italy and  Spain . European Central Bank council member
 Ewald Nowotny  suggested the bank may compromise and allow a
temporary Greek default.  Housing Data  Gasoline also gained after the Commerce Department reported
that U.S. housing starts rose at the strongest rate in five
months, indicating the economic recovery may be strengthening
and fuel demand will improve. Work began on 629,000 houses at an
annual pace, up 14.6 percent from the prior month.  U.S. building permits, a sign of future construction,
unexpectedly climbed 2.5 percent.  “We seem to be tacking higher on any kind of positive
data,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “And the dollar is under
pressure because European officials seem to be fleshing out an
agreement on  Greece .”  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 tomorrow in  Washington .  Gasoline inventories probably fell 250,000 barrels last
week, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News. Distillate stockpiles rose 1.5 million
barrels and crude oil stockpiles dropped 2 million, according to
the survey.  “It’s kind of a confused market right now, looking for
direction,” Beutel said. “We need to get a better sense of
what’s going on at refineries. And the market is going to be
very interested to see how demand is after the Independence Day
holiday period.”  Gasoline Demand  U.S. gasoline demand, measured by wholesale deliveries,
fell 3.2 percent in the week ended July 8 to a nine-week low of
9.02 million barrels a day, according to Energy Department data.  Demand at the pump, measured on the four-week average, fell
1.1 percent in the week ended July 15, according to MasterCard
Inc.’s SpendingPulse report. It was the 17th consecutive
decline, according to MasterCard data.  Regular gasoline rose 0.2 cent to $3.678 a gallon
yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for August delivery rose 2.03 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.098 a gallon on the exchange. Heating oil is up
5.6 percent this month following a 4 percent loss in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  