-- 
Georgia Citizen Panel to Fine Immigration-Crackdown Laggards, Enforce Law

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/georgia-panel-empowered-for-immigration-crackdown.html
Georgia  mayors, county commissioners
and even business-license clerks may face $5,000 fines from a
panel of state-sanctioned volunteers empowered to investigate
complaints about compliance with a new immigration  law .  The board will be able to subpoena witnesses and strip
funding from public bodies it finds have violated the law and
levy fines against governments and individuals.  The first-of-its-kind Immigration Enforcement Review Board
is part of a law that took effect July 1, making Georgia one of
six states that have taken immigration enforcement duties into
their own hands. To date, the law has provoked a federal
lawsuit, a court injunction and a shortage of fruit and
vegetable pickers in Georgia’s harvest season. The enforcement
board’s job is to keep government officials in line.  “This is a radical privatization of government power,”
said Charles Kuck, a lawyer who is part of a legal team
challenging the law. “There was no evidence presented, not even
anecdotal evidence, that there was a problem that needed to be
solved.”  The board is unique to Georgia, not duplicated in the other
five states --  Arizona ,  Utah ,  Indiana ,  Alabama  and  South
Carolina  -- that have enacted immigration laws, Kuck said.  Its members will be appointed by Governor Nathan Deal,
Lieutenant Governor Casey Cagle and David Ralston, speaker of
the  House of Representatives . Members will be unpaid. The law
sets no eligibility standards.  Mischief, Paperwork  Deal said in an interview yesterday that he expects to make
his appointments in the next few months and the review board to
begin its work in January.  “The Legislature did a very good job,” he said. “I was
very pleased with the final rendition of the bill.”  Kuck said the review panel was added to the legislation
with no public hearing, and will invite mischief, increase
paperwork and waste money without effect on illegal immigration.
He said the board reminded him of Wisconsin Senator Joe McCarthy’s investigations of supposed Communists in the 1950s.  “It’s like a mini-McCarthy panel,” he said.  Supporters, including state  Representative Matthew Ramsey ,
say citizen oversight is critical and that the new board is a
compromise.  “Originally, I had wanted to give private citizens the
standing to sue,” said Ramsey, who sponsored the law.  More than 10,000 protesters descended on Atlanta, capital
of the ninth-most-populous state, on the day the law went into
effect. In reality, only a few parts of the law became
enforceable July 1.  Holding Pattern  A federal court blocked two key requirements four days
earlier in response to a lawsuit from the  American Civil
Liberties Union  and several partners. It blocked language
allowing police to check immigration status and criminalizing
transportation of illegal aliens in some circumstances.  The ACLU has sued in five of the six states with new laws
and won similar injunctions in four.  There were 425,000 illegal immigrants in Georgia in 2009,
or 4.3 percent of the state’s population then, according to the
Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center. The 325,000 of them who
worked composed about 6.5 percent of the  labor force .  After a two-year phase-in that starts in January, Georgia
companies will have to use the federal E-Verify system to
confirm their employees’ legal status through government
records. The system has been criticized for inefficiency, bad
data and vulnerability to identity fraud, according to a 2008
U.S. Government Accountability Office report.  New Bite  The provisions of the law that did start July 1 include
those targeted at elected officials and public employees. They
add penalties and an enforcement process -- including the
citizen review board -- to laws in effect since 2006.  Those require government to E-Verify employees and
contractors and to check the legal status of noncitizens
applying for “public benefits,” which include services as
varied as housing assistance, adult education and business
licenses.  The laws had no teeth, said  D.A. King , a Marietta activist
who pushed for the new measure. “We got what we could get in
2006,” he said.  The new review board will examine complaints from
registered Georgia voters about public bodies’ failure to use
either the E-Verify system or the federal Systematic Alien
Verification for Entitlements database.  Willful Violations  If it finds a violation based on a preponderance of
evidence, the board can levy fines of as much as $5,000, cut
funding for local governments or strip them of eligibility for
state-administered funds and programs.  Ramsey, the law’s sponsor, said the board would sanction
only those who didn’t follow or agree to board-ordered
remediation plans and that individuals would be fined only if
their violations were knowing or willful.  Most local governments already comply with the E-Verify
part of the law, said Amy Henderson, a spokeswoman for the
 Georgia Municipal Association .  The verification requirement for public-benefit applicants
has been more problematic, she said, calling the federal
Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements database
“cumbersome.”  “I’ll be honest,” she said. “Some of them have found it
difficult to register.”  ‘Just Him’  Parrott, three hours south of Atlanta, has a population of
156. It’s one of only five jurisdictions that in the past year
complied with the requirement to report a business-license
applicant whose legal status was unverifiable.  He was “an Indian guy,” said Nan Riegle, Parrott’s part-
time city clerk and sole employee.  “I have just him, just one guy who owns a convenience
store,” she said in a phone interview. “He wanted to renew his
business license.”  “I couldn’t get the system to work,” Riegle said. “I did
all the things I was supposed to do. It is horrible. These
little towns, we have so many mandates coming out of Atlanta,
our workload has doubled.”  Riegle said she’d heard of the new penalties for failing to
check benefit applicants, and about the enforcement board. She
called the idea awful, while saying she’ll do her best to comply
with the law.  “I can’t afford to get my little town fined,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 