-- 
Investor Confidence in Germany Fell More in July Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-19T09:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/german-investor-confidence-falls-more-than-forecast-as-debt-crisis-worsens.html
Investor confidence in Germany,
 Europe ’s largest economy, dropped more than economists forecast
in July as the euro-area debt crisis worsened.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, fell to minus
15.1 from minus 9 in June. That’s the lowest since January 2009.
Economists expected a decline to minus 12.5, according to the
median of 42 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX index (DAX)  has shed more than 2 percent
this month amid investor concern that the debt crisis, which has
already engulfed Greece, Ireland and Portugal, will spread to
Italy. While government belt-tightening across the region and
slowing global demand may damp growth, the Bundesbank said
yesterday that  Germany ’s outlook remains “favorable” as
falling unemployment boosts consumer spending.  “July’s drop in German ZEW investor sentiment highlights
fears that the peripheral crisis could soon do some serious
damage to the German economy,” said Jennifer McKeown, senior
European economist at  Capital Economics  in  London . “With the
euro zone’s largest economy unable to act as a locomotive, we
see the region’s recovery grinding to a halt in the coming
quarters.”  Still, ZEW’s gauge of current economic conditions rose to
90.6 from 87.6 in June. The euro was little changed at $1.4192
after the report was published.  Growth Forecasts  The Bundesbank on June 10 raised its German growth forecast
for this year to 3.1 percent from 2.5 percent. Euro-area growth
will average 1.9 percent in 2011, the  European Central Bank 
forecast last month.  European leaders have struggled to contain a debt crisis
that originated in Greece and has forced Ireland and Portugal to
seek bailouts as well. At a summit this week, they’ll seek to
revamp their strategy and snap a deadlock that is spooking
investors and prompting warnings of contagion from the
 International Monetary Fund .  Italian 10-year bond yields rose to a euro-era record of
more than 6 percent yesterday.  “The escalation in Italy was probably an important element
in this month’s survey,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist
at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “I’m still very satisfied with the
performance of the German economy. While growth will slow down,
the outlook continues to be rosy.”  Business Confidence  German companies have ramped up investment and hiring to
meet booming export demand, helping drive economic expansion of
1.5 percent in the first quarter. Business confidence
unexpectedly improved in June, factory orders surged for a
second month in May and industrial production rebounded.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, said on July 15
it expects to continue outperforming the auto market in the
second half after posting a record 4.1 million deliveries in the
first six months of the year.  VCI, the main association of German chemical companies,
last week raised its 2011 sales growth forecast one percentage
point to 10 percent.  “A soft patch in the global economy is beginning to
materialize but overall, the German economy will continue to
outperform the euro-area average,” said  Aline Schuiling , senior
economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “We’ll observe a
slowdown but growth will remain solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  