-- 
Glaxo-Pfizer AIDS Pill May Dislodge Bristol’s, Study Suggests

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-19T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/glaxo-pfizer-aids-pill-may-dislodge-bristol-s-study-suggests.html
A drug developed by  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  controlled HIV faster and more safely than
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Sustiva in a study, suggesting the
experimental medicine may one day be preferred to Bristol’s.  Dolutegravir, a product of Glaxo and Pfizer’s ViiV
Healthcare joint venture, reduced HIV to undetectable levels in
90 percent of patients after 48 weeks, compared with 82 percent
of those who got Sustiva, according to  results  presented at an
AIDS meeting in  Rome  today. Dolutegravir also caused a
significantly lower rise in bad cholesterol than Sustiva, at
one-twelfth of the dose size.  Sustiva is one of three drugs in  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s
Atripla, the world’s best-selling AIDS pill, and brought New
York-based Bristol $1.4 billion in sales last year. Today’s
results could signal that dolutegravir may supplant Sustiva,
also known as efavirenz, as a preferred treatment in first-line
therapy, Michael Saag, director of the Center for AIDS Research
at the  University of Alabama  in Birmingham, said in an e-mail.  “It does raise the possibility of one day replacing
efavirenz as the most preferred agent,” Saag said.  The “impressive” results don’t mean dolutegravir has
proven it’s superior to Sustiva yet, though that may be shown in
a larger study, he said.  Sustiva is recognized by the  U.S. Department of Health  and
Human Services as a component of preferred combination HIV
therapy regimens for patients who are new to treatment, said
Cristi Barnett, a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Sustiva’s Data  “While it would be premature for me to speculate on any
future treatment guideline changes, Sustiva, as part of
combination HIV therapy, has accumulated extensive clinical
trial data and clinical experience for more than 12 years,”
Barnett said.  The researchers, led by Jan van Lunzen at the  University
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf  in  Germany , tested dolutegravir
in 205 HIV patients who hadn’t received treatment before. They
received one of three doses of either ViiV’s drug or Sustiva
once a day for 48 weeks. The doctors involved in the trial could
choose whether to combine the treatments either with Gilead’s
Truvada or ViiV’s Epzicom.  Dolutegravir reduced HIV to undetectable levels in 92
percent of patients after 16 weeks, compared with 58 percent for
a 600-milligram dose of Sustiva. By 48 weeks, 90 percent of
those on dolutegravir had undetectable virus, compared with 82
percent of those on Sustiva.  Bad Cholesterol  Patients on dolutegravir, previously known as S/GSK1349572,
also got a bigger boost in their CD4 cells -- the immune-system
cells HIV infects and kills -- than those on Sustiva, and had a
fraction of the rise in bad cholesterol. Some HIV medicines have
been linked to an increase in cholesterol, which can lead to
heart attacks.  Dolutegravir is in a class of AIDS drugs called integrase
inhibitors that work by blocking HIV’s ability to replicate.
Data presented at an AIDS meeting in Vienna last year showed
dolutegravir was also better at controlling HIV than Merck &
Co.’s Isentress, the only approved integrase inhibitor.  “It’s delivering on everything that we’ve asked for it,”
said Garrett Nichols, Glaxo’s project leader for dolutegravir,
in an interview. Dolutegravir “holds the best promise for long-
term treatment success.”  ViiV is now testing dolutegravir in the third and final
stage of patient studies usually required for regulatory
approval in the U.S. The drug was developed jointly with  Osaka ,
Japan-based Shionogi & Co. It’s also testing the drug with two-
drug combination Epzicom as a three-in-one pill against Atripla.  Glaxo owns 85 percent of ViiV and Pfizer owns 15 percent.
The two companies split the profits accordingly.  Other Studies  In a separate  study , ViiV’s experimental drug lersivirine
showed similar efficacy to Sustiva in controlling HIV, with
fewer abnormal dreams and dizziness, but with more nausea and
headache side effects. The company is now completing the second
stage of human trials to get a better understanding of the drug.  “For a new drug to be competitive and offer an advantage
over existing therapies it has to have at least equivalent
antiviral activity and be better tolerated, or at least as
tolerable,” Saag said. “The frequency of nausea in the phase
II is key to determining if it should be taken further.” Saag
has been a consultant for ViiV and is also a consultant for
Bristol and Gilead, he said.  A  third trial  tested an older ViiV pill, Selzentry, against
Gilead’s two-drug combination Truvada, when both were added to
Bristol’s Reyataz and Abbott Laboratories’s Norvir. Over 48
weeks, Selzentry lowered HIV to undetectable levels in 75
percent of patients, compared with 84 percent of those on
Truvada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  