-- 
Gold to Extend Record Rally If U.S. Increases Debt Limit: Chart of the Day

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-07-19T23:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/gold-to-extend-record-rally-if-u-s-increases-debt-limit-chart-of-the-day.html
Gold may rally further from this
month’s record if President  Barack Obama  wins lawmakers’
agreement to raise the U.S.’s debt ceiling, weakening the dollar
and boosting demand for the precious metal as a store of value,
according to Korea Investment & Securities Co.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the spot gold price in dollars
has climbed along with increases in the U.S.’s statutory debt
limit over the past 16 years. Immediate-delivery gold reached a
record $1,610.10 an ounce yesterday, as concerns that debt
crises in  Europe  and the U.S. will roil global financial markets
boosted demand for the precious metal as a haven.  “Gold’s rally is quite explosive,” said Julia Yoo, a
Seoul-based analyst at Korea Investment. “Increasing the debt
limit means you print more dollars, which will weaken the dollar
and consequently lift the gold price,” adding to gains this
year that were driven by demand from countries including  China ,
she said.  Obama is negotiating with Congressional leaders to raise
the $14.3 trillion debt limit before Aug. 2, the date when
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the government
will run out of options to prevent a default. Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service have said they
are likely to downgrade the government’s credit rating if
Congress doesn’t act.  Gold has climbed 33 percent against the  U.S. dollar  over
the past year, outpacing all of the more than 150 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The debt ceiling is important in 2011 given the dangers
of a technical default in the U.S. and the increasing focus on
sustainable debt levels going forward,” London-based  Michael
Lewis , head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “Although I expect we can
avoid a technical default, if it were to occur I would expect to
see more downside risks to U.S. equity markets and additional
upside in the gold price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  