-- 
Google Gets More Time for Book-Scan Settlement With Authors

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-07-19T17:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/google-authors-ask-for-more-time-to-discuss-scanning-settlement.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a group of
publishers and authors got more time to negotiate a possible
settlement of a lawsuit over the search-engine company’s digital
reproduction of books.  “We are not there yet,” Michael Boni, a lawyer for the
authors, told U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in  Manhattan  today.
“They are very complicated, complex issues, requiring us to
delve into them in the dog days of summer.”  Google was sued in 2005 by authors and publishers who said
the company was infringing their copyrights on a massive scale
by digitizing books and allowing “snippets” of them to be seen
online. Chin objected to an earlier, $125 million settlement,
saying it would be unfair to authors.  Chin, who kept the case after he was elevated to the
appeals court bench from the U.S. district court in April 2010,
set a new hearing for Sept. 15.  The judge told the lawyers today that he was “concerned”
about the amount of time it was taking to come up with a revised
settlement and indicated that he expected progress at the
September hearing.  “If the matter is not resolved, or close to being
resolved, I’m going to give you a relatively tight schedule for
discovery,” Chin said. Discovery refers to the pretrial
gathering and sharing of evidence.  Google Shares  Google rose $7.25, or 1.2 percent, to $602.19 at 1:31 p.m.
 New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock climbed
less than 1 percent this year before today.  “We’ve been working closely with the authors and
publishers to explore a number of options,” Gabriel Stricker, a
spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based Google, told
reporters after the hearing today. “Regardless of the outcome
we’ll continue to make books more discoverable and useful
through  Google Books  and Google eBooks.”  Google has scanned more than 15 million books so far.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-CV-8136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  