-- 
Gorbachev Warns of Damage From Putin Return

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-19T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/gorbachev-warns-of-damage-from-putin-return.html
Mikhail Gorbachev , who presided over
the end of the  Soviet Union , says Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
shouldn’t seek a third term as Russian president as the country
struggles to develop democratic institutions.  Members of Putin’s inner circle, many from his hometown of
St. Petersburg, have sought to centralize power to protect their
own interests, Gorbachev said yesterday in an interview. Some
have even advocated dictatorship, he said in Hannover,  Germany ,
where he attended a forum on improving German-Russian relations.  “If you try to do everything in the country without taking
the people into account, while imitating democracy, that will
lead to a situation like in  Africa  where leaders sit and rule
for 20 or 30 years,” Gorbachev said. “The Petersburg project
in Russia is over. It has run its course.”  Putin, 58, was president from 2000-08, when he turned the
job over to  Dmitry Medvedev , his handpicked successor, because
of a ban on serving more than two consecutive terms. Both men
have left open the possibility that they may run for the top job
next year. The next president may serve until 2024 after the
term was increased to six years.  Putin was supported by 23 percent of those surveyed June
23-27 by the Moscow-based Levada Center, compared with 18
percent for Medvedev. Twenty-two percent were undecided, and 23
percent said either they wouldn’t vote or they weren’t sure
whether they would vote. The poll of 1,600 people had a margin
of error of 3.4 percentage points.  ‘I Wouldn’t Run’  Gorbachev, who turned 80 in March, was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize in 1990 for helping end the  Cold War  as president of
the Soviet Union. The former Soviet Communist Party general
secretary, who introduced a policy of “glasnost,” or openness,
has criticized Putin for clamping down on media freedoms and
political opposition.  “It would be better” if Putin chose not to seek a return
to the Kremlin, Gorbachev said. “If I were in his place, I
wouldn’t run for president.”  The rulers of Belarus and Kazakhstan, two former Soviet
republics that are Russia’s partners in a customs union, haven’t
heeded similar advice. Aleksandr Lukashenko, leader of what
former U.S. President  George W. Bush ’s administration called
“the last dictatorship in  Europe ,” has governed Belarus since
1994, and Nursultan Nazarbayev has ruled  Kazakhstan  since 1989.  Medvedev, a one-time law professor, has had a difficult
presidency because he came to power with limited experience in
government, Gorbachev said.  ‘Whittling’ Away Democracy  As president, Medvedev should have spoken out about
policies that reduced democracy, such as the elimination of
direct elections for regional governors and single-seat
districts for the lower house of parliament, Gorbachev said.
Both changes were implemented during Putin’s presidency.  “More than anything else, I’m worried about our electoral
system, how they’re whittling it away,” he said. “It reminds
me of when we were in school and there was the joke about
someone balancing an uneven chair by slightly sawing down one
leg and then another until there are no legs left.”  Russia  will continue on its path toward democracy as a new
generation replaces “the worst, most amoral, most cynical”
generation trained by the Soviet system, Gorbachev said.  “Democracy needs democratization everywhere, the world
over, and that’s difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Hannover, Germany, at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at   rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 