-- 
Gorbachev Says Putin Should Shun Presidency

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-19T14:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/gorbachev-says-putin-should-shun-presidency.html
(Corrects to show elimination of single-seat districts in
eighth paragraph.)  Former Soviet President  Mikhail Gorbachev  said Prime Minister Vladimir Putin shouldn’t run for
president next year because his government has lost touch with
the people.  Putin’s inner circle, including many allies from his
hometown of  St. Petersburg , have sought to centralize power and
even advocated dictatorship to protect their own interests,
Gorbachev said today in an interview in Hannover,  Germany .  “If you try to do everything in the country without taking
the people into account, while imitating democracy, that will
lead to a situation like in  Africa  where leaders sit and rule
for 20 or 30 years,” he said. “The Petersburg project in
Russia is over. It has run its course.”  Putin, 58, was president from 2000-08, when he turned the
job over to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , because of a ban of
serving more than two consecutive terms. Both men have left open
the possibility that they may run for the top job next year. The
next president may serve until 2024 after the term was increased
to six years.  Gorbachev, who turned 80 in March, was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize in 1990 for helping to bring an end to the  Cold War 
as president of the  Soviet Union . The former Soviet Communist
Party general secretary, who introduced a policy of
“glasnost,” or openness, has criticized Putin for clamping
down on media freedoms and political opposition.  “It would be better” if Putin chose not to seek a return
to the Kremlin, Gorbachev said. “If I were in his place, I
wouldn’t run for president.”  ‘Whittling’ Away Democracy  Medvedev, a former law professor, has had a difficult
presidency because he came to power with limited experience in
government, Gorbachev said.  As president, Medvedev should have spoken out about
policies that reduced democracy, such as the elimination of
direct elections for regional governors and single-seat
districts for the lower house of parliament, Gorbachev said.
Both changes were implemented during Putin’s presidency.  “More than anything else, I’m worried about our electoral
system, how they’re whittling it away,” he said. “It reminds
me of when we were in school and there was the joke about
someone balancing an uneven chair by slightly sawing down one
leg and then another until there are no legs left.”  Russia  will continue on its path toward democracy as a new
generation replaces “the worst, most amoral, most cynical”
generation trained by the Soviet system, Gorbachev said.  “Democracy needs democratization everywhere, the world
over, and that’s difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Hannover, Germany, at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at   rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 