-- 
Greene King Agrees 70 Million-Pound Bid for Capital Pub Co.

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-07-19T15:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/greene-king-agrees-70-million-pound-bid-for-capital-pub-co-1-.html
Greene King Plc (GNK) , the U.K. brewer of
Old Speckled Hen pale ale, agreed to buy Capital Pub Co. for 70
million pounds ($112 million) to expand its presence in the
premium London food-and-drink market.  The recommended cash offer is for 235 pence a share, Bury
St. Edmunds, England-based Greene King said in a statement
distributed by the Regulatory News Service today.  Capital Pub said last month it rejected an indicative
approach from Fuller, Smith & Turner Plc of 200 pence a share,
citing the comparative strength of the London market as the
capital prepares for next year’s Olympics. Greene King said
today the proposed acquisition would boost its presence in the
“premium eating and drinking out market” in  London , as well as
allowing it to add accommodation offerings.  “The proposed acquisition represents another firm step as
we continue to expand our presence in London,” said Greene King
Chief Executive Officer Rooney Anand. “Capital Pubs would bring
a further 34 premium pub assets and take our Greater London
estate to approximately 250 at a time when London is
outperforming the national pub market.”  Greene King shares rose 0.3 percent to 481.6 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London trading. The stock has gained less
than 1 percent this year, giving the company a market value of
1.04 billion pounds. Capital Pub climbed 11 percent to close at
233.5 pence.  Earnings Boost  The deal would be earnings-enhancing in the first full
year of trading, Greene King said. Nigel Parson, an analyst at
Evolution Securities, estimated full-year “post-synergies”
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of more than 12 million pounds.  A total number of 250 pubs is “an increasingly important
statistic given what we forecast to be a very resilient market
place over and above the likely positive 2012 Olympics impact,”
said Greg Feehely, an analyst at Altium Securities.  Fuller, Smith & Turner said that following Greene King’s
recommended cash offer it “has no intention to make an offer
for Capital.”  Lazard & Co. Ltd. and Deutsche Bank AG are acting for
Greene King. PricewaterhouseCoopers and Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.
are acting for Capital Pub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  