-- 
Guinean President Conde Survives Night Attack by Gunmen on Home in Conakry

-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 
2011-07-19T16:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/guinean-president-alpha-conde-unharmed-in-attack-on-house-fofana-says.html
Guinean President  Alpha Conde 
survived unharmed an attack by gunmen on his residence in the
capital, Conakry, today and praised his guards for repelling the
assault.  Conde called for calm and national unity in a statement
made on the state broadcaster Radio Television Guineenne. Prime
Minister Mohamed Said Fofana told a meeting of government
institutions that “many were arrested” in connection with the
attacks. He didn’t provide details.  The gunfight left at least one of the presidential guard
dead, injured others and destroyed part of the house,  Associated
Press  reported, citing Francois Fall, a minister at the
presidency. The attack started at about 2 a.m. local time and
continued until first light, local residents told AP. Those
arrested included General Nouhou Thiam, former chief of staff of
the army, Guineenews.org reported, without saying where it got
the information.  Conde was elected president of the world’s largest exporter
of bauxite, the raw material for alumina, in November after two
years of military rule. On May 24,  Human Rights Watch  called on
him to investigate crimes committed by security forces in 2007
and 2009 and to strengthen the country’s judicial system. Two
months earlier, the United Nations human rights commissioner
proposed a truth and reconciliation commission to probe abuses.  African Union  Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  “condemned
strongly” the attack, which comes as Guinea prepares for a
parliamentary election later this year. The government,
political parties and civil society groups should “engage
without delay in reasoned policy dialogue” the Addis Ababa-
based African Union said in an e-mailed statement.  Guinea should hold parliamentary elections by November,
according to proposals by the  Electoral Commission  on June 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 