-- 
IBM Sells $2 Billion of Notes After Sales Surpass Estimates

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-19T21:22:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/ibm-plans-five-year-notes-as-sovereign-debt-crises-fuel-short-term-demand.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  sold $2 billion of five-year notes at a lower interest
rate than it got in December after reporting second-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates.  The world’s biggest computer-services provider issued $2
billion of 1.95 percent notes that yield 65 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. IBM last raised five-year debt in December with $1
billion of 2 percent notes that paid a 55 basis-point spread,
Bloomberg data show.  Higher-than-estimated results at companies led by Armonk,
New York-based IBM helped bolster investor confidence in U.S.
corporate debt by the most this month. It said yesterday that
second-quarter sales were $26.7 billion, topping the $25.4
billion average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “IBM is showing that it has been a very positive quarter
for them,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. Today’s issuance
shows the company “taking advantage of a cheap rate,” she
said.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.9 basis points to a
mid-price of 96.1 basis points as of 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. That’s the
biggest decline since June 30. The credit swaps index typically
falls when investor confidence improves.  ‘Taking Advantage’  Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes, IBM
said today in a regulatory filing. The company has $21.7 billion
in long-term debt and $8.5 billion of short-term debt as of
March 31, according to the filing. It’s raised $11.5 billion of
bonds in the past two years, Bloomberg data show.  “The company could be taking advantage of the market
conditions to refinance short-term debt to extend maturities and
management may want to add to its robust liquidity level to
provide additional cushion for shareholder rewards, buybacks,
dividends, while implementing its strategic growth
initiatives,” Lurie said.  IBM plans to spend about $20 billion on dividends and $50
billion buying back stock through 2015, IBM said at an investor
meeting in March. Its quarterly payout will rise 15 percent to
75 cents a share, the company said in an April 26 statement. IBM
added $8 billion to its stock-repurchase plan, bringing the
total authorized by the board to $12.7 billion.  “They’re a company that people like to have, they are very
global,” Lurie said.  Debt Rankings  The company is graded Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
a step lower at A+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  Investors have shied away from longer-term bonds as the
combination of sovereign debt crises and U.S. Federal Reserve
actions to bolster the economy increase the likelihood of faster
inflation. The gap in relative yields on U.S. corporate debt due
in one to three years against that due in seven to 10 years
reached 74 basis points last month, the widest since 2001,
before narrowing to 73 basis points yesterday, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  The yield on the benchmark 30-year  U.S. Treasury  bond may
rise to 4.8 percent by mid 2012 from about 4.3 percent
currently, according to the median estimate of 49 economists and
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Not many investors feel confident in jumping in on the
long end,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a  money manager  in New York at
First Investors Management Co., where he helps oversee $1.5
billion of investment-grade debt. “Rates are still expected to
go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  