-- 
Libyan Rebels Won’t Sign Oil Deals Until Elected Government

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-07-19T13:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/libyan-rebels-won-t-sign-oil-deals-until-elected-government-1-.html
Libya ’s Transitional National
Council, fighting to overthrow the government of  Muammar Qaddafi , won’t sign new contracts with  oil companies  because the
movement wasn’t elected, a spokesman for the group said.  “We are not elected,” Mahmoud Shammam said in a telephone
interview from Qatar’s capital, Doha. “How can we sign a
contract which will affect the life of the Libyan people and we
are not an elected government?” The council will honor existing
contracts, he said.  The Libyan rebel movement is talking with companies
including Royal Dutch Shell Plc on supplying fuel to the country
after Qaddafi’s government falls, Energy intelligence Group’s
International Oil Daily said today, citing Guma El-Gamaty, the
rebels’ representative to the U.K. Shammam said he couldn’t
comment on the report.  TNC, based in the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi, is
trying to restore oil production from areas it controls to pay
salaries and support the battle to oust Qaddafi. The country’s
crude exports were choked after fighting broke out in February.  The Sarir oil field, located in the country’s central
western section, needs more protection before production can
resume, Shammam said. The nearby Messla field “needs more
work,” he said, without elaborating.  The rebel movement gained “full control” of the northern
industrial city of Brega, including an ammonia and natural gas
plant, after advancing on the city yesterday, Shammam said.
Mines laid by the retreating Qaddafi forces have prevented
rebels from entering parts of the city including the downtown
section, he said.  Before the war, Brega was the main outlet for crude pumped
from Libya’s largest fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  