-- 
Michigan Governor Snyder Threatens Firings as Unions Start Negotiations

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-07-19T21:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/michigan-s-governor-threatens-firings-amid-drive-for-union-pay-concessions.html
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  is
making contingency plans to fire state employees if he cannot
wrest $145 million in pay concessions from their unions through
negotiations to begin next week.  Department heads were told last week to plan for dismissals
and cutbacks “as a last resort” should employees not agree to
concessions, Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman for the 52-year-old
Republican, said today in a telephone interview. The number of
possible firings is undetermined, she said.  Contracts for the seven bargaining units expire Sept. 30,
so they would have to be renegotiated. The $145 million
reduction in pay or benefits is assumed in the 2011-12 budget
that takes effect Oct. 1.  The cuts would affect most of the state’s approximately
47,000 employees, Wurfel said.  Ray Holman, spokesman for UAW 6000, the largest state
employee union, said in a telephone interview that dismissals
would be “dangerous” for prison guards and social workers who
are already overloaded.  Talks with UAW 6000 are scheduled for July 26; sessions
with others will follow, he said.  Wurfel said unions were told of the administration’s plans.  “We would rather come to an agreement at the bargaining
table,” Wurfel said. “Layoffs are one option in any
contingency plan, as are not filling vacancies, reducing travel
or contracting for some services.”  Saving Medicaid  Snyder proposed $180 million in employee concessions when
he released his $46 billion budget in February. He and the
Republican-led Legislature agreed to reduce the planned cutback
to $145 million.  Democrats, labor unions and school officials opposed the
spending plan because it raised income taxes on pensions and
other retirement income.  The budget reduced aid to schools and local governments,
while preserving funding for Medicaid, the joint state-federal
health-care program for the poor. Nearly one of five Michigan
residents receives Medicaid benefits, mostly children.  A proposal to require public employees -- including
teachers and elected officials -- to pay at least 20 percent of
the cost of their health insurance is pending in the
Legislature. Last year, the lawmakers mandated that state
workers pay 3 percent of their salaries toward retiree health
care. The change has been challenged in court.  Republican lawmakers, with Snyder’s backing, proposed
ending health insurance for all employees under the state’s
401(k)  retirement plan . Instead, they would receive lump-sum
payments for medical costs, the amount based on years of
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in  New York  at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 