-- 
Microsoft’s Alcatel Infringement Was Pervasive, Lawyer Says

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-07-27T23:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/microsoft-should-pay-alcatel-up-to-75-million-over-patent-witness-says.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  engaged in
“pervasive” infringement of an Alcatel-Lucent patent in the
software maker’s development of its Outlook program, said a
lawyer for  France ’s largest telecommunications equipment maker.  “It really is pervasive in Outlook, particularly in
Calendar,” Alcatel-Lucent lawyer Luke Dauchot told a jury in
federal court in San Diego in his closing argument today.  He
said the “Day patent,” as it was described during the trial,
“provided an easy, fast, reliable way of using Outlook.”  Dauchot said the technology also was infringed in
Microsoft’s Money and Personal PC applications. He told jurors
Outlook wouldn’t have been as popular without the patent’s
technology and that “Microsoft’s own survey showed that Outlook
is the most frequently used Microsoft Office application by
consumers.”  Microsoft attorney Juanita Brooks told jurors that Alcatel-
Lucent is trying to win money for a patent that is of little
significance to Microsoft because the company’s patent portfolio
was not making enough money.  “They’re trying to get tens of millions of dollars for a
feature that is one of tens of thousands in Outlook,” she said.  A different jury in  San Diego  federal court in 2008 found
that Microsoft had infringed the patent and awarded $358 million
in damages. While upholding the verdict, an appeals court
overturned the damages award, finding the calculation lacked
sufficient evidentiary support, and sent it back for retrial.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, had argued
on appeal that the damages were too high because the invention
is one of many features within a product.  Touch-Screen Form  The patent involves a touch-screen form entry that Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft argued is simply a “date-picker”
function that isn’t utilized with e-mail, the most popular
function of the Outlook program. Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent
described the technology as a pop-up tool for form-filing that
“plays a central role in the entire operation” of Outlook.  In the current trial, a witness for Alcatel-Lucent, Raymond
Sims of Charles River Associates in  Chicago , said a royalty
payment of $65 million to $75 million “would be a reasonable
and fair assessment.”  Robert Mnookin, a professor at  Harvard Law School ,
testified as an expert for Microsoft and told jurors that “a
reasonable royalty would be a figure below $5 million.” He said
“it would have served Lucent’s interests enormously to have
reached an agreement for less than $5 million”  to settle the
infringement.  The case is Lucent Technologies Inc. v Gateway Inc., 07-cv-
2000 U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California  (San
Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  