-- 
Microsoft Said to Drop Out of Auction for Hulu Online TV Service

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-19T19:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/microsoft-is-said-to-drop-out-of-auction-for-hulu-online-streaming-service.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is dropping out of
the bidding for Hulu LLC, the online video service put up for
sale by its media-company owners, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, told Hulu
executives last week it wouldn’t continue into a second round,
said the person, who wasn’t authorized to talk publicly. The
person didn’t rule out Microsoft re-entering later.  Hulu bankers at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Guggenheim Partners met
in the past four weeks with Microsoft, which already rents and
sells films and TV shows through its Xbox video-game console, to
solicit an offer, people with knowledge of the situation said on
July 1. The bankers also met with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo Inc.,  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and as many as eight other companies, they said.  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for
Microsoft.  Yahoo would pay up to $2 billion for Hulu with four or five
years of exclusive access to current TV shows and older movies,
the Business Insider website reported, citing a person it didn’t
identify.  Hulu plans to offer suitors five years of access to shows
from its media-company owners,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal, including two years of
exclusivity, two people with knowledge of the situation said
yesterday.  Details of the rights, similar to terms Hulu’s owners
considered for an earlier share sale, and other financial data
will be provided to bidders who sign a non-disclosure agreement,
two people said.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , based in Seattle, is unlikely
to bid without guarantees of access to shows, one person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  