-- 
Highland Capital Will Take Until 2014 to Return Frozen Hedge-Fund Money

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-07-19T17:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/highland-to-take-another-three-years-to-return-hedge-fund-money.html
Highland Capital Management LP, the
$23 billion investment fund run by James D. Dondero and Mark K. Okada, said it will take another three years to return most of
the money from a hedge fund it froze during the financial crisis
in 2008.  Highland will immediately return about $350 million in cash
to clients from its Crusader Fund and the remaining $1.3 billion
over the next three years, John Honis, a partner at the Dallas-
based firm said in a statement today. The distribution plan was
approved by about 86 percent of the fund’s investors, it said.  Highland shut its flagship Crusader fund, as well as a
second fund, in October 2008 following losses on high-yield,
high-risk loans and other types of debt. The firm said at the
time that the funds would be liquidated over three years.
Highland and New York-based Harbinger Capital Partners LLC are
among hedge funds that haven’t returned all money to clients
after freezing withdrawals following the financial crisis.  “Together, this completes all wind-down processes begun by
Highland during the global financial crisis,” Highland said in
the statement, adding that its hedge funds account for a
“small” portion of its overall business.  The Crusader fund distribution plan follows a similar
agreement Highland reached with investors earlier this year for
its Credit Strategies Fund, the firm said. Highland said it
waived management fees on the funds while they were being
liquidated.  ‘Prudent Disposition’  “The decision to wind-down the Crusader fund during the
depths of the global financial meltdown was difficult, but we
believe it was the right decision,” Dondero said in today’s
statement. “The wind-down process provided time for the prudent
disposition of illiquid assets, and has helped the fund nearly
double in value over the last two years.”  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index of U.S. distressed
debt has gained about 185 percent since October 2008 as the
 Federal Reserve  bolstered demand for the securities by keeping
benchmark  interest rates  near zero.  Highland said that Houston Municipal Employees Pension
System had consented “unconditionally” to the distribution
plan, without supplemental consideration. The retirement plan
sued Highland and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in May over claims that
willful looting led to the demise of the Crusader fund.  Highland had said in January 2010 that it was struggling to
return money because investors couldn’t agree on the terms of
the liquidation. At the time, the firm hadn’t returned all money
to clients who put in redemption requests before the funds
imploded in October 2008.  Highland investors were previously able to withdraw their
money from the hedge funds either on a quarterly or semi-annual
basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  