-- 
Illovo Sugar Plans to Produce Ethanol From Molasses in Tanzania by 2013

-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-19T16:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/illovo-sugar-plans-to-produce-ethanol-from-molasses-in-tanzania-by-2013.html
Illovo Sugar Ltd. (ILV) ,  Africa ’s largest
producer of the sweetener, plans to start making potable ethanol
from molasses in Tanzania by 2013, Managing Director Graham Clark said.  “We have created an opportunity in Tanzania to produce
ethanol from molasses” he said in an interview at the company’s
annual general meeting near Durban today. “We will invest in an
on-site production facility to turn the molasses into high-value
alcohol.”  The plant will be situated at the company’s Kilombera
operation in the south-central Morogoro region. The approval
process is almost complete, and work on the distillery will
start within a month with production expected to start in 2013,
Clark said. The operation is expected to produce 12 million
liters a year.  The plant is part of Mt. Edgecombe, South Africa-based
Illovo’s plan to expand in other African countries to meet
growing demand for sugar and sugar products and to reduce the
company’s reliance on its home country, where less land is
available for plantations. Potable alcohol is used in the
manufacture of alcoholic drinks. The company already exports the
product to as many as 80 countries from plants in  South Africa .  Zambia,  Mali   Illovo is also considering starting fuel and potable
ethanol production in Zambia and may consider similar projects
in Malawi, he said. A 15 million liter potable ethanol plant is
being considered in Mali, where Illovo expects to start
production in 2014 or 2015.  South Africa’s sugar production, which fell to its lowest
since 1995, should rise this year because of better rain, Clark
said.  In a separate statement Illovo said that Donald MacLeod has
been appointed chairman of the company. Across the group’s
operations sugar production in the current financial year is
expected to be little changed from a year ago, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Durban at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  