-- 
Lilly Says Alzheimer Patients Didn’t Improve

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-07-19T12:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/lilly-says-alzheimer-patients-on-failed-drug-didn-t-improve.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said patients with
 Alzheimer’s disease  whose conditions worsened upon taking the
experimental drug semagacestat didn’t improve after dosing was
halted.  Lilly stopped development of the pill in August after data
showed it harmed patients instead of helping them. Even seven
months after patients ceased the use of semagacestat, they still
had more trouble with thinking, remembering and mental
functioning than those who didn’t receive the medication, the
Indianapolis-based company said today.  Semagacestat, which was in the last of three stages of
testing usually needed for U.S. regulatory approval, was
designed to block an enzyme called gamma secretase that’s tied
to production of beta amyloid plaque, considered by researchers
to be a main contributor to Alzheimer’s. The findings suggest
Alzheimer’s research shouldn’t focus on the enzyme, said Eric
Siemers, senior medical director for Alzheimer’s at Lilly.  Scientists should “very specifically target beta amyloid,
and not target things like gamma secretase that do a lot of
things besides having an effect on amyloid,” Siemers said in an
interview at the at the  Alzheimer’s Association International
Conference  in Paris, where the data was presented.  Bristol-Myers Compound  More insight on semagacestat may clarify whether other
gamma secretase inhibitors, such as  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s
avagacestat, pose the same problem, said  Marc Goodman , an
analyst at UBS AG in  New York .  “If you have a gamma secretase inhibitor, you need to
think very carefully about these results,” Siemers said. He
said he couldn’t comment on similar products in development,
including the Bristol-Myers one, as he didn’t know them well
enough. Not all gamma secretase blockers are alike, he said.  Lilly gathered information on the failed compound for 32
weeks after patients stopped taking the treatment.  “We wanted to understand what happened,” Siemers said.
“Even though semagacestat didn’t work, we feel we moved the
field forward in terms of our understanding of how you develop
these compounds.”  Reasons Unknown  The reasons for the failure may never be known, Siemers
said. The dosing was right, he also said. Semagacestat had an
effect on more than 50 proteins and the failure could have
stemmed from an interaction with any one of them, he said.  About 36 million people worldwide suffer from the memory-
robbing condition, according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . By
2050, that number is expected to double. The disease, first
described in 1906 by the German doctor Alois Alzheimer, destroys
brain cells and makes it difficult for patients to think,
remember and function. Current therapies, including  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s Namenda and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Eisai Co.’s
Aricept, address only Alzheimer’s symptoms and don’t cure or
slow it.  “If the semagacestat data points to a significant class
effect, we would see risk to Bristol’s compound,” which is in
mid-stage testing, Goodman wrote in a July 14 note to clients.  William Thies, chief medical and scientific officer at the
 Alzheimer’s Association , doesn’t think the Bristol-Myers drug
will necessarily be affected by the findings.  ‘Very Early’  “We don’t know yet” whether this will have an effect on
similar products “but the Lilly compound was a very early gamma
secretase inhibitor and you would think that new ones would be
more selective,” Thies said in an interview after the
presentation. “Typically, when new drug classes are opened up,
the first agents tend to be dirty and we recognize side effects
that we can attack by changing the molecule slightly.”  The data presented today is preliminary, Siemers said.
Lilly still has to review all the information as well as data
from another semagacestat trial, he said.  “They did a great thing in modifying the trial to follow
up on patients,” James Vornov, a neurologist who heads the
central nervous system therapeutic area at  Parexel International
Corp. (PRXL)  in Waltham,  Massachusetts , in an interview after the
presentation. “The data beautifully shows you can measure the
decline” in patients, he said.  ‘Wrong Direction’  “Unfortunately, the drug had an effect in the wrong
direction, but you could clearly see the change in the direction
and once a drug will go in the right direction, we will know,”
Vornov said. Semagacestat data has “increased the
anticipation” for results from other gamma secretase inhibitors
as well as from other amyloid-targeting drugs, he said.  The setback hasn’t deterred Lilly from Alzheimer’s
research, Siemers said.  “This is the first time that a compound, which is amyloid-
related and designed to be disease-modifying, has had an effect
on cognition,” he said. “We did get enough compound into the
brain to have an effect. It tells us that our strategy, for how
we developed it, is on the right track.”  Eli Lilly  is running two final-stage trials of another
Alzheimer’s treatment, solanezumab, which works against beta
amyloid by trying to clear it through the bloodstream. The U.S.
drugmaker needs new products to replace its schizophrenia
treatment Zyprexa and other of its top-selling medicines facing
generic competition.  Solanezumab Results  The company expects late-stage results for solanezumab in
the third quarter next year, Siemers said. Lilly has two other
Alzheimer’s compounds in clinical development, including a so-
called BACE inhibitor in early-phase testing which is “looking
quite good” so far, “with robust reduction of beta amyloid”
and “good” tolerability, he said. The drugmaker also has
several projects in pre-clinical development, Siemers said.  “Even though as a company we’ve been fairly focused on
beta amyloid, we also have very early work in tau,” Siemers
said, referring to another protein found abundantly in abnormal
form in the brains of patients with some dementias including
Alzheimer’s.  “None of that is in the clinic yet, but we certainly have
an interest” in tau research, Siemers said. “We haven’t put
all our eggs in the amyloid basket.”  Recent study failures, including the semagacestat one, have
called into question the leading Alzheimer’s discovery strategy
being pursued by companies such as Lilly, Pfizer and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) : the theory that amyloid, sticky wads of protein
accumulating in the brain are the driving force of the
debilitating disease.  “My problem philosophically is that nobody knows how
Alzheimer’s starts and progresses, therefore the chances of
hitting on a drug are very slim,”  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio
manager and health-care strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York, said in e-mailed comments. He has no estimate for Lilly’s
solanezumab as he doesn’t think the treatment will be approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  