-- 
IMF Signals BOJ Could Buy More Assets as Price Views Differ

-- B y   K e n   M c C a l l u m
-- 
2011-07-19T16:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/imf-signals-boj-could-buy-more-assets-amid-divergent-price-view.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
signaled that the Bank of Japan should buy more assets to fight
falling prices as it forecast stronger deflationary pressure
than the central bank.  “To ward off deflation risks and support the recovery, the
Bank of Japan could increase purchases of longer-dated public
securities and expand its asset purchase program for private
assets,” the IMF said in a statement today in  Washington .  The recommendations may put more pressure on the BOJ to
consider further monetary easing by increasing its asset
purchase fund, which it doubled to 10 trillion yen ($126
billion) after a record earthquake and tsunami in March. A
Bloomberg survey of 14 economists last month showed that all but
one expect the BOJ’s next move would be to provide more stimulus
and four expect the BOJ to expand the asset fund around August.  The central bank could increase the share of Japanese
 government bonds  with maturities of three years or more in its
portfolio, and expand purchases of assets such as corporate
bonds and exchange-traded funds, the IMF said.  The central bank could also buy securitized loans to
smaller companies, the IMF said, elaborating on preliminary
findings it released in June. The BOJ said in response that the
market for such loans is too small and illiquid, said the
report, which followed an annual meeting between IMF officials
and Japanese policy makers.  Asset Purchase  Mahmood Pradhan, the IMF’s mission chief for Japan, said
there’s no “fundamental disagreement” on a possible
asset-purchase program.  “They don’t see an immediate need to do this,” Pradhan
said on a conference call with reporters. “Effectively, what we
are saying is that they could use up what they’ve already
expanded.”  “The  Bank of Japan  sees inflation at slightly higher
levels than we do,” Pradhan said.  The uncertainty surrounding the Japanese economy’s outlook
is “unusually large,” with risks including delays in
rebuilding electricity capacity and a slowdown in advanced
economies, the IMF statement said. It forecast that Japan’s
gross domestic product will shrink 0.7 percent this year and
grow 2.9 percent in 2012. It also warned that government
borrowing costs could “spike” if the government fails to
control its debt load, without specifying when that may happen.  IMF Inflation  Compared with the IMF’s forecast of zero inflation in the
next two years, the BOJ projects consumer prices to increase by
around 0.6 percent to 0.7 percent because of its expectations of
increases in commodity prices, the IMF said. BOJ Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  reiterated this month that he expects consumer
prices to rise “slightly” in coming months.  Japan’s economy contracted at an annualized 3.5 percent
pace in the three months through March, the second straight
quarter of shrinkage, as the quake disrupted production and
pushed down consumer expenditures.  Underlying inflation excluding food and energy costs will
likely remain negative, the IMF forecast, while the BOJ
“cautioned against paying too much attention” to those
measures if commodity prices continue rising, the report said.  Fiscal spending to rebuild after the March 11 temblor in
northeastern Japan could total around 2 percent to 4 percent of
GDP spread over several years, the IMF said.  ‘Fiscal Priority’  While the “immediate fiscal priority” is to repair
damaged infrastructure and support a quick recovery, Japan also
needs new tax measures to limit bond issuance and reduce its
debt, according to the IMF. It recommended raising the
 consumption tax  to 7 percent to 8 percent in 2012 from 5
percent, and then gradually increasing it to 15 percent over
several years.  To promote domestic investment, the corporate  tax rate 
could be lowered to 35 percent from 40 percent, with the revenue
losses offset by reforming personal income taxes, the IMF said.  “Insufficient fiscal adjustment could lead to a spike in
JGB yields which, even if the effects were contained, could
trigger financial volatility and prove highly disruptive,”
according to the IMF, referring to Japanese government bonds.
Benchmark 10-year bonds currently yield around 1.08 percent.  Debt Exceeding Assets  The IMF also said that outstanding government bonds could
exceed total financial assets owned by households in five to 10
years barring policy changes, suggesting the government may need
to rely more on foreign investors to fund its deficits.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard and Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have all threatened to lower  Japan ’s sovereign debt
grade on concern that the Japanese government will fail to come
up with a convincing plan to reduce its debt.  On the yen, the IMF said the currency “appears fairly
valued based on medium-term fundamentals,” after surging in the
aftermath of the March temblor. The Japanese currency has
strengthened 2.7 percent against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ken McCallum in Tokyo at 
 Kmccallum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  