-- 
India Needs More Health, Education Spending for Inclusive Growth, Sen Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-19T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/india-needs-more-health-education-spending-for-inclusive-growth-sen-says.html
India needs to spend more on basic
health care and education if economic growth is to benefit all
members of society, according to Amartya Sen, the first Indian
to win the  Nobel Prize  for economics.  Higher public spending must also be part of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to restore public confidence following
a corruption scandal involving the sale of mobile-phone
licences, Sen, 77, said in an interview in Edinburgh on July 18.  Economic reforms to boost investment have been stymied as
Singh’s allies block changes in protests against government
corruption and food-price inflation that averaged 18 percent
last year.  “The reform process has not stopped, it has halted and it
will start again if the government survives,” Sen said. “It
will also have to make the growth much more inclusive. Education
and health-care expansion are the biggest part of that because
an illiterate laborer with very indifferent health is not in a
great position to seize the opportunities that globalized
economic relations provide today.”  India ’s democratic agenda is increasingly concerned with
narrower issues such as corruption and inflation, said Sen, who
was giving a lecture at a conference in Edinburgh to mark the
300th anniversary of the birth of philosopher David Hume.  “There isn’t enough voice in India about the totally
urgent need for expansion of basic education and basic
healthcare, particularly basic health care, much further than
has happened,” said Sen, who won the Nobel Prize in 1998 for
his work on  welfare economics .  Corruption  The increasing exposure of corruption in the economy, which
had been present for a long time, would have caught whichever
government had been in power, Sen said.  “So the first priority is to ride out the present crisis,
to generate confidence in his government,” Sen said. “There is
no question that if the government had acted quicker it would
have saved a lot of embarrassment today. I don’t doubt it is
very clear to him he should have acted earlier.”  Economies of countries such as India,  China  and  Brazil 
won’t be much affected by the sovereign debt crisis because of
their focus on economic growth, Sen said.  “In the case of India they are running a deficit at a
level that would put  Greece  to shame but they don’t have a
payment problem because the country is growing at 8 percent a
year,” he said.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  last month won
parliamentary approval for a new 78 billion-euro ($109.5
billion) five-year package of budget cuts and state asset sales
to secure further international aid from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  in an attempt to avoid
defaulting on its debts.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 