-- 
Ineos Bonds Point to Third Ratings Upgrade: Corporate Finance

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-07-20T15:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/ineos-bonds-point-to-third-ratings-upgrade-corporate-finance.html
Bonds of Ineos Group Holdings Plc,
the chemical company that averted default two years ago
following a debt-fueled expansion, are signaling that further
upgrades to its  credit rating  will come as officials refinance
borrowings and sell assets.  While Moody’s Investors Service lifted Ineos one level to
B2 on July 15, its $570 million of 9 percent dollar-denominated
notes due 2015 yield 7 percent, on par with companies rated at
least two levels higher, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. The gauge represents issuers including French
carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen, Russian steelmaker OAO Severstal
and airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Ineos has raised $2 billion from bond and asset sales since
it was forced to renegotiate borrowings with 230 senior lenders
in 2009. The U.K.’s biggest private employer ran into trouble
after taking on 7.5 billion euros ($10.5 billion) of debt to buy
BP Plc’s Innovene unit in 2005, just before demand for raw
materials collapsed and the global economy went into recession.  The “Moody’s upgrade won’t be the end of the rating
improvement story for Ineos,” said Andrew Wilmont, a  money
manager  who helps oversee $15 billion of high-yield debt at Axa
Investment Managers in  London . “We got out of Ineos bonds in
2007. During the crisis, the company’s revenues dropped off a
cliff. The turnaround since then has been remarkable, so our
European funds bought the bonds back at the end of 2009.”  Bond Returns  Bonds of Ineos, which relocated to Rolle,  Switzerland , from
the U.K. last year to cut tax expenses, have returned 13.6
percent this year, compared with 5 percent for the company’s
peers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Investors in the company’s $677.5 million of 8.5 percent
notes due February 2016 have seen prices recover to 96 cents
on the dollar from 12 cents in 2009, according to Bloomberg
generic prices. Its 1.53 billion euros of similar-maturity 7.875
percent notes are quoted at 96.5 cents.  “We’ve learned an awful lot more about the market by
spending a lot of time and energy trying to help investors
holding our paper to better understand our business,” Ineos
Group Director Tom Crotty, based in Runcorn,  England , said in an
interview. “We’ve been a lot more open in our approach to our
creditors and that’s something we will continue doing. We felt
we were harshly treated in the downturn.”  Renegotiating Debt  Ineos renegotiated its borrowings in 2009, asking lenders
to waive certain conditions governing its debt-to-earnings
ratios and other requirements as demand for raw materials
declined.  Derivatives traders were assigning Ineos almost certain
odds of default in January 2009. The price of credit-default
swaps tied to 10 million euros of the company’s debt reaching
8.28 million euros upfront plus 500,000 euros annually for five
years.  Contracts tied to the debt fell 21 basis points to 423,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. A
basis point equals 1,000 euros annually on a contract protecting
10 million euros of debt.  Moody’s assigned Ineos a “positive” outlook when it
lifted the company’s grade last week, meaning it’s more likely
to follow with another increase. At its lowest, Ineos was rated
Caa2 by Moody’s, eight levels below investment-grade.  S&P’s Caution  Standard & Poor’s , whose B- rating for Ineos is one level
lower than the one assigned by Moody’s, said July 4 it may boost
Ineos by one step in the next six to 12 months if the company
continues to deleverage. The firm said it expects Ineos to cut
adjusted debt to below 7.3 billion euros by year-end from 8.2
billion euros at the end of 2010.  “We still view Ineos’ financial risk profile as highly
leveraged, given continued low credit metrics, despite material
debt reductions in 2010 and 2011,” S&P said. “We also perceive
that Ineos has low financial flexibility in light of a high
interest burden, and potential for covenant breaches in 2012-
2013, given tightening covenant levels.”  Ineos stands to cut annual interest expense by almost 100
million euros after rising earnings helped reduce debt to 3.5
times its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, Crotty said.  Next Phase  “We feel we deserved the recent upgrade,” Crotty said.
“We did not expect a multiple-notch improvement in one go since
rating agencies tend to be more cautious, but it is clear that
there is a positive outlook and this reflects expectations for
the future.”  The next phase of refinancing involves 650 million euros of
junior-ranked pay-in-kind loans which accrue more interest than
senior debt, the company said in March.  Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are advising Ineos on
a sale of high-yield bonds to refinance debt, two people with
knowledge of the plan said in May. It has two bonds that may be
redeemed next month.  “The company should be able to refinance the bonds with
cheaper ones using floating-rate notes” depending on demand
from collateralized loan obligation funds, said Steven Mitra, a
partner at LNG Capital LLP. CLOs, which traditionally have
invested in leveraged loans, have piled into floating-rate bonds
this year amid record loan redemptions.  Ineos’s first-quarter profit climbed to 726 million euros,
from 494 million euros in the previous three months, according
to the company. Debt, which totaled about 6.7 billion euros as
of the end of March, will fall because of asset sales including a
PVC pipe and resin maker to Mexichem SAB, Ineos said.  Ineos sold a stake in a European refinery to PetroChina Co.
for $1.02 billion this year, and said it’s in talks for a new
venture with the Chinese company.  “The carving out of the more volatile refining operations
will reduce the operating risk profile of the rated group and
further mitigate financial risks previously associated with
managing significant working capital requirements of the
refining business within the leveraged  capital structure ,”
Moody’s said in a July 15 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  