-- 
Intec Pharma Sees Results Boosting Potential Collaboration Deals

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-19T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/intec-pharma-sees-results-boosting-potential-collaboration-deals.html
Intec Pharma Ltd. (INTP) , the Israeli
developer of a pill that aims to deliver medicines more
effectively, said results from a mid-stage trial for its
Parkinson’s product may boost chances of collaboration with a
global pharmaceutical company.  “The results provide a huge potential contribution to
Parkinson’s patients and are very promising for potential
partners,” Executive Vice President Zeev Weiss said in a July
18 telephone interview from Jerusalem, where the company is
based.  Intec Pharma’s “accordion pill” keeps medicines within
the  upper gastrointestinal tract  for an extended period,
allowing the drugs to be more fully absorbed. By prolonging
release of the carbidopa and levodopa drugs in patients with
 Parkinson’s disease , the pill minimizes motor disability
associated with taking levodopa, Weiss said. The combination of
carbidopa and levodopa, both generic medicines, is a  standard
treatment  for Parkinson’s.  Intermediate-stage results from the clinical trial showed
that patients taking the medicine using Intec’s pill had 44
percent less time with motor disability over a 24-hour period
compared with patients on the standard treatment alone, the
company said this week. Final results from the Phase IIb trial
are due in the fourth quarter.  ‘Starting Point’  “A successful completion of Phase II will position the
company at a good starting point to negotiate a strong marketing
partner as it enters Phase III while there is limited
competition,” Yuval Ben-Zeev, head of research at Clal Finance
Brokerage Ltd., wrote in a July 19 research report. The firm
helped arrange Intec Pharma’s initial public offering in
February 2010.  Weiss declined to say whether Intec Pharma was in talks
with potential partners. Any partner “would be a global
pharmaceutical company with significant activity in the field of
neurology and potentially in Parkinson’s,” he said.  The company is also anticipating results of a Phase II
trial for its insomnia treatment in the third quarter to “have
the same kind of resolution” as the Parkinson’s product, Weiss
said.  In the past two years,  Israel  has seen 37 initial public
offerings. Intec Pharma shares, which have gained 92 percent
from their IPO price, fell 0.6 percent yesterday to close at
1.496 shekels in  Tel Aviv . The company posted a 2010 net loss of
20 million shekels ($5.8 million) compared with a 15 million
shekel loss a year earlier.  Discount  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL) , a U.S. company developing a
similar treatment for Parkinson’s, saw its shares rise 53
percent and had a 2010 annual profit of $250 million. The
discount investors are willing to pay for Impax earnings has
narrowed to 21 percent from an average of 45 percent over the
past two years compared with what they were willing to pay for
earnings of the Nasdaq Composite Index.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc agreed to license Impax’s experimental
drug for Parkinson’s disease for an upfront payment of $11.5
million in December. Ben-Zeev said that Intec Pharma’s product
“may be more efficient,” than Impax’s drug. He estimated that
the market for such a treatment would be around $500 million.  “Intec is still a distance from completing Phase III and
will have to show during that trial efficiency in several
hundreds patients,” said Ben-Zeev, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the share. The most recent trial was of only
17 patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  