-- 
Merkel, Sarkozy to Outline Position on Greek Debt

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-07-21T08:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/investors-leery-europe-can-fix-greek-crisis-imf.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy will outline a joint position
to solve Greece’s debt crisis when they arrive in Brussels for a
summit convened to stamp out contagion in European bond markets.  The pact was agreed on after a seven-hour meeting in
Merkel’s Chancellery in Berlin that ended after midnight,
according to a statement distributed to reporters. Merkel and
Sarkozy “listened” to the views of European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who was also present, though the
statement didn’t say if they settled differences on whether
Greece should be allowed to default.  European Union officials will follow a two-pronged approach
today, focusing on the need to agree on a second bailout for
 Greece  and measures that stop the debt crisis engulfing Italy
and  Spain . Greek options include funding a rescue using a bank
tax, allowing investors to roll over Greek debt, cutting the
 interest rates  on outstanding bailout loans and managing a bond
default.  Leaders may also consider broader steps for stopping the
21-month sovereign debt crisis previously rejected by Germany,
including the use of precautionary credit lines, a person close
to the talks said yesterday. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer Josef Ackermann was among those entering today’s talks.  Plunging Bonds  Leaders are due to gather at 1 p.m. in the Belgian capital
after meetings of national government officials earlier in the
day. Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  told Le Soir
newspaper a second Greek rescue would be worth around 110
billion euros ($157 billion).  The yield on Greece’s two-year bonds rose above 40 percent
for the first time yesterday after weeks of bickering among
officials on how to prod bondholders into co-funding a new Greek
package. The debate has unsettled investors who have also dumped
Spanish and Italian bonds, sending the spread over German bunds
to euro-era highs.  The euro rose to a one-week high against the dollar after
the announcement of a common position early today. The 17-nation
currency traded at $1.4283 as of 8:42 a.m. in Brussels from
$1.4215 in  New York  yesterday, after touching $1.4274, the
strongest level since July 14.  The Berlin talks took place amid growing pressure on Merkel
to take charge of  Europe ’s crisis response two days after
President  Barack Obama  spoke by phone with her to discuss the
risk to the world economy radiating from Europe.  ‘One Spectacular Step’  Euro-area government chiefs are convening for the second
time in a month as they aim to break a deadlock over a new Greek
rescue. While Merkel said July 19 the crisis can’t be resolved
in “one spectacular step,” Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said in an interview that the summit could be a
“make-or-break moment” for the euro region.  “We have found solutions to previous crises and we’ll find
a solution now as well,” French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe 
told reporters in  Madrid  yesterday. “A failure would be
catastrophic for the euro zone.”  Reynders told Le Soir that debate at the summit will focus
on how to finance the package and the role of private investors,
and that “it shouldn’t be difficult” to agree on a new plan.  The German government expects that the private sector will
share some of the costs of aiding Greece,  Finance Ministry 
spokesman Martin Kotthaus said yesterday.  Euro Bonds  Some officials are indicating that the only way for the
crisis to be stopped is for Merkel to surrender her opposition
to euro bonds. While it would help debt-strapped nations access
markets, she rejects it as a step too far because it would
remove pressure on governments to pursue austerity, and also
risk pushing up the cost of credit for her taxpayers.  Greece’s sovereign-debt crisis risks contaminating the rest
of the euro region even if officials avert a default, the
 International Monetary Fund  said. Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos will travel to the U.S. to meet with IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  on July 25, the Athens-based
Finance Ministry said yesterday.  Both the European Commission and the ECB “considered that
a sovereign default or a  credit event  would likely trigger
contagion to the core euro-area economies with severe economic
consequences,” according to an IMF staff report on the region’s
economy released two days ago. “Staff however also saw serious
risks of contagion, even under a strategy which tries to avoid
default or credit events.”  Crisis Tools  European leaders are at odds with one another and with the
ECB over demands by  Germany  and Finland that private investors
bear some of the burden of a new Greek bailout.  Spain wants the EU to increase the “flexibility” of its
crisis tools, including the ability to buy bonds in the
secondary market, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  told lawmakers
in Madrid yesterday. That mirrored calls by the IMF to “scale
up the capacity” of the region’s rescue fund and make it more
adaptable.  European officials are considering a tax on financial
institutions as one possible route to help finance a second
Greek bailout and avoid any kind of default, according to an EU
paper obtained by Bloomberg News.  The one-page document, dated July 16, lays out three ways
to construct a Greek rescue that includes the involvement of
private companies. In addition to a bank tax, “Option Three”
could also include a voluntary rollover of Greek debt.  The other two proposals are likely to involve some form of
default, the document said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  