-- 
Israeli Navy Orders Gaza-Bound Ship to Change Course for Alternative Port

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-07-19T08:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/israeli-navy-orders-gaza-bound-ship-to-change-course-for-alternative-port.html
Israeli navy ships contacted a boat
trying to challenge its blockade of the  Gaza Strip , ordering it
to redirect to another port because it won’t be allowed to dock
in Gaza.  Sailors told the Dignite, sailing under a French flag, that
it should divert to Israel’s Ashdod port or to  Egypt , an Israeli
army spokesman said, speaking anonymously according to military
regulation. Three ships have surrounded the boat, Al Jazeera
television reported.  The boat is carrying 10 activists plus crew members,
according to the organizers of what was intended to have been a
larger flotilla. Greek authorities have forbidden seven of the
flotilla’s other vessels from departing its ports, saying they
lack proper safety equipment.  A previous flotilla’s attempt to arrive in the Hamas-
controlled Gaza Strip by sea ended in violence on May 31 last
year when Israeli naval commandos dropped from helicopters onto
the deck of the Mavi Marmara, part of the six-boat convoy, and
opened fire after the ship refused to stop. Nine Turks were
killed.  Israel  says people on board shot first and attacked with
iron bars, an allegation the passengers denied.  The flotilla’s organizers say the blockade is illegal under
international law and causing unnecessary hardship for Gaza’s
Palestinian population.  The Israeli government says sufficient goods reach Gaza
through its border crossings and that it needs the naval
blockade to prevent arms smuggling to Hamas, the Islamic
movement that is classified as a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 