-- 
Israel Shekel Advances on Interest Rate Differential With U.S.

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-19T17:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/israel-shekel-advances-on-interest-rate-differential-with-u-s-.html
The shekel rose for the first time
in three days on bets the interest-rate differential with the
U.S. will widen as the Israeli economy expands at a faster pace.  The shekel strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.4389 per dollar by
6 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The Israeli currency has gained 12 percent
against the dollar over the past 12 months, the fourth-best
performer in the  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa region,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Federal funds futures contracts indicate traders
pushed back forecasts for when the  Federal Reserve  will start
raising interest rates from a range of zero to 0.25 percent,
 Bank of Israel  economists said they expect borrowing costs to
climb 4 percent in the next 12 months. Israel’s index of leading
economic indicators rose 0.2 percent in June, the central bank
said on its website today.  “Foreign investors in the market are selling dollars on
expectations the shekel will continue to strengthen as the rate
differential with the U.S. widens in the coming months,” said
Norbert Brinker, founder and chief executive officer of Gift
Asset Management Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “There are worries about the
U.S. deficit plan, which is weakening the dollar.”  The dollar fell against 15 major peers amid a stalemate on
dealing with the U.S. deficit two weeks before a threatened
default.  House Republicans  plan to vote to slash spending and
condition a $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling increase on passage of a
constitutional amendment to balance the budget, a bill that
stands little chance of being endorsed by the Democratic-
controlled Senate and no chance of being signed into law.  Spread Widens  The spread between two-year interest-rate swaps in the U.S.
and Israel widened to 3.22 percent, according to Bloomberg data,
indicating investors expect Israeli interest rates will increase
at a faster pace than in the U.S. The swap represents the cost
investors must pay to lock in borrowing costs for two years.  The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020 rose,
pushing the yield down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 4.96 percent, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , the
lowest level since Jan. 31.  Israel’s credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt against default for five years, fell two basis
points today to 145, according to London prices from CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt
agreements.  The yield on bonds tied to consumer prices that mature in
2013 fell one basis point to 0.90 percent. The yield gap between
inflation-linked bonds the notes and similar-maturity fixed-rate
notes narrowed to 281 basis points today from 292 on June 28,
the day after the Bank of Israel’s last interest-rate decision.  Shekel Advances  The shekel has gained 2.4 percent this year as near-zero
 interest rates  in the U.S. spurred inflows into Israel and other
countries where borrowing costs are higher, driving gains in
currencies. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress last week the central bank is prepared to take further
action if the economy appears to be in danger of stalling.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  has increased
interest rates four times this year in an effort to moderate
inflation, which has exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3
percent target range every month this year. Consumer prices,
which rose an annual 4.2 percent in June, have surged as the
economy recovers from the global recession faster than most
advanced countries.  Futures Contracts  Thirty-day federal funds futures contracts for delivery in
December next year yielded 0.37 percent, indicating investors
expect the Fed will wait until then to raise rates. The yield
has declined from 1 percent in May.  Borrowing costs are expected to climb gradually to about
4.1 percent in 12 months, according to an assessment by Bank of
 Israel  research staff contained in the minutes of the June 27
rate-setting meeting. Fischer will leave the rate unchanged at
3.25 percent at the next meeting July 25, according to 14 of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The remaining two predict the
rate will increase to 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sharon Wrobel} in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  