-- 
Israeli Forces Board Gaza Blockade Boat After It Refuses to Change Course

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-19T13:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/israeli-forces-board-gaza-blockade-boat-after-it-refuses-to-change-course.html
Israeli troops boarded a ship that
was trying to breach the country’s blockade of the Gaza Strip
after the vessel refused to change course, the army said.  Naval officers told the crew of the Dignite, sailing under
a French flag, that they should divert to Israel’s Ashdod port
or to  Egypt , an Israeli army spokesman said, speaking
anonymously according to military regulation. The ship will now
be brought to Ashdod, the Israeli army said in a statement.
There were no reports of injuries.  “Naval forces boarded the boat, made sure everyone was
alright, offered them food and water,” Israeli army spokesman
Brigadier General Yoav Mordechai said in an interview on  Army
Radio . “There was no friction.”  The boat is carrying 10 activists plus crew members,
according to the organizers of what was intended to have been a
larger flotilla. Greek authorities have forbidden seven of the
flotilla’s other vessels from departing its ports, saying they
lack proper safety equipment.  A previous flotilla’s attempt to arrive in the Hamas-
controlled  Gaza Strip  by sea ended in violence on May 31 last
year when Israeli naval commandos dropped from helicopters onto
the deck of the Mavi Marmara, part of the six-boat convoy, and
opened fire after the ship refused to stop. Nine Turks were
killed. Israel says people on board shot first and attacked
soldiers with iron bars, an allegation the passengers denied.  Gaza-Bound  Israeli authorities contacted the Dignite as it sailed off
the coast to request its port of destination and cargo.
According to a video clip of the exchange posted on YouTube by
the military, a sailor asked the ship what its final destination
was and was told “Gaza port.”  “In accordance with government directives, after all
diplomatic channels had been exhausted and continuous calls to
the vessel had been ignored, the navy boarded the ship in an
effort to stop it from breaking the maritime security
blockade,” the army said in an e-mailed statement.  Passengers will be questioned upon arrival at  Israel ’s
Ashdod port, it added.  The flotilla’s organizers say the blockade is illegal under
international law and causes unnecessary hardship for Gaza’s
Palestinian population.  Smuggling Prevention  The Israeli government says sufficient goods reach Gaza
through its border crossings and that it needs the naval
blockade to prevent arms smuggling to Hamas, the Islamic
movement that is classified as a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Less than a month after the May 31 confrontation, Israel
loosened its land blockade with Gaza with the aim of allowing
more food in and keeping weapons and other items with a possible
military use out.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said that
“concentrated political efforts had succeeded in diminishing
the ships in the flotilla,” according to an e-mailed statement
from his office today.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu singled out Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  for praise in a July 1 speech
for his country’s stance on the flotilla. Political and military
ties between  Greece  and Israel have strengthened in recent
years, aided in part by the prospect of their jointly developing
natural gas fields discovered off Israel’s shore in the eastern
Mediterranean.  Israel’s interest in developing a closer alliance with
Greece has also been spurred by the deterioration of its
relations with  Turkey  following the Mavi Mamara clash. Turkey
recalled its ambassador after the incident and said it won’t
restore full diplomatic ties with Israel until it first receives
an official apology and compensation for deaths of Turkish
civilians.  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said last week
that Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who repeated
the demands in a speech to his parliament earlier this month, is
“not serious” about repairing ties with  Jerusalem .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 