-- 
Italy Joins Germany in Fight for Lockheed Missile System

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-07-19T16:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/italy-joins-germany-in-fight-for-lockheed-missile-system-1-.html
Italy has joined Germany to press
U.S. Defense Department officials to fight congressional efforts
to cut funding for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s anti-missile system,
known as the Medium Extended Air Defense System.  Defense panels in the  U.S. Senate  and the House have voted
to cut the Pentagon’s $406.6 million request for Meads, which is
being developed in partnership with Germany and Italy. The
Senate Armed Services Committee in June eliminated the entire
request, while the  House of Representatives  approved cuts of
$149.5 million as part of its version of the 2012 defense
authorization and defense appropriations bill.  The Pentagon in February said it would terminate Meads when
the current contract ends in 2013.  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
Orlando, Florida, by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, Lfk-
Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of  Germany  and MBDA of Italy. Meads
is designed to shoot down short and medium-range missiles.  “I expect that the U.S. DOD will put in place all the
necessary actions to ensure that U.S. Congress will provide the
required funds to complete the Meads development and meet our
mutually agreed commitments within the limits,” of the
memorandum of understanding between the U.S., Italy and Germany,
according to letter sent today by Italy’s undersecretary for
defense, Guido Crosetto, to U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary
William Lynn.  Shared Funding  Crosetto said that if the U.S. doesn’t meet its financial
obligations “the U.S. shall then be required to bear all the
resulting contract modifications and cancellation costs up to
the total financial contribution established” in the memorandum
of understanding.  The U.S. contributes 58 percent of the funding for the
Meads program in partnership with Germany and Italy. It’s an
anti-missile system that uses the latest version of the Patriot
missile developed by Lockheed Martin and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and is
designed to work within NATO’s command structure.  Continuing the program would have required as much as $1.16
billion of additional funding for the five-year period ending
2017, according to a Pentagon fact sheet. “The U.S. cannot
afford this additional research and development,” the fact
sheet said.  German Request  Crosetto’s letter follows a similar plea earlier this month
from a German defense official to Pentagon acquisition chief
Ashton Carter, making the case for full development funding for
Meads. In the letter, Detlef Selhausen, director of armaments at
the German federal ministry of defense, said “joint termination
of the current Meads development is not an option for Germany.”  The Obama administration opposes cutting funding for Meads
development, telling Congress that could “trigger a unilateral
withdrawal” from the agreement by Germany and  Italy .  Pentagon spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin  said on Friday that the
German letter “confirms everything they’ve been telling us for
months in direct discussions.”  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Bob Drummond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 