-- 
J&J Declines After Revenue Growth Limited by Economy, Generic Competition

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-07-19T20:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/j-j-profit-slips-as-generic-rivals-and-recalls-sap-sales-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of health-care products, declined after
sales growth was limited by the faltering economy and generic
competition.  Second-quarter net income slipped 20 percent to $2.78
billion, or $1 a share, from $3.45 billion, or $1.23, a year
earlier, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said in a
statement. Earnings were reduced by a $549 million charge after
J&J’s Cordis unit exited the market for drug-coated heart
stents, where it had been losing ground to rivals.  Earnings of $1.28 a share, excluding a charge for closing
the heart-stent business, beat by 4 cents the average estimate
of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Discounting the impact of
the  exchange rate , sales didn’t suggest much improvement in
health-care markets, while the earnings growth was largely
driven by a lower  tax rate  than expected, said  Kristen Stewart ,
a Deutsche Bank analyst in New York, in an e-mail.  “All considered, the beat wasn’t that high quality in our
minds,” Stewart said.  J&J fell 55 cents to $66.72 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange trading, the only drugmaker in the 11-company Standard
& Poor’s 500 Pharmaceutical Index to decline today. The shares
have gained 7.9 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer William Weldon won U.S. approvals
for drugs to treat AIDS and prostate cancer during the quarter,
after adding psoriasis medication Stelara in 2009. That helped
offset declines for artery-clearing stents and dozens of
recalled over-the-counter brands, led by Tylenol and Motrin.  ‘Decent Quarter’  It was “a decent quarter for J&J,” Matt Miksic, a Piper
Jaffray & Co. analyst in  New York , said today in an e-mail. “In
pharma, the strength in new products offset greater-than-
expected generic pressure” to existing drugs.  The drug approvals, and the stock’s advance earlier this
year, “created a lot of excitement,” said Jeff Bagley, a
portfolio manager at Haverford Financial Services in Radnor,
 Pennsylvania . That may explain why today’s numbers didn’t
translate into share gains, said Bagley, whose company manages
1.4 million J&J shares.  “The report was solid overall, but I think investors
probably wanted a little more,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They wanted some more positive momentum.”  Sales rose 8.3 percent from a year earlier to $16.6
billion, boosted by a weakening dollar that increased revenue
earned outside the U.S. The dollar fell 14 percent from the end
of 2010’s second quarter to June 30 of this year, as measured
against a basket of six other currencies.  Forecast Maintained  The company maintained its projection for full-year
earnings of $4.90 to $5 a share. The quarter’s sales growth was
“very encouraging and we continue to see momentum,” Dominic Caruso, the company’s chief financial officer, said today on a
conference call for analysts.  That’s been countered by unemployment in the U.S. and
government austerity measures in  Europe  that have dragged on
health-care companies, Caruso said.  “The markets we are competing in have still not rebounded
to pre-recession levels,” he said.  Patents lapsed in the quarter for the antibiotic Levaquin
and ADHD treatment Concerta, allowing generic competition for
drugs that generated $2.7 billion in sales last year. The
company has also lost ground to rival makers of over-the-counter
medicines after last year’s recalls.  Recall ‘Drag’  The recalls “are a drag on the consumer business” and
“the economy and store brands will continue to weigh on the
segment,” said  Michael Weinstein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst in New York, in a July 11 note to clients. “Customers
continue to trade down to lower-priced brands.”  The company in April announced the $21.3 billion
acquisition of Swiss device maker  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , to boost slowing
sales of orthopedic implants.  The company also took a $223 million charge that included
litigation costs and the continued recall of 93,000 artificial
hips by its DePuy division, as well as a gain on currency
options related to the Synthes acquisition, according to the
statement.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York, is the world’s biggest
seller of medical products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  