-- 
James Murdoch Boosts Chances of News Corp. Top Job at Phone-Hack Hearing

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-20T15:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/james-murdoch-boosts-chances-of-news-corp-top-job-at-phone-hack-hearing.html
James Murdoch, appointed deputy
chief operating officer of  News Corp. (NWSA)  in March, took control at
a three-hour hearing on phone-hacking in a performance that may
increase his chances of running the media company.  The 38-year-old repeatedly interrupted U.K. lawmakers
yesterday when they posed questions to his 80-year-old father,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, about the
company’s internal investigations and whether the executives had
knowledge of phone-hacking and payments to police for
information by employees at the News of the World tabloid.  “Clearly his father was delegating to him and obviously
trusts him to take forward the management of the company,” said
Claire Enders, founder and CEO of media researcher Enders
Analysis in London, whose clients include the U.K. government.  As New York-based  News Corp. (NWS) ’s most senior executive in
 Europe , James Murdoch came under pressure from the panel to
explain settlements of at least 2 million pounds ($3.2 million)
he authorized to victims of phone hacking. He said he wasn’t
aware of the extent of the practice until the start of this
year, when civil lawsuits brought new information to light.  While the alleged interception of voice mail took place
before the younger Murdoch took charge of News International,
the News Corp. unit that publishes the U.K. titles including the
now defunct News of the World, he has come under pressure from
politicians to take responsibility from the fallout.  ‘Adjust Our Course’  James responded to criticism during the Culture, Media and
Sport Committee hearing that News Corp. had systematically
failed to acknowledge the extent of phone hacking by its
journalists. He said he had acted immediately to turn over
emails to the police and investigate the level of criminality
within the company when shown new evidence in 2010.  “What I’ve done and what the company has tried to do is
adjust our course and behave with propriety,” he told
lawmakers.  James was appointed CEO of  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY) , News Corp.’s U.K. satellite unit, in 2003 over accusations
of nepotism. He was promoted in 2007 to run News Corp.’s
television, newspaper and digital operations in Europe,  Asia  and
the  Middle East , while becoming non-executive chairman of BSkyB.
In March, he took on the additional role of deputy chief
operating officer at News Corp.  Responsibilities  “When I promoted him to take charge of much wider
responsibilities, we had calls from many big shareholders saying
it was a terrible thing to take him away,” Rupert Murdoch told
lawmakers.  Before yesterday’s hearing, people with knowledge of the
situation said that News Corp. was considering elevating Chief
Operating Officer  Chase Carey  to CEO to succeed  Rupert Murdoch .
A move would depend in part on Murdoch’s performance during the
session with lawmakers, said the people, who weren’t authorized
to speak publicly.  Murdoch said yesterday he isn’t considering resigning over
the scandal, blaming the fallout on more junior employees.
Between them, the Murdochs apologized or expressed regret at
least 10 times during the hearing.  Rupert Murdoch today left London, the  BBC  reported. News
Corp. declined to comment on whether he was on board of a plane
taking off from a London airport shown by the broadcaster,
citing a company policy of not commenting on his movements.  Yesterday’s testimony highlighted the “young leader being
eager and keen and the older leader being a little bit more
slow, displaying that gravitas,” said  Jeremy Adams , a partner
at  ECD Insight , a presentation coaching firm.  Shares Rise  News Corp. rose 5.1 percent to the equivalent of $16.36 in
Sydney trading today. The stock has dropped 11 percent in
 Australia  since July 4, when the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
reported that the News of the World hacked into the voicemail of
kidnap and murder victim Milly Dowler.  “Nothing damaging for the company’s assets came out of the
session,” said Tom Eagan, an analyst at  Collins Stewart  in  New
York  who has a “buy” rating on News Corp. shares. “At this
point, I don’t think there will be a change in power.”  Both Murdochs said they had no knowledge of the extent of
intercepting voicemails or paying police for stories at the
Sunday tabloid, the 168-year-old paper they closed on July 10
following a public outcry and political backlash. Allegations
that murder and terrorism victims had their phones hacked also
prompted the company to drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) bid for all of BSkyB.  ‘Surprised’  The inquisitors focused on legal payments made to the
paper’s royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private
investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who went to jail for intercepting
phone messages left for members of Prince Charles’s staff.  James Murdoch  said he was “surprised” when he found out
legal fees had been made to Goodman and Mulcaire after they had
been convicted. He said he didn’t know who had signed off on the
payments.  The younger Murdoch will still face questions over his
level of responsibility, Enders said.  “Many of the questions that were asked are going to
continue to be asked,” Enders said. “Both Rupert Murdoch and
James Murdoch were allocating responsibility to officers that
they appointed.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  