-- 
Japan Bans Radioactive Cattle From Near Nuclear Plant as Pollution Spreads

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-07-20T06:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/japan-bans-radioactive-cattle-4-months-after-nuclear-disaster.html
Beef cattle shipments from areas
near  Japan ’s stricken Fukushima nuclear plant were banned as
consumers and lawmakers accused the government of negligence
after more cows were found contaminated with radiation.  Authorities discovered 637 cattle that had been fed hay
tainted with radioactive cesium and sent to market from farms in
prefectures including Fukushima, Masahiro Seki, an official at
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries’ livestock
and feed division, said in an interview yesterday.  Four months after an earthquake and tsunami crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station causing the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said yesterday the government halted all shipments of cattle
from the area. Aeon Co., Japan’s biggest supermarket chain, said
July 16 it had sold beef from cattle tainted by radiation at 14
of its stores in  Tokyo  and four other prefectures.  “This government completely lacks risk-management
ability,” Tsutomu Takebe, a former agriculture minister and
opposition Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker, told parliament
yesterday. “It’s already four months, and what have you done?”  Tainted hay was given to cattle in 19 farms in the northern
prefectures of Fukushima, Niigata and Yamagata. The animals were
sent to slaughter houses in prefectures including Tokyo,
Saitama, and Chiba, and 12 cases of beef contamination were
detected in eight prefectures, according to a statement from the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.  Cesium Tainted  Some beef from the 637 cattle contained cesium exceeding
government standards and were sold to consumers, said Kazuyuki
Hashimoto, an official at the food-monitoring division of the
Tokyo metropolitan government.  Products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea,
milk, plums and fish have been found to be contaminated with
cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers (225 miles) from Dai-
Ichi.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co., operator of the stricken
station, said June 14 it found cesium in milk tested near
another nuclear reactor site about 210 kilometers from the
damaged plant.  The utility vowed to remove used uranium rods from Dai-
Ichi, where they are stored at the bottom of water pools, within
three years, Tokyo Electric told reporters yesterday. No
schedule for removing the fuel that melted inside reactors or
their decommissioning was announced. Tokyo Electric doesn’t have
a figure for the total volume of radioactive material that’s
leaked from the plant, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at
the company, said yesterday.  ‘Negligence’  So far, Tokyo Electric said it’s succeeded in getting the
reactors cool, preventing more hydrogen explosions and reducing
the amount of radiation being emitted, as per its initial target
set out in its  road map  in April.  “The contamination occurred because the government did not
take appropriate measures,” Yoko Tomiyama, chairwoman of the
 Consumers Union  of Japan, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “They should take responsibility for their
negligence.”  Greenpeace called on Japan to institute a “widespread,
systematic and transparent farm produce and seafood monitoring”
to avoid further exposure from contaminated food, even in areas
seemingly far from the nuclear station, the environmental group
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Beyond Imagination’  Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano told reporters in Tokyo
on July 15 that “it was beyond imagination” that straw was
collected from rice fields after the March disaster as rice
farmers typically finish collecting straw by the end of harvest
in the autumn.  “I would have thought that within two or three months they
would have formed some sort of  task force  who has somebody in
overall control and who knows what the overall situation is,”
said  Peter Burns , a nuclear physicist and former Australian
representative on the United Nation’s scientific committee on
atomic radiation. “Otherwise you end up with these sorts of
things leaking through.”  About 437 kilograms (963 pounds) of beef from a farm in
Minami-Soma city, 30 kilometers from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station, was consumed in eight prefectures, according to
the Tokyo metropolitan government, which detected the first case
of tainted beef from the farm earlier this month.  If issues like this aren’t tackled thoroughly from the
beginning it shakes confidence, said Burns, who has 40 years of
radiation safety experience. “Like with Chernobyl, you don’t
have people buying anything from Ukraine because it might be
contaminated,” he said.  Over Limits  As much as 2,300 becquerels of cesium a kilogram was
detected in the contaminated beef, according to the July 18
statement from the health ministry. The government limit is 500
becquerels per kilogram. Rice hay produced in Fukushima
prefecture was found to contain as much as 690,000 becquerels,
exceeding the 300-becquerel limit, according to the local
government office.  The government should start testing all cattle for
contamination immediately as it is necessary to restore  consumer
confidence , the  Liberal Democratic Party ’s Takebe said.  Still, “the overall long-term implications of this are
extremely minor as far as any potential harmful health
effects,” said Burns. Though the reputational damage can end up
“destroying whole industries,” he said.  Fukushima is the 10th biggest cattle-producing region in
Japan, representing 2.7 percent of the total. The nation
exported 541 metric tons of beef worth 3.4 billion yen ($42.8
million) last year, including premium wagyu meat.  ‘Chances Low’  As to whether some contaminated beef may have been
exported, “we cannot rule out the possibility completely,”
said Yuichi Imasaki, a deputy director of the meat and egg
division at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
Still, “the chances are very low” as most countries imposed
strict rules and some even banned beef imports from some areas
right after the earthquake and tsunami crippled the nuclear
plant, Imasaki said.  Japan exported 49.1 tons of beef in May, 50.6 tons in April
and 58.6 tons in March, according to the farm ministry’s data.
“We are currently tracking all beef shipped from Fukushima
prefecture. So far we’ve found no case of contaminated beef
exports,” said Tomohiro Hagiya, an official at the inspection
and safety division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare’s food safety department.  Japan imported 204,543 tons of beef in the five months
ended May 31, rising 11 percent from the same period last year,
according to the agriculture ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  