-- 
Japan Should Have Nuclear Weapons: Ishihara

-- B y   B r i a n   F o w l e r   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-07-19T06:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/japan-should-have-nuclear-weapons-ishihara.html
Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara
criticized Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s vow to reduce dependency
on atomic energy after the Fukushima disaster, saying instead
the country should deepen its nuclear embrace to include weapons.  “Japan should absolutely possess  nuclear weapons ,” Ishihara
said in a July 15 interview at his office in Tokyo, citing China
and  North Korea  as potential threats. “I don’t think we can
easily do away with atomic power. Nuclear energy is inexpensive
if managed well,” he also said.  Ishihara has built a political career on taking on
consensus views on everything from Japan’s pacifist  constitution 
to its economic ties with the U.S., with a record of success
with voters that’s withstood controversial remarks that have
forced public apologies. The 78-year-old governor expressed
regret in March after calling the earthquake and tsunami that
left almost 21,000 people dead or missing “divine punishment”
for the “egoism” of Japanese society.  The governor also said Kan has shown poor leadership,
faulting the government for failing to boost taxes to pay for
reconstruction and pare the record sovereign debt load.  Ishihara, who was re-elected in April to a fourth four-year
term governing  Japan ’s richest and biggest city, criticized
Kan’s handling of the March earthquake and tsunami that caused
the world’s worst nuclear accident in 25 years. Kan, whose
popularity is near record lows, has pledged to resign at an
unspecified time once his legislative agenda is accomplished.  ‘An Anarchist’  “He’s an anarchist,” Ishihara said of Kan. “He has no idea
how to operate within an organization.”  In a 1990 Playboy magazine interview, Ishihara denied Japan
slaughtered Chinese civilians in 1937 in Nanjing, prompting an
outcry in China, which says more than 300,000 people were
massacred. He co-wrote the 1989 best-seller, “The Japan That
Can Say No,” which argued against dependence on the U.S.  “Ishihara says things most Japanese wouldn’t think of
saying, but I don’t think his vision is one that most would
embrace,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of the Asian Studies program
at Temple University’s Tokyo campus.  With a population of more than 13 million, Tokyo has a $1.1
trillion economy that is bigger than  Australia ’s and accounts
for almost a fifth of Japan’s gross domestic product.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the city’s long-term credit rating in January after
lowering Japan’s sovereign debt grade.  Sales Tax  Increase  Ishihara called in the interview for raising the nation’s
 consumption tax  to 20 percent from 5 percent. He said the ruling
 Democratic Party of Japan  should form a government with the
 Liberal Democratic Party  and other opposition groups to pass
such a measure. His son  Nobuteru Ishihara  is a senior LDP
lawmaker.  “Is there a country like Japan where the consumption tax
is so low with such an advanced welfare system?” the governor
said, advocating a grand coalition among major political parties
to accomplish the task.  Kan’s top economic advisers have called for doubling the
sales levy to raise revenue and avoid adding to the world’s
largest debt burden. Japanese are split on the issue, with 45
percent in favor of raising the tax and the same number opposed,
according to an Asahi newspaper poll published July 12. The
paper surveyed 1,920 voters and gave no margin of error.  Kan’s approval rating fell to a low of 15 percent from 22
percent in June, according to the poll. The prime minister on
July 13 called for gradually reducing the country’s reliance on
nuclear power. The Asahi poll showed almost 80 percent of
respondents are in favor of such a move.  Missile Development  Ishihara, who has called for “tearing up” Japan’s
pacifist  constitution  in response to  China ’s growing economic
and military influence, also said Japan should also develop
conventional missiles for the country’s defense with a range of
10,000 kilometers (6,210 miles). He stressed that Japan wouldn’t
target the U.S.  “If we were going to do it, it would likely be North Korea
or China,” he said.  Ishihara at the age of 23 wrote a novel that won Japan’s
most prestigious literary prize, then wrote the screenplay for
the film version. He also covered the  Vietnam War  as a reporter,
raced yachts and toured  South America  by motorcycle.  He was first elected to parliament in 1968 and served in
two different LDP Cabinets before being elected governor as an
independent.  “I’ve made controversial comments, but did I ever say
anything that was wrong?” Ishihara said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 Bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  