-- 
Japan Stocks Fall Amid U.S., European Debt Concerns; Honda, Canon Decline

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-07-19T06:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/japan-stocks-fall-amid-u-s-european-debt-concerns-honda-canon-decline.html
Japanese stocks fell on concern that
U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach a deal on the country’s debt
limit two weeks before a deadline and that  Europe ’s worsening
sovereign-debt crisis will slow the global economic recovery.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the camera maker that receives 81 percent of
its revenue abroad, declined 2.8 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s biggest listed lender by
market value, sank 2.5 percent as banks fell globally after
stress tests on European lenders failed to alleviate investor
concern over the region’s debt woes. Invincible Investment Inc.,
a real-estate investment trust, jumped 9.2 percent after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said concerns of a default are receding after
the company said it would sell shares to four investors.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average sank 0.9 percent to 9,889.72
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo . The broader Topix index
lost 0.7 percent to 853.75, with about eight shares falling for
every seven that advanced. Both gauges declined last week for
the first time in four weeks.  “In the U.S., as well as concern about the economy, with
the debt talks stalling, the outlook for the country is still
unclear,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Daiwa Asset　Management Co., which oversees about $104 billion.
“We’re unable to see the end of the sovereign-debt crisis in
Europe, and fears are refusing to abate. The results of what’s
happening in Europe are beating down bank stocks here.”  Exporters Drop  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent today. In  New York , the index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,305.44 yesterday, pushing the measure to its worst seven-day
period in more than a month, amid concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach a deal on the nation’s debt limit two weeks before
an Aug. 2 deadline.  Exporters slid today on concern the outlook for fiscal
deficit problems in the U.S. and Europe will curb their earnings.
Canon slumped 2.8 percent to 3,680 yen, the second-biggest drag
on the Topix index.  Honda Motor Co., the automaker which receives 44 percent of
its sales from the U.S., declined 2 percent to 3,145 yen and was
the third-biggest drag on the Topix. Nintendo Co., a game-maker
that gets 92 percent of its sales abroad, sank 3.7 percent to
14,670 yen in  Osaka . The company’s investment rating was also
lowered to “neutral” from “outperform” by Macquarie Group
Ltd., which cited the potential for sluggish sales of their 3DS
console and the stronger yen damaging earnings.  Deficit Cutting Deal  Global stocks declined amid President  Barack Obama ’s
efforts to get lawmakers to agree to a deficit-cutting deal as
the deadline for raising the debt ceiling nears. U.S. equities
have been under pressure amid growing concern lawmakers will
fail to reach an agreement to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit.  Shares also fell after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
led by Jan Hatzius, based in  Germany , cut their forecasts for
U.S. economic growth to 1.5 percent in the second quarter and
2.5 percent in the third quarter, from 2 percent and 3.25
percent respectively.  “On top of uncertainty about the  U.S. economy , there can
only be negativity if the U.S. governments’ functionality
becomes paralyzed,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , senior strategist
at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “In Europe, the stress
tests are being seen as too soft, and it’s just postponing the
potential for problems.”  Banking Rout on Europe  Banks slumped in Tokyo today, led by Mitsubishi UFJ, which
declined 2.5 percent to 383 yen, the biggest drag on the Topix
index.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , the nation’s second-largest
lender by assets, lost 2.3 percent to 126 yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , the No. 3 by assets, dropped 1.3 percent
to 2,404 yen.  European shares declined yesterday on concern the region’s
banks may have to raise as much as 80 billion euros ($113
billion) of additional capital as stress tests failed to allay
investor concern about a Greek default and governments’ ability
to bail out their lenders.  The European Banking Authority said after the close of
trading on July 15 that eight of 90 banks had failed stress
tests. Regulators didn’t include a Greek default in the tests
even though credit default swaps indicate investors see an
almost 90 percent chance of one.  Among shares that rose, Invincible Investment jumped 9.2
percent to 12,350 yen. Goldman Sachs said the risk of a default
by the investment trust has reduced after the company said on
July 15 that it plans to sell 711,597 shares valued at 7 billion
yen ($88 million) to four investors, including a subsidiary of
Fortress Investment Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 