-- 
Joke Is on China as U.S.’s AAA Becomes Laughable: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-07-19T20:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/joke-is-on-china-as-u-s-s-aaa-becomes-laughable-william-pesek.html
Suddenly that $3 trillion of
currency reserves looks like a bad idea.  Make that very bad for  China , as investors display an
obvious preference for yen over dollars. That the IOUs of a
debt-ridden, aging, politically adrift nation smarting from a
huge earthquake and nuclear crisis seem safer than U.S.
Treasuries says it all.  Many investors still see China’s monster currency stash as
a strength. They reason that China is fortified against
financial Armageddon. In reality, China is trapped and
struggling to find exits that don’t exist. Sell dollars for
Greek debt? Right. Swap into Italian commercial paper? Perhaps
not. Find enough spare Swiss francs to diversify into? Good
luck.  There’s always Japan. Two immediate problems come to mind.
One, 10-year bonds yield a piddling 1.06 percent, about a third
of the return on comparable U.S. bonds. Two, with about 95
percent of  Japan ’s debt outstanding tucked under tatami mats at
home, China couldn’t get its hands on enough to make the
exercise worthwhile. Bond markets elsewhere in  Asia  are either
too small or too illiquid to help.  As 2011 unfolds, the Bretton Woods II architecture that
Asia created after the 1997 crisis isn’t just crumbling -- it’s
putting trillions of dollars of state wealth at risk. Romantic
notions about returning to the original Bretton Woods world of
the gold standard are unrealistic in a global system as
leveraged and nontransparent as ours. So is saving its
successor, which saw Asia establishing de facto pegs to the
dollar and amassing mountains of reserves to protect them.  China’s Got Game  No one played that game with greater skill and alacrity
than China. An undervalued yuan is the glue that powers the
world’s No. 2 economy. But it’s getting harder to keep it up as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  flirts with another
round of quantitative easing, or QE3, and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  borrows to the hilt.  What’s more, it’s getting more expensive by the day.
Nothing makes that clearer than recent warnings by  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service. Both are considering
yanking the U.S.’s AAA rating. It’s great to see S&P and Moody’s
not only showing some spine, but also being out in front of the
U.S.’s deteriorating fiscal condition.  The idea that any economy deserves a top rating today is
just laughable. More and more, Chinese officials are realizing
the joke is on them. The $1.2 trillion in U.S Treasuries held by
China is but one part of the punch line. The other is the
enthusiasm with which China has been buying debt issued by
 Greece ,  Portugal  and other weak euro links.  Fascinating Diplomacy  All this has led to fascinating diplomacy. China now
implores the U.S. to safeguard the dollar. When Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton visits Beijing,  U.S. debt  is as much on
the agenda as human rights. Europe looks to China to help its
ailing economies avoid the need for an International Monetary
Fund bailout. Japan curries favor with  Washington  with pledges
not to dump its own dollar holdings.  Just as China was a huge winner after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks on the U.S., it has thus far come out on top
since the 2008 financial crisis. The U.S. spent the years after
the attacks waging pointless and pricy wars and alienating much
of the world. China made the most of that time cultivating
friends and scoring energy and commodity contracts. Now, China
is again filling the void, building roads, bridges and power
grids around the world to strengthen ties.  Financial Danger  Loading up on European debt is a case in point. The
motivation is more politics than economics.  Yet economics tends to trump the programs of politicians
and their calculations. Such was the case with the domino effect
in Asia in the late 1990s. In  Indonesia , it unseated President
Suharto. In  South Korea , financial chaos helped a former
dissident, Kim Dae-Jung, ascend to the presidency.  It’s the paradox of our times. Those who want a share of
the global economy must be willing to be ruled by the whims of
the millions of nervous investors who drive markets.  Europe  is
learning that lesson as credit raters trip over themselves to
issue sovereign debt downgrades. The U.S., too, is seeing the
limits of its ability to placate S&P and Moody’s. That’s what
happens when lawmakers play politics over the U.S. debt limit.  China and the rest of Asia are caught in the middle. The
region’s penchant for hoarding dollars was never a good idea,
and is coming to look like nothing so much as the world’s
biggest pyramid scheme. If China tried to sell, markets would
crash. So, its dollar purchases add to a financial bubble the
likes of which the world has never seen. Well, history’s most
audacious foreign-exchange trade may be about to go bad. And
it’s no laughing matter.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 