-- 
Kudrow’s Web Shrink Seduces, Insults; ‘Entourage’ Swan Song: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/kudrow-s-web-shrink-seduces-insults-entourage-swan-song-greg-evans.html
Nicknames, says the self-deluded
shrink played by Lisa Kudrow in Showtime’s “ Web Therapy ,” are
nice icebreakers.  Which is her way of explaining why she asked a romantic
rival, “What do you think, fatty?”  Making a largely successful jump from roughly 10-minute Web
episodes to half-hour cable installments, “Web Therapy” is
Kudrow’s mostly improvised tour de force about a self-taught
therapist conducting three-minute sessions via webcam. The video
chats between Kudrow’s Fiona Wallice, her patients and
occasionally her family members appear on our TVs as computer-
screen windows.  That means Kudrow, who has parlayed her “Friends” success in
ways far more interesting than her old co-stars, gets plenty of
face-time.  And wonderfully so. Her quicksilver shifts of expression
mark each petty triumph and subsequent deflation as Fiona
browbeats patients, manipulates her romantically detached
husband (Victor Garber) and, in an Episode 3 standout, withers
from a cruelly dismissive mother (a marvelous Lily Tomlin).  Created by Kudrow and her longtime collaborators -- director
Don Roos and actor/writer Dan Bucatinsky -- “Web Therapy”
fleshes out the shorter version with loose, ongoing storylines.
Some might say drags out: The narrative gains don’t always
compensate for the improv lulls.  Seducing Boss  The main arc of the four episodes available for review
focuses on Fiona’s attempts to finance her “new treatment
modality.” She wants money from her old employers, an investment
firm she left after allegedly seducing a married boss. She
denies the allegation while conceding, “I guess ‘Please lock the
door behind you’ could be interpreted in a myriad of ways.’”  Recurring cast members Tim Bagley, Jennifer Elise Cox,
Maulik Pancholy and Bucatinsky keep pace with Kudrow, but “Web
Therapy” really takes off when big-name guests like Tomlin and
Jane Lynch show up to spar. The same was true for the Web
version. Track down the segments with  Meryl Streep  and Julia Louis-Dreyfus to see how good Showtime’s “Web Therapy” might yet
be.  “Web Therapy” airs tonight on Showtime at 11 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Entourage’  As HBO’s “ Entourage ” begins its eighth and final season, a
rehabbed Vincent Chase, the Hollywood actor at the center of the
show, is off cocaine, his pretty face unmarked by past
debauches. Turning his attention to a fellow, if bustier, 12-
stepper, he flirts, “Sober is sexy.”  Nothing -- no illicit substance, failed love or lunatic
director -- could threaten or broaden the charmed lives of
“Entourage” for long. No wonder the unchanging series and its
smug band of bros feel so stale. The comedy-drama about Vince
(Adrian Grenier, unconvincing as an A-lister) and the three
Queens pals that give the show its title coasts along on its own
facile charms.  Created by Doug Ellin and based loosely on the early career
of actor  Mark Wahlberg  (an executive producer), the first couple
seasons of “Entourage” titillated with the promise of an
insider’s peek behind the Hollywood curtain. That Grenier’s
Wahlberg stand-in lacked the depth of an underwear ad was only
the show’s first problem.  Nothing sticks on “Entourage,” no emotional stakes are
claimed or characters developed. After all these years, I’m
still not sure whether Vince is supposed to be a talented actor
or merely a fetching one.  Hyper Agent  Jeremy Piven’s deliriously hypercharged agent Ari Gold gave
the show its early, edgy momentum, but even he seems tired now,
mooning over an estranged wife in the three Season 8 episodes
available for review.  As the show returns, Vince emerges from rehab with a movie
idea (trapped miners) that manager Eric (a bland Kevin
Connolly), goofy stepbrother Drama (Kevin Dillon) and Turtle
(the gang’s Ringo, likably played by Jerry Ferrara) know is a
dog. But they can’t tell Vince the truth lest he fall off the
wagon.  So they throw him a party with fake booze and hot sober
chicks recruited from A.A. meetings. That passes for comedy on
“Entourage” these days.  Guest star Andrew Dice Clay has some amusing moments, even
if these celeb cameos feel as worn-out as “Entourage” itself.  “Entourage” airs July 24 on  HBO  at 10:30 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 