-- 
Nanya, Inotera Losses Widen on Waning Demand for Computer Memory

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-07-19T08:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nanya-inotera-losses-widen-on-waning-demand-for-computer-memory.html
Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) ,  Taiwan ’s
second-largest memory-chip maker, posted a sixth consecutive
quarter of losses on slowing demand for computers.  Second-quarter loss widened to NT$7.9 billion ($273
million) from an NT$1.1 billion loss a year earlier, the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. The
average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
for a NT$5.3 billion loss.  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474) , Nanya’s
Taoyuan-based venture with Micron Technology Inc., had an NT$3.9
billion loss, also worse than estimates.  Global computer shipments climbed 2.3 percent in the second
quarter, less than an expected 6.7 percent, researcher Gartner
Inc.  said July 13 . A 10 percent increase in the quarter for
prices of dynamic random-access memory, the most common chip in
computers, wasn’t enough to return the companies to
profitability.  Nanya shares fell 0.7 percent to NT$7.11 at the 1:30 p.m.
close of trade today in Taipei before the announcement,
extending its decline this year to 56 percent. Inotera Memories
fell 1.9 percent to NT$7.59.  Nanya’s second-quarter revenue dropped 27 percent from a
year earlier to NT$11.5 billion, while Inotera’s fell 10 percent
from a year earlier to NT$10.1 billion. Inotera’s loss is its
sixth in row on a quarterly basis.  Inotera’s shipments, measured in bits, will climb 25
percent this quarter from the previous three months, while
capital expenditure for the year will remain at NT$17 billion,
according to a company statement.  Shipment Growth  Nanya’s shipments climbed 2 percent from the prior quarter,
the company said in a statement today. Average prices climbed 10
percent from the prior quarter while an appreciation of the
 Taiwan dollar  cut revenue by 4 percent, it said.  Shipments will climb 10 percent to 20 percent this quarter
from the second quarter, it said. The company will keep its
capital expenditure for the year at NT$12 billion. Shipments of
DRAMs used in consumer-electronics products will double in the
second half of the year from the first six months.  Memory chips used in servers, high-end computers that
transfer information and store data, can sell for more than
double the price of those in personal computers, Nanya vice
president and spokesman Pai Pei-lin said today.  Server memory accounted for 15 percent to 20 percent of
revenue in the second quarter, and will be more than 20 percent
this quarter, Pai said. Memory chips used in consumer
electronics devices was around 20 percent of sales in the
quarter, and may climb to 25 percent this period, he said.  Chip prices may fall, forcing manufacturers to cut
production, Trendforce Corp.’s DRAMeXchange research unit said
in a July 13  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 