-- 
NBA, Players Schedule First Labor Talks July 22, Three Weeks After Lockout

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-07-19T20:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nba-players-schedule-first-labor-talks-july-22-to-end-three-week-lockout.html
National Basketball Association
officials and representatives from the players’ union will hold
labor talks on July 22, three weeks after the league imposed a
lockout.  It will be the first face-to-face negotiations since the
owners locked the players out on July 1 following failed talks
over how to split money from a league that generated about $4.3
billion in revenue last season.  The meeting at the league office in  New York  won’t
include owners or members of the  National Basketball Players
Association ’s Executive Committee, union Executive Director
 Billy Hunter , who also will not be in attendance, said in an
interview.  An e-mail seeking comment from Mike Bass, a spokesman for
the NBA, wasn’t immediately returned.  Staff members from both sides also met on July 15 to
discuss issues not specifically related to the labor
negotiations. The discussions this week are expected to center
on topics
related to the system the two sides are playing under, such as
the cap on player salaries.  Following the owners’ 10-year proposal disclosed by NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  on June 21, Hunter said those terms
placed the two sides more than $7 billion apart.  The NBA today released its game schedule for the 2011-12
season, with the reigning champion Dallas Mavericks hosting the
 Chicago Bulls  in the season-opener Nov. 1.  The last time there was an NBA lockout, in 1998, the two
sides weren’t able to reach an agreement until the following
January, shortening the season to 50 games from 82.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter responsible for this story
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net . 