-- 
NCR Flirting With Junk in Priciest Takeover to Boost ATM Margins: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-07-19T01:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/ncr-flirts-with-junk-in-priciest-deal-to-boost-margin-real-m-a.html
NCR Corp. (NCR)  is so determined to boost
margins that the world’s biggest supplier of ATMs is risking its
investment grade rating on the most expensive acquisition by an
integrated computer systems company in more than a decade.  NCR has agreed to buy  Radiant Systems Inc. (RADS) , the maker of
self-service ticketing machines at movie theaters and checkout
software for retailers, for $1.1 billion including net cash. At
20.6 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, last week’s deal would be the priciest takeover
greater than $300 million by an integrated computer systems
maker since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While NCR needs Radiant to increase operating margins that
lag behind all 13 of its U.S. peers,  Standard & Poor’s  has
placed the Duluth, Georgia-based company’s  credit rating  on
review for a potential downgrade to junk. NCR is seeking $1.1
billion in debt to finance a transaction that will give the
company a bigger presence in retail, restaurants and hotels and
add a business that makes four times as much operating profit
per dollar of sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They definitely are clearly stating they want to increase
margins, and they’re ready to risk their credit rating on the
assumption that this deal will work out,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, which
manages $1.1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California . “They realize
they’re in a rapidly changing environment, and they need to do
something to stay relevant.”  Karen Leytze, a spokeswoman for Radiant, didn’t respond to
e-mail or telephone messages requesting comment.  Faster Growth  “Radiant’s business is growing faster with 15 percent
compound revenue growth over the past six years and has a
stronger margin profile,” Richard Maton, a spokesman for NCR,
said in an e-mail response to questions. “Acquiring Radiant
would significantly expand our available market by as much as $8
to $10 billion.”  The deal will add to earnings next year, he said.  NCR agreed to purchase Alpharetta, Georgia-based Radiant on
July 11 for $28 a share in cash, a 37 percent premium to the
company’s 20-day stock trading average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. At $1.1 billion it’s NCR’s biggest takeover, and
almost four times bigger than its next largest deal -- the $280
million purchase of an additional 27 percent stake in NCR Japan
Ltd. in 1998. The Radiant deal, expected to close in the third
quarter, will help NCR expand in restaurants, retail and
entertainment venues.  Hotels and Movies  Radiant , which offers touch-screen terminals, kiosks and
handheld wireless devices for hotels,  convenience stores , movie
theaters and boutique retailers, also makes complementary
software and provides subscription services to customers.
Radiant’s technology, combined with its ability to bundle
hardware, software and services, can be applied to all of NCR’s
retail businesses, said Gil Luria, an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .  At $1.1 billion, including the assumption of about $76
million in net cash, the deal values Radiant at 20.6 times
Ebitda of $53 million in the last 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  That’s the most expensive multiple that an integrated
computer services company has paid in a deal greater than $300
million since 2000. Sema Plc, the Anglo-French computer-services
company, agreed to buy LHS Group Inc., an Atlanta-based maker of
software for mobile phones, that year for $3.5 billion, or 49.5
times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Expensive Deal’  “It’s an expensive deal,” YCMNet’s Yoshikami said of the
Radiant purchase. “They’re very cognizant of the fact that
margins and growth are issues. Adding a company like Radiant is
going to help increase NCR’s growth rate. Given what NCR needs
to do to improve their business, the price paid was reasonable.”  NCR  makes self-service kiosks that allow customers to check
in at airports and hotels or to rent movies in grocery stores.
It’s also the largest supplier of ATMs globally based on
installations, according to  the company . NCR is recovering from
the ATM business’s difficulty during the financial crisis, and
the acquisition may help accelerate profit growth particularly
in the retail division, Wedbush’s Luria said.  “The retail business that NCR currently has is much lower
margin that Radiant’s,” said Zahid Siddique, a portfolio manager
at Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co., which owns NCR shares.
“It’s a slow growth business, whereas the Radiant business is a
higher margin, higher growth business with recurring revenues.
That’s the key rationale.”  Blockbuster Kiosks  NCR paid Blockbuster Inc. for the use of its name on movie-
rental kiosks, for which NCR collects all of the rental fees.
It’s disputing  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s claim that the contract to
license those kiosks is invalid after Dish’s acquisition of
bankrupt Blockbuster in April. NCR is exploring “strategic
options” for the DVD kiosk business after receiving interest
from outside parties, Chief Executive Officer William Nuti said
on the July 11 conference call regarding the Radiant deal.  NCR said it will raise about $1.1 billion in new debt to
finance the acquisition of Radiant, prompting S&P to place NCR’s
BBB- rating, the lowest level of investment grade, on credit
watch negative for a potential downgrade to junk. S&P estimates
that NCR’s debt-to-Ebitda ratio will rise to 3.4 times, up from
2.2 times at the end of the first quarter, according to a July
11 statement. The company plans to reduce leverage to below 2.5
times by the end of 2012, according to the ratings company.  NCR already has about $1 billion of unfunded pension
liability, S&P said.  Pension Liability  “The timing caught a lot of people off guard because NCR is
still in the tail end of dealing with an underfunded pension
program,” Wedbush’s Luria said. “A lot of shareholders felt like
they would’ve rather waited for the balance sheet to get cleaned
up with the pension issue before NCR made a big deal.”  NCR said in a  regulatory filing  last week that it’s seeking
a $700 million  term loan  and a $700 million revolving line of
credit to fund the deal and general corporate purposes.  Increasing the company’s long-term debt by $1.4 billion
would lower its ranking under Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings
by four levels to B2H, one level below investment grade.
Bloomberg’s ratings analyze borrowers based on their
indebtedness, profitability and other financial ratios.  “We have discussed the transaction with our credit rating
agency and we believe our pro forma capital structure is robust
and does not merit a change in rating,” NCR’s Maton said. “A
change in rating would not materially impact the company as we
execute our strategic plan.”  NCR, which generated more than $130 million in free  cash
flow  in the last 12 months, will likely be able to pay down the
borrowings and preserve its debt rating, Wedbush’s Luria said.
NCR had $480 million in cash and equivalents as of March and
only $11 million in debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lowest Margins  “I don’t think from a debt perspective it’s a bad deal,”
Gabelli’s Siddique said. “They’re generating cash, so it will
come down pretty fast.”  NCR’s operating margin of 2.5 percent in the last 12 months
trailed all 13 other U.S. makers of integrated computer systems
with market values greater than $500 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average was 13 percent for the industry,
which includes makers of ATMs, computer systems for hotels and
restaurants and systems to create three-dimensional models.  The addition of Radiant, which posted an operating margin
of 10 percent in the same period, may boost NCR’s margin to 4.7
percent, said Wedbush’s Luria.  “The company is being very decisive in stating that they
want to grow margins to the point that they’re willing to risk
taking a downgrade to get those margins,” YCMNet’s Yoshikami
said. “They have to be right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 