-- 
News Corp. Independent Directors Hire Debevoise Law Firm

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-19T21:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/news-corp-independent-directors-hire-debevoise-firm-s-white-mukasey.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s independent directors
hired the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, according to Mary Jo White, a partner at the firm and the former U.S. attorney in
New York.  Michael Mukasey, who served as U.S. attorney general under
 George W. Bush , will join White in representing directors,
Suzanne Elio, a spokeswoman for the firm, said today.  “Debevoise & Plimpton has been retained to advise Viet
Dinh in his supervision of the Management and Standards
Committee on behalf of the independent members of the board,”
Elio said in an e-mail. She declined to comment further.  Dinh, who runs a small law firm in  Washington  that
specializes in damage control, and venture capital executive  Tom
Perkins  are leading the efforts of independent directors, who
hold nine of 16 board seats. Dinh, also a professor at
 Georgetown University  and the chief architect of the USA Patriot
Act, represented Perkins, a former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  director,
during a scandal at that company.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his son James
appeared today before a committee of the U.K. Parliament to
answer questions about the company’s role in phone hacking by
the News of the World tabloid. The  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  is looking into whether News Corp. employees tried
to hack the voice mail of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks in the U.S.  Lobbying Congress  White, chairwoman of the litigation department at New York-
based Debevoise, spent 8 1/2 years as the top federal prosecutor
in Manhattan before entering private practice and representing
companies including Morgan Stanley and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
In February 2009, she wooed Mukasey to the firm.  Earlier this year, Mukasey was hired by the U.S. Chamber
Institute for Legal Reform to lobby Congress on foreign bribery
law, seeking changes that would limit companies’ liability and
exposure. U.S. lawmakers have asked the  Justice Department  and
the Securities and Exchange Commission to probe News Corp. for
possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
alleging that company employees may have paid U.K. police or
other U.K. government officials for stories.  “There are questions about whether the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act has been violated by  Rupert Murdoch  and his news
empire,” said Democratic Senator Dick Durbin on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program.  ‘Compliance Defense’  Mukasey testified before a House of Representatives panel
last month urging lawmakers to make six specific changes to the
law, including the addition of a “compliance defense” that
would protect companies from crimes committed by rogue employees
or subsidiaries.  “The FCPA, as it is currently written and enforced, leaves
corporations vulnerable to civil and criminal penalties for a
wide variety of conduct that is in many cases beyond their
control or even their knowledge,” Mukasey said in remarks
prepared for the panel.  The Chamber has paid Mukasey $120,000 for his lobbying
activities since he was hired in March, according to records
filed with Congress.  Dinh didn’t return a telephone call and e-mail seeking
comment. Mukasey didn’t return two phone messages seeking
comment.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 