-- 
News Corp. Taps PR Firms Sard, Glover Park for Image Aid in Hacking Crisis

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-19T22:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/news-corp-taps-pr-firms-sard-glover-park-for-image-aid-in-hacking-crisis.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  hired two public-
relations advisers to assist the company during its phone-
hacking scandal.  Sard Verbinnen & Co. in New York and Glover Park Group in
Washington will work with the company’s communications, investor
relations and government teams,  Julie Henderson , a News Corp.
spokeswoman, said today in an interview.  News Corp. is seeking to reverse a stock price decline
that, as of yesterday, had shaved $8 billion off the value of
the company since July 1, a drop of 17 percent, and cost the
Murdoch family almost $1 billion. The shares will remain under
pressure for the next few months,  Doug Creutz , an analyst at
Cowen & Co., said in a July 13 report.  Glover Park, a Washington-based communications company that
helped News Corp.’s Fox negotiate retransmission fees from pay-
TV operators, will assist the company’s government-relations
team with policy issues, Henderson said.  Sard Verbinnen is an  investor relations  and crisis
communications firm founded by George Sard and Paul Verbinnen.  The companies will communicate with investors and policy
makers as News Corp. tries to contain fallout from the July 4
revelation that the company’s now-closed News of World newspaper
in the U.K. hacked into the phone of a murdered schoolgirl.  Rubenstein Communications Inc., led by Steven Rubenstein,
will continue to be a strategic adviser to News Corp. and Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, and his son James, both in the
U.K. and the U.S., Henderson said.  News Corp., which is scheduled to announce fourth-quarter
results on Aug. 10, rose 83 cents, or 5.5 percent, to $15.79 at
5:20 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
stock has climbed 8.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  