-- 
News Corp. Hacking Whistleblower Found Dead, Police Say

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-19T21:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/news-corp-hacking-whistleblower-hoare-found-dead-at-home-u-k-police-say.html
A man police said they believe to be
Sean Hoare, a former reporter at News Corp.’s now-defunct News
of the World tabloid, was found dead at his home yesterday.  The death is being treated as unexplained. and isn’t
thought to be suspicious, police in Hertfordshire,  England , said
in a statement today. Hoare was the first person to allege that
former News of the World editor  Andy Coulson  encouraged phone
hacking by his staff, the  Guardian newspaper  reported.  Hoare worked as an entertainment reporter at the News of
the World with Coulson, who resigned as U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s press secretary this year as a result of the
scandal arising from the phone-hacking accusations. Coulson was
arrested on July 8 by police investigating phone hacking.  David Sonn, a lawyer for Hoare, said yesterday that the
death was “a terrible tragedy.”  There is no evidence of third-party involvement, and the
death is not suspicious, Hertfordshire Police said in a recorded
telephone message after a post-mortem was performed today.
Police are waiting for the results of toxicology tests, the
statement said.  London’s Metropolitan Police are investigating allegations
that reporters at the tabloid hacked into the phones of
celebrities, politicians, and murder and terror victims, and
that they bribed police to obtain information for stories. The
scandal led  News Corp. (NWSA)  to shutter the 168-year old News of the
World and led to the resignations of two senior executives at
the company.  Hoare, who first alleged in an interview with the New York
Times last year that Coulson encouraged his reporters to hack
into mobile phones, had worked with Coulson at News Corp.’s Sun
tabloid before he was dismissed for drug and alcohol problems,
the Guardian said yesterday.  Previous Probe  The police reopened the probe in September of last year
after a report in the New York Times citing Hoare as saying that
everyone at the News of the World knew about phone hacking. The
tabloid said in a statement at the time that the article
“contained no new credible evidence” and was “motivated by
commercial rivalry.”  Hoare refused to comment to police after the New York Times
report, leading prosecutors to close the probe again because of
a lack of evidence, Director of Public Prosecutions Keir Starmer
said in December. Coulson has said he didn’t know the hacking
was taking place.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 