-- 
Murdochs Say They Relied on Law Firm’s Phone-Hacking Study

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-20T15:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/news-corp-rested-on-harbottle-lewis-report-murdoch-says.html
Rupert Murdoch  and his son James
told U.K. lawmakers that resolution of a phone-hacking scandal
at News Corp.’s British unit was delayed because they relied on
a clean bill of health from the  law firm  Harbottle & Lewis LLP.  The law firm, based in London, has clients including  Diageo
Plc (DGE) , Vodafone Group Plc and model  Kate Moss , according to its
website. It was hired in 2007 to examine a file of News
International internal e-mails and found no evidence of illegal
activity beyond a private investigator and News of the World
royal reporter who were jailed after intercepting voice mails
for the tabloid, James Murdoch told lawmakers yesterday.  “We and the company rested on that opinion for a period of
time,” James Murdoch said at the hearing. “It is a key bit of
outside legal advice from senior counsel.” The company went to
police four years later, after a new internal review of the same
file uncovered evidence of additional wrongdoing, he said.  Ken Macdonald, the former U.K. director of public
prosecutions, told a separate group of lawmakers yesterday that
Harbottle & Lewis had evidence that indicated “serious criminal
offenses” by News Corp. workers. Lawmakers described the file
as “an enormous pile of documents” that sat at the law firm
for years.  Paper Shut Down  The Murdochs cited the law firm’s report as they sought to
explain why News International failed to understand or
acknowledge the widespread use of phone hacking at the 168-year-
old newspaper, which was shut in an effort to contain fallout
from the scandal.  James Murdoch  said that previous denials of
wrongdoing were based on the outside study, as well as police
assertions there was no need to investigate further.  Harbottle & Lewis Managing Partner Glen Atchison said the
55-year-old firm asked News International to release it from
“professional duties of confidentiality” so that it could
respond to “inaccurate statements or contentions.”  The company refused, “so we are still unable to respond in
any detail as to our advice or the scope of our instructions in
2007, which is a matter of great regret,” Atchison said in a
phone interview yesterday.  In a May 29, 2007, letter to News International, Harbottle
& Lewis’s Lawrence Abramson said a review of e-mails found no
evidence that executives knew about hacking by  Clive Goodman ,
the former royal reporter at News of the World.  Cover-Up Claims  “That opinion did satisfy the company at the time,” James
Murdoch said at yesterday’s hearing. He declined to specify what
was found in the e-mails, saying it could hamper criminal
investigations.  “Professional duty of confidentiality prevents me from
commenting on this,” Abramson, now at the law firm Fladgate LLP,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  John Yates, the assistant Metropolitan Police commissioner
who resigned this week because of his connections to a former
News of the World editor, separately told Parliament’s Home
Affairs Committee “the facts appear to be that News
International have deliberately covered up” evidence.  Asked at the hearing if he would consider suing Harbottle &
Lewis, James Murdoch said it was “really a matter for the
future.”  Harbottle & Lewis, with about 75 lawyers, has advised the
Ben Sherman Group Ltd. on its British property portfolio and the
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. regarding the performance of the
movie “Shrek” as a play at a London theater.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Board  Macdonald was hired in May by another British law firm,
Hickman & Rose, on behalf of News Corp.’s board, to review the
file of e-mails held since 2007 by Harbottle & Lewis. Macdonald
told lawmakers he recommended the company’s board give the file
to the Metropolitan Police.  The file showed evidence of “serious criminal offenses,”
Macdonald said. Police have since opened a probe into whether
officers took bribes from the newspaper for information leading
to stories.  “I can’t imagine anyone looking at that file and not
seeing crime,” Macdonald said.  The file was put together in 2007 when Goodman was bringing
an unfair dismissal claim against News International, he said.  Macdonald, who was head of the  Crown Prosecution Service  at
the time Goodman was charged, said it took “maybe five
minutes” to review the nine or 10 e-mails included in the file
and conclude police needed to see them. “The material I saw was
so blindingly obvious that anyone trying to argue that it wasn’t
would’ve had a hard time,” he said.  Mulcaire Fees  Rupert and James Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers yesterday they
didn’t know if News Corp. was still paying the legal fees for
 Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator who was jailed for six
months for intercepting voice mails left for supermodel  Elle Macpherson  and members of the British royal family.  News International said today it stopped paying Mulcaire’s
legal fees. The company declined to say when it stopped the
payments.  Mulcaire’s lawyer, Sarah Webb, didn’t return a call for
comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  