-- 
NFL, Players Are Working on Final Labor Contract Details to End Lockout

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nfl-players-work-on-finishing-contract-details.html
Lawyers for National Football
League teams and players are working on the final details of a
multiyear labor agreement that would end a four-month shutdown
and allow the U.S.’s richest and most-popular sports league to
start play on schedule.  Negotiators met in New York for almost 13 hours yesterday,
finishing talks at about 9:45 p.m.  Lawyers for both sides will continue working separately
today with the intention of drafting a deal that would then go
to a vote of players and owners, according to a person familiar
with the negotiations who wouldn’t be identified because the
talks are confidential.  A majority of the 1,900 players is needed to ratify any
agreement. The NFL Players Association’s executive committee
began meeting in  Washington  yesterday and if an agreement is
completed today, could recommend to the full membership whether
or not to approve it. The executive committee reviewed portions
of a proposed deal yesterday, though not enough to warrant a
vote, the  Associated Press  said.  Owners could ratify the contract at a meeting scheduled
tomorrow in Atlanta, with 24 of 32 votes necessary for
adoption.  Ten-Year Deal  Negotiators for players and owners agreed on terms of a
contract that may last as long as 10 years, according to two
people familiar with negotiations who wouldn’t be identified
because the talks are confidential.  The deal would give players about 48 percent of the
league’s projected $9.3 billion in revenue, and cap payrolls at
about $120 million a team in 2011, with additional benefits,
the people said. That’s down from about $128 million in 2009,
the last year played under a salary ceiling.  The agreement would also create a pay scale for rookies
and free-agency rules that allow most veterans to negotiate
with any team after four years, the people said.  Workers-compensation issues and the fate of about $320
million in benefits not paid to players during the 2010
uncapped season were among the remaining subjects in talks, the
people said.  NFL owners in March locked out players, who sued in
federal court claiming antitrust violations and wage fixing,
behind Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees . Players would likely withdraw their
antitrust lawsuit as part of a possible settlement.  Simultaneous Court Settlements  NFL Players Association spokesman George Atallah said that
players want to settle multiple legal cases simultaneously as
part of the labor agreement.  The sides are awaiting a ruling on a collusion case filed
by players and a decision by U.S. District Judge David Doty,
who ruled in March that owners didn’t negotiate television
contracts fairly. Players then asked in May for as much as $700
million in damages.  The sides are trying to reach a deal before missing one or
more rounds of preseason games, which the league estimates are
worth about $200 million in revenue each week.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears 
are scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play
the first preseason game Aug. 7 in Canton,  Ohio .  The AP said that even if an agreement is reached this
week, the Bears won’t report to camp this week in Bourbonnais,
 Illinois , because they need more time to prepare.  The season is set to start Sept. 8, when the Super Bowl-
champion  Green Bay Packers  would host the  New Orleans Saints .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 