-- 
Nigerian Government’s Easing of Restrictions Cuts Bond Yields Before Sale

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-20T09:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nigerian-government-s-easing-of-restrictions-cuts-bond-yields-before-sale.html
Nigeria ’s borrowing costs are set to
plunge in its first bond auction since dropping requirements for
investors to hold government debt for at least a year.  Africa’s biggest oil producer will offer 70 billion naira
($460 million) of bonds today including notes due 2015. Yields
on the four-year debt tumbled 191 basis points, or 1.91
percentage points, to a six-month low of 10.70 percent since
central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi announced the lifting of
bondholder restrictions on June 23, according to data from the
 Financial Markets Dealers Association  website to yesterday.  Sanusi is opening Nigeria’s debt markets to attract more
capital and prevent a weakening of the West African nation’s
currency pushing up inflation and damaging economic growth, he
said in March. The naira has strengthened 2.8 percent since
Sanusi’s announcement to 152.125 per dollar, as of 9:44 a.m. in
Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The result has been a substantial rally in  government
bonds , driven in the first instance by the expectation of
greater foreign inflows, and then by actual foreign inflows,”
CSL Stockbroker Ltd. analysts, including  Alan Cameron  in London,
wrote in a report before the auction.  The stronger currency is helping to curb the cost of
imported food and slow inflation to 10.2 percent in June from
12.4 percent in May. The central bank’s target is below 10
percent, with policy makers increasing the benchmark interest
rate three times this year to 8 percent to stem price rises.  Nigeria plans to sell more “longer-tenured” bonds in the
fourth quarter after today’s auction, Abraham Nwankwo, director
general of the Debt Management Office, said by phone July 17.  The sale will include as much as 25 billion naira of 10.7
bonds due 2018. The longer term bonds will help boost liquidity
on the market, said Nwankwo. Nigeria issues sovereign bonds once
a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  