-- 
Nokia’s Handset Sales Slump May Cut Into $9 Billion Cash

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-20T14:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nokia-s-handset-sales-slump-may-cut-into-9-billion-cash-pile.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  may tomorrow predict
further declines in handset sales, potentially eating into cash
reserves as the Finnish company struggles to compete against
smartphones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Nokia, the biggest maker of mobile phones by volume, may
sell as few as 90 million handsets this quarter, driven by a
slump in low-end feature phones, said Andy Perkins, a London-
based analyst at  Societe Generale . Second-quarter shipments
probably declined 14 percent to 96 million phones, according to
the average estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Except for a recession-related dip in early 2009, Nokia
hasn’t shipped fewer than 100 million phones in a quarter for
the past four years. The shrinkage means Nokia may start to use
part of its 6.4 billion euros ($9 billion) in net cash and
liquid assets while the company seeks to revive its unprofitable
Nokia Siemens Networks venture, said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst
at Greenwich, Connecticut-based MKM Partners.  “The fear is that they’ll guide third-quarter shipments
below 90 million which means they could start burning cash at a
rapid clip,” Kuittinen said in a phone interview. “Nokia is
geared to maintaining its manufacturing and distribution
footprint at 100 million phones a quarter and it’s difficult to
scale that down rapidly.”  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia,
declined to comment before the company’s earnings release,
scheduled for 1 p.m. local time tomorrow.  Nokia rose 3.2 percent to 4.02 euros at 5:30 p.m. in
Helsinki. The stock has declined 48 percent this year.  ‘Collapsing’  Global sales of mid-range and low-end feature phones are
“collapsing,” while smartphones based on Android are healthy,
Bert Nordberg, chief executive officer of Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications AB, said last week in an interview. Nokia chose
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone over Android because it offered
the chance to help build a new market segment.  The handset maker, which consolidates Nokia Siemens in its
results, may report a second-quarter net loss of 48 million
euros, according to the average of 22 analyst estimates. The
loss for the third quarter may reach 192 million euros, the
average of 13 estimates.  A one-time payment from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over a settlement of all
patent litigation will have a “positive” impact on the handset
unit’s second-quarter operating margin, earlier forecast to be
“around breakeven,” Nokia said on June 14.  ‘No Floor’  Second-quarter revenue may have fallen 7.3 percent to 9.27
billion euros, while the average selling price dipped 5.7
percent to 57.5 euros, the estimates show.  “There is no floor in the sales guidance and that’s very
alarming -- there is nothing we can lean on,” said Mats Nystroem, an analyst at SEB Enskilda in  Stockholm  who recommends
selling Nokia shares. The erosion of Nokia’s cash would be an
“alarming trend” for valuation and dividend payments, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, said in February that
Nokia is retiring its Symbian operating system in favor of
Windows Phone. The move may have accelerated the flight of
Symbian users to Android, which  overtook  Symbian in the first
quarter as the most popular mobile-phone software. The first
Nokia handsets with the Microsoft system are scheduled for the
fourth quarter.  Job Cuts  The company’s reported market share for smartphones slipped
to 26 percent in the first quarter from 41 percent in the second
quarter of last year. Elop, who joined from Microsoft in
September, has announced 5,800 job cuts, or about 10 percent of
the handset-related workforce, and arranged more than 3,000
transfers as he scrapped products that he judged wouldn’t sell
against Apple’s iPhone and Google handsets, and spun off non-
core units.  Cupertino, California-based Apple said yesterday its third-
quarter profit more than doubled to $7.31 billion, topping
estimates, lifted by record sales of iPhones and iPad tablets.  Nokia last month announced the N9, a high-end handset that
will be the last device in the Linux-based product line the
company has developed alongside Symbian since 2005. The handset,
designed by Marko Ahtisaari, the son of former Finnish President
and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Martti Ahtisaari, would be a test
of hardware and features that will appear in Windows Phones.  Nokia continues to introduce new Symbian devices, promising
10 more this year despite a rapid falloff in operator and public
enthusiasm. Price cuts are already being reported on the E6
handset, introduced in May. Elop has a goal of selling 150
million more handsets on the last versions of Symbian.  “Any possible positive trigger or fundamental change
driver relates to the Windows Phones, which are unlikely to ship
in significant volumes before the first quarter if not the
second,” Nystroem said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  