-- 
Nordea Profit Rises 30% as Loan-Loss Provisions Drop, Bank Plans Cost Cuts

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-07-19T11:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nordea-second-quarter-profit-advances-30-on-fewer-bad-loans.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, posted a 30 percent increase in second-quarter
profit as it set aside less money for doubtful loans.  Nordea rose the most in 14 months in Stockholm trading
after reporting that net income rose to 698 million euros ($983
million) from 537 million euros a year earlier. Earnings met the
average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as loan
losses narrowed to 118 million euros from 245 million euros.  Sweden , home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest
banks, wants its lenders to follow stricter capital standards
than those set out by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , and to push the changes through earlier. Nordea’s
chief executive officer, Christian Clausen, said today the
company plans to curb cost growth in the second half of this
year and then keep expenses “largely unchanged for a prolonged
period of time.”  The plan to restrain costs is “a definite positive,” said
Andreas Hakansson, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  Stockholm .  Nordea rose 3.4 kronor, or 5.4 percent, to 66.25 kronor by
1:48 p.m. in Stockholm, the first gain in eight days, giving the
bank a market value of 268 billion kronor ($41.2 billion).  More Capital  The four biggest banks in Sweden, the Nordic region’s
dominant economy, hold more capital on average than those in the
U.S., with common equity equaling 12 percent of their assets as
calculated under new regulations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 6.5 percent for the four biggest
U.S. banks as estimated by analysts at Nomura Securities
International Inc.  Investors are willing to pay a premium for the more
conservatively run Swedish lenders. Nordea, with common equity,
or core Tier 1 capital, of 9.7 percent of its risk-weighted
assets as calculated under rules agreed to by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, has a price-to-book ratio of
1.22. New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest
U.S. lender, which says its core Tier 1 capital under the new
Basel rules is 7.6 percent, is trading at 0.89 times book value,
meaning investors believe the lender isn’t worth as much as its
stated assets.  Nordea,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB
all passed the European Banking Authority’s stress test on July
15 with a core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.6 percent
under an adverse scenario.  Nordea reported a return on equity for the second quarter
of 11.5 percent and said the best banks will reach 15 percent.  Net interest income, the difference between what the bank
earns from lending and what it pays on deposits, increased 6.2
percent to 1.33 billion euros in the quarter, while net fee and
commission income advanced 16 percent to 623 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 