-- 
Novartis Second-Quarter Profit Rises on Alcon, Generic Sales

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-19T16:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/novartis-profit-rises-29-beating-estimates-on-alcon-eye-care-acquisition.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s second-quarter profit
rose 29 percent, boosted by the Alcon eye-care division and
higher sales at the Sandoz generic-drug unit.  Earnings excluding some costs climbed to $3.56 billion, or
$1.48 a share, from $2.77 billion, or $1.20, a year earlier, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts had forecast $1.44 a share, the average of 17 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales jumped 27 percent to $14.9 billion,
boosted by the decline of the dollar.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph Jimenez is looking to Alcon,
which Novartis finished acquiring in April, and new products
including the Gilenya multiple-sclerosis pill to boost growth.
Novartis, Europe’s second-largest drugmaker by revenue after
 Roche Holding AG , loses U.S. patent protection on its two best-
selling products, Diovan for hypertension and the cancer
treatment Gleevec, in 2012 and 2015, respectively.  “Overall it’s a good, solid set of numbers,” Amit Roy, an
analyst with Nomura International Plc, said in a phone interview
today. “Gilenya is nicely on track.” He recommends buying the
shares.  Sales growth this year will be around the double-digit mark
excluding currency shifts, Novartis said, repeating its
forecast. Novartis doesn’t forecast profit.  Novartis rose 1.56 Swiss francs, or 3.2 percent, to 51.05
francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of Zurich trading, giving the
company a market value of 140.2 billion francs ($171.3 billion).
The shares have returned 1.8 percent in the past year including
reinvested dividends, compared with a 17 percent return in the
Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Currency Effects  Novartis accounts for sales and earnings in dollars. The
company’s revenue in other currencies buys more dollars as the
dollar declines. Much of its costs are in Swiss francs, however,
and the strength of the Swiss currency cut 2 percentage points
from profit.  Alcon, which also includes Ciba Vision contact lenses and
eye medicines, generated revenue of $2.6 billion, Novartis said.
That would have been an increase of 12 percent had Alcon been
part of the company a year ago. Novartis has found more than the
targeted $300 million of cost savings from the merger, Jimenez
said on a conference call with reporters.  Novartis continues to look for smaller acquisitions, he
said. Jimenez declined to comment on whether the company was
interested in  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s animal-health business, which is for
sale, or Austrian vaccine maker  Intercell AG (ICLL) , in which Novartis
has a 15 percent stake.  Paying Down Debt  “Our priority is to pay down debt, so we’re going to be
very disciplined,” Jimenez said during a conference call with
reporters today.  Revenue from the company’s pharmaceuticals division rose 10
percent to $8.3 billion.  Sales of the Diovan blood-pressure pill fell 3 percent to
$1.51 billion after the drug began to lose patent protection in
Europe this year. The cancer treatment Gleevec rose 12 percent
to $1.2 billion.  Gilenya, the first oral medicine approved in the U.S. for
multiple sclerosis, garnered $79 million in second-quarter
sales, up from $59 million in the first three months of the
year. The company has 13,000 patients on the drug, double the
number of three months ago.  Revenue from the Sandoz generic-drug unit advanced 25
percent to $2.5 billion, boosted by increased sales in the U.S.
and from new products.  Vaccines and diagnostics sales fell 47 percent to $299
million from a year earlier, when pandemic flu vaccines
contributed $200 million. Novartis’s consumer-health unit had
sales of $1.19 billion, up 13 percent from a year earlier.  The profit highlighted by Novartis, which it calls “core
net income,” doesn’t meet generally accepted accounting
principles. Net income under those principles climbed 12 percent
to $2.7 billion from $2.42 billion a year earlier, Novartis
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  