-- 
NRC Urged to Set Rules Replacing Severe-Accident Guidelines

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-19T17:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nrc-urged-to-set-rules-replacing-severe-accident-guidelines-2-.html
The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
should substitute government requirements for voluntary industry
measures to cope with severe power-plant accidents, the head of
a  task force  studying U.S. reactor safety said.  Expanding the rules “is warranted” because the agency
doesn’t check company guidelines, which vary among operators,
 Charles Miller , the official in charge of the review, said today
at a commission meeting in Rockville,  Maryland .  U.S. regulators should adopt a framework that may require
reactor owners to bolster safety measures, the panel created
after the  Japan  crisis said in a July 13 report. The agency
should quickly consider which proposals to advance as new rules,
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said.  “We have 12 very solid recommendations and I think the
simplest thing is for the commission to act on those within 90
days,” Jaczko said.  The NRC task force reviewed safety at the nation’s 104
commercial nuclear reactors after meltdowns at  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in Japan. An earthquake and
tsunami on March 11 triggered the worst nuclear catastrophe in
25 years, with a loss of electric power leading to hydrogen
explosions and radiation leaks at the plant about 135 miles (217
kilometers) north of Tokyo.  Jaczko said he would support a recommendation from the task
force to increase the amount of back-up power at U.S. reactors
used when the plant loses electricity.  Blackout Rules  “Clearly, there are changes that we need to make in our
station blackout requirements,” he told reporters after the
meeting.  While the task force recommendations should be considered,
“I personally do not believe that our existing regulatory
framework is broken,” Commissioner William Ostendorff said.  The panel has scheduled a June 28 public meeting on the
report at NRC headquarters.  The agency should “act immediately to implement all
measures recommended by the Fukushima task force instead of
calling for endless additional study in the hopes of delaying
their adoption indefinitely,” Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in a statement today. The  Nuclear
Energy Institute , a Washington-based industry group, has said
that Jaczko’s suggestion for commission action within 90 days is
too rushed.  The NRC needs to understand the group’s recommendations as
it considers licenses for new reactors, Jaczko said.  ‘Moving Forward’  “If those issues are unresolved, it will be very
difficult, I think, for the commission to explain why we’re
moving forward with the new reactor licensing,” Jaczko said.  The task force recommended the agency issue orders for
several proposals, including a requirement that all plant owners
have sufficient electrical power and cooling sprays for their
spent-fuel pools. An order can be issued within a few months,
while developing a rule can take years.  The panel determined that keeping hot fuel rods wet -- not
necessarily removing older spent fuel from cooling pools -- was
the most important issue in storing waste at reactor sites.  “There was no overwhelming evidence that fuel would be
safer outside of the pool than in it,” Nathan Sanfilippo, a
task force member, said at today’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  