-- 
NYPD Was Contacted by FBI About News Corp. Hacking Probe, Spokesman Says

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-19T22:02:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/nypd-was-contacted-by-fbi-about-news-corp-hacking-probe-spokesman-says.html
The  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
contacted the  New York  City Police Department about an
investigation into whether  News Corp. (NWSA)  employees tried to hack
the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, a
police spokesman said.  The Daily Mirror, a U.K. newspaper that competes with News
Corp. publications, said that an unidentified former New York
police officer claimed that News of the World reporters offered
to pay to get the phone records of Sept. 11 victims. The former
officer, now working as a private investigator, turned down the
job, according to the July 15 Daily Mirror article.  Norman Siegel , a New York lawyer representing about 20
families of Sept. 11 victims, said he wrote yesterday to FBI
Director Robert Mueller, offering access to victims’ telephone
records in order to determine if any were improperly accessed.
Siegel also requested a meeting with Attorney General Eric Holder “to ascertain the scope, goals and timetable of the
inquiry” and said he hasn’t yet heard back from authorities.  “The story in the Daily Mirror said that the police
officer turned down the request and said affirmatively that no
hacking took place,” Siegel said in a phone interview today.
“We’re not accusing anyone of any wrongdoing, but if illegal
hacking occurred in the U.K. we need to know if that happened
here. But let’s see what the facts are first.”  Murdoch Testimony  Siegel said he’d also written to Representative John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee,
on behalf of the families.  The NYPD has no information to confirm the Mirror story and
isn’t conducting its own investigation, said  Paul Browne , a
department spokesman.  News Corp. (NWS)  Chairman Rupert Murdoch today
denied any knowledge of phone hacking and payments to police at
News of the World, blaming “people I trusted” during three
hours of questioning by British lawmakers.  “We’ll be ready to assist in any way, but we at this point
don’t have any information as to whether that account is true,”
Browne said in a telephone interview.  The FBI said on July 15 that it had started a probe into
possible attempts to hack into Sept. 11 victims’ phones after
U.S. Representative Peter King, the Republican chairman of the
House Committee on  Homeland Security , asked Mueller to
investigate the company.  Milly Dowler  The phone-hacking scandal escalated on July 4, when the
Guardian newspaper reported that the News of the World had
intercepted and deleted voice mails of a murdered schoolgirl,
Milly Dowler. Two of the U.K.’s most senior policemen have
resigned and Prime Minister  David Cameron , who employed a former
News of the World editor as his director of communications, cut
short a trip to  Africa  to make a statement to Parliament
tomorrow.  The scandal led News Corp. to abandon its $12.6 billion
(7.8 billion-pound) bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and close the 168-year-old News of the
World.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal
court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  