-- 
Obama Endorses Senators’ Plan for Deficit

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-07-19T18:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/obama-endorses-gang-of-six-senators-plan-for-cutting-long-term-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  endorsed a
deficit-cutting proposal by a bipartisan group of senators as
“broadly consistent” with the approach being worked on by his
administration.  He called the revival of the so-called Gang of Six proposal
“good news” that may help move negotiations on the deficit and
raising the federal debt ceiling.  “We don’t have any more time to posture,” Obama said in
remarks at the White House. Time is running out to raise the
debt limit before Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department has said
the U.S. risks going into default, a step that would roil
financial markets, he said.  The plan to shave about $3.7 trillion from the debt over 10
years put forward by the senators is “a very significant
step,” Obama said. While the administration hasn’t yet had a
chance to review the Senate proposal in depth, “we’re in the
same playing field,” he said.  Obama indicated that talks with congressional leaders from
both parties would resume at the White House this week.
Republicans have called for spending cuts to accompany any
increase in the government’s borrowing authority.  About 50 senators attended a briefing on the Gang of Six
plan at the Capitol today, an indication of potentially
widespread support for a “grand bargain” -- of the sort Obama
is seeking -- to reduce the debt through a combination of tax
increases and entitlement cuts.  House Republicans   Yet the senators’ plan is at odds with what House
Republicans are pushing. They plan a vote today on a proposal to
condition a $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling increase on passage of a
constitutional amendment to balance the budget. Senate Democrats
oppose the idea and Obama said he would veto it.  The senators’ plan would immediately cut $500 billion from
the deficit, said Democratic Senator Kent Conrad of  North
Dakota , the Budget Committee chairman and a member of the group.
The plan includes $1 trillion of tax increases yet would count
as a $1.5 trillion tax reduction because it would eliminate the
alternative minimum tax, designed to limit the deductions and
credits high earners can claim, according to Republican Senator
 Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma.  “We were very pleased with the reaction; now we’ve got to
figure out the way forward with this,” said Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, the group’s Republican co-leader of the
Gang of Six with Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia.  ‘Some Momentum’  “The significance here is that there’s some momentum behind
the idea,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said. “This
is an opportunity to do something big.”  Obama said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, should proceed with a separate framework to raise
the debt ceiling without deeper deficit cuts.  “That continues to be a necessary approach to put forward
in the event that we don’t get an agreement” on a bigger
deficit cutting deal, the president said.  U.S. stocks extended gains as Obama’s statement spurred
optimism that lawmakers will reach an agreement that will help
the nation avoid default.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent to
1,322.16 at 1:39 p.m. in  New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rallied 173.47 points, or 1.4 percent, to 12,558.63.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  