-- 
Obama Shouldn’t Bow to Republican Plan on Consumer Protection Bureau: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/obama-shouldn-t-bow-to-republican-plan-for-consumer-bureau-view.html
President  Barack Obama  finally made
official what everyone in  Washington  had assumed for months:
 Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard law professor who first had the
idea for a consumer financial protection agency, will not get to
oversee her creation. Instead, the president has nominated
 Richard Cordray , the former Ohio attorney general who’s now
running enforcement at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
to fill the job.  Warren, a major irritant to the big banks, was never going
to get the 60 Senate votes needed for confirmation. Cordray, a
smart, aggressive prosecutor, is unlikely to fare much better.
By going with Cordray to run the bureau -- created to oversee
the sale of consumer financial products, from the fine print in
mortgages and credit cards to the  interest rates  charged by
payday lenders to the overdraft fees on checking accounts --
Obama seems prepared to have a gloves-off fight with the
financial industry and its Senate allies.  This battle is likely to be waged over obscure
accountability and structural issues. In a May 5 letter to
Obama, 44 Republicans pledged not to confirm any nominee unless
the bureau director is replaced by a board of directors, the
agency is subject to the congressional appropriations process,
and new checks and balances are in place to prevent excessive
bank regulation. The president should resist all three demands.  The Republican senators would do away with the idea of an
agency director and recast the consumer bureau in the mold of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, with five commissioners
split between Democrats and Republicans (and the party
controlling the White House naming the chairman, and thus
exercising control, in theory).  This would be a mistake. The consumer bureau, which
inherits supervision duties from seven federal agencies, was
designed to move quickly (like the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.) and not ploddingly (like the SEC, where three
commissioners must pre-approve nearly everything the agency
does).  Subjecting the bureau to the congressional appropriations
process would also be a mistake. The bureau was meant to be
insulated from the partisan funding fights that have hamstrung
the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other
regulators. Financing the new bureau through the  Federal Reserve 
-- which in turn is funded through its open-market operations
and by the institutions it supervises -- is the surest way to
stop lawmakers from starving the bureau of resources.  No question, the consumer bureau should not be able to
issue new rules willy-nilly. Concerns in this realm are most
always justified. But the  Dodd-Frank law  has safeguards that
prevent the bureau from harming the overall economy or
threatening the safety of the banking system. For example,
anyone on the so-called council of regulators -- it includes the
heads of the FDIC, Federal Reserve and SEC, along with the
comptroller of the currency and six others -- may temporarily
stop any bureau rule simply by asking the Treasury secretary,
who chairs the council, to do so.  In addition, the council can permanently halt an
objectionable rule with a two-thirds vote. And if another
regulator objects in writing to a bureau proposal, the CFPB must
publicly explain why it’s going ahead anyway. The act of having
to justify itself will be a powerful deterrent against
blunderbuss moves.  The consumer bureau, to be effective, needs all the agility
and muscle that the Dodd-Frank law meant it to have. Although
it’s bigger than any one person, the bureau by law must have a
confirmed director to issue new rules and oversee non-bank firms
such as payday lenders. The Senate should move ahead on the
Cordray nomination with all speed. After all, it’s in the
industry’s best interest if consumers can understand what
they’re buying.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 