-- 
Lockheed, Pratt to Pay $283 Million in F-35 Cost Overruns

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-19T18:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/lockheed-pratt-to-pay-283m-in-f-35-overruns.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  will pay as much as $283 million to defray
about one-third of a $918 million cost overrun on the first 28
U.S. F-35 fighters, the Pentagon’s program office said today.  The government will cover the remaining $635 million, Vice
Admiral  David Venlet , the program manager, said in an e-mailed
statement. In addition, the Pentagon needs to spend $136 million
to make improvements to the aircraft that are not considered
part of the contract overrun, he said.  “The F-35 Program Office is working with the services to
make necessary adjustments to pay the bills,” Venlet said.
“Going forward, controlling costs is an absolute must.”  Venlet told Bloomberg News in April that in the worst-case
scenario, the three initial production contracts were projected
to exceed target costs by 11 to 15 percent, or by as much $964
million. The figure was calculated based on $6.43 billion in
aircraft and engine costs for 28 planes, according to F-35
program data.  “Delivering specified capabilities at target cost is
required for success,” Venlet said. “The  F-35  cost growth
experienced on early production contracts is an extreme and
problematic burden to the U.S. Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps.
Costs must come down significantly to make this aircraft one we
can afford.”  ‘Learning Curve’  Still, Venlet said “we are pleased with signs of emerging
stability in the manufacturing flow at Lockheed Martin,  Pratt &
Whitney  and in their supplier teams.” Pratt & Whitney, a unit
of United Technologies, supplies engines for the jet.  “Early production aircraft always have higher costs that
come down a learning curve,” he said.  “The number you are seeing is still being scrubbed and is
worst case scenario,” said Lockheed Martin spokesman Mike Rein.  “On the Lockheed side, we are working hard to lower it,”
he said in an e-mailed statement. “That said, whatever the
final total is we will pay approximately 30 percent of the
overrun.”  Pratt & Whitney  spokeswoman Stephanie Duvall said in an e-
mail that the company’s “costs to the government for the
propulsion content of the LRIP 1-3 contracts is approximately 6%
above contract value, which is approximately $1 billion.”  The figures include development and production
“concurrency pressures,” costs related to Rolls-Royce Plc’s
components for the Marine Corps’ vertical-lift version of the
jet, and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes, she said.  Shift of Funds  The Pentagon is seeking congressional approval to
reallocate, or shift from other accounts, $264 million in fiscal
year 2011 funds to cover part of the F-35 overrun.  The funding shift, or “reprogramming,” must be approved
by the four congressional defense committees.  The Senate Armed Services Committee chairman, Democrat  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , and the panel’s top Republican,  John McCain 
of  Arizona , told Defense Secretary Leon Panetta in a July 14
letter that they needed more information before approving the
shift.  Among six questions they put to Panetta: What is the
Pentagon’s legal obligation to pay these increases, and what
would be the effect if the funding shift was denied?  Levin and McCain also requested the Pentagon’s cost to
terminate the entire program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 