-- 
Off-Grid Solar Energy Market in Africa Growing, Energiebau Says

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-07-19T16:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/off-grid-solar-energy-market-in-africa-growing-energiebau-says.html
Energiebau Solarstromsysteme GmbH, a
Cologne, Germany-based developer of small-scale solar systems,
said the number of installations it is doing in  Africa  is
increasing by about 10 percent a year.  “When we arrived here in 1994, nobody else was here,”
Managing Director  Michael Schaefer  said. “Now there is a market
establishing, a lot of competitors are coming.”  The falling price of photovoltaic panels is making solar a
more affordable source of power for Africans though the market
needs five more years before a local PV panel manufacturing
plant is warranted, he said on the phone today from Cologne.  In places like Ghana and  Kenya , solar power is now cheaper
per kilowatt-hour than a diesel generator, Schaefer said.
“There’s a big market for hybrid systems, which is a
combination of PV and diesel.”  About 5 percent of the company’s business comes from Africa
and is growing, Schaefer said. In 2006, Energiebau founded a
subsidiary in Ghana and another in Mali to supply small, off-
grid systems to remote areas. It will open another unit in Kenya
before the end of the year, he said.  Germany’s Schott Solar AG and  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  are
Energiebau’s main equipment suppliers. Lower cost products are
sourced from Korean panel-maker Solar Park, he said.  German and other European companies have the strongest
presence in Africa at present because  Europe  is the most
experienced in PV, Schaefer said.  ‘More Chinese’  “There are very few American and Japanese companies but
now more and more Chinese,” he said. “But these Chinese
companies have no experience in systems, in installations,
design and maintenance. They just produce panels.”  Energiebau has installed more than 100 units in African
countries including Tanzania, Kenya, Zambia and Uganda. Its
largest project is a 515-kilowatt installation at the
headquarters of the United Nations Environment Program in Kenya.
It has bid to develop a 2-megawatt on-grid project in  Ghana ,
Schaefer said.  “At the moment we are concentrating on East Africa and
West Africa, and the next step could be  South Africa ,” Schaefer
said. Uncertainty in South Africa’s regulatory environment has
dissuaded the company from opening a unit there, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 