-- 
Office Prices in Subprime’s Center Leapfrog Recovery in Region

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/office-prices-in-subprime-s-center-leapfrog-recovery-in-region.html
Investors are bidding up prices for
top-tier office buildings in Orange County,  California , even as
vacancies stand at almost 20 percent after the collapse of the
subprime-mortgage industry that once made the region its home.  Prices paid for offices in the area climbed 63 percent to
$111 a square foot in the second quarter from recession lows of
$68 in 2009, according to preliminary figures from Real Capital
Analytics Inc. An 11-story building near  John Wayne Airport  is
on the market at $225 a square foot, up 80 percent from the $125
it fetched two years ago, said  Greg May , a managing director at
brokerage  Grubb & Ellis Co. (GBE)  in  Newport Beach , California.  The gains come in a region where vacancies more than
doubled with the 2007 collapse of subprime lenders including New
Century Financial Corp. and Ameriquest Mortgage Co., both of
which were based in Orange County. Second-quarter asking rents
were down 31 percent from the 2007 peak, and office vacancies
stood at 19.2 percent, May said. That compares with a 17.2
percent rate nationwide.  “The investment market has leapfrogged the recovery,”
said  Jeffrey Cole , an  Irvine , California-based broker at Cushman
& Wakefield Inc. “Investors are well ahead of fundamentals.
Based on rents, prices paid today make a good return
difficult.”  Capitalization rates, a measure of investment yield, for
Orange County office buildings dropped to an average of 6.9
percent in the second quarter from 7.7 percent in all of last
year and 7.9 percent in 2009, according to Cushman.  ‘Premium Price’  Orange County, home to the Disneyland and Knott’s Berry
Farm amusement parks, has been attractive to office buyers
because of the region’s “excellent” infrastructure, school
system and weather, said Doug Holte, president of the office-
properties division of real estate developer Irvine Co.  “So much money is on the sidelines but so few assets are
coming on line that people are paying a premium price because of
lack of supply,” said  Jim McFadden , a managing director at
Grubb & Ellis based in Orange, California. “In some cases, on a
10-year lease, you don’t see a return until the seventh year
after you factor in on all the costs in the transaction. Some of
these have you scratching your head.”  The region was “a major U.S. hub” for mortgage lending,
according to Duy Ngo, Irvine-based client coordinator at  Cushman
& Wakefield . The financial-market crisis “had a major impact on
these firms and employment. It spelled the end of Orange
County,” he said.  Unemployment Increase  Joblessness in the county soared to a high of 10 percent in
January 2010 from 3.1 percent in December 2006, during the
property boom, according to California’s Employment Development
Department. In May, the latest month for which figures are
available, the rate was 8.5 percent. Office vacancies rose to a
high of 21.8 percent in the second quarter of last year from a
low of 8.6 percent in mid-2006, Cushman said.  Office transactions of more than $5 million climbed 55
percent to $1.09 billion last year from $701.8 million in 2009,
according to Cushman. That compares with about $6.33 billion in
the 2007 peak. Volume so far in 2011 totals $260.6 million, the
brokerage said.  Emmes Group of Cos. , based in  New York , in June 2009 paid
$160 million, or $302 per square foot, for the 20-story  3161
Michelson Ave.  in Irvine, which was 38 percent vacant at the
time, according to Grubb & Ellis. The price included a parking
garage, Emmes said.  The building was developed as the headquarters for New
Century, the largest independent mortgage lender to subprime
borrowers before it collapsed in 2007 as defaults by homeowners
with poor credit soared. The company never occupied the space.  Building Dispositions  The property used to belong to  MPG Office Trust Inc. (MPG) , the
Los Angeles-based landlord formerly known as Maguire Properties.
MPG has been disposing of buildings to reduce debt after paying
$2.88 billion for all the real estate in  downtown Los Angeles 
and Orange County that  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  purchased in its
acquisition of  Sam Zell ’s Equity Office Properties Trust.  Vacancies at 3161 Michelson have dropped to about 24
percent, according to  Edward Hernandez , an Irvine-based broker
at Cushman. Tenants include Hyundai Capital,  Jacobs Engineering
Group Inc. (JEC)  and real estate services provider  Eastdil Secured
LLC .  “You have to look at the underlying fundamentals,”
Richard Coles, managing principal at Emmes, said in an
interview. Emmes was drawn by the area’s wealth management,
aerospace, finance and accounting companies, he said.  “With all these industries, we are highly confident that
Irvine, Newport Beach and Orange County on a whole will continue
to be on the forefront and see a recovery going forth,” Coles
said.  Irvine Co. Purchase  Irvine Co.  said in December that it bought Pacific Arts
Plaza in  Costa Mesa , an 827,000-square-foot (77,000-square
meter) property with four office buildings and four restaurants,
for an undisclosed amount.  “Because we think we’ll see positive returns in the
future, we are comfortable with prices that have more modest
initial yields on investments as we believe the recovery will
outperform what most people anticipate,” said Irvine’s Holte.  Ocean West Capital Partners , founded early last year,
completed the purchase of a 16-story building at 2600 Michelson
for about $70 million, or $228 a square foot, this month, said
Troy Miller, principal at the Santa Monica-based company. The
property, previously owned by MPG and 50 percent vacant, had
been under receivership for a year and a half.  Ocean West bought the building in a joint venture with New
York-based Dune Real Estate Partners.  ‘Reposition the Building’  “Our view is we get to step in to reposition the building
and to reintroduce it to the market,” Miller said in an
interview. “Our expected horizon for returns is around five
years. We are already seeing some leasing activity since we
acquired the building.”  While occupancies are starting to rise in Orange County,
rents remain depressed. The average monthly asking rent at Class
A, or the highest-quality, office buildings was $2.15 a square
foot in the second quarter, down 5.7 percent from a year
earlier. That compares with a record $3.13 in the third quarter
of 2007, according to Cushman.  Epicor Software Corp.  in February signed a 10-year lease
for about 68,000 square feet at a Class A building near John
Wayne Airport -- a centrally located area with a high
concentration of top-tier properties -- for $1.72 a square foot,
which includes such services as heat and water, according to
Grubb & Ellis. In May, Access Insurance Holdings Inc. agreed to
a five-year lease for 31,000 square feet at a Class A building
in Orange at the same rate, the brokerage said.  No New Construction  Those actively buying, mostly local investors who
understand the market, are counting on a recovery in a region
where new construction was nonexistent in the first quarter,
said Cole of Cushman. While Orange County will come back, some
office buyers may have to wait 10 years for returns, said Stuart
Gabriel, director of the  Ziman Center for Real Estate  at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles .  “In some ways, these bets in Orange County will be really
good bets,” he said. “It’s about the quality of life, the
quality of public schools, the stable political environment.
There is a low probability for a doomsday scenario.”  A broader recovery in Orange County is dependent upon a
decline in unemployment, which would help boost office demand
and rents, according to May of Grubb & Ellis.  Some investors aren’t deterred.  “What’s striking is how quickly the appetite has returned
to such a ferocious level after such a low point,” said
McFadden of Grubb & Ellis. “In 2005, 2006 and 2007, it moved so
quickly. In the last 12 months, it’s moved as quickly in terms
of expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  