-- 
Oil Gains in New York as U.S. Supplies, China Demand Counter Europe Debt

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-19T12:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/oil-gains-in-new-york-as-u-s-supplies-china-demand-counter-europe-debt.html
Oil climbed in London for the first
time in four days on speculation that European lawmakers may
reach an agreement to resolve the region’s debt crisis, and on
signs of shrinking crude stockpiles in the U.S.  Brent advanced as much as 1.1 percent as the euro
strengthened against the dollar after  Greece ’s Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said a solution is “attainable” at a
summit of European leaders to be held in two days. A weaker U.S.
currency makes dollar-denominated assets such as oil more
attractive. A report tomorrow may show crude inventories in the
U.S. dropped for a seventh week.  “The market is focusing on the robust, medium-term
fundamentals and ignoring bearish factors,” said Torbjoern Kjus, senior analyst at DnB NOR in Oslo, who correctly predicted
in May that supply from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries would rise. “Based on the news flow over the past two
months, Brent should be lower, maybe down to $100.”  Brent oil for September settlement rose as much as $1.22
cents to $117.27 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. It
was at $117.11 at 1:37 p.m. London time. Prices have risen 55
percent in the past year.  Crude for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as $1.31, or 1.4 percent, to $97.24 a
barrel after a government report showed that housing starts in
the U.S. rose more than forecast in June to the fastest pace in
five months. The contract was up $1.27 at $97.20 a barrel at
1:39 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday declined to
$95.93, the lowest since July 14. The more actively traded
September future climbed $1.26 to $97.51 a barrel.  Crude Stockpiles  “It’s summer drive-time, inventories are coming back a bit
and people are suggesting that the economy is not going to
falter,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil in
 New York  will average $100 a barrel this year. “The market’s
not decided as to what the consequences are to oil yet” from
the debt situation, he said.  Prices also rose after China said its apparent fuel
consumption, which includes domestic production and net imports
and excludes inventory changes, rose 7.2 percent in the first
half. Crude slipped yesterday amid concern Europe’s leaders will
be unable to agree on steps to ensure the region’s financial
stability at a summit this week.  An Energy Department report may show U.S. crude supplies
fell 1.5 million barrels for a seventh week in the seven days
ended July 15, according to the median of 10 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline inventories probably slid
100,000 barrels from 211.7 million, the survey shows.  Greek Rescue  European Union government chiefs plan to meet for the
second time in a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. Spanish and
Italian bonds yields surged yesterday, piling pressure on
officials to end the turmoil.  Oil’s climb in New York may stall along the 50-day moving
average, at $97.52 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Front-month futures last settled above this indicator
on May 5. A breach of technical resistance usually means prices
will continue to rise.  Futures have risen 6.8 percent in New York since the
 International Energy Agency  announced a release of strategic
stockpiles June 23. IEA member nations are likely to decide
against offering more oil after last month’s release failed to
curb prices and Middle East output rose, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. The agency will say on or about July 23
whether members will continue emergency sales to make up for
supply choked off by the Libyan conflict.  Tropical Storms  Oil is advancing as the first tropical storms of the
Atlantic Hurricane season form.  Bret, the second such system, weakened as it moved
northeast away from the Bahamas and is forecast to diminish
during the next 48 hours, U.S. National Hurricane Center said.
Bret was about 205 miles (330 kilometers) north of Great Abaco
Island in the Bahamas, moving north-northeast at about 7 miles
per hour, the center said. Sustained winds dropped to 50 mph.  In the eastern Pacific, Tropical Storm Dora strengthened
and is forecast to become a hurricane today. Dora is about 300
miles south of Puerto Angel,  Mexico , and moving west at 16 mph,
the center said at 5 a.m. Miami time. The storm is expected to
intensify in the next 48 hours.  Dora’s maximum sustained winds were near 65 miles per hour
with higher gusts, while its storm-force winds extended outward
as far as 125 miles, the center said. “Life-threatening” surf
swells are expected to affect the coast of south Mexico today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  