-- 
Crude Oil Advances on Surging U.S. Housing Starts and Earnings Reports

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-07-19T20:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/oil-gains-on-housing-surge-speculation-europe-will-resolve-debt-crisis.html
Crude oil rose as U.S. housing
starts surged and better-than-estimated earnings sent equities
higher, bolstering optimism that the economy of the world’s
biggest oil-consuming country will grow.  Oil climbed 1.6 percent after U.S. housing starts in June
advanced more than forecast to the fastest pace in five months.
Companies including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
Novartis AG beat profit forecasts. The rally accelerated after
President  Barack Obama  endorsed a deficit-cutting proposal by a
bipartisan group of senators known as the Gang of Six.  “Any sign of a recovery in the housing market is good for
the economic outlook and the oil market,” said  Chris Barber , a
senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “Developments in the equity market and dollar
have been major drivers of oil recently. It’s being driven by
macroeconomics.”  Crude for August delivery rose $1.57 to $97.50 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
July 13. Futures have risen 27 percent in the past year.  Prices increased after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil stockpiles dropped
5.18 million barrels to 354.2 million. August oil advanced
$2.19, or 2.3 percent, to $98.12 a barrel in electronic trading
at 4:32 p.m.  Brent oil for September settlement gained $1.01, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $117.06 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . Prices have risen 55 percent
in the past year. Brent was $19.20 a barrel more expensive than
September Nymex futures, versus $19.80 yesterday.  Equity Rally  Work began on 629,000 houses at an annual pace, up 14.6
percent from the prior month, figures from the Commerce
Department showed. The level of starts exceeded the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.6 percent to settle
at 1,326.73, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased
202.26 points, or 1.6 percent, to 12,387.42.  “IBM had great numbers, which is sending stocks higher,”
said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF Advisors in
Houston. “Oil is moving pretty much in lockstep with the stock
market recently.”  Obama said the deficit-cutting proposal as “broadly
consistent” with the approach being worked on by his
administration. He called the revival of the proposal “good
news” that may help move negotiations on the deficit and
raising the federal debt ceiling.  Contagion Risk  The euro and oil also increased when European Central Bank
council member  Ewald Nowotny  suggested that the bank may
compromise and allow a temporary Greek default. European Union
government chiefs plan to meet for the second time in a month on
July 21, aiming to break a deadlock over a new Greek rescue that
has spooked investors. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said an agreement is “attainable” at the summit.  Nowotny’s comments come as officials work to fix a
sovereign debt crisis that’s spreading to Italy and Spain. The
ECB has until now argued that any Greek default could spark a
new financial crisis, derailing a German push to make investors
help foot the bill for a second bailout of the country.  Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis risks infecting the rest of
the euro region even if officials avert a default, threatening
the global economic recovery, the  International Monetary Fund 
said. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today that the crisis
can’t be resolved in “one spectacular step” at this week’s
European leaders’ summit.  The euro increased 0.3 percent to $1.4148 in  New York . A
stronger common currency and weaker dollar boost the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 1 percent to 694.61.
Eighteen of the commodities advanced.  U.S. Stockpiles  “Prices are rising amid hopes there will be some
resolution to the European debt crisis,” said  Matt Smith , a
commodities analyst for Summit Energy Services Inc. in
Louisville, Kentucky. “We had some good housing starts numbers
and tomorrow we’re looking at inventories that will likely draw
down for crude.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
supplies fell 2 million barrels, or 0.6 percent, to 353.5
million last week, according to the median of 15 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. It would be the seventh
straight drop, the longest stretch of declines in two years.  IEA Decision  Futures have gained 2.2 percent in New York since June 22,
the day before the  International Energy Agency  announced a
release of strategic stockpiles. IEA member nations are likely
to decide against offering more oil after last month’s release
failed to curb prices and Middle East output rose, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  The IEA will say on or about July 23 whether members will
continue emergency sales to make up for supply choked off by the
Libyan conflict. The Paris-based agency is an energy policy
adviser to 28 industrialized nations including the U.S.,  Japan 
and  Germany .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 540,318
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 544,671
contracts yesterday, 19 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 