-- 
Oil Climbs for Second Day on Shrinking Crude Stockpiles, Stronger Economy

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-20T07:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/oil-climbs-for-second-day-after-u-s-supplies-drop-housing-starts-surge.html
Oil advanced for a second day in  New
York  as investors bet that shrinking stockpiles and signs of
economic recovery in the U.S. indicate fuel demand will increase
in the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures gained as much as 1.1 percent after the industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute said supplies fell the most
in six weeks. An Energy Department report today may show
inventories dropped for a seventh week, the longest run of
declines in two years. Prices rose yesterday after U.S. housing
starts surged more than economists forecast.  “We continue to see stock draws,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
 Melbourne , who predicts oil in New York will average $113 a
barrel in the third quarter. “Crude supplies are still
relatively high compared with history but it’s undoubtedly
positive for  oil prices .”  Crude for August delivery increased as much as $1.09 to
$98.59 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.53 at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract, which expires today, rose $1.57 to $97.50 yesterday.
Prices are 27 percent higher the past year. The more-actively
traded September future gained 97 cents to $98.83.  U.S. crude supplies declined 5.2 million barrels to 354.2
million, the biggest drop since the week ended June 3, according
to the American Petroleum Institute. The Energy Department
report may show stockpiles fell 2 million barrels last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Brent Crude  Brent oil for September settlement advanced as much as
$1.19, or 1 percent, to $118.25 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London . The contract yesterday gained $1.01,
or 0.9 percent, to $117.06.  U.S. inventories are about 4 percent above the average of
the past five years, according to Energy Department data.  The  American Petroleum Institute  collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the Energy Department for its weekly
survey. In the past four years, the indicators have moved the
same direction 75 percent of the time for oil.  Gasoline supplies increased 1.96 million barrels to 210.3
million, the American Petroleum Institute said. It was the first
increase in five weeks. The Energy Department report may show
stockpiles fell 250,000 barrels, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Oil in New York may extend gains as prices approach an area
on daily technical charts where orders to buy may be clustered,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude is rising to the
first so-called leading-span line on its “ichimoku cloud”, at
about $99.55 a barrel today. Front-month futures also opened
today’s trading above the 50-day moving average for the first
time since May 4, signaling the market may climb further.  Homes, Storms  Prices surged yesterday after the Commerce Department said
work began on 629,000 houses in the U.S. at an annual pace in
June, up 15 percent from May and the fastest pace in five
months. Reports today will show sales of existing homes also
increased, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Oil is advancing as the first tropical storms of the
Atlantic and Pacific hurricane seasons form. Dora became the
fourth named hurricane of the Eastern Pacific in 2011 after
strengthening from a tropical storm off  Mexico .  The hurricane was about 240 miles (390 kilometers) south of
 Acapulco , Mexico, and should continue to intensify today and
tomorrow as it moves west-northwest at 17 miles per hour, the
National Hurricane Center said.  Bret, the second tropical storm of the Atlantic, may weaken
today and could become a tropical depression by tomorrow, the
center said in a separate advisory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  