-- 
London’s Stansted Airport Must Be Sold

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-19T10:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/london-s-stansted-airport-must-be-sold.html
BAA Ltd., the owner of  London ’s
 Heathrow Airport , was today ordered to sell the U.K. capital’s
Stansted terminal and a base in either Edinburgh or Glasgow
following the latest ruling in a four-year antitrust tussle.  The U.K. Competition Commission, reviewing an earlier
decision, said a breakup is “fully justified” and must start
in three months at the latest. BAA said it was “dismayed” by
the ruling and may seek a judicial review to have it overturned.  “We hope that the sales can now proceed without delay so
that passengers and airlines can start to enjoy the benefits of
greater competition,” Peter Freeman, chairman of the
Commission’s BAA Remedies Implementation Group, said in a
statement. “It is clear that the original decision to require
BAA to divest three airports remains the right one.”  BAA, whose Heathrow hub is the biggest in  Europe , was first
ordered to find buyers for Gatwick and Stansted in March 2009,
together with either Edinburgh or Glasgow in Scotland. While
Gatwick was sold to Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd. for 1.51
billion pounds ($2.4 billion), BAA was able to delay the other
disposals when the Competition Appeal Tribunal upheld claims
that an adviser to the regulator had a conflict of interest.  Continental Squeeze  “We think it’s an unreasonable and draconian decision, and
a damaging one,” BAA Chief Executive Officer Colin Matthews
said today, adding that the London-based company will decide
whether to seek a judicial review in the next few weeks.  The ruling “failed to recognize that the world and BAA
have changed,” the CEO said, citing increased competition after
the disposal of Gatwick, Britain’s second-busiest airport, and
U.K.-government opposition to new runways in southeast  England .  Stansted, the biggest hub for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and a
major base for  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , also faces stronger rivals overseas
as low-cost carriers increasingly take “a pan-European view,”
London-based BAA said, adding that the airport and Heathrow
serve different markets, with no single airline serving both.  Passenger numbers at Stansted fell 3.3 percent to 1.68
million in June compared with a year earlier, versus a 5.2
percent gain to 3.2 million at Gatwick, according company
statements. Stansted’s  annual total  has slumped 22 percent from
a peak of 23.8 million in 2007 to 18.6 million last year.  “It’s not an ideal time to be selling Stansted with its
current loss of traffic,” said  John Strickland , an aviation
analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd. “A potential buyer may look at
it and say we have to significantly rework the airport.”  Gatwick Switch  The  Competition Commission , which began investigating
Britain’s airports in March 2007, said in its statement that any
changes since 2009 have been considered and that customers would
still be best served by greater competition.  Gatwick airport , the busiest in the world with a single
runway, said in a statement that it welcomed today’s decision.
Carriers including AirAsia X, Air Berlin Plc and Norwegian Air
Shuttle AS have switched over from Stansted since the split from
BAA, CEO Stewart Wingate said.  Ryanair CEO  Michael O’Leary  also backed the sale of
Stansted, describing BAA in a statement as “an abusive monopoly”
which continues to “overcharge” airlines at the airport.  BAA is facing a breakup just as other European terminals
come on the market. Spain’s cabinet last week agreed to raise
cash by selling contracts to run the Madrid and Barcelona hubs
plus a 49 percent stake in state-owned Aena Aeropuertos, while
 France  aims to reach an agreement before September on the sale
of Bordeaux, Lyon, Montpellier and Toulouse airports,  Les Echos 
reported today, citing government officials it didn’t identify.  Spanish infrastructure group  Ferrovial SA (FER) , which bought BAA
for 10.1 billion pounds in 2006, was trading 1.3 percent higher
at 8.20 euros as of 9:59 a.m. in Madrid. The stock has gained 10
percent this year for a value of 6 billion euros ($8.5 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  