-- 
Money Market Fund Safeguards Elude Dodd-Frank Regulators: One Year Later

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/money-market-fund-safeguards-elude-dodd-frank-regulators-one-year-later.html
U.S. money market mutual funds,
haunted by the 2008 collapse of a single fund and the ensuing
panic, are wrestling with regulators over ways to safeguard the
$2.65 trillion business without killing it.  The Securities and Exchange Commission enacted a raft of
new rules in 2010, and the industry next faces a review by the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, a body created by last
year’s Dodd-Frank Act. The council is expected to decide this
year or early next whether to call for restrictions that fund-
company executives say would destroy their product.  “A lot has been done to make money funds safer and more
robust, and still no one has found a way to guarantee that a run
won’t happen again,” said Joan Swirsky, an attorney at
Philadelphia law firm Stradley, Ronon, Stevens & Young LLP who
specializes in money fund oversight. “The fate of the funds hangs
in the balance, and no one knows what’s going to happen.”  Money market funds , once considered among the safest
investments, gained sudden prominence following the bankruptcy
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The investment bank’s collapse
roiled money funds, temporarily crippling the ability of
thousands of companies and banks to raise short-term debt in the
commercial paper market. Regulators and industry leaders have
since collaborated and clashed over how to respond.  All sides want to prevent a repeat of September 2008, when
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund became only the second
money fund to “break the buck,” or expose shareholders to a
loss, and close. The fund held $785 million in Lehman-issued
debt that became almost worthless.  Tougher Rules  Money market funds were among several financial
intermediaries, collectively known as the shadow banking system,
that attracted intense government scrutiny during and after the
financial crisis. The group, which also included investment
banks,  hedge funds  and insurance companies, matched lenders and
borrowers outside the regulatory framework that governs
traditional deposit-taking banks.  During the crisis, panicked institutional investors
withdrew $230 billion from the industry over three days, fearing
other money funds might also be exposed to Lehman. That forced
money funds, the largest collective buyer of unsecured short-
term loans known as commercial paper, to stop purchasing and
start selling, shutting off the  cash flow  at many companies.  The run abated after the Treasury Department stepped in to
guarantee money funds against default and the  Federal Reserve 
began purchasing assets at full value to help funds meet
redemptions.  Shadow Banking  “Regulators were startled at the size and impact of the
shadow banking system,” said  Peter Crane , president of Crane
Data LLC, a research firm in Westborough,  Massachusetts . “Money
markets, in general, had never needed a dime of support and
suddenly they were maybe asking for trillions.”  The SEC responded in January 2010 by enacting tougher
versions of several industry recommendations. The rules forced
funds to shorten the average maturity of their holdings, keep 30
percent of their assets in securities convertible to cash within
seven days and disclose holdings monthly. The new rules also
allow fund boards to more quickly suspend redemptions in an
emergency.  The liquidity requirement means funds can come up with
almost $800 billion in cash for redemptions within a week
without having to sell holdings. Fund executives including
 Robert Brown , head of money funds at  Fidelity Investments , have
said holdings disclosures greatly reduce the likelihood of a run
by giving clients more information about what the funds own.
Boston-based Fidelity, with $423 billion in money market assets,
is the largest U.S. manager, according to Crane Data.  Further Regulation  In October, the President’s Working Group on Financial
Markets, an advisory body to the Obama Administration, published
a series of options for further regulating money funds. These
included a proposal that funds abandon their stable share price.  Unlike bond funds that mark holdings at current market
prices, money market funds value their investments according to
their expected payoff at maturity, allowing them to maintain a
steady $1 share price. Returns on investment are credited to
customers and distributed monthly as cash or new shares.  The stable price is a central selling point for the funds.
It also makes them more vulnerable to runs, according to critics
like former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who say it encourages
investors to flee after even small losses reduce a fund’s net-
asset value.  Floating Share Price  Paul Schott Stevens, president of the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based trade group, said in testimony
before the House Committee on Financial Services on June 24 and
on several earlier occasions that a floating share price would
destroy money funds’ appeal for investors and jeopardize the
short-term financing they provide.  The Working Group also considered requiring an industry
financed liquidity backstop, regulating funds as special purpose
banks and creating an insurance system for the funds.  Barbara Novick, vice-chairman and co-founder of  New York ’s
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said in a June 22 speech in Philadelphia that
regulators will likely reject the proposed liquidity backstop
because that would include access to the Fed’s discount window.
Novick also said regulators are leaning against a floating share
price.  ‘An Impossible Mission’  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Novick’s remarks. “The commission is exploring all of its
policy options,” she said.  A proposal put forward by Fidelity Investments in January,
would require shareholders, on a fund-by-fund basis, to finance
capital buffers that would be used to absorb losses on defaulted
holdings.  The issue now rests with the Dodd-Frank-created Financial
Stability Oversight Council, headed by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and whose members also include Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  “It’s taken so long because they’ve chosen an impossible
mission,” Crane said. “They want to prevent a widespread run
without the government being allowed to step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 