-- 
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index Rises as Commodity Shares Advance

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-07-19T09:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/hong-kong-s-hang-seng-index-rises-as-commodity-shares-advance.html
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose in
the final hour of trading as commodity shares advanced,
countering declines by exporters on concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach a deal on the country’s debt limit.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore oil producer by market
value, advanced 0.9 percent, and Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No.
1 producer of the metal by market value, increased 2 percent
after oil and metal prices advanced.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a retailer
that gets more than half its sales in the U.S., sank 3.6 percent.  “Trading volume is very slim, and once there’s anything
positive it triggers a turning around of activities,” said
 Steven Leung , director of institutional sales in UOB-Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong. Expectations of a strong rebound in
the European stock market, and higher commodity prices
contributed to the short rally in Hong Kong, he said. “People
who were selling the whole morning could start to do the reverse.
Market can rise in such a short time.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.5 percent to 21,902.40 at the
close, reversing its earlier decline of 0.9 percent as European
stocks advanced after companies including drugmaker Novartis AG
reported increasing profits. The number of shares traded today
was 2.6 percent below the 12-month average.  More than twice as many stocks declined as rose in the Hang
Seng Composite Index. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies’ H shares gained 0.3 percent to 12,296.96.  Cnooc rose 0.9 percent to HK$18.06, while PetroChina Co.,
Asia’s biggest company by market value, increased 0.9 percent to
HK$11.46. Jiangxi Copper climbed 2 percent to HK$27.70.  Oil Advances  Oil for August delivery rose as much as 0.5 in  New York 
today and was at $96.31 at 2:48 p.m. Singapore time. Copper
gained as much as 1.2 percent to $9,806.25 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange and traded at $9,798 at 3:45 p.m. in
 Shanghai .  Hong Kong stocks earlier declined as U.S. and Europe Debt
concern dragged down shares related to the region. Li & Fung
sank 3.6 percent to HK$13.48, while Cosco Pacific Ltd., which
operates container facilities at  Greece ’s Piraeus port, lost 1.9
percent to HK$12.76. They had the two biggest declines in the
Hang Seng Index.  “Investors are staying on the sideline amid all the
uncertainties surrounding the Euro debt problem and the U.S.
debt-ceiling issue,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at
KGI  Asia  Ltd. “The lingering concern is the major reason why
the market is lacking fund inflow.”  President Barack Obama is trying to get lawmakers to agree
to a deficit-cutting deal as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the
debt ceiling nears. He would veto a House Republican proposal to
impose mandatory budget cuts and set caps for  government
spending  in order to raise the federal debt limit, the
administration said in a statement yesterday.  U.S. Economic Growth  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecasts for U.S.
economic growth after reports last week showed  consumer
confidence  deteriorated and New York-area manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank.  In Europe, leaders are struggling to convince investors
that they will agree on a second Greek bailout at a summit this
week as record bond yields threaten to boost financing costs at
sales of Spanish and Greek debt.  The Hang Seng Index dropped 4.9 percent this year, on
concern China’s monetary policy tightening, and  Europe  and  U.S.
debt  will hamper global economic growth. Shares in the gauge
traded at 11.8 times forecast earnings, compared with about 14.4
times at the end of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Unicom, IRICO  China Unicom sank 0.9 percent to HK$15.06 after Mirae Asset
Securities cut its rating on the stock to “hold” from “buy.”
The company adopted a wrong strategy in cutting handset
subsidies, analyst Eric Wen wrote in a report dated today. The
company “should focus on spending more to improve network
quality and customer satisfaction,” the report said.  IRICO Group Electronics Co., a glass-bulbs maker, surged
9.3 percent to 94 Hong Kong cents after saying it expects its
first-half net income will surge more than fourfold on sales of
new products.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index advanced 0.2 percent to
21,839. The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for  Hong
Kong  stock options, sank 5.3 percent to 20.21, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 5.8 percent in the Hang Seng
Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 