-- 
Hong Kong Billionaire Fills Funding Gap in U.K.’s Low-Cost Housing Market

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-07-20T09:49:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/hong-kong-billionaire-fills-funding-gap-in-u-k-s-low-cost-housing-market.html
Billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung  and two
fellow  Hong Kong  investors, faced with soaring real-estate
prices at home, are helping the U.K. plug a gap in funding for
low-income  housing  after gaining control of a London-based
property manager.  Cheng’s Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Ltd., developer Sammy Lee
and businessman Peter Fung last month  paid  30 million pounds
($48 million) for 61 percent of  Pinnacle Regeneration Group
Ltd. , manager of 22,000 homes in the U.K. Cuts in social housing
are part of the British government’s plan to trim a record
deficit with the biggest spending reductions since World War II.  “There is a big opportunity for investors directly coming
to the fore because of the cutback in funding,” said  James
Coghill , a real-estate investment adviser at  Savills Plc. (SVS) 
“Social housing providers are seeking other funds and need to
become more commercial.”  A change in U.K.  law  last year enabled investors to profit
for the first time from social housing in Britain, where there’s
a waiting list of 1.8 million households. With property prices
at home skyrocketing, Hong Kong investors are putting money into
U.K. real estate ranging from subsidized housing and office
buildings to luxury properties and infrastructure.  Home prices  in Hong Kong have risen more than 70 percent
since the beginning of 2009 on record-low  mortgage rates  and an
influx of buyers from mainland China. The Hong Kong government
imposed restrictions to curb rising values, such as increasing
the required down-payments.  ‘Very Hot’  “The Hong Kong market is very hot,” said Lee, 53, who
also developed a 200-apartment complex in  London ’s affluent
 Knightsbridge  neighborhood that opened in 2005. “We’ve got to
diversify and the first port is London.”  Social housing in the U.K., typically provided by local
governments and non-profit associations, is rented out at below-
market levels with the state subsidizing the rest. Pinnacle
plans to spend as much as 500 million pounds on U.K. housing
projects over the next three to four years, Chief Executive
Officer  Perry Lloyd  said.  The closely held company is working with the London borough
of  Lambeth  to create almost 1,000 homes in a jointly funded
project with the council. Pinnacle will manage the properties,
half of which are social housing. Lloyd said the Hong Kong
group’s investment of 30 million pounds may only be the start.  ‘Further Investment’  “We’re a key into a door -- this is the price of the key
and gives the option for further investment,” he said in an
interview in London.  Through Chow Tai Fook, Cheng’s family controls New World
Development Co., one of Hong Kong’s biggest property developers
with investments in hotels, department stores and public
transportation. He is the fourth-wealthiest person in Hong Kong
with assets valued at $9 billion, according to Forbes Magazine.  “Pinnacle will probably float in Hong Kong in a couple of
years, so this is us dipping our toe in the water,” said Lee.
“We’re looking at a much longer projection.”  More overseas investors are likely to look to the U.K.’s
social housing market because it offers reliable returns, said
Coghill of Savills, which owns 3 percent of Pinnacle, in an
interview. Lloyd said the yields will be about 5 percent,
similar to some prime commercial real estate.  ‘Colonial Roots’  Hong Kong companies, or groups that include Hong Kong
purchasers, completed 18 deals involving U.K. assets last year,
the most since at least 1999 when Bloomberg began compiling
mergers and acquisitions data. The $11.67 billion total value of
the deals was more than triple the previous record.  Li Ka-shing ,
Hong Kong’s wealthiest man, is among those looking to Britain.
His Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. made a 2.4 billion-
pound indicative offer this month for Durham, England-based
Northumbrian Water Group Plc, which serves 4.4 million
customers.  Other deals this year include the purchase by  Chinese
Estates Holdings Ltd. (127) , controlled by Hong Kong billionaire
Joseph Lau, of buildings in London that are part of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s European headquarters. Last year, Li’s Cheung
Kong Infrastructure acquired a stake in U.K. generator Seabank
Power Ltd. for 212 million pounds and led a group that bought
Electricite de France SA’s U.K. network for 5.8 billion pounds.  “With Hong Kong’s colonial roots with  England , investors
are very comfortable with the infrastructure over here,” said
Pinnacle’s Lloyd. Now part of  China , Hong Kong was a British
colony until 1997.  ‘Huge Demand’  Chow Tai Fook’s chain of jewelry stores plans an initial
public offering in Hong Kong that may raise as much as $4
billion, two people with knowledge of the matter said in May.
The shares may start trading as early as the fourth quarter, the
people said.  The Hong Kong group’s investment in social housing may be a
contrarian bet. Luxury-home values in London have rebounded
faster than those for other properties, reaching a record last
month, according to Knight Frank LLP. The property broker, which
is based in the city, estimates that prices for prime residences
in central London will increase by 8 percent this year.  “It’s a lottery sometimes with prime assets and sometimes
people overpay,” said Lloyd. “With social housing there is
huge demand, a willingness from local authorities to engage with
us and a real opportunity to generate returns over a long period
of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  