-- 
Moody’s Cuts Sino-Forest; Sees Further Possible Downgrade Amid Probe

-- B y   M i c h a e l   T i g h e   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-07-19T20:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/moody-s-cuts-sino-forest-sees-further-possible-downgrade-amid-probe.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese
forestry operator targeted by short-seller Carson Block, had the
ratings on its debt cut by Moody’s Investors Service amid an
investigation into allegations about its plantation holdings.  Moody’s downgraded Sino-Forest’s debt to B1, four levels
below investment grade, from Ba2 and is continuing its review
for further possible downgrade, the ratings company said today
in a statement.  Sino-Forest plunged 76 percent after Muddy Waters LLC, a
research company founded by Block, said in a June 2 report that
the company overstated its tree-plantation holdings. Hong Kong-
and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest, which has denied the
allegations, has commissioned an independent investigation into
the claims and appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.  The ratings cut “reflects Moody’s expectation that Sino-
Forest’s operations have been adversely impacted by the current
investigations,” Ken Chan, a Moody’s vice president and senior
analyst, said in the statement. “The longer it takes for the
investigation to complete, the greater will be the pressure on
Sino-Forest’s liquidity position.”  Stan Neve, an external spokesman for Sino-Forest, declined
to comment.  Sino-Forest rose 75 cents, or 21 percent, to C$4.28 at 4
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  Paulson Stake  Fitch Ratings  withdrew its BB- rating on Sino-Forest last
week because it was unable to obtain enough information.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on June 30 lowered Sino-
Forest’s long-term corporate credit rating to B+ from BB and
placed it on CreditWatch with negative implications.  China ’s reputation among investors has been strained in
recent months after short sellers said companies from Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. to Sino-Forest were exaggerating
operations. Paulson & Co., the hedge fund that had been Sino-
Forest’s largest shareholder, said last month in a letter to
clients it sold its entire 12.5 percent stake and had lost C$462
million ($486 million) since May 31 on Sino-Forest.  Sino-Forest last month said its investigation won’t be
completed for two to three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Tighe in  Hong Kong  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  