-- 
Options on Stocks Above $100 Are Cheap, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-19T20:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/options-on-100-plus-stocks-are-underpriced-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors looking to trade options
on companies about to report quarterly results should consider
shares priced above $100, such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Priceline.com
Inc. (PCLN) , because the contracts tend to be underpriced, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said.  Strangles, or purchasing calls and puts to bet on more
volatility, produced 8.4 percent returns before transaction
costs during the past 15 years for the high-priced stocks,
Goldman strategists led by John Marshall said in a report today.
That compares with 1.5 percent gains for a broader group of
equities, the note said.  “High-dollar options appear to have been systematically
underpriced,” the strategists wrote. “Buying strangles on
companies with share prices over $100 ahead of earnings saw
positive returns in 11 of 15 years and five of the past eight
quarters.”  The Goldman Sachs strategists studied the performance of
stocks and options following about 30,000 quarterly reports.
Transaction costs are also lower, with bid-ask spreads 25
percent tighter on high-priced options compared with the average
for all equities, they said. There are 44 companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with share prices at $100 or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-based strategists recommended using a strategy
similar to a strangle, known as a straddle, on some companies
reporting this earnings season. A straddle buyer purchases a
call and put with the same strike price and expiration date,
while strangle buying involves purchasing a  call option  with a
strike price higher than the current stock price and a put with
a strike that is lower. Both strategies profit as volatility
increases.  The strategists specifically recommended buying  Chipotle
Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  August $330 straddles, Priceline.com Inc.
August $515 straddles,  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  August $135
straddles and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  August $100 straddles. On July
14, they had suggested purchasing Netflix Inc. August $300
straddles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  