-- 
Mortgage-Bond Sales Surge From Busiest Half Since 2007: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-20T07:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/mortgage-bond-sales-surge-from-busiest-half-since-2007-australia-credit.html
Mortgage bond sales in Australia are
accelerating from the busiest half since 2007, with investors
snapping up higher-yielding notes while other corporate debt
offerings slow amid Europe’s sovereign crisis.  Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Ltd. (BEN) , Heritage Building Society
Ltd. and Resimac Ltd. have priced a combined A$2.05 billion
($2.19 billion) of residential mortgage-backed securities this
month, after A$12.4 billion of the debt was offered in the six
months to June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Before Rabobank Nederland’s domestic unit priced A$800 million
of notes today there were no sales of senior unsecured bonds in
Australia since July 8, the longest stretch in more than two
months, Bloomberg data show.  “Australian RMBS may be viewed as a discrete asset class
that’s separate from the volatility” caused by rising sovereign
risk in Europe, said  David Goodman , Sydney-based Westpac Banking
Corp.’s director of asset-backed securities. “It’s performed
very well, so people are clearly buying.”  Investors are seeking returns as concern that  Europe  will
fail to contain the debt crisis and a weakening outlook for
domestic growth pushed Australia’s 10-year government bond yield
to the lowest level in 10 months. Australian lenders have raised
more than A$9 billion this year from mortgage-backed debt that
has no government support, while issuers in the U.S. sold less
than $550 million of similar bonds since July 2008, Bloomberg
data show.  Heritage sold A$800 million of bonds on July 11 in what the
lender said was its biggest-ever RMBS sale and first public
offering since 2006. The Toowoomba, Queensland-based lender
priced its main class of notes to yield 110 basis points more
than the bank bill swap rate, according to a regulatory filing.  ‘Market Intelligence’  “Our market intelligence suggested there was sufficient
interest amongst potential investors,” said John Minz, chief
executive officer of Heritage, in an e-mailed response to
questions. “One of the key objectives for this deal was the
successful placement of subordinated tranches to external
interests.”  The junior portions of residential mortgage bonds are more
vulnerable to losses on the underlying loans, as they act as a
buffer protecting the most senior notes from any default.  Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, the Australian regional lender,
priced A$1 billion of notes on July 14, including 20 billion yen
of securities, the first time an Australian issuer has sold
mortgage bonds in the Japanese currency, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. It paid 425 basis points more than the bank
bill swap rate on the lowest-ranking portion of notes and a
spread of 105 basis points on the main class, according to a
stock exchange filing.  ‘Broadening Demand’  “In a further sign of broadening demand, we have seen
different issuers and innovative structures come to market and
investors willing to look further down the  capital structure ,”
Westpac’s Goodman said.  Australia’s mortgage bond market shut amid the U.S.
subprime collapse in 2007. Relative yields on the debt, which
averaged 20 basis points before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
failed in 2008, surged to as high as 450 basis points, according
to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia. Spreads have narrowed to 125,
the central bank said in May.  Sales of prime securities peaked at A$57 billion in 2006
before tumbling to A$13.4 billion in 2008,  Standard & Poor’s 
data show. The first six months of 2011 was the busiest half
since 2007, according to Westpac.  The Australian government has  bought  A$13.6 billion of the
debt since 2008 as part of a support package to help smaller
lenders obtain funding, according to information on a government
website.  Home Prices  The market is reviving even after home prices slid 1.7
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months, the
biggest drop since the third quarter of 2008, government data
published in May showed. Prices fell 0.3 percent in both April
and May, according to real estate researcher RP Data.  Australian mortgage holders grappling with the highest
benchmark interest rate in the developed world may get some
respite as traders bet the central bank will cut the official
cash rate of 4.75 percent.  There is an 70 percent chance RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
will cut the benchmark rate a quarter percentage point in
October, cash-rate futures showed at 5:49 p.m. in Sydney today.  Economic Growth  The central bank, which has kept the rate unchanged since
November 2010, had scope to extend the pause because risks posed
by Europe’s debt crisis and a slower-than-forecast domestic
recovery eased inflation concerns, minutes of its July 5 meeting
published yesterday show.  Australia’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the biggest contraction in two decades, after flooding
in Queensland state slashed export earnings. The RBA signaled
this month that growth this year may be weaker than its earlier
forecast of 4.25 percent.  Inflation-indexed note yields show investors expect
consumer prices will rise an annual 2.76 percent for the next 10
years.  Australia ’s 10-year government bond yield rose 7 basis
points today to 4.96 percent, or 207 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries. The Australian dollar, the world’s
fifth-most traded currency, traded at $1.0732 as of 5:51 p.m. in
Sydney.  Debt Sales  Westpac and Volkswagen Financial Services Australia Pty
both priced notes on July 8, Bloomberg data show. Debt sales in
the nation have totaled A$3.5 billion this half, not including
asset-backed notes, compared with A$4.4 billion in the same
period of last year, the data show.  The average yield on Australian corporate bonds dropped to
6.1 percent on July 18, the lowest since 2006, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  Resimac, a Sydney-based non-bank lender, priced A$250
million of bonds backed by non-conforming home loans on July 14
in the second sale of such securities in the nation since the
global credit freeze. Investors placed more bids for most
classes of notes than Resimac was seeking to sell, the lender
said in a statement at the time.  More than a third of the underlying loans are to borrowers
with an impaired credit history, while 71.4 percent are not
fully documented, according to an e-mailed statement from
Moody’s. The weighted average size of each mortgage as a
proportion of the house value is 71.5 percent, according to the
risk assessor.  Home Loans  Home loans more than 30 days late hit a record 1.79 percent
in the first quarter,  Fitch Ratings  said on May 26, and “low-
doc” loans that were more than 30 days overdue climbed to 6.74
percent.  In the U.S., 31 percent of the underlying home loans on non
government-backed RMBS were behind on payments by 30 days or
more as of June 30, according to a Bloomberg non-agency database
of more than 12 million active loans.  “We’re starting to see a bigger divergence in Australian
collateral performance between regional or smaller lenders and
the major banks,” said Nick Bishop, a portfolio manager in
Sydney at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. “Overall though, it’s
a deteriorating but still sound picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 