-- 
Most Asian Stocks Decline Amid U.S., Europe Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-19T08:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/most-asian-stocks-decline-on-u-s-debt-limit-europe-crisis-honda-falls.html
Most Asian stocks fell amid concern
U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach a deal on the country’s debt
limit and  Europe ’s worsening crisis will slow the global
economic recovery.  Honda Motor Co., the automaker which receives 44 percent of
its sales from  North America , declined 2 percent in Tokyo.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s biggest
listed lender by market value, sank 2.5 percent as banks fell
globally after stress tests on European lenders failed to
alleviate investor concern over the region’s debt crisis.    
 Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ) ,  China ’s third-largest
shipyard outside state control, jumped 5.7 percent in Singapore
after predicting higher first half profit.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 135.03 as
of 5:45 p.m. in Tokyo after swinging between gains and losses at
least eight times. About five stocks fell for every four that
rose on the gauge. The measure dropped for the first week in
four last week after European finance ministers declined to rule
out a temporary default for  Greece  and as Moody’s Investors
Service put the U.S. under review for a possible credit-rating
downgrade.  “On top of uncertainty about the  U.S. economy , there can
only be negativity if the U.S. government’s functionality
becomes paralyzed,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , senior strategist
at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “In Europe, the stress
tests are being seen as too soft, and it’s just postponing the
potential for problems.”  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.9 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.7 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.1 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index
climbed 0.5 percent, erasing losses of as much as 0.9 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed after swinging
between gains and losses at least eight times.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6
percent today. In  New York , the index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,305.44 yesterday, pushing the measure to its worst seven-day
period in more than a month, amid concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach a deal on the nation’s debt limit before an Aug. 2
deadline.  Global stocks declined as President Barack Obama struggled
to get lawmakers to agree to a deficit-cutting deal ahead of the
deadline for raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists led by Jan Hatzius, based in
Germany, cut their forecasts for real annualized U.S. economic
growth to 1.5 percent in the second quarter and 2.5 percent in
the third quarter, from 2 percent and 3.25 percent respectively.  Honda Motor, which counts North America as its biggest
market, fell 2 percent to 3,145 yen in Tokyo. Canon Inc., the
world’s largest camera maker by sales, sank 2.8 percent to 3,680
yen.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the largest supplier of toys and clothes to
Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., declined 3.6 percent to
HK$13.48 in Hong Kong.  Exporters to Europe declined as European Union leaders are
struggling to convince investors that they will agree on a
second Greek bailout at a summit on July 21. Cosco Pacific Ltd.,
which operates container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port,
decreased 1.9 percent to HK$12.76.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the
Japanese carmaker most reliant on European markets, dropped 0.9
percent to 213 yen in Tokyo.  Stress Tests  “We’re unable to see the end of the sovereign-debt crisis
in Europe, and fears are refusing to abate,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Daiwa Asset　Management
Co., which oversees about $104 billion. “The results of what’s
happening in Europe are beating down bank stocks.”  Shares of European banks fell below the book value of their
tangible assets for the first time in two years yesterday on
concern the region’s banks may have to raise as much as 80
billion euros ($113 billion) of additional capital as stress
tests failed to allay investor concern about a Greek default.  Investors are testing the EU’s resolve to end the
sovereign-debt crisis by pushing Italian and Spanish bond yields
toward levels that forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to ask
for help, sparking concern costs may rise for Asia-Pacific banks.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial slid 2.5 percent to 383 yen in
Tokyo.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-
biggest bank by market value, fell 1.3 percent to 2,404 yen.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender by
market value, lost 0.7 percent to A$48.55.  Catcher, Yangzijiang  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.8 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index in
the same period. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at
13.4 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1
times for the S&P 500 and 10.5 times for the Stoxx 600.  Among stocks that advanced, Yangzijiang Shipbuilding jumped
5.7 percent to S$1.305 in  Singapore  after saying it’s
“confident” of posting at least a 30 percent increase in net
profit in the first half ended June 30. Separately, The company
said there are no immediate plans to sell convertible bonds.  Catcher Technology Co., which makes metal casings for Apple
Inc. computers, surged 6.9 percent to NT$224.5 after Citigroup
Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. both raised their share-price
estimates by 22 percent. The brokerages said the company will
supply parts to Blackberry maker Research in Motion Ltd. and
benefit from Dell Inc. orders. James Wu, a Catcher spokesman,
didn’t immediately answer or return calls to his office seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 