-- 
Housing Starts in U.S. Surge on Apartment Construction; Permits Increase

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-19T20:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/housing-starts-in-u-s-jump-14-6-to-629-000-annual-rate-permits-increase.html
Housing starts in the U.S. jumped
more than forecast in June as better weather allowed the
struggling industry to break ground on delayed projects.  Work began on 629,000 houses at an annual pace, up 15
percent from May and the highest level in five months, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The
level topped the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 71 economists. Building permits, a sign of future
construction, unexpectedly climbed 2.5 percent.  “A lot of this was due to some catch-up in activity that
didn’t occur in April and May,” said  Paul Dales , a senior
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto, who had the
highest forecast in the Bloomberg survey. “I wouldn’t be
surprised to see starts edge up gradually, but the bigger
picture is it’s still at a very depressed level.”  While the increase points to stabilization in construction,
declining home values and delays in processing foreclosures mean
it may take years to clear the market of distressed properties.
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)  is among builders saying the lowest point of the
housing recession has probably already passed.  Housing starts were projected to rise to a 575,000 annual
rate, according to the survey. Estimates ranged from 500,000 to
610,000 in the Bloomberg survey.  Stocks surged, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its biggest gain in four months amid optimism lawmakers were
moving closer to a deal that would cut the  U.S. budget deficit 
and avoid default. The  S&P 500  rose 1.6 percent to 1,326.73 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder
Index increased 3.7 percent.  Revised Down  The Commerce Department revised May’s total to a 549,000
pace, less than a previously estimated 560,000.  Building permits rose to a 624,000 annual pace in June.
They were projected to drop 2.3 percent to a 595,000 level,
according to the survey median. The gain was led by a 6.9
percent jump in applications for work on multifamily units.  Construction of single-family houses increased 9.4 percent
to a 453,000 rate in June, the most since November 2010, from
the prior month. The monthly gain was the biggest since June
2009. Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and
apartments, surged 30 percent to an annual rate of 176,000. It
was up 100 percent from June 2010.  Demand for apartments and other multifamily housing that
make up about a quarter of starts may be beginning to increase
as foreclosures turn more Americans into renters.  Broad-Based Gains  Starts climbed in all four regions, led by a 35 percent
jump in the Northeast and a 25 percent increase in the Midwest.  June was the 19th driest since 1901 and followed a May that
was cooler than average, with severe weather occurring from the
Plains to the Midwest and Northeast in the last half of the
month, according to the National Climatic Data Center.  “We suspect that some of the recent volatility in starts
has been weather-related,” economists at Morgan Stanley in  New
York , led by  David Greenlaw , wrote in a research note. The
economists estimated that, given the current rate of home
building, it will take just over three years to absorb the
excess supply of unoccupied houses based on their projections
for household formation.  June starts compare with the 587,000 units begun last year,
the second-fewest on record. Home construction totaled 554,000
units in 2009, the lowest since record-keeping began in 1959.
Starts reached a peak of 2.07 million in 2005.  Housing Hurdles  With an overhang of distressed homes making their way
through the foreclosure pipeline, more cash investors are
looking for bargain, foreclosed homes and eschewing new houses.
At the same time, unemployment above 9 percent and strict
lending standards make it harder for most Americans to take
advantage of  mortgage rates  that are close to a record low.  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults will push as
many as 1 million foreclosure filings from this year into 2012
or beyond, casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing market,
RealtyTrac Inc., a housing data provider, said last week. A
clogged foreclosure pipeline may prevent real estate prices from
finding a bottom as the housing slump extends into a sixth year.  “The high proportion of distressed sales are keeping
downward pressure on  house prices ,” Bernanke said July 13 in
testimony to the House Financial Services Committee. “The
demand for homes has been depressed by many of the same factors
that have held down  consumer spending  more generally, including
the slowness of the recovery in jobs.”  Some builders see signs of stabilization. Miami-based
Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, last
month reported second-quarter profits that beat analysts’
estimates on rising earnings at its distressed-investing unit.  “It is beginning to feel like the worst days of the
housing market are getting behind us,” said  Stuart Miller ,
chief executive officer of Lennar, on a June 23 conference call.
“Stabilization and recovery will continue to be a slow and
rocky process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  