-- 
How to Contain the European Debt Crisis: Giavazzi and Kashyap

-- B y   F r a n c e s c o   G i a v a z z i   a n d   A n i l   K   K a s h y a p
-- 
2011-07-19T21:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/how-to-contain-the-european-debt-crisis-giavazzi-and-kashyap.html
With  Italy  now paying the same rates
as  Spain  to finance its debt, the European crisis has reached a
critical stage.  To prevent the possible demise of the single currency, the
European Union now must come up with a credible plan to address
the future of the euro area. Only a proposal that takes into
account the following four painful realities would be credible
and stand a chance of persuading markets to resume financing on
a sustainable basis.  First, the EU must acknowledge that some countries won’t
repay their debts and that default is inevitable. The first in
line surely is Greece, but that default in isolation would be
easily managed because the money involved is modest. But once
 Greece  defaults other countries will be tempted to follow in its
footsteps. Even a rescue of Greece, Ireland and Portugal is
affordable, but there could be no realistic way of preventing
Spain from taking the same course.  Second, Europe’s banks are at risk because they own
substantial amounts of government debt. As defaults approach,
the banking systems across the continent could be subject to an
epic run, as depositors and institutions pull out of banks to
avoid losses. The European financial system is bank-centered: A
run would cripple credit flows, plunging the  euro zone  into
recession and creating a global financial crisis.  No Blanket Guarantee  Third, a program that guarantees the debt of all the
countries now at risk (Greece, Ireland,  Portugal , Spain and
Italy) isn’t feasible. Even if  Germany , France and the others
wished to offer a blanket guarantee, the amounts involved
(approaching 3 trillion euros or about $4.2 trillion) would
compromise their credit ratings. With Italy and Spain in play, a
full guarantee isn’t an option.  Finally, any rescue must be accompanied by steps to restore
growth, because debts stand no chance of being repaid without
economic expansion. Aside from Ireland, the other four at-risk
countries face chronic problems. Italy’s per capita gross
domestic product is lower today than it was 12 years ago. If
these countries don’t start growing again, even a large haircut
on the existing debt won’t prevent the problems from re-emerging
in a decade.  Europe  is in a mess because its leaders have ignored these
constraints. This is why the many plans they have drawn up in
the past two years have failed to convince markets.  Unfortunately, given these four realities, there are no
easy ways out. So the following proposal must be viewed as the
least bad of the existing alternatives.  Strengthening Banks  Our plan starts by recognizing that it is critical to
forestall a bank run. Thus, any rescue strategy must be
concentrated on making the banks strong enough to withstand a
sovereign default. The stress tests conducted in the U.S. in the
spring of 2009 offer a model.  The strong countries in Europe should pool their money and
expand the European Financial Stability Fund to the point where
it can backstop the banks against all losses from potential
defaults. The scale must be sufficient to cover not only the
direct losses on the banks’ government bond holdings, but also
any subsequent losses that the banks incur from having written
insurance against a government default. The total amount
required will exceed 1 trillion euros, but the exact number
won’t be known unless the stress tests of last week are redone
to come up with realistic estimates under a scenario in which
all five countries partially default on their government debt.  Conditional Support  The stability fund’s support to the banks must come with
three conditions. First, each of the major banks should be given
an estimate of the true amount of additional capital it needs.
The banks should then be given a window, possibly six months,
during which they are required to raise the capital from private
markets. Credible stress tests will eliminate the major obstacle
that today keeps private investors away from the banks. The
existing shareholders may complain that bringing in fresh
capital will greatly dilute their positions. But the truth is
many banks are near insolvency anyway, and any griping by
investors should be heard with that in mind.  Second, the stability fund’s financial support should be
available for all major banks and given to those that fail to
raise enough capital on the market. This money would be put in
as preferred convertible shares with a high dividend rate. If
the stability fund injects capital, management will be replaced.
These conditions create strong incentive for the banks to find
private investors. After the U.S. stress tests, all the banks
found private financing rather than drawing on the backstop
offered by the government. The stability fund’s guarantee should
be in place from the onset (subject to the caveat below) to
prevent a run if a default were to happen before the banks had
raised enough private capital.  Plan for Growth  Finally, as a condition for banks to receive the support,
their national governments would have to lay out a credible plan
for growth. Critical elements of such a blueprint would be
measures to deregulate labor, goods and service markets.
Governments would have six months to enact legislation,
corresponding to the period before the stability fund’s money is
converted into shares.  This conditionality is probably the most difficult aspect
of our proposal. But we have ample evidence that defaults or
devaluations can’t fix competitiveness problems that are holding
back growth. Markets understand this very well, as was
demonstrated last week by their lukewarm reaction to Italy’s
additional budget, which consists of tax increases and some
small spending cuts, but includes no deregulation designed to
promote growth.  Legislative Caveat  What happens if, for instance, Italy refuses or is unable
to adopt pro-growth legislation? Private investors will stay
away from Italian banks. And so will the stability fund, whose
guarantee is conditional on the legislation being adopted. The
money the stability fund doesn’t spend on Italian banks will be
redeployed to shore up banks elsewhere. In this scenario, Italy
will default, its banks will go bust and the country will have a
recession. But now the stability fund can provide a firewall:
The costs of saving non-Italian banks -- in  France , for example
-- from an Italian default will be lower than the price of
saving the Italian banks.  This plan would be unpopular in Germany and in the other
stronger economies that would be the main contributors to the
stability fund. A selling point would be that unlike the plans
put forward so far, the taxpayers of contributor nations would
be protected by collateral. If things go badly, the stability
fund would effectively own the banking systems in the countries
that don’t come up with a private solution. These assets would
have value because they would be limited to those countries that
are poised for growth.  (Francesco Giavazzi is a professor of economics at  Bocconi
University  in Milan. Anil K Kashyap is a professor of economics
and finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writers of this column:
Francesco Giavazzi at  francesco.giavazzi@unibocconi.it ;
Anil K Kashyap at  anil.kashyap@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 