-- 
Toyota Can Appeal Part of Speed-Up Suit Ruling, Judge Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-07-20T00:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/toyota-can-appeal-part-of-ruling-in-car-owner-speed-up-suits-judge-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won the right to
appeal a federal judge’s ruling that car owners who hadn’t
experienced unintended acceleration could sue the company over
economic losses related to the alleged defect.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
California, said today Toyota could immediately challenge part
of his May decision rejecting the company’s bid to dismiss the
suits. Toyota can seek to appeal his ruling granting
“standing,” or the right to sue, to certain vehicle owners,
Selna said.  The appeal would focus on the issue “of whether each
plaintiff must allege that he or she has experienced a
manifestation of the product’s alleged defect in order to allege
that he or she suffered an injury,” Selna said today. “An
immediate appeal” of the standing ruling “will materially
advance the ultimate termination of this litigation,” he said.  Toyota’s appeal to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco  would slow down the litigation and may narrow the
number of economic-loss claims against the automaker, said  Carl Tobias , a law professor at the  University of Richmond  in
 Virginia .  “It may take the momentum away from the case,” Tobias
said in a phone interview today.  U.S. Recalls  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic-
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families alleging
injuries and deaths.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna,
who is overseeing pretrial evidence-gathering.  An appellate court decision “could significantly reduce
the time, burden, and expense of litigating this case and, by
potentially decreasing substantially the number of claims
pending against Toyota, may help move the remaining cases
forward more quickly,”  Brian Lyons , a spokesman for the Toyota
City, Japan-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The vast majority of plaintiffs in this litigation do not
claim to have experienced an unintended acceleration event or to
have incurred an economic loss,” Lyons said. “We do not
believe plaintiffs who continue to drive their vehicles each day
without issue belong in this case.”  ‘Defective Vehicles’  The Toyota owners contend the company drove down the value
of their vehicles by failing to disclose or fix defects related
to sudden acceleration. Selna said in May that car owners who
hadn’t experienced incidents had met pleading standards to claim
losses.  The plaintiffs claimed they “bargained for safe, defect-
free vehicles, but instead received unsafe, defective
vehicles,” Selna said in May. “The overpayment for the
defective, unsafe vehicles constitutes an economic-loss injury
that is sufficient to confer standing.”  The judge’s initial ruling is likely to stand, Tobias, the
law professor, said. “I don’t think you have to have
experienced it to suffer the loss,” he said.  Steve Berman , a lawyer for vehicle owners, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  Toyota’s series of recalls began in September 2009 with an
announcement that 3.8 million vehicles were being recalled
because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam down the
accelerator pedal. In January 2010, the company recalled 2.3
million vehicles to fix sticking gas pedals.  Floor Mats  The carmaker said in February that it was recalling another
2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet and floor-mat flaws
that could jam gas pedals.  Many of the lawsuits claim that loose floor mats and sticky
pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden acceleration and
that the electronic throttle system in  Toyota vehicles  is to
blame. Toyota has disputed any flaws in that system.  In February,  NASA , the U.S. space agency, and the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said their probe of
possible electronic defects found no causes for unintended
acceleration other than sticking accelerator pedals and floor
mats that jammed the pedals.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 