-- 
Pacific Rubiales Says Output Reduced by Field Blockade

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-07-19T21:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/pacific-rubiales-says-output-reduced-by-field-blockade-2-.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  said
it reduced production at  Colombia ’s largest oil field after a
blockade by protesters.  About 100 employees of a contracting company are taking
part in the demonstrations out of a total 12,000 workers at the
Rubiales field in eastern Colombia, company President Jose Francisco Arata said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
Petroleum Workers Union said as many as 5,000 are demonstrating.  “This is affecting the normal course of the operations,”
Arata said. Activity “at the field has been reduced,” he said.  Workers from Colombia to  Chile  have stalled mines and
stopped oil drilling in the past year to press for improved
working conditions. Colombia is  South America ’s third-largest
oil producer and the region’s largest coal producer.  Pacific Rubiales employees are not taking part in the
protest, which may be resolved within hours, Arata said. The
company began reducing production at the field at 9 a.m. today,
he said. The protest is trimming production by 177,000 barrels a
day, the company said later in a statement.  Union representatives may resume talks with government
officials today to seek a resolution, said Rodolfo Vecino,
president of the Petroleum Industry Workers Union, in a
telephone interview today from near the field in Meta province.  The demonstrating contract workers at Rubiales are
supporting employees fired last month from a separate field,
according to Vecino.  Shares Rise  Shares of Pacific rose 2,600 pesos, or 5.9 percent, to
46,600 pesos in Bogota. Ecopetrol gained 80 pesos, or 2.2
percent to close at 3,710 pesos, after oil increased the most in
a week in  New York .  Investors may expect the protest to be “resolved soon,”
said Juan David Pineros, an oil analyst at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s biggest brokerage.  Pacific Rubiales holds a 40 percent stake in the Rubiales
field, which it operates. Bogota-based  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  owns the
remainder of the field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  