-- 
Pakistan Spy Agency Aided by Two Men in U.S., Prosecutors Say

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/pakistani-spy-agency-funded-kashmir-lobbying-in-u-s-prosecutors-charge.html
A “decades-long” operation by
 Pakistan ’s spy agency to influence U.S. policy on Kashmir was
aided by two American citizens who funneled money to members of
Congress and illegally hid their foreign connections, U.S.
prosecutors said.  Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai, 62, and Zaheer Ahmad, 63, were
charged yesterday in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, with
conspiracy to violate the Foreign Agents Registration Act and
lying to federal agents. Prosecutors said the two moved about
$4 million from Pakistan’s government through the Washington-
based Kashmiri American Council to sway U.S. lawmakers with
campaign contributions and other lobbying activities.  The council, headed by Fai, is “actually run” by elements
of the Pakistani government, including Pakistan’s military
intelligence service, the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency, or
ISI, the Justice Department said in a statement.  “Foreign governments who try to influence the  United
States  by using unregistered agents threaten our national
security,” James McJunkin, the assistant FBI director
overseeing the Washington field office, said in a statement.
“Mr. Fai’s alleged conduct illustrates the risk to our fair and
open government.”  Pakistan Affiliations  The pair failed to disclose their affiliation with
Pakistan’s government as required by law, and Fai gave false
answers in 2007 when asked about the links by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation , the government charged.  In an interview with FBI agents at his home on March 3, Fai
“implied that he had no relationship with anyone in the
government of Pakistan,” Sarah Webb Linden, an FBI Special
Agent, said in an affidavit.  A search of Fai’s home, office and a storage facility
turned up documents detailing the council’s  Washington 
strategies, including budget requirements for contributions to
members of Congress and trips to Kashmir for lawmakers, money
for opinion pieces distributed to the media, as well as money
for seminars and conferences. One document allegedly called for
$100,000 for contributions to members of Congress in the 2009.  In the affidavit, Linden said the strategy documents for
2008 and 2009 were given to Fai’s handlers in Pakistan.  Since the mid-1990s, Ahmad, an American living in Pakistan,
has moved government funds through a network he ran to Fai and
the council, which also has offices in London and Brussels,
prosecutors said.  Build Support  The council’s goal is to build support for Pakistani
interests in Kashmir and offset lobbying by  India  over the
disputed territory, the U.S. said in court papers.  “Mr. Fai is not a Pakistani citizen and the government and
embassy of Pakistan have no knowledge of the case involving
him,” Imran Gardezi, a spokesman for Pakistan’s Embassy in
Washington, said in an e-mail.  No one answered the phone at the Kashmiri American Council.  Fai has donated more than $10,000 to federal politicians in
the past five years, according to data compiled by the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  Among his political contributions, Fai, in 2008 and again
in 2010, gave $2,000 to U.S. Representative Dan Burton, an
Indiana Republican. He also gave $5,000 to the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee  in 2006, followed by a $1,000
contribution in 2008. He gave $250 to President Barack Obama’s
campaign in 2008 and $250 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee in 2009.  Fai of Fairfax,  Virginia , was arrested this morning and
Ahmad remains at large. Both face a potential sentence of five
years in prison if convicted.  Held in Custody  Fai, who appeared yesterday before Magistrate Judge Theresa Buchanan in Alexandria, was ordered to remain in custody and a
detention hearing was scheduled for July 21, according to  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride .  The most recent criminal prosecution under the Foreign
Agents Registration Act was last year in  Missouri , said Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman.  Mark Siljander, a former congressman and U.S. Ambassador to
the  United Nations , pleaded guilty on July 10, 2010, to
violations stemming from lobbying to remove an Islamic charity
from a Senate list of those suspected of having terrorist ties.
He failed to register with the U.S., according to the  Justice
Department . A second man, Abdel Azim El-Siddig, also pleaded
guilty in connection with hiring Siljander.  The case against Fai and Ahmad originated with information
provided to the FBI from a confidential witness in 2005. The
informant, who was looking to have his jail sentence reduced,
told investigators that Pakistan’s spy agency was using the
Kashmiri American Council to further the interests of the
government of Pakistan.  Peace Talks  Control of Kashmir, a disputed territory between India and
Pakistan, is divided between the two countries. The two nations
are slated for peace talks at foreign minister level at the end
of this month.  A second informant told investigators that the ISI created
the council to “propagandize on behalf of the government of
Pakistan with the goal of uniting Kashmir,” according to the
charging document. This witness said the ISI had been directing
Fai’s activities for the past 25 years, prosecutors said.  One of the informants described how on two occasions he was
told by Ahmad how much money to transfer to Fai, according to
charges. The informant took cash from his own business in $50
and $100 bills and placed it in a brown paper bag for Fai to
pick up. Ahmad would then pay back the informant usually through
a wire transfer from Pakistan, prosecutors said.  Telephone Records  Electronic surveillance and Internet service provider and
telephone records show that from 2006 to 2011, Fai was contacted
by an alleged ISI official almost 2,000 times, according to
charging documents. Fai was in contact with his “handlers” in
Pakistan more than 4,000 times since June 2008, the document
alleges.  Ahmad arranged for his contacts in the U.S. to provide
money to Fai and repaid those individuals when they traveled to
Pakistan, according to the charging documents. The charging
papers list 11 unnamed donors, who the government alleges helped
Pakistan funnel money into Washington. These “straw donors”
include two physicians and their medical group.  “These other individuals assisted Ahmad in routing money
to Fai because doing so ostensibly enables them to take  tax
deductions  for the amounts that they transfer to the KAC as
charitable donations,” Linden, the FBI agent, said in her
affidavit.  Linden, who said Fai received from $500,000 to $700,000 per
year from the government of Pakistan, said this network of
individuals has been in place since 1993.  The case is U.S. v. Fai, 11-mj-00558, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 