-- 
Papandreou Sees Make-or-Break Time in Debt Crisis on Eve of Europe Summit

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-20T12:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/papandreou-sees-make-or-break-time-in-debt-crisis-on-eve-of-europe-summit.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  says Europe’s leaders need to show tomorrow that they
can resolve the European Union debt crisis to avoid a contagion
enveloping  Italy  and  Spain .  “It could be a make-or-break moment for where Europe is
going,” Papandreou said during an interview in his  Athens 
office at Parliament yesterday. “Markets are saying pretty much
what I’m saying too: that Greece is doing what it can, but that
Greece is not going to be able to carry the weight of all of
Europe and the other problems that Europe has.”  Papandreou plans to meet with EU leaders in Brussels
tomorrow as officials struggle to agree on measures to restore
confidence in the euro region’s creditworthiness after the last
year’s financial rescue of  Greece . Policy makers are divided on
how to prod investors into financing a new bailout package and
whether the 17-nation euro area should issue eurobonds to help
debt-laden nations across the bloc tap markets.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday Europe’s
fiscal crisis can’t be solved in one go. European officials are
considering steps previously rejected by Germany, including the
use of precautionary credit lines, to help stabilize the
region’s debt market, a person close to the talks said.  “Nobody should be under any illusion; the situation is
very serious,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  told
reporters in Brussels today. “It requires a response. Otherwise,
the negative consequences will be felt in all corners of Europe
and beyond.”  Rising Yields  Spanish and Italian 10-year bond yields have climbed more
than 70 basis points since the end of June and the Treasury in
 Madrid  said yesterday it sold 3.8 billion euros ($5.4 billion)
of 12-month bills at a yield of 3.702 percent, up from 2.695
percent the last time the securities were sold on June 14. The
yield on two-year Greek notes rose above 40 percent earlier
today for the first time.  “We have to look at the wider issues,” Papandreou said.
“If the spreads in Italy and in Spain go up, these are
questions that Greece is not going to solve solving its internal
deficiencies, which it’s doing.”  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year
Italian bonds over German bunds rose to a euro-era record of 332
basis points on July 18. The Spanish spread hit 367. The premium
on Greek debt was 1,556 basis points.  Political Survival  The 59-year-old premier battled for political survival in
June as the EU and International Monetary Fund held back
approval of a 12 billion-euro payment in return for
parliamentary backing for a new 78 billion-euro, five-year
package of budget cuts and state asset sales. Papandreou changed
his cabinet, replaced his finance minister, won a confidence
vote and then backing for the austerity measures, amid protests
and slumping support in opinion polls.  “We have done what is necessary and are doing what is
necessary to put our house in order,” Papandreou said. “There
are certain systemic issues within the euro that we have to deal
with where we have a common currency but different borrowing
policies, different tax policies, different competitiveness of
our economies.”  EU President Herman van Rompuy called leaders to a second
summit meeting in a month to discuss “the financial stability
of the euro area as a whole and the future financing of the
Greek program.” Stocks declined around the world on July 18,
the euro fell and the cost of insuring European sovereign debt
rose to records amid concern the euro region isn’t any closer to
solving the crisis a year after Greece’s initial rescue.  Focus on Eurobonds  The situation worsened this month as EU governments
squabbled with each other and the  European Central Bank . ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said July 10 that Europe is at the
“epicenter” of a debt crisis that concerns the entire
developed world and urged the euro area to do the “maximum” in
terms of governance reforms.  Some finance ministers have started to focus on eurobonds
as part of the solution. While jointly issuing bonds with the
most creditworthy European countries may help debt-laden nations
tap markets at lower  interest rates , it could also raise
borrowing costs for Europe’s largest economy,  Germany .  Papandreou, who has spoken in favor of issuing such
securities, said such sales would create “a sense of
security.” His office said today he’s spoken to Barroso and to
the prime ministers of Italy,  Portugal , Spain and Ireland over
the past two days, as well as with van Rompuy.  Merkel Ally  Eurobonds would “overstretch solidarity” between the
region’s members, said Thomas Silberhorn, European Affairs
spokesman for Merkel’s Bavarian Christian Social Union ally,
yesterday. They would force donor countries such as Germany to
accept liability for the debts of all other members, he said.  Papandreou, who met with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Athens on July 17, said there was “direct interest”
from the U.S. in solving the debt problem and that its
experience in  Latin America  and its involvement in the IMF may
aid  Europe  in dealing with its “new” problem.  “Europe is a strong market for the U.S.,” he said. “If
it has problems, if there’s a lack of  consumer confidence , if
there’s a deeper recession, this will deeply affect jobs in the
U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  