-- 
Paradigm Change Capital Forms Group to Promote Low Carbon Bonds

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-07-19T11:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/paradigm-change-capital-forms-group-to-promote-low-carbon-bonds.html
Paradigm Change Capital Partners LLP
formed a group with the  European Investment Bank  and five others
to promote the low carbon  bond market , the London-based
financial services firm said.  The Low Carbon Bond Group initiative aims to “smooth the
way” for the bonds and expand a new market, Paradigm Chief
Executive Officer Dima Rifai said. Such bonds could cover clean
energy and energy-efficiency projects, like so-called green
bonds, and resources including water or forests, she said.  “Low carbon bonds have the potential to make a vital
contribution to the global investment required in mitigating
 climate change ,” she said by phone. “Bonds could fund a
significant portion of the debt for low carbon assets.”  Governments and the private sector are looking to mobilize
the debt capital markets to help bridge the gap in funding for
clean energy. The U.K.-funded Green Investment Bank, set to
start operations in 2012, may include bonds as a way to fund
such projects.  “As the world’s largest investor in climate action
projects, we recognize the key potential of bonds in providing
debt finance for initiatives in the sector,” Richard Willis, an
EIB spokesman, said by e-mail.  The new group, created on July 15, also includes  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO) , KPMG LLP,  Clifford Chance  LLP, Norton Rose LLP and the
International Investors Group on Climate Change, a forum of
European pension funds and asset managers.  ‘Make Bonds Work’  The scale of funding required and regulatory changes to
bank funding means the bond market must grow significantly from
its current 1 percent share of financings in the sector, said
Emma Matebalavu, a partner at the law firm Clifford Chance.  “We aim to speak to governments about the mechanisms that
it’s going to take to make bonds work and about why such bonds
aren’t working,” Rifai said in an interview. “No one has so
far bought a true project exposure in the industry through
bonds, most issued so far have been wrapped.”  Obstacles to overcome include that investors are “very
wary” of this new asset class, according to the chief
executive. Ratings companies also need to be able to value
different bond structures in the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  