-- 
Peru Stocks Rise as Velarde Appointment Encourages Investors

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-07-19T21:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/peru-stocks-rise-as-velarde-appointment-encourages-investors.html
Peru’s benchmark stock index rose
for a third session as investors bet President-elect Ollanta Humala will appoint an investor-friendly finance minister after
retaining Central Bank President Julio Velarde in his post.  The  Lima  General Index rose 3.2 percent to 21,963.55,
adding to a 4.6 percent gain yesterday. The increase was led by
Canadian zinc exploration company  Rio Cristal Resources Corp. (RCZ) 
and construction company  Grana y Montero SA. (GRAMONC1)  Velarde will serve
another five-year term to help ensure economic stability, Humala
said July 17.  “Investors are feeling optimistic that Humala will put a
good economic team in place,” said Gustavo Urrutia, the chief
economist at brokerage Inteligo SAB in Lima. “Velarde’s
appointment was a sign the government will continue sound
macroeconomic policies.”  Humala, who takes office July 28, is seeking to reassure
investors concerned that his plans to impose a mining windfall
tax may slow private investment. Since being appointed in 2006
to head the central bank, Velarde, 59, has helped triple
international reserves to a record $47 billion and raised
lending rates to a two-year high in May to curb inflation, which
has been the lowest in the region since 2006.  The Peruvian sol was little changed at 2.7370 per  U.S.
dollar , from 2.7375 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank’s
local unit. The central bank bought $194 million on the spot
currency market today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Peruvian bonds
instead of Treasuries, or spread, narrowed to 1.71 percentage
points today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s benchmark
emerging-market index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  