-- 
Petrohawk Investor Sues, Saying $12.1 Billion BHP Acquisition Is Too Low

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-19T19:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/petrohawk-shareholder-sues-over-12-1-billion-acquisition-by-bhp.html
Petrohawk Energy Corp. was sued by a
shareholder over claims its proposed $12.1 billion cash sale to
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  undervalues the company.  The deal creates a conflict of interest on the part of
directors that “colors their ability to make an unbiased
decision” regarding the fairness of the proposal, shareholder
Astor BK Realty Trust said in the complaint filed yesterday in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Astor is seeking to
represent all Petrohawk shareholders in its request for a court
order barring the transaction.  “The board’s acceptance of BHP’s offer demonstrates the
company’s all-too-eager-to-sell mentality,” lawyers for the
trust said in the complaint.  BHP, based in  Melbourne , said last week it would pay $38.75
a share using cash and debt for Petrohawk, its biggest
acquisition. The offer is 61 percent more than Houston-based
Petrohawk’s average price over the past 20 trading days and
compares with the 25 percent average premium in 17 deals worth
at least $5 billion for oil and gas producers in the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal gives BHP three fields across about 1 million
acres in Texas and  Louisiana , propelling BHP into the top 10 of
oil and gas companies. BHP expects to complete the acquisition
in the third quarter.  Petrohawk Chief Executive Officer Floyd C. Wilson will make
about $152 million from the deal on his roughly 3 million
shares, and will likely be eligible for a $10.4 million change-
of-control payment, according to the complaint. Stock options
could add $24.85 million, according to the complaint.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  “This substantial conflict of interest casts doubt on the
board’s ability to make an unbiased decision regarding the
benefits of the proposed transaction to Petrohawk’s
shareholders,” Astor said in the complaint.  The deal also includes onerous and preclusive protection
devices including a $395 million termination fee if Petrohawk
decides to pursue a competing offer, lawyers for the trust said
in the complaint.  The trust is seeking unspecified damages in addition to a
court order barring the transaction.  Joan Dunlap, a spokeswoman for Petrohawk, and Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, both declined to
comment.  Petrohawk rose 5 cents to $38.22 at 3:20 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have more than
doubled this year. BHP closed in  London  at 2,326 pence.  The case is Astor BK Realty Trust v.  Petrohawk Energy
Corp. (HK) , CA6675, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  