-- 
Pimco Favors Shorter Debt as Saving Boosts Yen: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-19T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/pimco-favors-shorter-debt-as-yen-is-cleanest-dirty-shirt-japan-credit.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, favors  Japan ’s
shorter-maturity securities as the nation’s trade surplus
supports the yen and stems concern its debt burden will widen.  While the record earthquake in March has worsened the
outlook for Japan’s budget deficit, it has prompted companies to
save more and focus on domestic assets, said Tomoya Masanao, the
head of  portfolio management  for Japan at Pimco. Notes maturing
in one to three years have risen 2.1 percent in July in dollar
terms, set for the biggest gain since April, an index compiled
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch showed. Similar-maturity
Treasuries have risen 0.2 percent.  “The yen is not very beautiful but is the cleanest dirty
shirt,” said Masanao. “Japan is running a current-account
surplus, which means the private sector has savings that are
more than enough to finance the public sector’s deficit.”  Japan’s currency has outperformed the euro and dollar for
the past three months as leaders in both Europe and the U.S.
clashed on policies for containing government debt. Overseas
investors bought a net 4.91 trillion yen ($62 billion) in
Japanese bonds and notes through June, set for the biggest
annual purchase in four years, Ministry of Finance data showed.  Euro-area leaders will meet in Brussels this week to
discuss the “financial stability” of the region, European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a statement. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and leaders of Congress face an Aug. 2
deadline to raise a $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Trade Surplus  While Japan has public debt that’s twice as big as its
annual economic output, its current-account surplus allows the
nation to finance itself without relying on foreign capital. The
current account is the difference between total exports of
goods, services and transfers, versus imports of them. The
surplus narrowed 51.7 percent in May from a year earlier to
590.7 billion yen, the  Finance Ministry  said on July 8.  The yen has climbed 4.4 percent for the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The euro lost 2.5 percent, while the dollar dipped 0.6 percent.
Japan’s currency reached 78.47 per dollar on July 14, the
strongest since the post-World War II high set on March 17.  Prospects that developed nations will have to maintain
monetary stimulus to prop up their economies have also supported
bonds. The  Bank of Japan  has maintained its benchmark interest
rate at a range of zero to 0.1 percent since October. That
compares with the  Federal Reserve ’s range of zero to 0.25
percent.  Swaps traders have slashed bets on increases in the
 European Central Bank ’s key rate, now at 1.5 percent, to 1.4
basis points in the next 12 months from 43.9 points at the end
of December, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  Risk Vs. Reward  Japan’s government debt reached 200 percent of gross
domestic product last year, compared with less than 100 percent
levels in the U.S. and the euro region, based on data from the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Greece ,
which was downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  to the company’s lowest
grade on July 13, had debt of 147 percent its economy.  Investors in Japanese debt aren’t sufficiently rewarded for
owning longer-term bonds, said Masanao. The extra yield on 20-
year bonds over two-year notes fell to 1.7 percentage points on
July 14, the least since Jan. 3. The yield on benchmark 10-year
security slid to 1.060 percent yesterday, a level not seen since
Nov. 19 and the lowest among the 32 markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  “We don’t see good value at the long-end of the curve,
whereas the front-end is still a safe place to park your
money,” Masanao said.  Demand for Japan’s debt has remained resilient amid calls
for an early resignation of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who
survived a parliamentary vote of no confidence last month by
promising to step down, without specifying a time. The Asahi
newspaper reported on July 12 that 70 percent of respondents in
its opinion poll said Kan should resign by the end of August.  High Turnover  Japan’s “revolving door” leadership was a credit negative
factor, Moody’s Investors Service said last month after putting
the nation’s debt rating on review for a downgrade in May. Kan,
the fifth prime minister since September 2006, pledged reforms
when he took office a year ago that would balance the budget in
10 years and rein in a debt burden.  “We are surrounded by many bond-buying factors, including
the U.S. debt issue, U.S. slowdown concern,  Europe ’s turmoil and
Japan’s political gridlock,” said Jun Fukashiro, a  money
manager  who helps oversee about $17 billion at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo . “Yen-denominated assets are being used
as a refuge.”  Five-year contracts to insure Japanese  government bonds 
against default were at 92.65 basis points in  New York  on July
18, according to data by CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The Markit iTraxx Japan index of 50
investment-grade borrowers rose for a second day to 125.5
yesterday in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  