-- 
Dow, Mitsui Brazil Plant to Make 350,000 Tons of Bio-Polymer

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-19T22:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/plant-s-bio-ethanol-output-to-be-720-000-cubic-meters-correct-.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker, said its planned bio-polymer plant with Mitsui &
Co. Ltd. will be able to produce 350,000 tons of polyethylene a
year from sugar cane, the world’s largest for making plant-
derived polymers.  The plant in  Brazil  will produce 720,000 cubic meters of
ethanol a year that will be converted to polyethylene, Jim Fitterling, an executive vice president at Midland, Michigan-
based Dow said today in a telephone interview. The ethanol
production facilities will be built in three equal phases
between now and 2015.  Dow, the world’s biggest maker of polyethylene, is
diversifying its use of raw materials to include more renewable
sources even as it plans to increase production from oil and gas
derivatives in the U.S. and  Saudi Arabia .  “There is very high customer demand for an economical and
sustainable bio-based alternative,” Fitterling said. “I don’t
think anybody has come close to an investment in an asset of
this size.”  The plant in Santa Vitoria,  Minas Gerais , will be Dow’s
largest investment in Brazil, the company said in a statement.
It did not give a price for the project.  Ethanol production is expected to begin in 2013, using
sugar cane harvested from 42,000 acres, most of which Dow
acquired when it bought out Crystalsev’s stake in a similar
venture, Fitterling said. The Mitsui venture will likely require
additional cane to reach full capacity, he said.  Owning its source crops will shield the venture from price
volatility in sugar markets, he said.  While production will mostly serve demand in  Latin America ,
some may eventually be exported to other regions, he said, and
capacity may be increased after 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  