-- 
Police Chief Stephenson Denies Resignation Slight of Cameron

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-07-19T15:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/police-chief-stephenson-denies-resignation-slight-of-cameron-1-.html
Paul Stephenson, who announced his
plan to quit as  London ’s police chief two days ago, said he
hadn’t intended any attack on Prime Minister  David Cameron  in
his resignation statement.  “I was taking no side-swipe at him,” Stephenson told
Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee today. “I agree with the
prime minister when he says this was entirely different.”  Stephenson quit as commissioner of the Metropolitan Police
over the force’s decision to hire Neil Wallis as a public-
relations adviser. Wallis, a former deputy editor of the News of
the World, was arrested last week in the probe into phone-
hacking at the News Corp. newspaper. Stephenson defended the
move, pointing out that Cameron had hired Wallis’s former boss
at the paper,  Andy Coulson , to be his press chief.  Asked why he hadn’t warned the government the police were
about to arrest Wallis, with the attendant bad publicity for the
force, Stephenson said that because of Cameron’s closeness to
Coulson, a “senior official” in the prime minister’s office
“guided us that actually we should not compromise the prime
minister, and it seems to me to be entirely sensible.”  John Yates, the assistant police commissioner who resigned
yesterday, later contradicted Stephenson telling the same
committee that he approached Cameron’s chief of staff Ed
Llewellyn in September 2010 offering to give the prime minister
a briefing on the “nuances” of police terminology used to
describe the phone-hacking investigation.  Understandably Rejected  “The offer was properly and understandably rejected,”
Yates said.  In an e-mail exchange with Llewellyn at the time, Yates
said he was “happy to have a conversation in the margins around
the other matters that have caught my attention this week” as
part of another briefing, Cameron’s office said in e-mail.  Llewellyn replied that “I don’t think it would really be
appropriate for the PM, or anyone else at No. 10, to discuss
this issue with you,” according to a copy of the exchange.  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  said earlier
he’s not calling for Cameron to resign over his decision to
employ Coulson, who was also arrested this month in the probe.  “I’m not saying that at the moment, because you shouldn’t
be over the top in these things,” Miliband said on ITV’s
“Lorraine” program today. “I think he’s got to answer some
basic questions, though.”  Coulson’s Role  Coulson was Cameron’s head of communications from 2007,
when Cameron was Conservative Party leader in opposition, until
January of this year, when he quit. Coulson had resigned from
the News of the World at the start of 2007 after one of his
reporters was jailed for phone-hacking. He has always denied any
knowledge of illegal activities at the paper.  “Lots of people were warning him saying this isn’t a good
idea, there are really some substantial allegations about Andy
Coulson,” Miliband said. He said Cameron also had to answer
questions about his relationship with other  News Corp. (NWSA) 
executives, including Rebekah Brooks, who resigned as chief
executive officer of its News International unit last week.  Cameron will make a statement to Parliament tomorrow about
the phone-hacking scandal and the government’s plans for a
judicial inquiry, after cutting short a visit to  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  