-- 
Polish Stocks Rally From 5-Month Low as PKO Sale Scaled Back

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-07-19T10:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/polish-stocks-rally-from-5-month-low-as-pko-sale-scaled-back.html
Poland ’s benchmark stock index rose
from a five-month low as the government scaled back plans to
sell a stake in PKO Bank Polski SA and higher commodity prices
boosted producers.  The WIG20 Index advanced 0.7 percent to 2,695.40 at 12 p.m.
in Warsaw, after closing at the lowest level since Feb. 25
yesterday. PKO gained the most in two months as the Treasury
said it will offer as much as 15 percent of the bank this year,
less than the earlier announced maximum of 26 percent.  “Investors had speculated for months PKO’s stake to be
offered will be far bigger than what they announced yesterday,”
said Artur Zareba, vice president in charge of equity sales at
Espirito Santo Investment in Warsaw. “Banks are also rebounding
after yesterday’s selloff.”  PKO shares climbed 2.4 percent to 40.9 zloty, valuing the
bank at 51 billion zloty ($18 billion). Warsaw’s WIG Banking
Index slumped to a 10-month low yesterday as lenders fell across
 Europe  after results from stress tests failed to allay concern
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread.  PKO’s share sale is set to be the third-biggest by a Polish
company after an 8.1 billion-zloty initial public offering of
insurer PZU SA last year and PKO’s 7.5 billion-zloty IPO in
2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Poland this year
sold stakes in utility Tauron Polska Energia SA, PZU and coal
group Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA as it seeks 15 billion zloty
to help finance the  budget deficit  and limit public debt.  PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s biggest oil company, rose for the
first time in eight days, gaining 0.7 percent to 46.79 zloty.
 Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) , the second-largest refiner, added 1.9 percent to
39.35 zloty. Oil climbed as signs of shrinking crude stockpiles
in the U.S. and rising demand in  China  countered speculation
that Europe’s debt crisis will temper fuel consumption.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, increased 0.8 percent to 188.3 zloty.
Copper climbed in  London  before a U.S. housing report that
economists say will show a second monthly gain, signaling
increased demand for the metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  