-- 
Ministry Scales Down PKO Bank Stake Sale to 15%; Shares Gain on ‘Relief’

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-19T10:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/polish-treasury-bgk-to-sell-up-to-15-of-pko-bank-polski-on-warsaw-bourse.html
Poland scaled down its offering of
PKO Bank Polski SA stock, bringing “relief” to investors who
pushed shares in the country’s largest lender up by the most in
two months.  PKO jumped as much as 2.7 percent to 41.01 zloty by 11:53
a.m. in Warsaw trading today, rising the most since May 16. The
benchmark WIG20 Index added 0.7 percent. PKO had reached a 10-
month low of 39.68 zloty yesterday.  The offering would be at least 6.75 billion zloty ($2.4
billion) at today’s price, the third-biggest public sale of a
Polish company. The Treasury Ministry and state-owned Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego will offer 13 percent to 15 percent of
PKO, the bank said in a regulatory statement late yesterday
after it filed a prospectus with the regulatory commission.  The price reaction shows that investors, who had earlier
expected a sale of at least 20 percent, were “positively
surprised,” Marcin Jablczynski, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by phone from Warsaw today. “With the current problems in
the U.S. and the euro area, lower supply brings relief to
investors.”  The transaction is planned for late September or early
October, the ministry said on its website late yesterday.  PKO’s share price is “burdened” by the offering and could
start rising after the sale is over, Jablczynski said.  Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad said earlier this year
the government could sell as much as 26 percent, keeping control
with a 25 percent holding. The final stake size would depend on
market conditions, he said on March 29.  IPOs Postponed  ViOil Holding SA, a Ukrainian producer of sunflower oil;
Valinor Public Limited, a Russian agriculture producer; and
Wittchen SA, a Polish leather goods distributor, postponed or
prolonged their Warsaw initial public offerings this month,
citing worsening market conditions.  “We’ve said from the very beginning that we’d sell a stake
of 10 percent or more,”  Maciej Wewior , the Treasury Ministry’s
spokesman, said by phone today. “We all see what’s going on in
the world, and we estimate that the additional 5 percent is a
safe level that the market will be able to absorb.”  The Polish government, which is looking to raise 15 billion
zloty from asset sales this year to help finance the  budget
deficit , sold 10.1 billion zloty of shares on the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange (GPW)  this year, finding buyers for stakes in coal producer
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, power utility Tauron Polska
Energia SA and insurer PZU.  At today’s price the sale would be exceeded only by the 8.1
billion-zloty initial public offering of insurer PZU SA last
year and PKO’s own 7.5 billion-zloty initial public offering in
2004.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Credit Suisse AG and PKO’s brokerage were picked as global
coordinators for the offering, Wewior said. ING Groep NV, UBS
AG, Societe Generale and Wood & Co also help manage the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  