-- 
Poland’s Output Growth Slows in June, Suggesting Recovery Is Losing Steam

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-07-19T14:35:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/polish-output-growth-slows-in-june-suggests-flagging-recovery.html
Poland ’s industrial output slowed in
June to the lowest growth rate in 20 months, missing economist
estimates and supporting central bank forecasts that the economy
will lose steam in the second half of this year.  Industrial production expanded 2 percent from a year
earlier after growing 7.7 percent in May, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. The median estimate of
21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.7 percent. Output rose
1.1 percent on the month.  The central bank last week lowered its forecast for 2011
economic growth to 3.2 percent from 3.6 percent amid signs the
euro area’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading and may damage
the bloc’s recovery. Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a
gauge of manufacturing, dropped to its lowest level in 18 months
in June as new orders fell and exports declined.  “Very low manufacturing growth of 1.9 percent shows that
new orders, including foreign orders, are weakening,” said
Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw. The
figure was also depressed because of the base effect created by
14.3 percent growth in the year-earlier period, she said.  Concern that the global economic recovery may grind to a
halt is increasing as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens and U.S.
officials struggle to reach agreement on how to avoid a debt
default. Investor confidence in  Germany , Poland’s biggest
trading partner, fell to the lowest in 2 ½ years in July, the
ZEW Center for European Economic Research said today.  Interest Rate Implications  Today’s industrial output report followed the release on
July 1 of a purchasing managers’ survey that showed Polish
manufacturing growth may drop further in the third quarter.  Ruch
SA (RCH) , a chain of shops that sells almost half of Poland’s
newspapers, plans to cut more than half of its jobs this year,
the newspaper Parkiet reported July 5.  The zloty held on to gains against the euro after the
report and traded at 4.0177 at 3:17 p.m. in Warsaw, up 0.5
percent on the day. The yield on the two-year Treasury bond
maturing July 2013 was little changed at 4.73 percent, compared
with 4.74 percent late yesterday.  Poland’s central bank this month kept its benchmark
interest rate at 4.5 percent, the highest since December 2008,
after four increases this year.  “Such weak data from the real economy is a sign to
postpone further rate increases, or even of the end of the
tightening cycle,” BRE Bank SA economists led by Ernest
Pytlarczyk wrote in a note to clients after the release.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 5.6 percent from a year earlier in June, compared with the
median forecast of 5.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 18
economists, the statistics office reported today. Producer
prices rose 0.3 percent on the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  