-- 
Rand Rebounds From Two-Month Low Against Dollar as Gold, Platinum Advance

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-19T15:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/rand-rebounds-from-two2-month-low-versus-dollar-as-gold-platinum-rise.html
The rand gained for the first day in
four, rebounding from a two-month low versus the dollar, as
commodities and stocks rallied, outweighing concern that the
European and U.S. debt crises will worsen.  The rand gained as much as 1 percent to 6.9224 per dollar,
and traded 0.7 percent stronger at 6.9409 as of 4:07 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 9.8526 per
euro.  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index rose, led by mining
companies including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd,
after gold touched a record and platinum climbed to the highest
in more than a month. The two metals together account for 20
percent of South Africa’s export earnings. The euro gained
against the dollar and U.S. stock-index futures extended gains
today after housing starts rose in June at the fastest pace in
five months.  “Today’s better environment derives from a bounce in both
the euro-dollar and  Wall Street ,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. “The move breaks the
downward spiral of all risky assets. We can breathe easier.”  The euro rallied against the dollar and rose from almost a
record low versus the Swiss franc on bets European officials are
approaching an agreement over measures designed to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The rand often tracks the euro,
which pays for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports, with a
correlation of 0.84 over the past month. A value of 1 would mean
they moved in lock step.  ‘Multi-Day Risks’  European Union government chiefs plan to meet for the
second time in a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. Spanish and
Italian bonds yields surged yesterday, piling pressure on
officials to end the turmoil. Spain and  Greece  sell as much as
5.75 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of bills today.  “Multi-day risks remain very much for rand losses, and as
much as the market isn’t panicking, it’s not clear that we
shouldn’t,” the RMB analysts wrote. “Problems are certainly
not over.”  The premium of one-month options to sell rand versus the
dollar over those to buy the rand has climbed 86 basis points,
or 0.86 percentage point, to 3 percentage points in the past two
weeks, indicating options traders believe the rand is more
likely to decline than to gain in coming weeks.  South African bonds gained on speculation the central bank
won’t raise  interest rates  on Thursday to cool inflation caused
by rising fuel and food costs.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee
will leave its benchmark rate at 5.5 percent on Thursday,
according to all 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 added 27 cents to
88.99 rand, driving the yield down five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 8.43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  