-- 
Transformation in India Opens Door for U.S. Partnerships: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/transformation-in-india-opens-door-for-u-s-strategic-partnership-view.html
As Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  arrives in New Delhi today, her first order of business
is to assure U.S. support for the Indian government and people
as they deal with the aftermath of last week’s terrorist
bombings in Mumbai.  She then should get to work on broader objectives:
affirming India’s prominent role as an oasis of democratic
values and economic growth in a troubled region and fulfilling
the promise of a long-lasting U.S.-Indian partnership.  Americans have too often viewed relations with India solely
through the prism of the chaos in neighboring  Afghanistan  and
Pakistan. That approach is short-sighted. President  Barack Obama 
has rightly  predicted  that U.S. relations with India “will be
one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century.” Or, as
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  of India put it, “the sky is the
limit.” This is no hyperbole. If the two governments focus on
building a strategic partnership, the benefits to  South Asia  and
the wider world will be substantial.  Historic Transformation  India is engaged in an epic economic and political
transformation. Singh’s free-market reforms have allowed his
nation to shed its socialist and statist past. The world’s
largest democracy is now one of the most dynamic economies.  The country’s foreign policy has evolved too. During the
 Cold War , India was a close ally of the  Soviet Union  and saw
itself as a leader of the nonaligned movement. Now, its leaders
see the world in much the same way as their U.S. and Western
counterparts.  The U.S. partnership with India reflects shared values as
much as common economic and military interests. Although its
record is far from perfect, India’s democratic government has
ensured both stability and openness for its 1.2 billion
citizens. The nation now serves as a model for the kind of
vibrant and tolerant multiethnic democracy that the U.S. hopes
to foster in  Pakistan  and Afghanistan. In addition, India’s
democracy and balanced economy are far more in line with Western
values and interests than the alternative model offered by
 China .  Some Indians, mostly among the intellectual elites and
lower-level government officials, don’t share Singh’s enthusiasm
for close ties with the U.S. They see their country as the
inheritor of a great civilization and fear becoming subservient
to the U.S. Given these countervailing pressures on Singh’s
government, there may be limits on the scope of India’s
transformation that could also restrict the terms of an alliance
with the U.S. But  Washington  shouldn’t be deterred by these
internal deliberations.  Defensive Cooperation  Perhaps one of the most important benefits to the U.S. of a
partnership with India would be to address a rising and more
assertive China.  New Delhi  views China, not Pakistan, as its
foremost long-term security threat. The Beijing government has
at times been assertive in its claim to Indian territories along
the countries’ partially unmarked border.  The Asian giants also compete for influence in the “string
of pearls,” as the Chinese call countries such as  Bangladesh 
and  Sri Lanka  that lie along Beijing’s sea route to  Africa .
Preventing Chinese expansionism and ensuring freedom of
navigation in the  Indian Ocean  is another reason U.S. and Indian
defensive cooperation should grow.  Also, if it can be convinced to do so, India can help build
international support for initiatives that would otherwise be
seen as made in America. For example, India could be of enormous
help in isolating  Iran . India is friendly with countries in
Africa and  Asia  that are suspicious of U.S. and European motives
on Iran and other issues. New Delhi’s diplomats can therefore
help in ways that Washington’s traditional allies cannot.  Remarkable Restraint  Clinton should go out of her way to praise Singh’s
commitment to reconciliation with Pakistan as well as the
remarkable restraint he has shown in recent days. Rather than
blaming the Islamabad government for the Mumbai bombings, New
Delhi has said that it does not know who was responsible, and
has urged the Indian news media not to speculate or point the
finger at Pakistan.  As the U.S. looks for areas to expand its partnership with
India, trade is a good place to start. Previously, the American
strategy was to make no distinction between small issues such as
opening  India ’s market for dairy products and much more
important restrictions by New Delhi in the telecommunications
and retail sectors. This made no sense. Washington should
identify one or two trade priorities and push them hard. Another
step is for the U.S. to push the Indians to finish negotiations
on a Bilateral Investment Treaty by the end of 2012. Such an
accord would provide a framework for resolving investment
disputes and would build momentum for the two sides to begin
negotiations on a free-trade agreement.  Clinton should also push Singh to finish implementation of
the 2008 U.S.-India  civilian nuclear deal , which was supposed to
open the door for American companies to sell nuclear  power
plants  to India. Since then, the Indian Parliament has adopted
legislation that seems to make the suppliers, not the local
utility, liable for damage from nuclear accidents. This is at
odds with international practice and unacceptable to U.S.
companies. The Indians need to find a way around this problem.  Working with Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, Clinton should
seek ways to broaden military cooperation, especially as a
deterrent to China. An Indian relationship with  NATO  would
provide a mechanism for military officers from both countries to
get to know each other.  The world’s two largest free-market democracies have much
in common, despite a history of prickly relations. If those
shared interests and values can be used as a platform, Singh’s
“sky’s the limit” declaration may turn out to be prescient.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 