-- 
RBA Saw ‘More Time’ to Assess Global Risk, Inflation Outlook, Minutes Show

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 
2011-07-19T02:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/rba-had-more-time-to-assess-australian-inflation-pressures-minutes-show.html
Australia ’s central bank had scope
to extend an interest-rate pause because risks posed by  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a slower-than-forecast domestic recovery eased
inflation concerns, minutes of its July 5 meeting showed.  “The flow of recent information suggested both that there
was more time to assess the likely strength of inflationary
pressures in Australia and that it would be prudent to use that
time,” according to the minutes released today by the Sydney-
based  Reserve Bank  of Australia. “Growth in aggregate demand
was not showing signs of a further pick-up yet.”  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has kept the official cash rate
unchanged since November 2010 as the economy recovered from the
country’s costliest floods and the labor market lost 5,400 jobs
in the April-June period, the weakest quarter since 2001. At
4.75 percent, the rate is the highest among the world’s
developed economies.  The RBA saw wages pressures emerging in some mining-related
occupations “but these pressures remained fairly localized,”
the minutes said. The July 27 release of the second-quarter
report on consumer prices would be “important in helping to
shape views about inflation, and therefore the future path of
 interest rates ,” the minutes said.  The Australian dollar fell to $1.0636 at 12:18 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0641 before the minutes were released.  Bond Rally  Government bonds  extended this month’s rally after the RBA
release. The yield on the two-year note fell to 4.29 percent as
of 12:18 p.m. in Sydney, from 4.31 percent just before the
minutes were released, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The
rate has dropped 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point,
since June 30.  The minutes reflected a central bank that saw sovereign
debt woes in Europe, particularly in Greece, as “a significant
downside risk for the global economy” and a  U.S. economy  where
“growth had moderated.”  The minutes said RBA board members viewed the labor market
as “not tightening significantly further at present.”  Australia’s recovery from flooding earlier this year in
Queensland, the nation’s biggest coal exporting state, was
proceeding more slowly than the central bank had predicted,
according to the minutes. The multi-speed nature of the economy
was “clearly evident” in recent economic reports, it said.  ‘Significantly Longer’  “The recovery of coal exports from the Queensland floods
was taking significantly longer than earlier expected and the
return to full capacity could be delayed until early 2012,” the
minutes said. “The delay in the recovery of coal production
plus continuing signs of cautiousness on the part of households
meant that growth in 2011 was likely to be lower than had been
expected a couple of months earlier.”  The resources industry, and the medium-term outlook for the
Australian economy in general, are both “strong,” the minutes
said. “However, household cautiousness and the high  exchange
rate  were having a dampening effect on a number of other
sectors.”  Since the RBA’s last meeting, private reports have shown
weaker business and  consumer confidence .  Consumer sentiment this month plunged by the most since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, a survey from
Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute showed. Business
confidence dropped in June to a six-month low, according to a
National Australia Bank Ltd. survey of more than 400 companies
from June 24 to June 30.  Consumer Caution  “The household sector continued to be cautious in its
spending and borrowing behavior,” today’s minutes said. While
the outlook for mining-led investment “continued to be very
strong,” financing for other industries “remained soft, with
signs yet to emerge of a pick-up in non-residential
construction.”  Westpac on July 15 became the first of Australia’s four
largest banks to predict that the RBA’s next move will be a rate
cut in December. The Sydney-based bank’s prediction was an
outlier in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists, in which
the median estimate was for a quarter-point increase in November.  Households are saving more as assets including stocks and
houses decline in value. A 22 percent rise in the Australian
dollar in the past year is hurting the manufacturing and tourism
industries.  Rising Currency  The stronger dollar, by reducing import costs, has helped
contain inflation while the  unemployment rate  declined to 4.9
percent in June from 5.8 percent two years earlier. Mining and
energy companies are hiring workers to help meet demand from
China and  India  for Australia’s coal and iron ore.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government estimates that
mining investment will reach A$76 billion ($81 billion) this
fiscal year.  Leaders of euro-area countries are slated to meet July 21
in Brussels to discuss a second aid package for  Greece  after
last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout failed to stop the spread
of the debt crisis. Italian two-year note yields have surged the
most in more than a year, and yields on notes from Ireland,
 Portugal  and Greece soared to euro-era records.  “The downside risks associated with a possible adverse
European financial shock looked more significant than had been
the case a few months ago,” today’s minutes said. “Whether the
slower global growth would persist was unknown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  