-- 
U.S. 30-Year Bond Yields Drop Most Since 2010 as Obama Endorses Proposal

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-19T21:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/treasuries-drop-confidence-europe-will-reach-debt-deal-mutes-safety-bids.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields fell
the most since 2010 after President  Barack Obama  endorsed a
deficit-cutting proposal by a bipartisan group of senators that
would end a stalemate on the U.S. debt ceiling.  The difference in yields between 10- and 30-year securities
narrowed from the widest level since November on optimism
lawmakers are more likely to tackle long-term deficit reform.
Bonds earlier rallied after the  International Monetary Fund  said
 Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis risks infecting the rest of the
euro region even if officials head off a default, bolstering the
refuge appeal of  U.S. government debt .  “The upside in Treasuries has been a function of this new,
more robust proposal from the Gang of Six,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “There’s a reasonable amount of perceived momentum
behind that, the concept being that’s the type of proposal
needed to keep the credit-rating agencies at bay.”  Thirty-year bond yields dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 4.19 percent at 5:03 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They tumbled as much
as 13.4 basis points, the biggest intraday decrease since
December 2010. Yields rose earlier to 4.34 percent, the highest
level since July 8. The 4.375 percent security due in May 2041
climbed 2, or $20 per $1,000 face amount, to 103 1/8.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell five basis points to
2.88 percent. Earlier they rose to 2.97 percent. The yields have
traded between 2.87 percent and 2.98 percent since July 12.  Negative Rates  Rates on one-month bills briefly fell below zero for a
second day, touching negative 0.0051 percent, before trading at
0.0051 percent. They reached negative 0.0101 percent on July 14,
matching the lowest level since January 2010.  The cost of insuring Treasuries with credit-default swaps
fell about two basis points to 54.1 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  House Republicans  still planned a vote on a proposal to
condition a $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling increase on passage of a
constitutional amendment to balance the budget. Senate Democrats
oppose the idea, and Obama said he would veto it.  With no immediate compromise offering a way out of a
stalemate and the Aug. 2 debt-limit deadline two weeks away, the
bipartisan group of senators called the Gang of Six pitched its
own plan to cut about $3.7 trillion from the debt over 10 years.  About 50 senators attended their briefing at the Capitol
today, an indication of potentially widespread support for a
plan to reduce the debt through a combination of tax increases
and entitlement cuts.  Inflation Speculation  The gap between yields on 10- and 30-year Treasuries
narrowed by 0.07 percentage points to 1.31 percentage points,
from 1.38 yesterday. Investors who had bet on a rise in longer-
maturity yields relative to shorter-term debt reversed those
trades on speculation a debt agreement would help limit the
supply of Treasuries and keep inflation contained.  “The bond is going ballistic,” Richard Gilhooly, an
interest-rate strategist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York , said
of the 30-year security. The firm is a unit of Toronto-Dominion
Bank. “They seem to be buying into this, but it’s just the
market caught with the wrong position. They’re short the bond.”
A short position is a bet that a security will fall.  Provisions in the debt compromise for $1.2 trillion in new
taxes are likely to make the Gang of Six plan impossible to get
through the Republican-controlled House of Representatives,
Gilhooly said.  ‘Not Going to Fly’  “They don’t want any tax increases,” Gilhooly said.
“This is not going to fly.”  Investors still speculate Obama and lawmakers will reach an
agreement on the debt ceiling, even as Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  put the  U.S. debt  rating on review for
downgrade last week, increasing the pressure to come to an
accord.  While talks led by Vice President Joseph Biden beginning on
May 5 made little visible progress, investors are “very
confident that there’s going to be some package,” said Adam Brown, director of Treasury trading at Barclays Plc in New York,
one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .
“I don’t think anyone really thinks the U.S. is going to
default.”  The U.S. debt ceiling “adds a small probability of default
that would not otherwise exist,” Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday in a report.  Uncertainty Level  Congress has raised or revised the debt limit 78 times
since 1960, according to the Treasury. Still, “the currently
wide division between the  House of Representatives  and the Obama
administration over the debt limit creates a higher level of
uncertainty and causes us to raise our assessment of event
risk,” Moody’s said.  Treasuries fluctuated earlier amid conflicting statements
on  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Yields rose after Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said it can be resolved.
U.S. debt pared losses after German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said there won’t be a single “spectacular” step at the July 21
European summit on the problem. Bonds rallied after an IMF staff
report said the Greek crisis may spread.  Investors have continued to buy Treasuries this year as
Obama and Republicans in Congress have jousted over defaults and
deficits because problems with European debt have been more
grave, said Richard Schlanger, vice president of Pioneer
Investments in  Boston .  “They’re continuing to play ‘Ring Around the Rosie’ and
not address problems,” Schlanger said. “I think this thing is
going to continue to drag on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  