-- 
Treasuries Advance as Europe Debt Concern Spurs Demand for Safety of Debt

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-19T06:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/treasury-five-to-30-spread-near-widest-this-year-on-debt-ceiling-concern.html
Treasuries rose, pushing benchmark
yields to within 10 basis points of the lowest this year, as
 Europe ’s spreading debt crisis fueled demand for the relative
safety of U.S. government debt.  The extra yield investors demand to buy 30-year Treasuries
instead of five-year notes was 2.86 percentage points, after
expanding to 2.87 percentage points yesterday, the widest since
Nov. 15. Investors are more reluctant to load up on 30-year
bonds as U.S. officials struggle to reach agreement on how to
avoid a default.  “European sovereign risk pushed money to the U.S. in a
flight to quality,” said Kei Katayama, leader of the foreign
fixed-income group in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
oversees the equivalent of $62.7 billion. “Within the U.S., the
situation of the debt ceiling is hurting long bonds. There is a
risk of a credit-rating cut.”  The 10-year yield declined two basis points to 2.91 percent
as of 7:06 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent note maturing in May 2021 rose 6/32,
or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32.  The rate declined to 2.81 percent on July 12, which is
2011’s low, compared with the 10-year average of 4.06 percent.
Katayama said he is favoring shorter maturities among his
Treasury holdings.  Japan ’s 10-year yield dropped 1.5 basis points to 1.065
percent. It fell to 1.06 percent today, the least since November,
as the yen’s strength dimmed the earnings outlook for exporters.
The currency traded at 79.02 per dollar after rising to 78.47 on
July 14, the most since the post-World War II high set March 17.  EU Meeting  European government leaders plan to gather July 21 in
Brussels to discuss the financial stability of the euro area.
 Greece  is struggling to avoid a default, while investors
concerned at debt levels in Italy and  Spain  sent bond yields in
those nations to euro-area records.  Investors scooped up German bonds, pushing 10-year rates
down to 2.65 percent yesterday, the lowest close in seven months.
U.S. 10-year notes yielded 28 basis points more than same-
maturity bonds in  Germany  yesterday, the most since February.  Treasury 30-year rates climbed yesterday as President
Barack Obama vowed to veto a Republican proposal to impose
mandatory budget cuts. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
has said the government will run out of options to prevent a
default on Aug. 2.  Wider Spread  The U.S. spread will widen further, Ajay Rajadhyaksha and
 Dean Maki , analysts at Barclays Capital Inc., wrote in a report
yesterday. The company is one of the 20 primary dealers
authorized to trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .  “We expect this trend to continue as the risk of both a
fiscal drag arising from the debt limit impasse going beyond
August 2 and that of an actual ratings downgrade as a result of
the absence of a credible plan remain non-trivial,” the New
York-based analysts wrote.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have said they will cut the U.S.’s top-level credit
ranking should failure to raise the debt limit lead to a default.  “If the government defaults and the debt ceiling isn’t
passed, there’s a reticence to hold the long-term debt of any
nation that’s going to be in that situation,” said Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in  New York  at Royal Bank of
Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , also a primary dealer.  Seeking Gold  Investors seeking a haven have also been buying precious
metals. Gold for August delivery rose to a record $1,607.90 an
ounce yesterday.  Finaport Investment Intelligence, the Zurich-based  money
manager  that oversees the equivalent of $1.71 billion, is
favoring gold while it waits to see how the Fed addresses a
slowdown in the  U.S. economy , said Hans Goetti, the Singapore-
based chief investment officer for  Asia .  U.S. housing starts rose 2.7 percent in June from May to an
annual pace of 575,000 homes, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s Commerce Department
report. The rate has tumbled from 2.27 million in January 2006,
the peak in the past decade.  The Fed may implement a third round of Treasury purchases,
but without a plan to cap borrowing costs, the stimulus would
spur demand for higher-yielding assets over  government bonds ,
Goetti said.  “You could argue that that would have inflationary
potential,” he said.  The U.S. central bank completed $600 billion of purchases
last month, its second debt-buying program. Policy makers may
decide to target yields, keeping the 10-year rate at about 2.5
percent, which would support Treasuries, Goetti said.  The Fed is still investing principal payments from its debt
holdings into Treasuries, and it plans to buy $500 million to $1
billion of securities due from January 2013 to January 2014
today under the program, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  