-- 
Renewable Energy’s Shares Rise in Oslo on Positive Outlook

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-07-19T10:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/renewable-energy-reports-second-quarter-loss-on-writedowns.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a
Norwegian maker of solar energy components, rose the most in
four months, reversing earlier losses, after saying demand was
expected to improve in the second half.  REC rose as much as 10 percent to 9.1 kroner and was up 9
percent as of 12:14 p.m. in Oslo. The stock earlier dropped as
much as 7.2 percent after the company announced a loss in the
second quarter.  A steep decline in prices in the quarter has begun to
generate improved sales volumes, the Sandvika-based company said
in its earnings report today. Sixty-five percent of sales in the
period occurred in the month of June, Chief Executive Officer
Ole Enger said in an interview after an earnings presentation in
Oslo.  “From an operational perspective REC is doing very well,”
Preben Rasch-Olsen, an analyst with Carnegie ASA, said over the
phone. “Prices started to stabilize and that should indicate
that the very deep price decline in the second quarter is
starting to have a positive effect on demand.” Rasch-Olsen has
a ‘neutral’ rating on the stock and a target of 13 kroner.  The company posted a quarterly net loss of 6.7 billion
kroner ($1.2 billion) compared with a profit of 757 million
kroner a year earlier. That missed the 185 million-kroner mean
profit estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shutting Production  Polysilicon, wafer and module prices fell in the quarter
while demand for solar-energy components weakened as European
regulators cut subsidies, leading to an oversupply of wafers and
modules, the company said. REC is shutting down the highest cost
production capacity in the third quarter.  Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose to 871 million kroner from
455 million kroner a year earlier. The company booked impairment
charges on fixed assets of 6.5 billion kroner. Sales advanced to
3.4 billion kroner from 2.8 billion kroner.  Prices for solar wafers and cells need to improve by 20
percent to 30 percent to allow the company to re-open plants in
 Norway , which halted production July 1, Enger said.  Enger is positive on the future development of the solar
market as  China ,  India ,  Malaysia  and  Singapore  are “perfect for
solar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  