-- 
Republicans Target CFPB, Call Nomination ‘Dead on Arrival’

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-19T23:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/republicans-take-aim-at-cfpb-call-nominee-dead-on-arrival-2-.html
U.S. Republican lawmakers are
stepping up efforts to restructure the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, with a key senator declaring a nomination for
the agency’s top job “dead on arrival.”  House and Senate members pressed President  Barack Obama 
today to revise the leadership and oversight of the bureau,
which he touted as a top achievement of the Dodd-Frank Act. The
Republican-led House is set to pass legislation restricting the
bureau’s powers, and senators have threatened to block action on
Obama’s director nominee until changes are made.  “It is unclear why the centerpiece of the president’s
financial reform package has taken so long to materialize, but
what is clear is that this nomination is dead on arrival because
it does nothing to increase accountability or shed light on the
operations of the CFPB,” Senator Jerry Moran said today at a
Banking Committee hearing on consumer protection, referring to
Obama’s selection of  Richard Cordray  to serve as the bureau’s
director.  Moran, a Kansas Republican who is sponsoring legislation to
restructure the bureau, is one of 44 Republicans who signed onto
a May letter vowing to block any nominee for the post until the
agency is restructured. Cordray, the former Ohio attorney
general who is serving as the consumer bureau’s enforcement
chief, was nominated yesterday.  Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law last year, in the
wake of an economic crisis that lawmakers and regulators said
was fueled by predatory lending by financial companies. Under
the law, the bureau -- organized and stood up by Harvard Law
School ProfessorElizabeth Warren -- becomes independent on July
21 of this year.  ‘Undermining This Cornerstone’  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, who has
defended the bureau amid Republican criticism of its budget and
structure, said today that “undermining this cornerstone of the
Wall Street Reform law would be irresponsible.”  Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat who will shepherd
Cordray’s nomination through the confirmation process, faces an
uphill climb because of rules that will likely require him to
secure 60 votes in the 100-member Senate.  House and Senate Republicans have pushed for legislative
changes that would place the bureau under the congressional
appropriations process and replace the director position with a
five-member board. Lawmakers in both chambers have introduced
bills to make the changes and the House is scheduled to vote on
the legislation this week.  Oversight, Not ‘De-Fanging’  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus ,
the sponsor of the bill to replace the director with a
commission, said today that the issue was one of oversight, not
one of “de-fanging or gutting the agency.”  “Is payback a proper function of legislation?” Bachus, an
 Alabama  Republican, asked a group of reporters today in
 Washington . “Consumers were abused by financial institutions in
a number of ways, but is it proper to undermine the safety and
soundness of financial institutions, or is it proper to find a
middle ground where consumers are protected in a way that’s not
inconsistent with safety and soundness?”  Representatives Shelley Moore Capito of  West Virginia  and
Sean Duffy of  Wisconsin  will join Bachus with bills on the floor
this week.  Capito, who leads a Financial Services subcommittee, has a
measure that would postpone the transfer of consumer-protection
authority from banking regulators until a director is confirmed.
Duffy’s bill would lower the threshold for the Financial
Stability Oversight Council to veto rules proposed by the
consumer bureau.  Safe and Sound  “We want to protect our consumers, but we also want an
industry that’s safe and sound,” Duffy said. “In the end, if
we don’t have a safe-and-sound financial industry, it’s the
consumers who are going to get hurt.”  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the Banking Committee’s
senior Republican, called the new bureau’s current structure
“one of the most serious flaws in the Dodd-Frank Act.”  “The issue is whether the bureau is sufficiently
accountable to the American people,” Shelby, who opposed Dodd-
Frank, said today. “I and 43 of my colleagues believe that it
is not.”  Warren organized the bureau while serving as an adviser to
Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . When it begins
operations, the CFPB will be an independent bureau within the
 Federal Reserve .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  