-- 
Republicans’ Plan on Debt? Cut, Cap and Bluster: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/republicans-plan-on-debt-cut-cap-and-bluster-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Perhaps it’s a law of politics: For
every political fantasy of Democrats there is an equal and
opposite one from Republicans. Democrats have been pretending
that the Constitution allows President  Barack Obama  to ignore
the debt ceiling, so that he doesn’t have to compromise with
Republicans in Congress.  House Republicans  are voting this week
on their own dream: a constitutional amendment to enshrine their
budget views and eliminate the need for compromise with
Democrats, forever.  The slogan for this campaign is “cut, cap and balance.” The
bill Republicans are promoting this week would condition any
increase in the debt limit on immediate spending cuts, caps on
future outlays and congressional passage of a balanced-budget
amendment to the Constitution.  To increase the debt limit, two-thirds of Congress would
have to vote for the amendment and thus send it to the states
for ratification.  The amendment most Republicans have in mind is more
stringent than previous versions on which Congress has voted. In
addition to requiring revenue and spending to balance, it would
require a two-thirds vote of Congress to raise taxes. It would
also limit spending.  No Spending Increases  Over the past few decades federal revenue has, on average,
amounted to 18 percent of gross domestic product. Spending has
averaged 20 percent but is now at 24 percent. The amendment
would require that spending stay at or below 18 percent (with
exceptions when war has been declared or a supermajority of
Congress has voted to waive the spending limit).  So spending would not be allowed to increase to accommodate
the growing number of retirees on government assistance, or the
rising cost of health care. Instead spending would be cut so
that taxes could stay at their historical levels.  Thirty-seven Republicans in the House and 12 in the Senate
have  taken a pledge  not to support a debt-limit increase without
congressional passage of the amendment.  Mitt Romney  and  Tim Pawlenty  are among the Republican presidential candidates who
have also taken it. Many conservative activist groups, such as
the Club for Growth and FreedomWorks, are insisting on cut, cap
and balance.  As a conservative I share the goal of a government that
spends no more than 18 percent of GDP, and ideally spends less.
But is it really wise to make putting that goal into the
Constitution a condition of raising the debt ceiling?  The cut, cap and balance campaign assumes that Tea Party
zeal, the popularity of balanced budgets and Obama’s need to
increase the debt limit can be leveraged to win a policy outcome
well to the right of anything that the all-Republican government
of a few years ago ever achieved.  Implausible Assumptions  Either that campaign assumes that hitting the debt limit
won’t hurt, or it makes several other implausible assumptions.  It assumes that although Obama is balking at a deal that
includes steep spending cuts and no tax increases, he can be
made to accept constitutionalizing such a deal (he has vowed not
to). It assumes that even though state governments increasingly
depend on federal deficit spending to keep their own budgets in
balance, 38 of them are likely to ratify a government-slashing
amendment.  And it assumes that Congress can find a two-thirds majority
to pass the amendment in time.  “A Good Compromise”  Representative Mick Mulvaney, a freshman Republican from
 South Carolina  who is a leading supporter of the amendment, said
in an interview that if “the president wants this debt-ceiling
increase, he’s going to help us get the votes.” He argued that
Obama should deliver 50 Democratic votes in the House and 20 to
30 in the Senate. “That’s a good compromise for both sides.”  Does the congressman think that 50 Republicans would vote
for a constitutional amendment that contradicts everything they
stand for if President Romney asked them to?  What a congressman who pledges to increase the debt limit
only if a spending-limit amendment passes is really saying is
that he opposes increasing the debt limit. Because there is no
way that two-thirds of Congress is going to pass this amendment
now, or ever.  It’s also unclear how the amendment would be enforced if it
did pass. Presumably most conservatives would not want the
federal courts to step in to decide how much to spend on
defense. Mulvaney is counting on a sense of honor and shame: “I
think Congress would be hard-pressed to sidestep a balanced-
budget amendment. It’s right there written out.”  Lack of Restraint  Well maybe. But it’s worth looking at a recent, low-profile
vote the House took to restore $6 million that had been cut from
a program to help rural people get broadband  Internet service .
Unprecedented deficits didn’t make the 90 Republicans and 131
Democrats who voted yes think twice, or try to find some way to
pay for the cost. They didn’t seem worried about a public
backlash against them for overspending.  Among those 90 Republicans were Tea Party favorites Kristi Noem of  South Dakota , Steve King (Iowa),  Jim Jordan  ( Ohio ), Mike Pompeo ( Kansas ), Raul Labrador ( Idaho ) -- oh, and Mulvaney as
well. One-third of the House pledge-takers voted for the
legislation.  It is, of course, a small sum in comparison to the whole
federal budget. But it does raise some questions: If Congress
lacks the will to impose this tiny amount of spending restraint,
is it really going to cut trillions from the budget? If the
leading supporters of a balanced-budget amendment don’t have the
will to restrain themselves, how do they expect to succeed?  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a senior editor at National Review and a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 