-- 
Riverbed Shares Plunge After Second-Quarter Sales Miss Company’s Forecast

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-20T20:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/riverbed-technology-falls-28-after-missing-second-quarter-sales-forecast.html
Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD) , a maker of
computer networking products, dropped 23 percent on the Nasdaq
Stock Market after second-quarter revenue missed the company’s
forecast.  The company reported revenue of $170.3 million yesterday,
falling short of the $171 million to $173 million it had
predicted. Analysts had projected $172.75 million, according to
Bloomberg data. Riverbed’s earnings of 21 cents a share,
excluding some items, were in line with analysts’ estimates.  Before today, Riverbed’s shares had almost tripled over the
past year, fueled by the growth of cloud computing. The
company’s technology helps customers keep their software in far-
flung data centers more efficiently. Last quarter’s slower
growth caught investors by surprise, said Gary Spivak, an
analyst with Noble Financial Group in  Boca Raton , Florida  “There’s a fairly strong reaction when a high-growth story
misses expectations to any degree,” he said. “People just
expect more and when they get just OK, they get very
disappointed.”  Riverbed dropped $9.35 to $32.05 at 4 p.m. New York time,
the biggest decline in almost four years. The stock has lost 8.9
percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer Jerry Kennelly said customers
should look beyond the shortfall and appreciate the company’s
position in the market for information-technology performance
products.  ‘Long-Term Bet’  “If you can overlook a four-tenths of a percent miss on
revenue and understand the underlying strengths of the company,
it’s a good long-term bet for any shareholder,” he said
yesterday in an interview.  Riverbed also announced the acquisition of two closely held
companies: Zeus Technology, which makes software for cloud
computing, and Aptimize Ltd., which provides Web content
optimization. It will pay $110 million for Zeus and may spend an
additional $30 million if the company meets certain goals.
Riverbed expects the Zeus acquisition to be about break-even in
the year’s second half and add to results in 2012. Terms of the
Aptimize deal weren’t disclosed.  The acquisitions will help the company compete with F5
Networks Inc. in the market for products that improve the
delivery of information and applications from central servers,
Kennelly said.  “If you take a great technology and then give it the
benefit of our brand and our sales distribution reach, it’s a
chance to really drive revenue up and take important market
share quickly,” the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 