-- 
Rolls-Royce, Vibram, Harry Potter: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-19T15:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/rolls-royce-vibram-htc-harry-potter-micro-focus-intellectual-property.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc, the
world’s second-largest maker of jet engines, settled a patent
dispute with  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  Terms weren’t disclosed. The companies requested in July 15
court filings dismissal of two civil lawsuits against each
other. The settlement also covers a related case before the U.S.
International Trade Commission that threatened to delay delivery
of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s  787 Dreamliner  passenger airplanes.  The companies “reached an amicable, confidential
settlement agreement resulting in dismissal of all patent
litigation,” East Hartford, Connecticut-based Pratt and London-
based Rolls-Royce, said in e-mailed statements.  In May Rolls-Royce lost the case it had brought against
Pratt over engine-fan technology, while Pratt’s lawsuit had been
on hold pending the outcome of the ITC complaint. Rolls-Royce
makes the Trent 1000, which has been designated for Boeing’s
newest passenger jet, and the Trent 900 for the Airbus SAS A380,
which competes with the GP7200 engine sold by a venture of Pratt
and  General Electric Co. (GE)   A federal judge ruled in May that Pratt’s GP7200 Fan Stage
doesn’t violate a patent issued to cover technology in the Trent
engine for the A380. Pratt’s lawsuit accused Rolls-Royce of
unfairly using patent litigation to keep it from re-entering the
biggest segment of the commercial-airline market. Pratt filed an
ITC complaint in which the agency is investigating whether the
Trent 900 and Trent 1000 infringed a Pratt patent.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Turbomachinery
Blades and Engines, 337-751, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  The September case is United Technologies Corp. v. Rolls-
Royce Plc, 10cv1523, U.S. District Court for the District of
 Connecticut  ( New Haven ). The earlier case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.
United Technologies Corp., 10cv457, U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  Vibram Claims Fila’s Skeletoes Infringe ‘Five Fingers’ Patents  Vibram SpA, a maker of specialty soles for hiking boots,
sued a unit of  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660)  for patent infringement.  The lawsuit, filed July 6 in federal court in  Boston , is
related to technology used in Vibram’s  Five Fingers  shoes having
a separate compartment for each toe.  According to court papers, Fila USA Inc.’s  Skeletoes  shoes
infringe patents 7,805,860, D579,181 and D582,134. Vibram calls
Fila’s sale of the Skeletoes products “objectively reckless,”
claiming the South Korean company knew it infringed the Vibram
patents.  An ordinary observer would be deceived into thinking the
Skeletoes are the same as the designs covered by the three
disputed patents, Vibram said in its pleadings.  Fila said it will “vigorously defend itself” against the
suit. The company has determined the allegations in the
complaint are without merit, Lauren Mallon, Fila’s senior global
marketing manager, said in an e-mail.  “Though Vibram is generally credited with launching the
minimalist trend in the footwear industry,” Mallon said her
company’s product “joins a long history of shoes with
articulated toes and represents a more accessible approach to
this rapidly expanding minimalist footwear category.”  Vibram asked the court for both temporary and permanent
orders against future infringement of the disputed patents, and
an award of money damages “no less than a reasonable royalty.”  The company is represented by  Michael J. Rye  of  Cantor
Colburn LLP  of Hartford, Connecticut.  The case is Vibram SpA v. Fila USA Inc., 1:11-cv-11192-PBS,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  HTC Shares Fall in Taipei After ITC Ruling on Apple Patents  HTC Corp. (2498)  fell in Taipei trading after the U.S.
International Trade Commission ruled its Android-based mobile
phones infringed two  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents.  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of smartphones declined 4
percent in the first day of trading in Taipei following the July
15 ruling. HTC says it will appeal and is subject to review by
the full commission.  HTC has its own patent complaint against Apple at the
commission, which could ban imports of some HTC phones that run
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system if the decision is
upheld.  “We expect HTC’s share price to be volatile in the next 12
to 18 months due to these lawsuits,” said Daniel Chang, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Taipei. “Longer term, the
cost of Android phones is likely to rise gradually and impact
either market share or margin.”  In its complaint, Cupertino, California-based Apple had
accused HTC of violating 10 patents involving how operating
systems work on mobile phones. Administrative Law Judge Carl
Charneski found it infringed two of them.  “While this is not the best outcome, the ITC ruling should
still beat the market’s expectations,” Chialin Lu, a Samsung
Securities Co. analyst, wrote in a report July 18. “The two
violated patents are less critical and are seemingly unrelated
to the usage of multitouch and the core of the Android operating
systems.” Lu kept a “buy” rating on the stock.  HTC, based in Taoyuan, northern Taiwan, will purchase as
many as 20 million of its own shares by Sept. 17, it said July
16, a day after the patent ruling was announced.  Half of the repurchased shares will be transferred to
employees, and the remainder canceled. The company will also pay
a 2010 cash dividend of NT$37 per share, and 50 shares for each
1,000 currently held, on July 20.  HTC agreed on July 6 to buy S3 Graphics Co. for $300
million after the maker of video-game graphics chips won an
infringement ruling at the trade agency against Apple. The
findings in HTC’s patent complaint against Apple at the
commission are scheduled to be released Sept. 16.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade complaints
that has become the venue of choice for resolving patent
disputes. Nokia Oyj, which had been targeted in the same ITC
complaint, reached a settlement with Apple last month. Mountain
View, California-based Google wasn’t a party in the case.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Galaxy Pageants Accused of Infringing Internal Pageants’ Marks  Galaxy Pageants Inc. , a Troy, Michigan-based company that
presents beauty pageants in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and the
Bahamas, was sued for trademark infringement by a competing
organization.  International Pageants Inc., of Roanoke, Virginia, claims
Galaxy has deliberately made unauthorized uses of its
trademarks, and has deliberately set one of its pageants at the
same site International uses in the Chicago area.  Galaxy’s website indicates upcoming Mrs. Galaxy, Ms.
Galaxy, Miss Galaxy and Miss Teen Galaxy  pageants in Illinois ,
with entry fees of $450. A  Mrs. International pageant  sponsored
by International Pageants is set for July 22-23 in Illinois with
contestants from the U.S., Russia, the Philippines and  India .  According to the complaint filed July 15 in federal court
in Roanoke, the public is likely to be confused by the
unauthorized use of International Pageants’ marks.  International Pageants asked the court to order Galaxy to
halt infringing the marks and to bar it from conducting any
pageants in the facility in Skokie, Illinois, International
used.  It also seeks awards of money damages, including profits
Galaxy derived from its alleged infringement, together with
attorney fees and litigation coasts. It also asked for an order
for the seizure and destruction of all products and promotional
material that allegedly infringes the marks.  Maria Torres, Galaxy’s chief executive officer, said she
was forwarding Bloomberg’s request for comment to her trademark
attorney.  International Pageants is represented by  William B. Poff ,
 Joshua Forrest Pescud Long  and  Michael J. Hertz  of  Woods Rogers
Plc  of Roanoke, Virginia.  The case is Richardson v. Galaxy Pageants Inc, 7:11-cv-
00343-MFU, U.S. District Court, Western District of Virginia
(Roanoke).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Harry Potter British Plagiarism Case Dropped Over Court Costs  J.K. Rowling, the world’s richest author, and her
publishers won a bid to dismiss a U.K. lawsuit alleging she
copied part of a children’s book about a wizard when writing
“Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire.”  The estate of deceased English author  Adrian Jacobs  was
unable to pay 1.4 million pounds ($2.2 million) to the court as
security for costs. The estate claimed Rowling copied concepts
and themes such as wizard prisons, wizard hospitals and wizard
colleges from Jacobs.  “J.K. Rowling outspent the estate,” Max Markson,
spokesman for the estate of Adrian Jacobs, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “If the case had its day in court, the
result might be totally different.”  Jacobs’s estate sued  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (BMY)  in  London  in
2009, alleging part of his 1987 book “The Adventures of Willy
the Wizard: No. 1 Livid Land,” was copied by Rowling. In
October, Judge David Kitchin declined to dismiss the case.  The case is Paul Gregory Allen v. Bloomsbury Publishing
Plc, case no. 09-1979, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  Australia Ombudsman Not Immune From Copyright Infringement Suit  The ombudsman’s office in the Australian state of New South
Wales isn’t protected from copyright infringement lawsuits, a
judge ruled, dismissing its request to throw out a U.K. software
developer’s complaint.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO) ’s U.S. unit claimed in a suit
filed in May that the New South Wales ombudsman installed
illegal copies of its ViewNow computer software. The ombudsman’s
office argued a 1974 law gives it immunity from lawsuits and
sought to have the suit dismissed or put on hold.  “The immunity conferred on the NSW ombudsman and its
officers is limited in scope and extent,” Federal Court Judge
Jayne Jagot wrote in a July 15 ruling, made available yesterday
on the court’s website.  The ombudsman’s office installed ViewNow for 25 users,
according to court documents. Micro Focus claims the ombudsman
didn’t have a license for the installations and infringed its
copyright.  Jagot’s ruling allows Newbury, U.K.-based Micro Focus to
pursue compensation claims against the ombudsman’s office for
the alleged copyright infringement. Officials from the
ombudsman’s office didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Ombudsman staff use the software to access records of the
New South Wales police force under a system known as
Computerized Operational Policing System, or COPS.  The ombudsman uses the system to investigate complaints
against the police, monitor police investigations and provide
reports to parliament, according to the court records.  The case is Micro Focus (US) Inc. vs. State of New South
Wales. NSD640/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Corning Accuses Hebei Dongxu of Misappropriating Trade Secrets  Corning Inc. (GLW)  filed suit in the Beijing Second Intermediate
People’s Court against Hebei Dongxu Investment Group Co.,
alleging misappropriation of certain trade secrets related to
process for manufacturing active matrix liquid crystal displays,
according to a July 18 company filing.  Corning and Samsung Corning Precision Materials also filed
suits in Korea’s Daejeon District Court against Beijing-based
Hebei Dongxu, one of that company’s officers, and two other
named individuals, for related trade secret misappropriation.  The company said it is seeking monetary damages, and an
order restraining Hebei Dongxu from using, disclosing, or
permitting others to use misappropriated technology.  Two individuals named in Korean suit were previously
convicted in Seoul Southern District Court on Jan. 22, 2009, for
theft of certain Corning LCD glass technology that was being
used by Samsun Corning Precision Materials.  IP Moves  Jones Day Hires DLA Piper Litigator Robert Kantner for IP Group  Jones Day hired Robert Kantner for its IP practice, the
Washington-based firm said in a  statement .  Kantner , a litigator, joins from Chicago’s DLA Piper LLP.  He’s handled copyright, patent, trademark, antitrust and
contract disputes, mainly for clients in the telecommunications,
software and 3electronic-payment industries. He’s also
represented law and accounting firms in malpractice cases,
including those related to intellectual property.  Kantner has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Virginia and a law degree from Harvard University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 