-- 
Tropical Storm Dora Nears Hurricane Level as Bret Weakens

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-07-20T00:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/tropical-storm-dora-nears-hurricane-level-as-bret-weakens-1-.html
Tropical Storm Dora strengthened in
the eastern Pacific and is forecast to become a hurricane, while
Bret weakened in the Atlantic on a course out to sea, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  Dora, 295 miles (475 kilometers) south of  Acapulco ,  Mexico ,
had sustained winds of 70 miles per hour as of 5 p.m. East Coast
time, the Miami-based center said in  an advisory . Dora is
expected to become a major hurricane, then weaken before
brushing past the southwestern tip of the Baja Peninsula.  Dora’s storm-force winds extend outward as far as 125
miles, the center said. “Life-threatening” surf swells are
expected to affect the coast of southwestern Mexico as the storm
moves west-northwest, parallel to the coast, at 17 mph.  Bret, the second tropical storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , weakened as it moved northeast away from the Bahamas,
the center said in a  separate advisory . The system is forecast
to diminish during the next 48 hours.  Bret was 330 miles south of Cape Hatteras,  North Carolina ,
and was moving north-northeast at 8 mph, with sustained winds of
50 mph.  “Bret is likely to remain well offshore of the
southeastern coast of the U.S.,” the center said.  In an  outlook  issued at about 8 p.m. New York time today,
the center identified a low-pressure area about 175 miles east-
northeast of  Bermuda  producing “disorganized showers and
thunderstorms. The system, moving at about 20 mph, has a 20
percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two
days, the center said.  ‘‘Environmental conditions are marginally conducive for
development,’’ according to the outlook.  A disturbance becomes a named storm when sustained winds
reach 39 mph. A storm reaches hurricane status when winds
increase to 74 mph, and a major storm level when winds hit 111
mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Charlotte Porter in New York at 
 Cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  