-- 
Rufus Wainwright Mauls Garland, Gets Upstaged by Sister: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-07-19T06:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/rufus-wainwright-mauls-garland-upstaged-by-sister-in-bodystocking-review.html
In Rufus Wainwright’s concert of
Judy Garland songs at London’s  Royal Opera House , it was a
surprise to hear him warble “fatty rain, oh cinnamon shelf.”  I think he meant “that sun comes shining through.” 
Diction as dodgy as Wainwright’s can really play havoc with 
your ears. He sings like he's in the “My Fair Lady” scene 
with marbles in his mouth.  Quite aside from the mangled vowels, it’s a surprise to
find the singer-songwriter on the Covent Garden stage at
all. He’s best known for some hummable pop songs, and as the
composer of “Prima Donna,” a dire best-to-be-forgotten attempt
at an opera. Despite that, the Royal Opera has given him the
first-ever five-night residency awarded to a solo artist.  What were they thinking? If all failed opera composers were
given such boons, the consequences wouldn’t bear thinking about.
I guess it’s the usual twaddle of “bringing in new audiences.”  It’s not Wainwright’s only piece of luck. This month, a 19-
disc set of his complete works is being issued, called “ House of
Rufus .” Yup. That’s 19 discs. Even Daniel Barenboim doesn’t get
that kind of treatment.  For his first concert last night, Wainwright performed a
shortened version of his touring “Rufus Does Judy!” show,
singing numbers from Judy Garland’s 1961 performance in  Carnegie
Hall .  The  Britten Sinfonia  accompanied him, conducted by Stephen
Oremus, and all the performers shared the stage with a big red
drape and an enormous glitter ball.  His distaste for proper plosives and clear consonants
aside, Wainwright has some strengths as a performer. His energy
is formidable, and no audience could consider itself
shortchanged with a concert of 20 or so numbers over two hours.  Garland Stamp  His tenor voice has an attractively grainy timbre, and his
breath control is impressive. He’s brave, too, to attempt songs
on which Garland put her inimitable stamp.  There the plusses end. Garland was a performer who left
only the thinnest of veils between her emotions, her songs, and
her audience. Listening to her recordings, you can hear a
lifetime of joy and pain in her voice, sometimes embarrassingly
so.  In Wainwright’s case, the emotional veil is more of a nice
thick woolly blanket. Dramatic immediacy and emotional variety
are almost zero. It’s as if he wants the attention for the
singer and not the song, in a “hey, look at me!” way.  On YouTube there are clips of him performing the Garland
standard “Come On Get Happy” in drag -- in concert he’s been
known to slip into something more comfortable.  Playing Safe  I was quite looking forward to seeing him in stockings and
heels: It would have injected some life into the show, at least.
He played safe, and remained in a pink shirt and black waistcoat
all night.  His sister  Martha  came on for one number, looking oddly
bulgy in a clingy zebra-print body-stocking. Then she blew her
brother out of the water with a terrific rendition of “Stormy
Weather” full of drama and surprising vocal colors. At last,
some real singing and a real connection with music. Her fashion
crimes were forgiven on the spot.  The five-night residency is called “House of Rufus” like
the improbably enormous new boxed set. Wainwright repeats his
Garland show on Friday (which is also his 38th birthday). On the
other nights this week he performs with his sister and father
 Loudon , and there are excerpts from his opera on Saturday.  Wainwright  has talent, for sure. It’s one of those curious
wrinkles of fate that it’s of a more moderate level than his
luck.  Rating: **.  “House of Rufus: Five Nights of Velvet, Glamour and Guilt”
runs until July 23.  Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  The “House of Rufus” box set (Universal Records) has 13 CDs
and 6 DVDs. It was released in the U.K. yesterday priced 148
pounds and will be available on import to the U.S. for about
$350.  Information:  http://www.rufuswainwright.com/  or
 http://www.rufuswainwright.com/Store/Product.aspx?id=SM001008   (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 