-- 
Rupert Murdoch Denies Knowledge of Phone Hacking, Vows to ‘Clean This Up’

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-20T03:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/rupert-murdoch-has-most-humble-day-in-u-k-testimony-over-hacking-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman Rupert Murdoch
denied any knowledge of phone-hacking and payments to police at
his News of the World tabloid, blaming “people I trusted”
during three hours of questioning by British lawmakers that was
interrupted by a protester attacking him with a foam pie.  “They betrayed the company, and me, and they deserve to
pay, and I think that frankly I’m the best person to clean this
up,” the 80-year-old Rupert Murdoch, flanked by his son James,
said at a Culture, Media and Sport Committee hearing in London.  Both Murdochs said they didn’t know about employees
intercepting voice mails or paying police for stories at the
Sunday tabloid, the 168-year-old newspaper they closed on July
10 following a public outcry and political backlash. Allegations
that murder and terror victims had their phones hacked also
prompted the company to drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) bid for all of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   In what he described as “the most humble day of my life,”
Murdoch insisted that wrongdoing at the newspaper and efforts to
clear it up were far below his level. His son said he had only
learned of how widespread phone-hacking had been as a result of
civil litigation in 2010, and defended earlier payments to
victims. He said he had been “surprised” to learn that New
York-based News Corp. had been paying the legal fees of one of
the men jailed for phone-hacking four years ago.  Stock Rebounds  “He didn’t make any faux pas, but he didn’t give the
impression of a commanding presence and James likewise appeared
very earnest, a very active executive, but not somebody who had
gotten remotely to the bottom of what was going on,” said
 Charlie Beckett , director of the media institute Polis at the
 London School  of Economics.  News Corp. (NWS)  rose 4.1 percent to A$15.10 at 10:17 a.m. in
Sydney trading. The stock has dropped 11 percent in  Australia 
since July 4, when the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper reported that
News of the World hacked into the voicemail of a murdered
teenager.  The company is considering elevating Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  to chief executive officer to succeed Rupert
Murdoch, people with knowledge of the situation said before the
testimony.  As Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson  quizzed Rupert Murdoch at the
start of the hearing, James Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, tried to intervene. Many of Rupert Murdoch’s
answers were short and came after pauses. “Nope,” he replied,
when asked if he’d been informed of a 1 million-pound settlement
to a phone-hacking victim in 2008.  ‘What He Doesn’t Know’  “It’s revealing in itself what he doesn’t know, and what
executives chose not to tell him,” Watson told  James Murdoch ,
explaining why he was focusing his questions on his father.  James Murdoch said the company’s four-year insistence that
wrongdoing had been confined to a single reporter had been based
on a report by lawyers Harbottle & Lewis LLP and on the police’s
failure to find evidence of wider illegality.  Assistant Metropolitan Police Commissioner John Yates, who
resigned July 18, separately told Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee yesterday that “the facts appear to be that News
International have deliberately covered up” what happened at
the paper. On July 12,  Peter Clarke , the policeman who led the
original probe, said News Corp. had been “deliberately trying
to thwart” the investigation.  “The News of the World is less than 1 percent of our
company,”  Rupert Murdoch  told the committee. He said that he
may have “lost sight” of the paper because it was “so small
in the general frame of the company.”  Milly Dowler  The board is united in support of News Corp.’s senior
management, Director Viet Dinh said in a statement after the
testimony, issued on behalf of independent directors.  The phone-hacking scandal escalated after the Guardian
report on intercepted and deleted voicemails of the murdered
schoolgirl, Milly Dowler. Two of the country’s most senior
policemen have resigned and Prime Minister  David Cameron , who
employed a former News of the World editor as his director of
communications, cut short a trip to  Africa  to make a statement
to Parliament today.  Lawmakers focused on legal payments made to the paper’s
royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who went to jail for intercepting phone messages left
for members of Prince Charles’s staff.  James Murdoch said he was “surprised” when he found out
payments had been made to Goodman and Mulcaire after they had
been convicted.  Les Hinton , who resigned as chief executive of
Dow Jones & Co. last week, told Parliament in 2009 he had
authorized them himself.  Mulcaire’s Fees  News Corp. had been paying Mulcaire’s legal fees as he
defends lawsuits from hacking victims, James Murdoch said.  “I said ‘Are we really doing that?’” he said. “The
strong advice was that from time to time it’s important and
customary to pay a co-defendant’s legal fees.” He couldn’t say
whether the company is still paying Mulcaire’s fees. Rupert
Murdoch said that “provided it’s not in breach of a legal
contract,” the company will ensure it stops.  Rupert became more confident as the hearing progressed,
trying to crack the occasional joke while apologizing repeatedly
for what had happened. He delivered a statement at the end,
saying that he is determined to “restore the nation’s trust in
our company.”  ‘Good Left Hook’  Rebekah Brooks, the former News of the World editor who
resigned July 15 as News International chief executive officer,
addressed the committee after the Murdochs. She said she didn’t
know how widespread the phone hacking was until actress  Sienna Miller  filed a civil lawsuit last October.  The hearing was interrupted when Rupert Murdoch was
attacked with a foam-like substance. A man standing behind
Murdoch came from his left and leaned into him and pushed a
plate of the substance into his face. Murdoch’s wife Wendi stood
up and tried to protect her husband from the man, who was then
escorted out of the room by police officers.  “Mr. Murdoch, your wife has a very good left hook,”
Watson, the Labour lawmaker, said.  Jonathan May-Bowles, 26, of Windsor,  England , was charged
with an offense under the U.K. Public Order Act for behavior
causing harassment, alarm or distress in a public place, in
connection with an incident in the Palace of Westminster, the
home of Parliament, the Metropolitan Police said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 