-- 
Russia Aims to Boost Gas Supply to Europe After Nuclear Exit

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-19T12:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/russia-aims-to-boost-direct-gas-supply-to-europe-on-nuclear-exit.html
Russia  will consider opportunities
for increasing direct natural gas supplies to  Europe  and
potentially build new pipelines as  Germany  shifts away from
nuclear power, Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said.  The retreat from nuclear may create increased demand that
would support pipeline projects such as OAO Gazprom’s planned
South Stream or the expansion of the Nord Stream pipe to
Germany, Shmatko told reporters while accompanying President
 Dmitry Medvedev  at a meeting with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Hanover.  “Gazprom sees this as a huge opportunity and rightly so,”
Julian Lee, a senior analyst at the London-based Centre for
Global Energy Studies, said by phone today. “This will put a
rocket under German gas demand and Gazprom is very well
positioned geographically and politically to serve a large part
of that.”  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, and Gazprom last
week agreed to start talks on forming a power generation venture
in Germany and the U.K., a move that could secure demand for the
Russian company’s gas. Germany made the decision to exit nuclear
power so quickly that Russia hasn’t yet gotten comprehensive
forecasts of the country’s additional gas needs, Shmatko said.  Germany decided to exit nuclear energy after a tsunami
caused a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan ,
raising safety concerns. Merkel has pledged to use renewable
energy to fill the gap in power generation created by an exit
from nuclear energy.  Power Demand  Even so Germany will need an intermediate, if not long-
term, solution to power demand as it won’t be able to switch to
renewable energies immediately, Lee said.  German demand for additional natural gas will be limited,
Merkel said today at a meeting with Medvedev. Germany will
fulfill additional needs from the Nord Stream pipeline project,
she said.  “The post-2020 nuclear space is Gazprom’s to win or lose,
but if they stick with current pricing and contractual context
it will mostly be lost,” Jonathan Stern, director of gas
research at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. Gazprom
must make concessions on pricing terms in contracts or it will
not be able to sell additional volumes, he said.  An expansion of the Nord Stream link under the  Baltic Sea 
directly to Germany beyond a planned 55 billion cubic meters a
year will depend on signing long-term contracts for supplies,
Shmatko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Hannover, Germany at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  