-- 
Russia RTS-Index Futures Gain on U.S., European Debt Outlook

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-19T20:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/russia-rts-index-futures-gain-on-u-s-european-debt-outlook.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose for a second day amid optimism that U.S. lawmakers are
nearing a compromise to cut the deficit and avoid default, and
European leaders will make progress this week on that region’s
credit crisis.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September advanced 0.5 percent to 193,025 yesterday.  Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer,
rose 0.7 percent and those on OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest
lender, gained 0.6 percent. Agreements on OAO Gazprom, the
world’s largest gas producer, increased 0.5 percent.  Commodities rose, led by copper futures that reached a
three-month high after a government report showed housing starts
gained more than forecast in June in the U.S., the world’s
second-biggest user of the metal.  “There’s some optimism about the Europeans meeting later
this week and that the Americans are getting closer to a
compromise on the debt ceiling,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-
market strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto, said in a
phone interview. “China is proving to be a major force behind
commodity price strength and Russia is indirectly benefitting
from that.”  President  Barack Obama  endorsed a $3.7 trillion debt-
cutting plan by a bipartisan group of senators that would
combine tax increases and spending cuts, saying it could end a
congressional deadlock over raising the U.S. borrowing limit.  Crude oil for August delivery rose 1.6 percent to settle at
$97.50 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since July 13.  The euro increased 0.3 percent to 1.4152 at 4:45 p.m. in
New York after advancing as much as 0.7 percent. Some investors
buy dollar-denominated assets to protect value when the dollar
weakens against the euro and sell them when the dollar gains.  U.S. stocks rose as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained
1.6 percent. The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced 0.7 percent to
1,700.13 in Moscow yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  