-- 
Russian Unemployment Declines in June as Spending Recovers

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-07-19T14:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/russian-unemployment-unexpectedly-declines-as-spending-recovers.html
Russian unemployment fell to the
lowest level in almost three years in June and retail sales grew
for an 18th month, helping to bolster an economic expansion in
the world’s biggest energy exporter.  The jobless rate dropped to 6.1 percent in June, the lowest
since August 2008, from 6.4 percent a month earlier, the Federal
Statistics Service said today by e-mail. The median estimate of
15 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 6.3 percent.  Accelerating job growth is helping sustain household
spending, benefitting retailers such as X5 Retail Group NV and
OAO Magnit. Slower inflation, led by an easing in food prices,
is boosting incomes and supporting  consumer confidence .  “The economy has finally come to the phase of the cycle
where it is more self-driven,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-
market analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, wrote in an e-
mail. “Consumers will remain supported going forward by better
labor market conditions.”  Real disposable incomes unexpectedly grew in June for the
first time since February, rising 0.7 percent, and real wages
advanced 4.2 percent. Retail sales rose 5.6 percent from a year
ago and 1.2 percent from May.  Micex Gains  The Micex Index of 30 stocks climbed 0.7 percent to
1,699.86 at 5:54 p.m. in Moscow, after losing the most since
June 23 yesterday. Magnit rose 0.8 percent, after declining 2.2
percent yesterday.  “Consumer demand will remain strong,”  Ivan Tchakarov ,
chief economist at Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital , said in an
e-mailed research report before the release. Growing retail
trade is “pointing to stable consumer demand.”  Corporate investment grew for a third straight month in
June, rising 4.7 percent, down from a 7.4 percent increase in
May, the report showed.  Industrial output accelerated in June for the first time in
five months, led by manufacturing, after domestic demand
strengthened, according to a report published July 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  