-- 
Russia Arctic Route to Rival Suez May Aid Sovcomflot IPO: Freight Markets

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T12:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/russia-arctic-route-to-rival-suez-may-aid-sovcomflot-ipo-freight-markets.html
Russia  plans to revive a Soviet-era
Arctic sea passage to service energy projects and provide a
shorter supply route to  Asia  for carriers such as OAO Sovcomflot
as the shipping line prepares for an initial share sale this
year.  Opening the northern sea route may allow state-owned
Sovcomflot to speed natural-gas deliveries to China and win
cargos between Europe and Asia by offering a quicker alternative
to the Suez Canal.  “If Russia gives the green light to develop this as a full
commercial transit route, it would make Sovcomflot’s whole
investment case completely different,” said  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at ING Bank NV in Moscow. “It would make it more
attractive to potential investors.”  Sovcomflot, along with companies such as OAO Novatek, is
sending test cargoes via the Arctic route, which Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  has vowed to transform into a year-round passage.
To make it work, Russia must revamp ports, install rescue
systems and build icebreakers for as much as 30 billion rubles
($1.1 billion) each to provide safe passage for tankers.  The northern sea route dates to 1932, when the  Soviet Union 
sent the first vessel from Arkhangelsk to the Bering Strait. The
route, open from July to November, is about a third shorter than
the almost 13,000-mile journey from Rotterdam to Yokohama via
the Suez Canal, saving time and fuel.  It also may attract carriers seeking to avoid pirates in
the waters of East Africa and “Arab Spring” revolutions in the
region around the Egyptian waterway.  Strategic Investor  Russia hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  on June 30 to manage the sale
of a quarter of Moscow-based Sovcomflot. The deal may take place
in October or November, Alexei Uvarov, head of the  Economy
Ministry ’s property department, told reporters last month.  The company has borrowed on international debt markets,
selling $800 million of seven-year bonds yielding 5.375 percent
last year.  Some shares ideally would be sold to portfolio investors
with a block going to a strategic buyer, ING’s Weafer said. That
would be consistent with government efforts across the economy
to attract international partners with industry expertise while
also raising cash.  “That would kill two birds with one stone,” he said.
“Natural investors would either be Japanese or Korean
shipbuilders.”  So far, there’s been no talk of a strategic sale,
Sovcomflot’s Executive Vice President Nikolai Kolesnikov said by
e-mail. Andrei Babakhanov, head of the company’s fleet
department, said in an interview that it’s too early to assess
the benefit of the northern sea route for the company’s value.  LNG Demand  Sovcomflot plans to expand its gas transportation business
as energy producers gear up to bring Arctic projects on line
later this decade. In 2010, it shipped 70,000 metric tons of gas
condensate through the Arctic for Novatek, which plans to start
producing liquefied natural gas for sale to European and Asian
customers at a project on the Yamal peninsula in 2016.  “Demand for LNG has grown in the east over the past two to
three years in China,  Japan ,  South Korea  and  Singapore ,”
Babakhanov said. “As Asian demand rises, the northern sea route
will become very important strategically.”  The Russian government and private companies may invest 1
trillion rubles in producing gas at Yamal, as well as developing
a port and building ships to service the region, Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin said outside Moscow today.  Icebreakers in Demand  The OAO Gazprom-led Shtokman project in the  Barents Sea ,
which may contain more than 3.9 trillion cubic meters (137.7
trillion cubic feet) of gas, may begin initial production in
2016. OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, is developing
fields in the Kara Sea that may hold as much as 35.8 billion
barrels of potential resources. The Moscow-based company may
drill its first well in 2015.  In all, Russia’s Arctic shelf may hold more than 100
billion tons of oil equivalent, according to the Natural
Resources Ministry.  Even before tests are completed, demand for the northern
sea route is rising. Atomflot, the state operator of nuclear
icebreakers that charges commercial shippers for passage, said
it has received 15 applications this year, about three times as
many as in 2010.  Sovcomflot also plans to send one larger tanker -- 162,000
tons in deadweight -- along the route to  China  to benefit from
economies of scale. For Tarko-Sale, Russia-based Novatek, the
route will save 40 percent of the journey time compared with the
Suez Canal and will be 20 percent cheaper, according to
Babakhanov.  ‘More Profitable’ Than Suez  “Northern sea shipping will become a more profitable route
than the Suez Canal,” Leonid Mikhelson, Novatek’s CEO told
reporters June 17. Russia’s second-largest gas producer may
export seven condensate or light crude cargoes via the Arctic to
Asia this year, he said.  Eurochem, Russia’s largest nitrogen-fertilizer producer,
sent its first shipment of 44,000 tons of iron-ore concentrate
to China via the route in July and plans to run monthly trips,
logistics director Igor Nechaev said by phone.  Revolutions, Pirates  Moscow-based Eurochem isn’t saving money by using the
northern sea route because it’s paying about $50 per ton of
cargo for shipping and passage, the same as it would for the
 Suez Canal , Nechaev said. Still, it halves the time to 25 days
and avoids risks stemming from Middle East unrest and pirates.  “There are revolutions in African countries -- you know
the situation in  Egypt  -- hence there is some tension,” Nechaev
said. “Sooner or later, shippers will hedge those risks,” he
added, saying Eurochem wants a back-up route to the Suez Canal.  Traffic along the Egyptian waterway, which opened in 1869,
rose 7.3 percent in the year through April to average 54.5
million tons a month, suggesting the route hasn’t suffered from
the violence that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  The number of global pirate attacks climbed 36 percent from
a year earlier in the first half of 2011 as attempted hijackings
off the coast of Somalia reached a record, according to the
London-based International Maritime Bureau.  Tarek Hassanein, an official at the Suez Canal Authority’s
media department, didn’t return requests for comment by e-mail
and phone.  Breaking the Ice  To ensure safe passage through Arctic waters, nuclear
icebreakers are required to smash through ice that’s more than 2
meters thick in parts.  Russia must retire 12 of its 15 nuclear- and diesel-powered
icebreakers by 2020, according to the Transport Ministry, which
says three nuclear and six diesel vessels, costing a total of
143.5 billion rubles, will be required to replace them.  “We will by all means replenish the country’s icebreaking
fleet,” Putin told a meeting of the ruling United Russia party
in Yekaterinburg June 30. “The introduction of these ships will
allow us to ensure stable, year-round work in the Arctic and the
passage of vessels along the entire route from the  Pacific Ocean 
to the Atlantic.”  The future of the northern sea route will depend on
Russia’s energy plans in the Arctic and demand among shippers
for transit -- neither of which is clear as yet.  “We’re preparing infrastructure and icebreakers,” said
Alexander Poshivai, head of shipping at the Federal Agency for
Sea and River Transport. “We have to be ready, it’s a strategic
route.”  Sovcomflot said it plans to purchase more than a dozen ice-
class vessels this decade, betting on Arctic energy cargoes and
transit. It calls its test runs along the route an investment in
the future.  “Our task is to use large tankers, gain experience and
interest clients,” Babakhanov said.  While the company’s role in the northern sea route remains
unclear, an expansion of its existing operations may tempt
investors,  Ivan Mazalov , director of Prosperity Capital
Management which manages $5 billion, said by phone.  “A Sovcomflot IPO would be even more interesting if they
had another line of business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  