-- 
Safran Climbs After Getting U.S. Approval on L-1 Assets

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-07-19T14:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/safran-climbs-after-getting-u-s-approval-for-takeover-of-l-1.html
Safran climbed in Paris trading
after winning U.S. clearance for the $1.6 billion takeover of L-
1 Identity Solutions.  The transaction is expected to be completed within the next
five business days, according to a joint statement from the
companies. Safran, the maker of aircraft engines and equipment,
as well as security equipment, rose as much as 2.5 percent to
27.89 euros. The stock traded at 27.68 euros as of 4:23 p.m.  Safran announced its plan to buy most of L-1 in September,
seeking to expand in the market for biometric technology for
fingerprint and facial recognition. The acquisition will give
Safran 40 percent of the market for biometrics and explosives
detection in the U.S., Safran Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul
Hertemann said at a briefing in Paris last month.  “This comes as welcome news for Safran,” Rupinder Vig, a
London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a note.
"Uncertainty over this transaction has been a clear overhang on
the stock.’’  Biometrics, a technology that uses physical characteristics
such as scans of irises, offers growth opportunities for
military sales and businesses where security is paramount.  Growth Target  The purchase will help Safran achieve its goal of 20
percent organic revenue from security, driving its
diversification from the cyclical market of engines. The U.S.
military is using biometrics in  Iraq  to help secure access to
bases and in  Afghanistan  to let troops identify prisoners linked
to bombings.  U.S. Defense Department spending on biometrics rose to
$116.8 million in fiscal 2010, compared with less than $1
million in 2000, according to procurement data compiled by the
federal government’s usaspending.gov web site. The figure
excludes those contracts involving classified projects or
conducted through subcontractors that aren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  