-- 
Salander’s Morse to Serve Weekends in Jail for 4 Months

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-19T22:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/salander-gallery-s-morse-to-serve-weekends-in-jail-for-4-months.html
Leigh Morse, the former director of
New York’s Salander-O’Reilly Galleries and dealer for actor
 Robert De Niro , was sentenced to serve weekends in prison for
four months and make restitution of $1.65 million for defrauding
the estates of artists.  Morse, 55, was also given five years probation by Judge
Michael Obus in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan today.
Prosecutors said Morse withheld information about sales of
artworks so the original owners wouldn’t demand payment.  A New York jury on April 6 found Morse guilty of one count
of scheming to defraud. She was found not guilty of a grand
larceny count alleging the theft of $65,000 from De Niro, who
testified at the trial. The gallery represented the estate of De
Niro’s father, a painter.  Morse has been free on $75,000 bail since she was arrested
on July 14, 2009. She must report to prison on Aug. 6, Obus
said.  She sold more than 80 artworks, valued at $5 million, from
four estates without notifying them,  Manhattan  District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a statement. Vance’s office sought a
sentence of 1 to 3 years in prison and $9.1 million in
restitution, said Micki Shulman Hendricks, an assistant district
attorney. The prosecution is the first by the DA’s office in
which a gallery owner and director were convicted and sentenced,
said Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance.  Spending Sprees  Lawrence Salander, the gallery’s president, had pleaded
guilty to 30 counts of fraud and grand larceny in 2010 and is
serving 6 to 18 years in prison. Prosecutors said he ran a  Ponzi
scheme  out of his Upper East Side gallery to finance spending
sprees in Renaissance art and an extravagant lifestyle for
himself and his wife and seven children.  “There’s certainly no doubt that  Lawrence Salander  was the
architect” of the scheme and not Morse, the judge said at
today’s hearing.  Obus added that the jury found that Morse participated in
the fraud and the evidence supports the verdict.  “The term stonewalling here is an apt one,” Obus said.
“This is not a failure to be heroic. This is a betrayal of
trust.”  In a tearful statement to the judge before the sentence,
Morse said she was sorry she hadn’t been forthright with
victims. She said she hadn’t anticipated the demise of the
gallery, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in November 2007.  Getting Paid  “I never suspected that Larry would be unable to pay his
debt,” she said. “I always thought that everyone, including
me, would be paid in the end.”  Morse asked to remain free to care for her husband, Sigmund
Batruk. He attended the hearing with the aid of a walker. He
said in an interview that he suffered brain and spinal cord
damage in a car accident in  Haiti  about 15 years ago while
working in shipping. He said he’s no longer able to work.  After leaving Salander-O’Reilly in 2007, Morse has
continued to deal art on the Upper East Side at Leigh Morse Fine
Arts.  “Leigh has had a hard time dealing with this,” her
husband said. Morse declined to comment after the sentencing,
said her lawyer, Andrew Lankler.  Earl Davis, the son of modernist Stuart Davis, is owed $1
million in restitution; the  Lachaise Foundation , which promotes
the legacy of sculptor Gaston Lachaise, $500,000; the
 Frelinghuysen Morris Foundation,  promoting the work of abstract
artist Suzy Frelinghuysen and George Morris, $100,000; and the
estate of Elie Nadelman, the sculptor, $50,000.  Financial Losses  Salander was ordered to pay restitution of over $100
million. Now at  Mid-State Correctional Facility , in Marcy,  New
York , he hasn’t paid anything to victims.  Witnesses at the five-week trial included other consignors
of art, plus former employees and customers of the gallery. At
today’s hearing, Davis and T. Kinney Frelinghuysen, the nephew
of Suzy Frelinghuysen, told the judge they blamed Morse for
their anguish and financial losses.  The DA’s office began investigating the gallery in 2007,
with Shulman Hendricks and Assistant District Attorney Kenn Kern
leading the prosecution. Shulman Hendricks read a statement from
the Lachaise Foundation that accused Morse of being “the right-
hand woman to the Madoff of the art world.”  “I was sorry to see Leigh punished,” said Paula
Hornbostel, curator of the Lachaise Foundation, in an interview.
“But behavior like that is intolerable and leads to irreparable
losses.”  The case is People v. Morse, 09-03581, New York State
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 