-- 
Scene Last Night: Julie Henderson, Cory Booker, Morgan Freeman

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-19T14:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/scene-last-night-julie-henderson-cory-booker-morgan-freeman.html
Sports Illustrated swimsuit model
Julie Henderson -- girlfriend of financier Alejandro Santo
Domingo -- attended the premiere of “Friends with Benefits”
last night along with the Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , Joyce DeWitt
of “Three’s Company” fame and snowboarder Shaun White.  The film stars  Justin Timberlake  and Mila Kunis as an art
director and headhunter, respectively, who decide to have sex
without getting into a relationship.  “It sounds simple, but it gets complicated,” said
Henderson. She wore a copper mini dress and stood on the quiet
end of the black carpet outside the Ziegfeld Theatre. “Emotions
get involved, and it all goes downhill from there.”  Money also complicates relationships, added the freckled
blonde from Katy,  Texas , who said she has appeared in five
Sports Illustrated swimsuit issues.  “Here in the city, you have such a high level of wealthy
people and the people making minimum wage,” said Henderson, who
shares a home in Southampton, New York, with her boyfriend. “It
doesn’t mean they can’t be friends, but I can understand the
difficulty.”  Henderson likes to be generous. “I definitely treat
friends who are less fortunate than I am,” she said. “That’s
what I work hard for, to be able to share my benefits with
everybody that I love.”  Morgan Freeman  Lunch in the Pool Room of the Four Seasons restaurant
yesterday was on  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   The company picked up the tab for about 100 guests,
including Morgan Freeman,  Andrew Ross Sorkin  and Tory Burch, to
celebrate Mandela Day, which is organized by the  Nelson Mandela
Foundation . The international event on the former South African
leader’s birthday encourages people to perform 67 minutes of
public service to honor his legacy of as many years serving the
nation.  Freeman, who played Mandela in the Clint Eastwood film
“Invictus,” hosted the event.  “How did the guy who played Vincent the Vegetable Vampire
on ‘Electric Company’ come to play  Nelson Mandela ?” he asked at
the lectern. He then explained that Mandela, when asked at a
press conference who he would like to play him in a movie, had
answered “ Morgan Freeman .”  “And so I was anointed,” he said.  The actor is currently filming “Summer at Dog Dave’s”
with director Rob Reiner in Greenwood Lake, New York.  Anthony Mackie, an actor in “The Hurt Locker” and “The
Adjustment Bureau,” circulated around the room, talking of his
summer fishing expeditions and his new bar in Crown Heights,
 Brooklyn . No Bar has a “rustic French” look, he said, and he
built most of it himself.  He recommended the vodka-based Raspberry Beret, or “if
that’s too sweet for you,” the bourbon-based No Bar.  Nikki M. James, who won a Tony for her role in “The Book
of Mormon,” said  Oprah Winfrey  had come to see the show over
the weekend.  Weatherman Al Roker told newscaster Ann Curry he’d made
gluten-free cupcakes (with tapioca flour and rice flour) for his
son Nicholas’s 9th birthday, which he shares with Mandela.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story: Amanda Gordon in  New York 
at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 