-- 
Serbian Premier Cvetkovic Says He’ll Stick to Fiscal Plan as Vote Nears

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-19T15:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/serbian-premier-says-he-ll-stick-to-fiscal-plan-as-vote-nears.html
Serbia’s government won’t relax its
fiscal policies ahead of an election next spring as it continues
to reduce the  budget deficit  toward the European Union’s 3
percent limit, Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said.  Cvetkovic, a member of the ruling  Democratic Party , is the
first Serbian premier since 2000 to lead a Cabinet for its full,
four-year term. His case for re-election has been bolstered by
the Balkan nation’s economic recovery after a recession forced
it to seek an international bailout.  “We will not give up the fiscal rules which envisage a
reduction of the budget gap through 2015 toward a balanced
budget,” Cvetkovic, 60, said in an interview in Belgrade today.
The government has set fiscal deficit targets of 4.25 percent of
gross domestic product for 2011 and 3.2 percent for 2012 and
limiting public debt to 45 percent of GDP.  In power since 2008, Cvetkovic’s ruling coalition has led
the country through the worst recession since the fall of
communism, which halted capital inflows and investments, leading
the dinar currency 40 percent down between late 2008 and 2010,
cutting demand for Serbian-made goods and resulting in a 5
percentage-point increase in unemployment to 22.2 percent.  Economic growth will accelerate to 4 percent next year and
4.5 percent in 2013, mainly led by investments from Fiat SpA,
compared with 3 percent in the first quarter, Cvetkovic said,
sticking to the government’s current forecast.  The International
Monetary Fund  sees the economy expanding 4.5 percent in 2012.  EU Benefits  (For comments from Cvetkovic on  Serbia ’s bond sale plan,
click here.)  The government has set joining the world’s largest trading
bloc as its top priority and stepped up the fight against
corruption and organized crime. It also needs to improve its
judicial system to meet EU standards.  The European Commission  is
to issue its opinion on Serbian membership on Oct. 12.  Serbia is using its improved relations with the EU to close
the gap with the 10 former communist countries in eastern Europe
that have joined the trading bloc since 2004. GDP per capita was
$5,260 last year, compared with $13,527 in  Croatia , a former
Yugoslav republic that is in talks to enter the EU, and $38,600
in  Germany , according to the IMF.  “Serbia’s GDP growth in the first quarter relied much on
export markets,” said Cvetkovic, who has been finance minister
since mid-March when he shuffled his government. “Inflation at
the end of the year should be in the single digits. We have
overshot the 6 percent limit set by the central bank but it will
be in the single digits and under control.”  High Rates  Policy makers in Belgrade have lowered borrowing costs by
three-quarters of a percentage point to 11.75 percent in the
past two months on the assumption that price growth has peaked.
Serbia has seen a rise in its  risk premium , which along with
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis weakened the Serbian dinar,
central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said on July 11. Consumer
prices grew a European-high 12.7 percent on the year in June.  Southeast Europe, including Serbia, Romania and  Bulgaria  is
most at risk, because of its proximity to Greece, and an
escalation of the crisis would hurt more western European banks,
Erik Berglof, chief economist at the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development , said on July 14.  Cvetkovic said, though, that he doesn’t think the crisis
will weaken the currency further and it will likely “track euro
moves” in the coming months. The dinar traded at 104.09 to the
common currency at 5:13 p.m. in Belgrade. It has lost 7.23
percent since May 31, making it the worst performer among the
178 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  IMF Talks  Serbia and the IMF are discussing a new, 18-month
precautionary agreement which won’t exceed 1 billion euros
($1.46 billion), Cvetkovic said. Authorities hope to refrain
from drawing on that amount except in the case of sudden changes
in short-term capital inflows, soaring global commodity prices
or a negative impact from highly indebted countries of the euro
area, he said.  “It would be wrong to assume that Serbia’s fiscal and debt
problems are anywhere close to those of  Greece  and  Italy ,” he
said. “We borrowed 1.5 billion euros from the IMF and Greece
wants to borrow 110 billion euros. Our total GDP is somewhere
between 32 billion and 33 billion euros and we have a problem
with several hundreds of millions of euros.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  