-- 
Serbian Government Remains Undaunted by Euro Debt Crisis in Bond Sale Plan

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-19T13:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/serbia-remains-undaunted-by-euro-debt-crisis-in-bond-sale-plan.html
Serbia ’s first-ever Eurobond sale
won’t be sidetracked by the growing euro area’s debt crisis and
the government will consider selling dollar-denominated bonds,
Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said.  Cvetkovic’s Cabinet selected JP Morgan Chase & Co. and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to help it prepare and sell as much as $1
billion by the end of September or October. The government has
already tested market appetite with a March 30 sale of three-
year dinar-denominated bonds at home, offering investors a 10
percent coupon with yields at 14.08 percent on April 1.  “The process is on track and the road show is planned for
September,” said Cvetkovic in an interview in Belgrade today.
“I don’t think the Eurobond sale is affected by the crisis and
as far as limits on our borrowing costs are concerned, we would
not be issuing a Eurobond if we could borrow at a lower cost
from commercial banks.”  Serbia needs financing as it reduces its  budget deficit  and
cuts spending to meet demands by the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . Serbia wants to become an official
candidate at the end of the year to join the world’s largest
trading bloc.  The government has stepped up borrowing this year in the
local market, encouraged by growing investor interest in yields
of more than 10 percent on dinar-denominated debt.  It had to increase debt after it refused to sell a
controlling stake in Telekom Srbija AD to Telekom Austria AG as
the offer trailed the 1.4 billion-euro ($2 billion) asking
price.  Dollar ‘Appetite’  (For comments from Cvetkovic on Serbia's budget, click 
here.)  There is “a lot more appetite” for dollar lending on the
market, Cvetkovic said of the sale that is planned to consist of
500 million euros in a foreign currency and up to 200 million
euros in dinars.  “According to preliminary analysis, there is also an
appetite for dinars and we will manage to issue a dinar-
denominated Eurobond,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  