-- 
Slim’s Bank Taps Record-Low Rates to Lead Bond Sale Surge: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-19T20:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/slim-s-bank-taps-record-low-rates-to-lead-bond-sale-surge-mexico-credit.html
Banco Inbursa SA, the corporate
lender controlled by billionaire Carlos Slim, is selling the
most debt in  Mexico ’s local bond market this year to take
advantage of record-low benchmark borrowing costs.  Inbursa plans to offer up to 6 billion pesos ($514 million)
of bonds as soon as tomorrow, pushing sales by Mexico’s sixth-
largest bank by  loans  to about 17 billion pesos this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes may yield
about 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, above the 28-
day TIIE interbank lending rate, or 4.97 percent, according to
Araceli Espinosa, a corporate debt analyst at  Scotia Capital .
BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s largest bank, sold 1.2 billion pesos to
yield 50 basis points more than TIIE, in June.  Slowing inflation in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
is helping drive down yields for Mexican companies and the
government. The 28-day interbank lending rate fell to 4.8
percent yesterday while yields on the government’s benchmark
notes touched a seven-month low yesterday. Mexico is the only
major Latin American country to keep borrowing costs unchanged
in the past year, having held it at 4.5 percent.  “Investors will pick up this debt because it’s seen as a
very safe option to other sectors,” Miguel Angel Aguayo, a
fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe SAB, said
in a telephone interview. “We have had a pretty dynamic first
half, with new issuances, foreign issuers, and we should see
this continue.”  Inbursa’s offering will push local corporate debt sales to
101 billion pesos, a 35 percent increase over the same period
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
the government’s benchmark bonds maturing in 2024 dropped to
6.98 percent yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 6.  ‘Attractive’  Annual inflation slowed to 3.28 percent in June from 3.69
percent a year earlier. The rate touched a five-year low of 3.04
percent in March.  Inbursa, based in Mexico City, sold 500 million pesos of
bonds to yield 15 basis points more than TIIE last month. The
bank will probably pay a similar rate on its planned offering
this week, said Luis Frias Humphrey, director of corporate
banking at Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB.  “We’re seeing today that market conditions are attractive
for building up funds for the long term,” Humphrey said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The advantage is that we can
get funding for a longer term.”  Branches Triple  Chief Executive Officer Marco Antonio Slim, the second-
oldest son of  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man according to
Forbes magazine, has tripled Inbursa’s branches since the end of
2008 to add more consumer and small-business clients.  Inbursa’s total loan portfolio expanded 4.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier to 171 billion pesos, the
company said in its first-quarter earnings report. Auto loans
almost tripled to 7.38 billion pesos after the company acquired
Chrysler Financial Corp.’s Mexican unit last year for 5.61
billion pesos. Commercial loans made up 73 percent of the bank’s
portfolio in the quarter.  The Slim family controls about 55 percent of Inbursa’s
shares, according to the company’s annual report filed last
month. The stake represents about 12 percent of Slim’s $72
billion in publicly disclosed holdings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Slim founded the bank in 1965, making it
one of his oldest investments.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 143
basis points at 4:01 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Record Sales  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 3 basis points to 118 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 11.6668 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in March rose 1 basis point to 5.04 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to raise the rate that month.  Inbursa may struggle to sell all of the 6 billion pesos of
debt it’s offering after record issuance by banks created a
glut, said Hugo Fuentes, a corporate bond trader at Corp.
Actinver SAB in Mexico City. Investors will demand a yield of at
least 25 basis points above TIIE for Inbursa’s bonds, he said.  Banks have sold 42 billion pesos of bonds in 2011,
accounting for 39 percent of all issuance in the local market
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AAA-Rating  “There have already been a lot of bank issuances,”
Fuentes said in a telephone interview. “Inbursa is the one
that’s been selling the most.”  Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte SAB, the first airport
operator to tap the local  debt market , sold 1.3 billion pesos on
July 13 after reducing the offering by 13 percent.  Debt sales in the local market are picking up after
issuance petered out in May and June, when borrowings fell to a
one-year low of $1.57 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Banco Inbursa, a unit of Grupo Financiero Inbursa, has a
local rating of AAA from  Standard & Poor’s , the highest
investment grade.  “There are very few issuances this summer and investors
are going to want new paper,” Scotia Capital’s Espinosa said in
a telephone interview from Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  