-- 
Solon Falls After Warning of ‘Significant Loss’ From Sales Slump

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-07-19T12:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/solon-falls-after-warning-of-significant-loss-from-sales-slump.html
Solon SE (SOO1)  fell to the lowest in more
than seven years in Frankfurt trading saying it expected a
“significant loss” in the current year amid a sales of
photovoltaic panels slumped in the two biggest solar markets.  Revenue for the year will drop to 500 million euros ($709
million), down from a March 31 estimate of 619 million euros,
Berlin-based Solon said in a statement today. Solon dropped as
much as 15.77 percent to 1.81 euros a share in Frankfurt
trading. It was at 2 euros as of 1:26 p.m.  “If Solon doesn’t find a buyer, and I don’t see why anyone
would buy them right now, they’re increasingly likely to face
bankruptcy,” Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at Berenberg Bank,
said in a phone interview. “Time is running out.”  By the end of this year, Solon must pay back a 275-million
euro loan to a group of eight German banks led by Deutsche Bank
AG. Solon on July 8 hired Alvarez & Marsal Inc. to advise it on
reducing structural, process and product costs. It’s also in
negotiations to extend the loan deadline and expects to strike
an agreement “probably in the fourth quarter,” company
spokeswoman Therese Raatz said in a phone interview today.  “If we manage to organize the financing, and we’re
optimistic that this will succeed, then bankruptcy is absolutely
no issue,” Raatz said.  Solon and its peers Q-Cells SE and  Conergy AG (CGY)  have suffered
as governments in  Germany  and  Italy  cut subsidies for solar
power to limit new installations. They’re also coping with
competition from Chinese rivals including JA Solar Holdings Co.
and Suntech Power Holdings Co.  Sales in Germany have picked up in the third quarter, Raatz
said. The company aims to return to profitability by expanding
panel installations on industrial rooftops in Germany, Italy and
the U.S., she said.  Solon, which in 1998 became the first German solar company
to sell shares to the public, employs more than 800 people at
subsidiaries in Germany, Italy,  France  and the U.S., it says on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  