-- 
Somali Islamic Militias Recruit Child Soldiers, Amnesty International Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-19T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/somali-islamic-militias-recruiting-child-soldiers-amnesty-says.html
The Islamic militias that control
most of southern and central Somalia are stepping up their
recruitment of child soldiers in the famine-ravaged country,
 Amnesty International  said yesterday.  The “systematic recruitment of children,” many of them
under 15 years old, is escalating, the London-based human rights
organization said in an e-mailed report today.  At the same time, civilian casualties have mounted this
year as fighting intensifies in the capital, Mogadishu, Amnesty
said in a separate report. At two hospitals run by the
International Committee of the  Red Cross , the number of war-
wounded “rose sharply” this year, with 933 patients treated
between May 1 and May 15, 398 of them children under the age of
five, Amnesty said, citing the Red Cross.  “It is shocking that the international community has not
put into place a mechanism to systematically investigate  war
crimes  and other serious abuses in Somalia,” Amnesty said.  Somalia has been mired in a civil war for two decades and
hasn’t had a functioning central government since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. People under 20 years old
in Somalia have never experienced peace or the rule of law,
while about 32 percent of all Somalis, or 2.4 million people,
face a food crisis this month, up from 2 million at the
beginning of the year, Amnesty said.  A drought in the Horn of  Africa  may affect as many as 10
million people this year, according to the United Nations World
Food Programme. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees,  Antonio Guterres , said July 8 that the infant fatality rate in some
refugee camps for Somalis is three times the normal for
emergency situations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 