-- 
Soros’s Quantum Holding 75% Cash Leads Hedge Funds Baffled by Instability

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T19:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/soros-quantum-holding-75-cash-leads-hedge-funds-baffled-by-global-crises.html
Keith Anderson , who runs the $25.5
billion Quantum Endowment Fund for Soros Fund Management LLC,
has seen enough of choppy global markets.  In mid-June, Anderson told his portfolio managers to pull
back on trades as the hedge fund’s losses hit 6 percent for the
year, according to two people familiar with the New York-based
firm. As a result, the fund is about 75 percent in cash as it
waits for better opportunities, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the firm is private.  Soros and Moore Capital Management LLC are among hedge
funds that have reduced the amount of money they’re investing in
stock, bond and currency markets as they look for clarity on
global events ranging from the debt crisis in  Europe  to China’s
efforts to control inflation to the debate over the U.S. debt
ceiling. About 18 percent of asset allocators, including hedge
funds, are overweight cash, the highest level in a year and up
from 6 percent in May, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed
last month.  Even Anderson’s boss, billionaire  George Soros , who made $1
billion betting against the British pound in 1992, is perplexed.  “I find the current situation much more baffling and much
less predictable than I did at the time of the height of the
financial crisis,” Soros, 80, said in April at a conference at
 Bretton Woods  organized by his Institute for New Economic
Thinking. “The markets are inherently unstable. There is no
immediate collapse, nor no immediate solution.”  Overweight Cash  Louis Bacon’s  Moore Capital , with $15 billion in assets,
cut risk as its flagship Moore Global hedge fund dropped 6
percent this year through June 30, with all the declines coming
in May and June, according to investors who asked not to be
named because the New York-based fund is private. Spokesmen for
Soros and Moore declined to comment.  Funds such as Moore’s and Soros’s, which chase
macroeconomic trends by buying stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities, have been the worst performing hedge-fund strategy
this year. They fell 2.25 percent through June 30, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc., as managers made losing
bets that the euro would fall against the dollar and that the
yield on U.S. Treasuries would rise. Some managers also got
caught when prices for oil and other commodities dropped in May.  The biggest macroeconomic managers aren’t the only ones
hesitant to make large wagers. The proportion of asset
allocators, including hedge funds, with lower-than-average risk
across their portfolios jumped to a net 26 percent in June from
a net 15 percent in May, according to the survey by  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America.  Tricky Markets  The aversion to risk is reflected in trading volumes.
Trading in the 50 companies in Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s index
of stocks most commonly owned by hedge funds fell to 4.11
billion shares in June, the lowest monthly level since August
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Part of the uncertainty stems from the fact that so much of
what happens in global markets is dependent on government
actions, which can distort prices and affect supplies.  “Most of our funds are in an uncomfortable position in
that the fundamentals are bearish, but the governments are
intervening,” said Harold Yoon, chief investment officer at
Hong Kong-based SAIL Advisors Ltd., which invests in hedge funds
on behalf of clients. “Instead, managers have focused on
tactical trading; shorting when markets are getting bullish and
then covering into panic-driven selling.”  Short sellers borrow stocks and sell them in hope of
profiting by repurchasing the securities later at a lower price
and returning them to the holder.  ‘A Temporary Respite’  In Europe, the debt of Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece  has
been downgraded to junk as the countries struggle to balance
budgets and remain solvent. While Greece won a reprieve last
month with 12 billion euros ($16.9 billion) in aid in exchange
for austerity measures, European finance ministers have failed
to present a solution to the debt crisis that’s threatening to
spread to  Italy , the  euro zone ’s third-biggest economy.  “While we’ve had a temporary respite on Greece, the
problem hasn’t been eradicated and there’s potential for more
negative surprises as the Greek plans are implemented,” said
Bruno Usai, who co-runs the $1.2 billion Pelagus Capital hedge
fund at London-based Mako Investment Managers LLP. “It will
take some time, possibly until the end of the year, before we
see a full recovery of risk appetite” among money managers.  End in Sight  In  China , the world’s third-largest economy after the U.S.
and European Union, the government is struggling to contain
inflation, curb lending and keep the real estate market from
overheating. China’s gross domestic product grew at a 9.5
percent annual rate in the second quarter, the slowest pace in
almost two years. Consumer prices climbed 6.4 percent in June
from a year ago, the most since 2008, government data released
July 9 show.  In the U.S., investors are watching Republicans and
Democrats battle over whether they will cut the deficit or
figure out a way to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before
the government’s borrowing authority expires on Aug. 2.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House
Financial Services Committee on July 13 that a failure by
Congress to raise the nation’s debt limit would lead to a
“major crisis” and send “shock waves” through the financial
system.  Harry Lengsfield, co-founder of KLS Diversified Asset
Management, said he’s been cutting back risk since mid-May,
adding that he’s optimistic that things will become clearer
soon.  ‘Big Moves Developing’  “While de-risking was the right thing to do, we’re getting
close to the end now,” said Lengsfield, whose New York-based
hedge fund manages $900 million. “We’ve seen a significant
widening of spreads, which throws up a number of good
opportunities over the coming weeks.”  This time last year, hedge funds curbed trading for some of
the same reasons they’re hesitant this year, mainly uncertainty
over the health of Greece and other European countries and the
ability of China to continue to grow while controlling
inflation.  It was only in late August, when the Federal Reserve said
it would start buying $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries -- the
second round of quantitative easing that became known as QE2 --
that funds starting taking on risk again.  “2011 has been a trendless year,” said George Papamarkakis, co-founder of North Asset Management LLP in
 London . “Policy makers are dictating markets, which means we’re
operating in an environment where fundamentals just don’t
apply.”  China Question  This year, so-called macro managers have been forced to
make short-term wagers because the longer-term thematic trades
haven’t worked for them, Mark Enman, head of the global-trading
team within hedge-fund research at Man Investments in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview.  “But we could be close to something happening,” said
Enman, whose firm farms out money to hedge funds. “If issues
like the debt ceiling in the U.S. and European debt crisis are
resolved, you could see big moves over a short period of time.”  A number of events could trigger the big market moves that
hedge fund managers love, traders and investors say.  “It’s conceivable that if Greece were to default, that
would spark a rally in the markets,” said Sander Gerber,
founder of Hudson Bay Capital Management LP, a $1 billion
multistrategy hedge fund in New York. “Often, disasters mark
the bottom.”  Infrastructure Spending  Robert Gibbins, chief investment officer of Autonomy
Capital Research LLP, a $2 billion hedge fund based in New York,
said he’s looking at three big questions this year, all of which
he expects to be answered soon.  The first is whether China can make the transition from
investment-led growth to consumer-led growth. If  consumer
spending  doesn’t increase, then the country won’t be able
sustain its shift toward urbanization, which is part of the
government’s current five-year plan, Gibbins said.  A slowing Chinese economy may send commodity prices lower,
which in turn would hurt the economies of emerging markets such
as Brazil and  Russia  that produce fuel and food for China. Lower
crude  oil prices  might also halt the  European Central Bank ’s
plan to continue raising  interest rates , which would strengthen
the dollar against the euro.  The second question is whether the U.S. government is
willing to boost its infrastructure spending at a time when
Congress is struggling to cut the nation’s deficit, Gibbins
said. A failure to spur growth will send stocks down in the U.S.
and keep the dollar weak, he said.  “The private sector is deleveraging and corporations
aren’t deploying cash, so the government has to take up the
slack,” Gibbins said.  Ringfencing Europe  The third issue, Gibbins said, is whether European finance
ministers can agree to using joint bond issuance as a way to
tackle the debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area. His Autonomy
Global Macro Fund has gained 6.2 percent this year, according to
an investor memo.  For Soros, while a Greek default may be inevitable, it
needn’t be disorderly.  “While some contagion will be unavoidable -- whatever
happens to Greece is likely to spread to Portugal, and Ireland’s
financial position, too, could become unsustainable -- the rest
of the euro zone needs to be ringfenced,” Soros wrote in the
Financial Times last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  