-- 
S. Africa Says Wal-Mart Deal Approval Up to Antitrust Body

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-19T11:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/south-africa-won-t-prescribe-conditions-to-antitrust-authority-on-wal-mart.html
South  Africa ’s parliament will leave
anti-trust regulators to decide what conditions to impose on
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s purchase of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , a
lawmaker said.  Parliament’s economic development committee began three
days of hearings on the deal in Cape Town today. The aim is to
assess the takeover’s impact on jobs and manufacturing, said
Mmathulare Coleman, the committee’s chairwoman.  The Competition Tribunal ruled on May 31 that the world’s
biggest retailer could proceed with its 16.5 billion rand ($2.4
billion) purchase of a controlling stake in Johannesburg-based
wholesaler Massmart on condition no jobs are cut for two years.
The tribunal’s decision is being appealed by the South African
Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union in the Competition
Appeal Court.  “The approval of the Wal-Mart-Massmart merger and the
conditions imposed by the Competition Tribunal cannot be
entertained during these public hearings” as the matter is
still before the courts, Coleman told committee members.  South African Trade Minister Rob Davies has objected to the
deal, saying it would have a “destabilizing” impact on the
economy as a surge in imports may undermine manufacturing
output.  Union Opposition  Wal-Mart’s entry into  South Africa  is likely to drive down
prices to the benefit of consumers and create jobs, Coenraad
Bezuidenhout, acting executive director of economic policy at
Business Unity South Africa, a business group, told lawmakers.  Labor unions and executives from Wal-Mart and Massmart are
due to make presentations tomorrow.  Unions “remain convinced that Wal-Mart’s takeover is not
in the best interests of this country and will continue to
oppose the deal,” the Congress of South African Trade Unions,
the country’s largest labor grouping, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “It will not promote but stifle competition,
as Wal-Mart strives to dominate and monopolize the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 