-- 
Southern Cal Running Back Marc Tyler Suspended for Inappropriate Comments

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/southern-cal-running-back-marc-tyler-suspended-for-inappropriate-comments.html
University of Southern California 
running back Marc Tyler was suspended for the season opener
against the University of  Minnesota  for making inappropriate
comments in a televised interview.  Tyler, who rushed for 913 yards and nine touchdowns last
season, said he was joking when he answered a question from  TMZ 
about whether USC athletes were paid more than National Football
League players. Tyler has been suspended from all activities in
addition to the Sept. 3 game against Minnesota, USC coach Lane Kiffin said in a statement.  “Although Marc may find this punishment severe, it is
imperative we continue to have a high standard for player
behavior,” Kiffin said yesterday in the e-mailed statement.
“Marc needs to work hard to show us that he can meet the
standards of being a USC football player.”  Tyler, who is entering his senior season, apologized in a
statement for “embarrassing USC, my teammates and coaches,”
with his comments, some of which were also sexually suggestive.
Tyler added that he’s committed to doing everything right so he
can be reinstated to the team.  The Los Angeles Times  reported  Tyler had been facing
possible school discipline for two off-field incidents in April
that involved female USC students.  Tyler said he enrolled in a counseling program to deal with
alcohol-related issues, the newspaper said.  “While the vast majority of our student-athletes act
appropriately, Marc did not and stepped way out of line,” USC
Athletic Director Pat Haden said. “He did not represent
himself, his university or his team the way we expect. Marc has
a lot to do to prove he belongs on our team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at  