-- 
Crisis Erases 75% Junk Bond Gains as Losses Spread: Euro Credit

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/sovereign-crisis-erases-75-junk-bond-gains-as-losses-spread-euro-credit.html
Junk corporate bonds are turning
into a losing bet in  Europe  as surging sovereign yields infect
assets that just 18 months ago were handing investors returns of
more than 75 percent.  Speculative-grade bonds have lost 1.1 percent on average
this month, adding to the 1.6 percent investors forfeited in
June, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. They’re
being beaten by German bunds, commodities and investment-grade
company notes, while stocks are still proving a bigger casualty
of the euro-region crisis.  “There’s so much uncertainty about the future of the euro
project,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, a London-based economist
at Jefferies International Ltd., a unit of the U.S. investment
bank. “No one knows what tomorrow will bring.”  Investors are shunning all but the safest securities as
European Union leaders prepare to meet tomorrow to address the
sovereign crisis that has propelled Italian and Spanish bond
yields to euro-era records. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday the situation can’t be fixed “in one step.”
Confidence in high-yield notes is also withering as government
budget cuts hamper economic growth in the region, hurting
companies’ ability to pay debt.  Junk bonds  returned a record 76.4 percent, including
reinvested interest in 2009, and 14.7 percent last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High-Yield
Constrained index of 297 bonds issued by companies such as  Fiat
SpA (F)  and Continental AG. The debt gained 4.1 percent in the first
quarter of this year and just 0.7 percent in the second.  Relative Performance  Junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, lost money this month as
benchmark German government debt returned 2.7 percent, and
investment-grade corporate securities earned 0.8 percent, Bank
of America index data shows. Investors made more by holding
commodities, with the  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot Index
increasing 2.8 percent in July. Stocks were a worse bet, with
the Stoxx Europe 600 index losing 3.9 percent.  “Given that high yield is a riskier asset class, the debt
crisis and associated economic concerns have a greater impact
than on investment-grade bonds,” said Vasant Mehta, a credit
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  Speculative-grade companies’ borrowing costs have surged
this month. The extra yield investors demand to hold junk bonds
rather than government debt widened 71 basis points, or 0.71
percentage point, to a seven-month high of 641 on July 18.  Ono, Fiat  Grupo Corporativo Ono SA debt lost 4.3 percent this month,
more than the bonds of any non-financial issuer in Bank of
America’s high-yield index. Investors are penalizing the Madrid-
based cable television operator because it operates solely
within  Spain , said an Ono official who declined to be identified
citing company policy.  Turin, Italy-based Fiat’s bonds lost 2.6 percent, while the
debt of Europcar Groupe SA, Europe’s biggest car rental company,
shed 3.1 percent, the index shows. A Fiat official who wouldn’t
be named declined to comment. Europcar Chief Financial Officer
Charles Desmartis didn’t respond to phone messages and e-mailed
questions.  “We have been looking at some Italian names lately to
potentially add to them, and we have been doing a little bit
here and there,” said Chris Brils, co-head of global high-yield
at F&C Management Ltd., which oversees almost 1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) of junk-rated assets. He wasn’t more specific.
“Still, we’re very cautious for the reason that more likely
than not the sovereign crisis will escalate again.”  European manufacturing expanded at the weakest pace in
almost two years in June, according to London-based Markit
Economics, while European Commission data show confidence in the
economic outlook dropped to the lowest in eight months.  IMF’s Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  said last week that further
delays in resolving the Greek debt turmoil risked jeopardizing
global economic growth.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded  Greece  by three levels to the
lowest grade for any country last week, following Moody’s and
S&P and saying a default is a “real possibility.”  Portugal ,
which like Greece and Ireland has sought an international
bailout, was cut four levels to junk status by Moody’s earlier
this month.  At the same time, the corporate default rate in Europe
declined to 1.4 percent in the second quarter from 5.6 percent a
year earlier, and will probably stay low for the rest of 2011,
Moody’s said on July 14.  The volatile market conditions deterred junk-rated issuers
from selling securities, with sales falling 65 percent to 2.7
billion euros in June from the previous month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled a record 31.8 billion
euros in the first six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 