-- 
Soybean Exports Decline as Chinese Demand Wanes, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-19T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/soybean-exports-decline-as-chinese-demand-wanes-oil-world-says.html
Soybean processing and exports from
the U.S.,  Argentina  and  Brazil , the largest shippers, were below
expectations in the second quarter on reduced Chinese imports
and competition from palm oil, Oil World said.  Soybean crushings into meal and oil and exports from the
countries, known as the G-3, fell 5 percent from a year earlier
to 54.7 million metric tons, the Hamburg-based researcher said
in a report today. Usage and exports declined 7 percent to 17.5
million tons in June, according to the report.  “A slowdown in demand for soy meal was observed in several
countries recently,” Oil World said. It also cited “a
temporary slowdown of Chinese soybean imports, deteriorated
crush margins and a decline of soybean crushings in several
countries as well as increased production and export competition
from the more attractively priced  palm oil .”  Soybean prices have fallen 1 percent this year in Chicago
trading on reduced demand from  China  after surging 34 percent in
2010. Palm oil has declined 18 percent.  U.S. soybean usage and exports, or disposals, fell 3.1
percent from a year earlier to 4.13 million tons in June,
according to the report.  Argentine usage and shipments fell 16 percent to 5.23
million tons for the month, Oil World said. Brazilian disposals
that gained 10 percent to 8.15 million tons were too small to
offset declines in the U.S. and Argentina, Oil World data show.  Soy oil exports increased 0.9 percent from a year earlier
to 2.17 million tons in the quarter as stronger Chinese demand
outpaced reduced Indian purchases, Oil World said.  “The latest export statistics confirm increased Chinese
import requirements,” Oil World said. Exports gained only
slightly “because of a significant reduction by more than 50
percent in shipments to  India . This is mainly explained by the
noticeable shift in the Indian preference to palm oil in
response to its improved price attractiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 