-- 
States-Eye View for Creating Insurance Exchanges: Sandy Praeger

-- B y   S a n d y   P r a e g e r
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/states-eye-view-for-creating-insurance-exchanges-sandy-praeger.html
The  U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services  published last week its long-awaited rules for
the health-insurance exchanges that states are to set up under
the 2010 Affordable Care Act.  There are many key things I had hoped this document would
address, but doesn’t, including which benefits the participating
insurers should be required to cover and how Medicaid and other
federal subsidies will be coordinated with the exchanges. But
for the most part the new regulations are useful. They give
officials like me the direction we need to establish an
insurance exchange that’s right for our states.  In Kansas, as in many other states, we have not yet decided
whether to go ahead and create an  exchange . My office is now
analyzing whether we can design one that meets the needs of
Kansans and still foster a competitive marketplace. The new
regulations are encouraging.  Based on my initial review, I was pleased to find the rules
are not overly prescriptive and leave most of the key decisions
up to the states. A state may create an exchange that is very
open, where all qualified health plans are able to participate
and consumers have many choices. Or, it may limit participation
to those insurers that are willing to negotiate with the state.  States are also provided considerable flexibility in
establishing what role agents and brokers will play. Registered
agents and brokers provide consumers critical assistance in
determining the best plan for their needs. In  Kansas  we have no
intention of pushing them out of the system and leaving
consumers without their guidance.  Key State Decisions  On the administrative side, the federal government will not
restrict key state decisions on how the exchanges will be funded
or what role the exchanges will play in collecting people’s
premiums. This flexibility is critical, especially in times of
tight state budgets.  The rules provide a number of options for the structure of
an exchange. It can be set up as a state agency, or as an
independent (quasi-governmental) or nonprofit organization. Of
course, the agency’s board must represent the concerns of
individual consumers and small-business owners. Conflicts of
interest are not allowed.  A state may also choose to enter a contract with
organizations that have expertise on health insurance, partner
with other states or even delegate some responsibility for the
exchange to the federal government. Or, a state may just let the
federal government run the entire marketplace. However, this is
a level of federal authority that I do not believe Kansans
should or will accept.  Federal Rules  Of particular interest to me as the chief regulator in
Kansas has been the way the health-care law granted HHS
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  the authority to establish, for
insurance plans sold through exchanges, rules on network
adequacy (that is, whether the companies are able to deliver the
care their policyholders pay for), marketing and service areas.
Kansas already has regulations in these areas, and I was very
concerned that the federal standards would conflict with ours.  So it was a relief to see that the regulations from the
secretary, who is our former governor and insurance
commissioner, preserve state regulations by simply requiring
plans in the exchange to comply with state rules. This shows a
deep understanding of state regulation and acknowledges that
states are best equipped to protect consumers and ensure a
competitive insurance market.  Although I am pleased with much of what I see in the new
federal rules, I do have some concerns. In particular, I would
like more information on how a state can amend its program in
the future. The rules envision a process in which significant
changes must be approved by the secretary, and offer as a model
the amendment procedure for state Medicaid plans. But I worry
that this process may be tedious and frustrating. States need
greater assurance that they will always be able to act quickly
to make improvements in their exchanges.  Gaming the System  Also, I have some apprehension about the number of special
enrollment periods the rules have created, and about the time
periods established for coverage. We need to ensure that some
people do not game the system by waiting to buy coverage until
they are ill, leading to higher premiums for everyone else.  Finally, I hope HHS will provide additional guidance on
what kinds of health care insurers should be required to cover
and how the exchanges can be coordinated with Medicaid and other
federal programs. That would give states, as they review their
options, a more complete picture of how exchanges are to
operate.  Deadlines  Time is limited. If a state decides to establish an
exchange, its officials must make significant progress by Jan.
1, 2013, and must have a fully operational exchange in place by
Oct. 1, 2013, so individuals and small-business owners can begin
purchasing coverage.  Before then, many critical decisions must be made and
difficult tasks completed, not the least of which is developing
 information technology  that will enable coordination among state
agencies, federal agencies and insurance carriers. Kansas is one
of six states (or groups of states) that received a special
federal grant to develop options for state information
technology, and that work must continue if states are going to
meet the deadlines.  Overall, I am pleased that the rules include the
flexibility states need to establish exchanges that will be
effective for their individual populations and marketplaces.
What may work in Massachusetts or  California  is not likely to
work in Kansas.  The ball is now in the states’ hands. Those that want to
create exchanges must move quickly to design and establish
systems that will best meet their objectives. I hope Kansas will
accept this challenge, because if the state doesn’t, the federal
government will.  ( Sandy Praeger , a Republican, is the Kansas commissioner of
insurance. The opinions expressed are her own.)  For more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this article:
Sandy Praeger at  commissioner@ksinsurance.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 