-- 
State Street to Cut 850 More Jobs After Custody Bank’s Expenses Climb 20%

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-19T20:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/state-street-second-quarter-profit-rises-5-2-on-acquisitions-markets.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, will cut an additional 850 jobs over the
next 20 months after reporting earnings that missed analysts’
estimates because of rising expenses.  The cuts are on top of 1,400 reductions announced last year
and scheduled to be completed by the end of this year. Costs on
an operating basis increased 20 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, driven by a 22 percent gain in salaries and
employee benefits, the Boston-based bank said today.  “It seems expenses were higher than many people
expected,” Kenneth Usdin, a senior analyst for Jefferies & Co.
in  New York , said during a conference call with company
executives.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph “Jay” Hooley is cutting
spending in an attempt to offset the impact of record low
interest rates, which reduce the return the bank earns on
investments and on lending to institutional investors.  Robert Kelly , head of rival  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , said today
he plans to reduce costs after non-interest expenses in the
second quarter rose 22 percent from a year earlier.  Shares Fall  State Street’s second-quarter net income on an operating
basis rose 5.2 percent to $483 million, or 96 cents a share,
from $459 million, or 93 cents, a year earlier. Excluding
certain items, 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
average earnings of 97 cents a share.  State Street fell 93 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $42.02 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  BNY Mellon, the largest custody bank, said net income rose
12 percent to $735 million, or 59 cents a share, from $658
million, or 54 cents, a year earlier. Its shares rose 9 cents,
or 0.4 percent, to $24.73.  Under the job reductions announced today, the company will
eliminate 530 information technology employees and transfer 320
to jobs at outside vendors. Hooley said the cost-cutting
measures under way since November will outpace new expenses in
the second half of this year.  ‘Up-Front’ Expenses  “In a transition like this you have to invest up-front in
order to drive the benefits in subsequent periods,” he said in
a telephone interview.  State Street’s assets under custody rose 20 percent from a
year earlier to $16.8 trillion after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index leapt 28 percent in the year ended June 30. The money
State Street manages for investors increased 15 percent to $2.12
trillion. Assets under management were little changed from the
previous quarter after the  S&P 500  declined 0.39 percent in the
three months ended June 30.  Assets were boosted from a year earlier by State Street’s
acquisition of Bank of Ireland’s investment-management business
in January. The purchase brought about 57.5 billion euros
($81.44 billion) in investment assets.  Revenue from fees increased 12 percent to $1.89 billion,
driven by a 16 percent climb in servicing fees. Trading fees,
which include foreign-exchange trading revenue, declined 5
percent to $311 million.  European Debt Crisis  State Street’s operating profit excludes money earned from
the sale or maturing of bonds whose value was written down in
May 2009, which the company records as “discount accretion”
within net interest income. The bank reported discount accretion
of $51 million, or 6 cents a share, in the quarter. Including
those earnings, net income rose to $502 million from $427
million from a year earlier.  Hooley said the ongoing debt crisis in  Europe  hadn’t
affected revenue from clients based there and may help create
acquisition opportunities as European banks consider whether
they need to build capital. Since becoming CEO in March 2010,
Hooley has targeted custody operations in Europe for possible
takeover.  “I believe we will see opportunities attractive to us out
of the European debt crisis,” he said.  State Street has been a target of union-organized protests
in Boston in recent months over job cuts. About 400 of the 1,400
job cuts announced last year will come in  Massachusetts .  ‘Committed to Massachusetts’  Carolyn Cichon, a spokeswoman for State Street, said the
company had increased its headcount in Massachusetts over the
past five years by 24 percent and in  Boston  by almost 40
percent.  “State Street remains committed to Massachusetts,” Cichon
said in a telephone interview.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  State Street last month signed a new three-year custody
deal with the $232 billion  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension fund. The
decision signaled that a series of lawsuits from public pension
funds against State Street and BNY Mellon will do little damage
to the custody banks’ ability to retain the funds’ business,
analysts including ISI Group Inc.’s Brian Bedell said.  “To me it was a great litmus test,” Hooley said.  The suits from at least five states, including  California ,
allege that the banks defrauded public pension funds by
overcharging on foreign-exchange transactions. The banks have
denied the accusations and said they will defend against the
suits.  BNY Mellon and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , both based in New
York, are the two biggest custody banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  