-- 
Sudan’s Budget Gap Likely to Swell to 5 Percent of GDP as South Secedes

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-19T15:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/sudan-s-budget-gap-likely-to-swell-to-5-percent-of-gdp-as-south-secedes.html
Sudan ’s budget deficit will swell to
5 percent of gross domestic product this year, more than
originally forecast, after oil-rich South Sudan seceded on July
9, Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasoul.  To prevent the shortfall widening further, the government
plans to slash spending in the second half of the year, Abdel
Rasoul told lawmakers in the capital, Khartoum, today, six
months after an austerity package triggered protests.  The deficit compares with the 3.2 percent shortfall
envisaged in the original budget approved by lawmakers in
November. The government is amending that budget after South
Sudan gained control of about 75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil
production of 490,000 barrels when it became independent.  “Political, economic and social changes in the country
since July 9 have become the focus of everyone’s attention,”
Abdel Rasoul said. The country needs a “comprehensive program
to face the fiscal and economic ramifications for the loss of
revenue.”  Fiscal spending will decline to 11.68 billion pounds ($4.4
billion) in the second half of the year from 15 billion in the
previous first six months, Abdel Rasoul said, without giving the
original spending plans. Revenue and grants will decline to 10.7
billion pounds from 12.5 billion over the same period.  Austerity Package  An austerity package passed by parliament in January
spurred protests against President Umar al-Bashir’s government
that were put down by security forces. The package included the
partial removal of fuel subsidies and increasing the price of
sugar.  No additional taxes or fees were imposed in today’s budget,
Abdel Rasoul said. The government will try to keep the inflation
rate below 18 percent, he said, compared with the 12 percent
target in the original budget.  Abdel Rasoul also said that Sudan will start to introduce a
new currency early next week. South Sudan released its own
currency to banks in the capital, Juba, yesterday.  Sudan’s $68 billion economy will grow 3 percent this year,
Abdel Rasoul said, less than the original budget’s target of 5
percent. The economy grew by 3 percent last year, half of the
government’s target of 6 percent, al-Zubair said on June 13.  Oil Law  The finance minister also presented a new law for the
transport of oil from South Sudan through its territory. Abdel
Rasoul didn’t give details on the law to the press.  The two sides used to split proceeds from oil pumped in the
south on a 50-50 basis, as agreed on in a 2005 peace accord
which ended a two-decade civil war between the north and the
south. They haven’t agreed on the amount of the new fees.  South Sudan currently has no other way to export its oil,
and it relies on the crude export for 98 percent of its budget.  The crude, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,
 Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. day, is exported through a pipeline that runs to  Port
Sudan  on the  Red Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 