-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance for First Day in Four; Novartis Surges After Earnings

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-19T16:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/swiss-stocks-advance-for-first-day-in-four-novartis-roche-rise.html
Stocks in  Switzerland  rose for the
first time in four days after Novartis AG,  Europe ’s second-
largest drugmaker, reported profit that beat analyst estimates.  Novartis, the maker of the Diovan blood pressure treatment,
climbed 3.2 percent.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker
of cancer drugs, rose 1.5 percent after saying it will acquire
MTM Laboratories AG, a maker of tests for cervical cancer.  Lonza
Group AG (LONN) , a supplier to drug companies, gained 1 percent.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest
and most actively traded companies, climbed 1.2 percent to
5,896.55 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has tumbled
12 percent since this year’s high on Feb. 18 as U.S.
manufacturing and jobs reports fueled concern that the recovery
is faltering and as investors speculated that  Greece  will
default on its debt. The broader Swiss Performance Index rose
1.1 percent.  European Union government chiefs plan to meet for the
second time in a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. Spanish and
Italian bonds yields surged yesterday, increasing pressure on
officials to end the turmoil.  “The markets expect to see at least a demonstration of
unity,” Thomas Haerter, chief strategist at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG, said by telephone. “If there would be some kind
of solution in the foreseeable future -- say, in one or two
months -- then markets will take a rosier view and financial
stocks will rise quite a bit.”  Novartis climbed 1.56 Swiss francs to 51.05 francs, the
biggest gain in three months, after the company said that
second-quarter profit rose 29 percent, boosted by its Alcon eye-
care division.  Cervical Cancer  Roche rose 2 francs to 138 francs after announcing the
purchase of MTM Laboratories.  “The acquisition has broadened Roche’s technology platform
in cervical cancer testing,”  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients today.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, jumped 5.8 percent to 8.33 francs after
International Business Machines Corp. reported earnings that
beat estimates and boosted its forecast.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , a
banking-software maker, surged 4.6 percent to 18.25 francs.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
gained 1.7 percent to 55.60 francs as Patrick Appenzeller, an
analyst at Helvea AG, said he remains “confident” about the
company’s earnings growth prospects through 2012.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission
gear, rose 1.1 percent to 20.40 francs. The company said it won
orders worth $144 million from the Saudi Electricity Company to
construct new substations and upgrade existing ones.  Lonza Group gained 1 percent to 66.95 francs after
announcing a contract to produce Immune Pharmaceutical’s
Bertilimumab treatment, under development for the potential
treatment of inflammatory disorders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  