-- 
U.K. Police Chief Says Didn’t Suspect Wallis of Phone Hacking

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T12:25:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-k-police-chief-says-didn-t-suspect-wallis-of-phone-hacking.html
Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Paul Stephenson, who announced his resignation two days ago,
said he had “no reason” to suspect a former News of the World
journalist of phone-hacking when he worked for the police.  Neil Wallis, an editor at the paper, was arrested last week
as part of the U.K. police inquiry into the interception of
phone calls by journalists at the now-shuttered  News Corp. (NWSA) 
Sunday tabloid. Wallis worked as a paid communications
consultant for the force in 2009 and 2010.  “It was only several weeks ago that I became aware Wallis
may be a suspect, and it was only early last week I was told he
may be arrested,” Stephenson told Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee today. At the time of his employment, “I had no
reason to connect Wallis with phone hacking. I had no reason to
doubt his integrity.”  The police are under pressure to explain their links with
News Corp. journalists and their failure to further probe phone-
hacking by the News of the World following the jailing in 2007
of the paper’s royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private
investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , for intercepting phone messages
left for members of Prince Charles’s staff.  The investigation was opened again in January. Dozens of
victims of phone-hacking have been identified, including actress
 Sienna Miller  and sports commentator Andy Gray. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  told lawmakers last week that police are looking
through 11,000 pages of evidence containing 3,870 names,
including about 4,000 mobile and 5,000 landline phone numbers.  Champneys Health Resort  Stephenson, who remains in his post until a successor is
hired, said he decided to resign when a newspaper reported that
Wallis was a media consultant for the Champneys health resort
when he stayed there this year following surgery on his leg.  Stephenson, who accepted meals and accommodation from the
managing director of the chain, said it was “damnably unlucky’’
Wallis was connected to the facility.  “I know of no one that knew of Mr. Wallis’s connection to
Champneys,’’ Stephenson said. “The owner of Champneys is a
family friend.’’  The Independent Police Complaints Commission is
investigating Stephenson and Assistant Commissioner John Yates
over their role in the phone hacking probe. Yates also stepped
down yesterday.  The police said today that the commission is also examining
the relationship between Dick Fedorcio, the force’s director of
public affairs, and News International Ltd., the News Corp. unit
which publishes the group’s U.K. newspapers.  Former News of the World Editor Rebekah Brooks and News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , along with his son  James Murdoch ,
the company’s deputy chief operating officer, are also scheduled
to testify before a separate Parliamentary committee on phone
hacking today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  