-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb After Three-Day Slide; Lloyds Banking, Vedanta Advance

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-19T16:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-k-stocks-climb-after-three-day-slide-barclays-enrc-rally.html
U.K. stocks gained for the first
time in four days as better-than-forecast data from the U.S. on
housing starts and corporate earnings boosted optimism in the
outlook for the world’s largest economy.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rallied 4.3 percent for the
biggest increase in the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) ,
Cairn Energy Plc and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  led resources shares
higher as each rose more than 2 percent.  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) 
advanced 4 percent after the manufacturer of a third of all
auto-catalysts said profit rose 19 percent.  The FTSE 100 rose 0.7 percent to 5,789.99 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. The gauge has still fallen 5 percent since
February amid speculation that European banks will need to raise
more capital as stress tests failed to allay investor concern
that lenders have insufficient capital to absorb losses. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 0.6 percent and Ireland’s
ISEQ Index advanced 0.5 percent.  “I wouldn’t say this is fundamental buying and everyone
going, oh everything’s fine, let’s go off to the races,” said
Louise Cooper, markets analyst at BGC Partners LP in  London .
“There’s still huge uncertainty out there. I think this could
just be a little bit of a dead-cat bounce.”  EU Meeting  European Union government chiefs plan to meet for the
second time in a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. Spanish and
Italian bonds yields surged yesterday, piling pressure on
officials to end the turmoil.  “There’s still huge uncertainty out there and there’s
still a lot of hope in the market that something will come out
of” the EU meeting, said BGC’s Cooper. “It’s a one-day meeting
in a crisis by a committee made up of a bunch of politicians who
don’t really understand how financial markets work.”  Housing starts in the U.S. rose more than forecast in June
to the fastest pace in five months, led by a surge in work on
multifamily dwellings like apartments. Work began on 629,000
houses at an annual pace, up 14.6 percent from the prior month,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today.  International Business Machines Corp., the biggest
computer-services company, reported sales that beat analysts’
estimates and lifted its profit forecast amid buoyant demand for
software. Among the 36 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index that have posted results since July 11, 31 beat the
average analyst estimate for per-share profit, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Lloyds, Barclays  Lloyds, the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender, rallied 4.3
percent to 43.14 pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  gained 1.9 percent to
211.6 pence.  Basic-materials shares led gains in the FTSE 100.
Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, rose 3.2
percent to 1,343 pence and Cairn climbed 3 percent to 382.7
pence. Vedanta advanced 2.7 percent to 1,842 pence.  Johnson Matthey advanced 4 percent to 2,016 pence after
saying underlying pretax profit climbed to 98.2 million pounds
($158 million) in the quarter through June, and first-half
performance will be “significantly” better than a year
earlier.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  gained 2.8 percent to
734 pence as Chairman  James Murdoch  gave evidence to a panel of
lawmakers on phone hacking by newspapers. Murdoch joined his
father Rupert, chief executive officer of the broadcaster’s
biggest shareholder,  News Corp ., in giving evidence to a
parliamentary committee investigating phone hacking today.  IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG)  advanced 5.4 percent to 433.7 pence
after the owner of the IG Index financial spread-betting brand
said net trading revenue increased 7.3 percent to 320.4 million
pounds, led by a 21 percent gain in continental  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  