-- 
Obama Embraces Senators’ Deficit-Cutting Plan

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T00:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-s-house-set-to-pass-doomed-spending-cut-bill-with-no-debt-deal-imminent.html
President  Barack Obama  embraced a
$3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan by a bipartisan group of
senators that would combine tax increases and spending cuts,
saying it could offer a way out of the congressional deadlock
over raising the U.S. borrowing limit.  “We now are seeing the potential for a bipartisan
consensus,” Obama said today at the White House. He called the
proposal by the so-called Gang of Six “broadly consistent”
with what he has sought and “a very significant step” in so
far fruitless negotiations between Republicans and Democrats
over boosting the nation’s $14.3 trillion borrowing authority
before a threatened default on Aug 2.  Obama said talks with congressional leaders from both
parties would resume at the White House this week. U.S. stocks
and Treasuries extended gains after the president spoke,
signaling optimism that lawmakers can reach an agreement.  At the Capitol, the bipartisan group led by Republican
Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia and Senator  Mark Warner  of
Virginia pitched its plan for an immediate $500 billion in
spending cuts followed by a longer-term effort to force bigger
reductions and $1 trillion in tax increases. The plan calls for
lowering tax rates and limiting the growth of entitlement
programs such as Medicare and Social Security.  Closed-Door Briefing  About 50 senators, roughly evenly divided between the two
parties, attended a closed-door briefing on the plan, a sign of
potentially widespread support for the kind of “grand bargain”
to reduce the debt that Obama is urging. One member of the
Republican leadership, third-ranking Senator  Lamar Alexander  of
 Tennessee , publicly endorsed the plan.  “In the next 24 hours, you’re going to see a significant
portion of the Senate come behind this -- bipartisan -- maybe 60
members, and let’s see how things roll,” said Republican
Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, who rejoined the Gang of Six
today after he abandoned the talks in May over an impasse on
Medicare cuts. “This doesn’t solve our problems, but this
creates the way forward where we can,” he said.  Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, said
in the “best of all worlds” the proposal would be approved as
part of the debt-ceiling increase.  Still, Tea Party-backed fiscal conservatives oppose any
debt compromise that includes more taxes.  It Won’t Fly  “Tax increases aren’t going to fly in the House,” said
Republican Representative Kevin Brady of  Texas , a member of the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. “That’s not going to
change.”  Some lawmakers cast doubt on whether it would offer a quick
solution to the current conflict, in which Republicans have
insisted on coupling spending cuts with any borrowing boost.  “There are a lot of practical, procedural difficulties”
to advancing the plan during the next 13 days, and “I’m just
being practical, trying to be realistic,” said Senator  Max Baucus  of Montana, the Democratic chairman of the Finance
Committee, which has jurisdiction over taxes. “The real
question is: What can we accomplish prior to Aug. 2?”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada said he asked
Warner to report back to him by tomorrow about which elements of
the group’s plan might be included in a backstop proposal he is
working on with Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  to provide
$2.4 trillion in new borrowing authority in installments.  No Quick Vote  Reid said the Senate’s rules wouldn’t allow such a plan to
be passed quickly. “I don’t want to do anything to jeopardize
the enthusiasm people have for the Gang of Six, but I am the
person who runs the Senate.”  The White House believes the plan can help Obama make the
case for a “balanced” approach -- including tax increases as
well as spending cuts -- to cutting the deficit, according to an
administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss internal deliberations. Still, it will need more vocal
public support from Republican senators to overcome House
Republicans’ resistance to tax increases, the official said.  McConnell of Kentucky was noncommittal. “I don’t have an
opinion yet,” he told reporters.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, was also
leaving his options open. “This plan shares many similarities
with the framework the speaker discussed with the president, but
also appears to fall short in some important areas,” spokesman
 Michael Steel  said in an e-mail.  ‘Constructive Ideas’  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a  Virginia  Republican,
said in a statement issued tonight on the Gang of Six proposal
that “while there are still portions that are unclear and need
more detail, this bipartisan plan does seem to include some
constructive ideas to deal with our debt.”  The House remained focused on a measure that would slash
spending while conditioning a $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling
increase on passage of a constitutional amendment to balance the
budget and make it more difficult to raise taxes. That bill,
approved 234-190 tonight, stands little chance of being endorsed
by the Democratic-controlled Senate, and Obama said he would
veto it.  Boehner said he was considering what would follow the House
vote.  “It’s responsible for us to look at what Plan B would look
like” because “there are a lot of options available to us,”
the speaker said.  McConnell and Reid are negotiating on a separate track on
their plan to let Obama raise the debt ceiling unilaterally
while proposing commensurate spending cuts. They were discussing
empowering a bipartisan group of lawmakers to propose those
reductions and setting out consequences if the debt savings
weren’t achieved.  Weekend Sessions  Reid is keeping keep the Senate in session daily --
including weekends -- until the debt ceiling impasse is
resolved. The House’s Republican leaders informed members today
that the chamber may be in session this weekend.  The re-emergence of the Gang of Six, which had faded as its
work dragged on without an agreement, held out hope for a
longer-term agreement on reining in the debt.  It would institute an initial $500 billion of spending
cuts, then lay out targets and enforcement mechanisms for
forcing more future reductions, including between $85 billion
and $202 billion in Medicare and other health spending, $80
billion from defense, $70 billion from education and labor
programs and $11 billion from agriculture programs, according to
a summary.  Tax Overhaul  It would also call for a broad tax overhaul that would
raise $1 trillion by limiting breaks for health, charitable
giving, homeownership and retirement while lowering individual
and corporate tax rates. And it would scrap the Alternative
Minimum Tax, a parallel system designed to prevent higher-
earners from avoiding taxes.  The plan and Obama’s endorsement boosted optimism in the
markets.  “This is the biggest on-the-announcement move we’ve had”
in the debt-limit negotiations, said  Carl Lantz , New York-based
head of interest rate strategy Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC.  Stocks surged, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its biggest gain in four months, and Treasuries rallied amid
optimism lawmakers were moving closer to a deal.  The  S&P 500  jumped 1.6 percent to 1,326.73 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . Ten-year Treasury note yields lost five basis points to
2.88 percent, and 30-year bond yields fell 12 basis points to
4.19 percent at 5:03 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  ‘Robust Proposal’  “The upside in Treasuries has been a function of this new,
more robust proposal from the Gang of Six,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “There’s a reasonable amount of perceived momentum
behind that, the concept being that’s the type of proposal
needed to keep the credit-rating agencies at bay.”  Still, some analysts said there was less to the outline
than meets the eye, noting that while the group laid out goals
for long-term savings, it doesn’t actually make the promised
cuts.  “The market completely overreacted to this Senate plan,”
said  Tom Porcelli , chief economist at  RBC Capital Markets .
“There’s an idea that could easily go nowhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  