-- 
U.S. Charges 16 With Cyber Attack on Paypal Over WikiLeaks

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-19T22:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-s-charges-16-with-cyber-attack-on-paypal-over-wikileaks-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors arrested and
charged 14 people with involvement in a cyber attack on  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s Paypal unit that the group Anonymous claims it instigated
in retaliation for suspending the account of WikiLeaks.  An indictment unsealed today in San Jose, California,
charges the individuals with conspiracy and intentional damage
to a computer. Two other defendants were arrested on cyber-
related charges, the  Justice Department  said in an e-mailed
statement. Arrests were made in 10 states and the  District of
Columbia  and 35 search warrants were executed across the U.S. as
part of an investigation into coordinated computer attacks
against major companies, according to the statement.  The charges stem from “denial of service attacks” which
saturate targeted computers with communication requests so
service is denied to legitimate users. According to the
indictment, Anonymous was an online collective of individuals
associated with collaborative hacking attacks motivated by
political and social goals, and the group referred to the
attacks on Paypal as “Operation Avenge Assange.” Julian Assange is WikiLeaks’ founder.  Paypal cut access to the whistle-blowing website
WikiLeaks.org in December after the U.S. said WikiLeaks
activities violated the law. Anonymous later took credit for a
denial of service attack on Paypal as punishment for the
company’s actions. A federal grand jury in  San Jose  began taking
evidence in February as prosecutors probed attacks on Paypal,
MasterCard Inc. and Visa Inc.  Anuj Nayar, a spokesman for Paypal, said the company has no
comment on “ongoing legal action.”  “PayPal works with  law enforcement  around the world to
protect our customers and their accounts,” Nayar said in an e-
mailed statement. “As we state in our privacy policy, PayPal
works with law enforcement or government officials if we receive
a subpoena or court order; if we need to do so to comply with
law; or if we believe in good faith that illegal activity has
occurred.”  The case is U.S. v Cooper, 11-471, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  