-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Rises Before Housing Figures

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-19T11:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-rises-before-housing-figures.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Copper Reaches Three-Month High as U.S. Housing Starts May Gain  Copper rose to a three-month high in  London  before figures
that may show builders in the U.S. broke ground on more houses,
signaling stronger demand for the metal.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Carbon’s Plunge Reflects European Debt Woes, CF Partners Says  Plunging prices of  carbon emissions , the only energy market
managed by the European Commission, shows trust in how the
regulator is coping with the region’s debt crisis is waning,
according to CF Partners (U.K.) LLP.  Japan Quake Response Lags Behind 1923 Effort, Kan Aide Says (1)  Japan’s rebuilding is lagging behind the nation’s responses
to the Tokyo earthquake of 1923 and Kobe’s 1995 disaster because
of political infighting, the head of the reconstruction
committee said.  Onahama Smelter Struggles to Restart After Quake, Radiation  Onahama Smelting & Refining Co., majority owned by  Japan ’s
third-largest copper producer Mitsubishi Materials Corp., is
unable to resume full operations as repair work to port
facilities damaged by the March quake continues and radiation
fears keep vessels away.  Booming Cotton No Boon to African Farmers Milked by Monopolies  Amado Kafando tilted his head back, smiled and pumped his
fists into the west African sky. “We praised God, and said, ‘At
last!’” said Kafando, 45, standing amid the mud huts where he
lives with 11 children and no electricity.  Potash Cartel’s ‘Cupboard Is Bare’ for  India  After China Accord  Canpotex Ltd., the North American cartel of potash
producers, has no spare supply to sell to India this quarter and
won’t resume negotiations with Indian buyers until “late” in
the period, Mosaic Co. Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko
said.  Record Mine Profit as Shipping Slumps on Glut: Freight Markets  The largest glut of ships in history means the cheapest
freight rates relative to iron-ore prices in at least a decade,
helping Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd. to generate record
profit.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  OZ Minerals Says Sandfire Copper Discovery Best in Recent Times  OZ Minerals Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest copper producer
by value, said Sandfire Resources NL, where it’s the biggest
shareholder, likely made the nation’s “best” copper discovery
in recent times.  MINING:  Polyus Gold Plans to Triple Output as Metal Trades at Record (1)  OAO Polyus Gold,  Russia ’s largest producer of the metal,
intends to triple output by the end of the decade as soaring
prices fuel expansion plans.  AngloGold Hits 10-Week High on Gold Rally, Beating Gold Fields  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s largest gold producer,
surged to a 10-week high in Johannesburg trading, outpacing Gold
Fields Ltd. as it benefits from the longest winning streak in
more than three decades for the metal.  Gem Price Gains to Slow After Surging in First Half, Petra Says  Rough diamond price gains may slow in the second half of
the year after surging in the first six months on rising demand
from China and India, according to Johan Dippenaar, the chief
executive officer of Petra Diamonds Ltd.  S.African Gold Industry Pay Talks Fail to Reach Deal, Union Says  Mediated pay talks between employers and workers’ groups in
South  Africa ’s gold industry yesterday failed to secure an
agreement, according to the Solidarity labor union.  Petra Diamonds Full-Year Sales Advance 24% After Price Gains  Petra Diamonds Ltd., a miner of the gems in southern
Africa, said full-year sales rose 24 percent as prices for rough
stones increased.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Extend Record in Best Run in Nine Decades on Debt Woes  Gold may rise for a 12th day after touching a record in the
longest winning streak in at least nine decades as debt concerns
in  Europe  and the U.S. spur demand for a protection of wealth.
Bullion climbed to an all-time high in pounds and silver
advanced to a two-month high.  India’s July Gold Imports May Decline on Prices, Group Says (1)  Gold imports by India, the world’s largest bullion
consumer, may be “slack” this month as record prices cool
demand, according to the Bombay Bullion Association.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Climbs as U.S. Heat Wave May Curb Crop Yields in Midwest  Corn climbed in  Chicago  on speculation hot weather in parts
of the U.S., the world’s largest producer and exporter, will
curb supplies. Wheat gained.  Italy Grain-Import Bill Jumped 46% in First Four Months on Wheat  Italy’s grain import bill jumped 46 percent in the first
four months of 2011 as the country, the world’s third-largest
wheat buyer, was confronted with surging prices, the national
cereal-industry association said.  India Food Grain Output Estimated at 241.56 Million Tons  Food grain output in India, the world’s second-biggest
producer of rice and wheat, likely climbed to a record in
2010-2011 as higher prices encouraged farmers to increase
planting, the farm ministry said.  Sugar Rises on Smaller Crop in Top Producer  Brazil ; Cocoa Drops  Sugar climbed the most in almost a week in London on
concerns supplies will be limited as a smaller crop in top
producer Brazil results in soaring domestic prices. Cocoa
retreated.  Brazil’s Crystal Sugar More Profitable Than Exports, Cepea Says  Crystal sugar sales in Brazil’s domestic market have become
more profitable than exports of the sweetener as local prices
increased by 15 percent this month, according to Cepea, a
University of Sao Paulo research group.  Palm Oil  Advances as Two-Day Decline Lures Cooking-Oil Buyers  Palm oil climbed after two days of declines attracted
importers and as an advance in  crude oil  boosted the appeal of
vegetable oils as biofuel.  SHIPPING:  Torm Increases Dry-Bulk Shipments for  China  Nickel Resources  Torm A/S increased the number of dry-bulk cargoes it’s
contracted to haul for China Nickel Resources Holding Co.  Tropical Storm Dora to Become Pacific Hurricane; Bret Weakens  Tropical Storm Dora strengthened in the eastern Pacific and
is forecast to become a hurricane today, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said.  ECONOMIES:  Dodd-Frank Panel’s Delays Create Financial ‘Guessing Game’ (1)  A team of regulators charged with preventing another
financial crisis is fending off criticism it’s moving too slowly
to identify the firms whose failure could pose a threat to the
economy.  EU Struggles to Convince on Greek Deal as Spain Sells Debt (2)  European leaders are struggling to convince investors that
they will agree on a second Greek bailout at a summit this week
as record bond yields boosted financing costs at sales of
Spanish and Greek debt.  China’s Surging Revenue Counters Local-Government Debt Risk (1)  China’s tax revenue rose 29.6 percent to 5 trillion yuan
($773 billion) in the first half of the year, giving officials
more room to maneuver as they grapple with swelling local-
government debt.  German Investor Confidence Fell More Than Forecast in July (2)  Investor confidence in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
dropped more than economists forecast in July as the euro-area
debt crisis worsened.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Rebound on Earnings as Euro Gains, Commodities Advance  European stocks rose from a seven-month low on
International Business Machines Corp.’s profit forecast and
Novartis AG’s better-than-estimated earnings. The euro
strengthened on speculation European leaders will move closer to
resolving the debt crisis, while commodities gained.  Euro Strengthens Versus Franc on Optimism Debt Agreement Near  The euro strengthened against the dollar and Swiss franc on
speculation European officials are nearing agreement on
reinforcing measures designed to halt contagion from the
region’s debt crisis.  Kiwi’s Surge on Rate Bets Adds to Key Concerns: Chart of the Day  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key sees “real concern”
about his country’s record-high currency. The so-called kiwi is
unlikely to stop climbing, said Richard Yetsenga, global head of
foreign exchange strategy at  Australia  & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  European Stocks Climb, Lifting Stoxx 600 From Seven-Month Low  European stocks gained, rebounding from a seven-month low,
as companies from Novartis AG to International Business Machines
Corp. reported earnings that beat estimates. U.S. futures rose
while most Asian shares fell.  Most Asian Stocks Decline Amid U.S., Europe Debt Crisis Concern  Most Asian stocks fell amid concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach a deal on the country’s debt limit and Europe’s
worsening crisis will slow the global economic recovery.  Oil Rises for First Day in Four on U.S. Supply, Euro Recovery  Oil climbed in London for the first time in four days on
speculation that European lawmakers may reach an agreement to
resolve the region’s debt crisis, and on signs of shrinking
crude stockpiles in the U.S.  House to Act on Doomed U.S. Deficit Plan With No Deal Imminent  Two weeks from a threatened default, U.S.  House Republicans 
today plan to defy President  Barack Obama ’s promised veto by
voting to slash spending and condition a $2.4 trillion debt-
ceiling increase on passage of a constitutional amendment to
balance the budget.  James Murdoch  to Face Questions on $3.2 Million Settlements (2)  James Murdoch, deputy chief operating officer of  News
Corp ., will be asked by British lawmakers whether settlements he
authorized to victims of phone-hacking by a Sunday tabloid were
part of a cover-up.  Israeli Military Boards Gaza Strip-Bound Ship, Army Says (1)  Israeli soldiers boarded a ship bound for the  Gaza Strip ,
and there were no immediate reports of resistance, an army
spokesman said, speaking anonymously by regulation.  SPORTS:  Chelsea Bids for Leverkusen Midfielder Vidal: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Has ‘Substantial’ Funds to Sign Players, Gazidis Says  Arsenal has “a substantial amount of money” to spend on
new players during the current trade period, said Ivan Gazidis,
the Premier League soccer club’s chief executive officer.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  