-- 
American Schoolchildren Appear Lost in Latest Study of Geography Aptitude

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-07-19T15:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-s-kids-appear-lost-in-latest-study-of-geography-knowledge.html
U.S. schoolchildren, noses in their
smartphones, don’t know the lay of the land.  Only half of fourth-graders correctly put the following in
descending order of size:  North America , the U.S.,  California 
and  Los Angeles , according to a federal test known as the
Nation’s Report Card, the Education Department said today.  Less than one-third of elementary and high school students
showed proficiency in geography, the Education Department said.
Students aren’t learning subjects such as geography and history
as teachers spend more time on math and reading to accommodate
standardized tests, said Roger M. Downs, a Pennsylvania State
University geography professor.  As “classroom time becomes an even more precious and scarce
commodity, geography, with subjects such as history and the
arts, is losing out in the zero-sum game that results from high-
stakes testing,” Downs said in a statement released with the
results.  U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan has cited this
narrowing of the curriculum in calling for changes before the
start of the next school year to the No Child Left Behind law,
which ties federal funding to standardized math and reading
tests.  On the federal geography test administered last year, about
a third of fourth-graders could answer a question showing they
could determine distance on a map.  ‘Lost Art’  Because of students’ dependence on technology, “the ability
to read a map seems to be becoming a lost art,” Shannon
Garrison, a member of the board overseeing the test, said in a
statement.  While fourth graders made gains in achievement since 2001,
the last time the test was given, eighth- and 12th-graders’
scores were little changed.  Shown a picture of tectonic plates near  Japan , a third of
eighth-graders indicated they had no understanding of their
relationships to earthquakes. Only 4 percent were able to give
two reasons why the U.S. urban population rose sharply from 1800
to 1980.  In the nationally representative sample of public and
private schools, 7,000 fourth-graders, 9,500 eighth-graders and
10,000 12th-graders participated in last year’s geography test.
The periodic “ report cards ,” officially called the National
Assessment of Educational Progress, measure knowledge of math,
reading, science and six other subjects.  Federal tests on history and civics released earlier this
year had similar outcomes, showing a “pattern of disappointing
results for our 12th-graders’ performance across all three
social science subjects,” David Driscoll, chairman of the board
that administers the test, said in a statement.  ‘Unclaimed Subject’  In a bright spot, minorities improved their achievement
relative to white students in some cases, said Driscoll, a
former Massachusetts education commissioner. Narrowing this
“achievement gap” has been a focus of No Child Left Behind,
signed into law by President  George W. Bush  in 2002.  The rising results for fourth-graders, especially among
lower-performing students, may have more to do with their
improved reading skills than their geography knowledge, said
Garrison, a fourth-grade teacher in Los Angeles.  In elementary school, teachers tend to integrate geography
into social studies, reading, science and math, Garrison said.
In middle and high school, “geography is often the unclaimed
subject,” she said.  Geography “provides the context for understanding many of
the complex social, political and economic relationships that
exist in our world,” said Garrison. “Too many students still
fall far short of the knowledge and understanding they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 