-- 
U.S. Tour de France Teams Bar TV Cameras in Standoff Over Revenue Sharing

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-19T16:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/u-s-tour-de-france-teams-bar-tv-cameras-in-standoff-over-revenue-sharing.html
Tour de France  teams are pressuring
the Amaury family that owns the 108-year-old cycling race to
share television-rights income for the first time.  Garmin-Cervelo, whose rider  Thor Hushovd  wore the leader’s
yellow jersey for the first week of this year’s race, and HTC-
Highroad showed their discontent by barring broadcasters from
their vehicles during some Tour stages, officials of the two
U.S.-based teams said in interviews. They’re normally obliged to
open up team cars and buses to TV rights-holders.  Most European competitors support lobbying for some of the
TV income from the Amaury Sport Organisation, although French
squads are wary of confronting organizers because they risk
having their invitation to ride withdrawn, said Jonathan Vaughters, manager of the Boulder, Colorado-based Garmin team.
ASO may get as much as $200 million from TV rights, while the 22
Tour de  France  teams typically have an annual budget of $10
million each from sponsorships, Vaughters said.  “The athletes and equipment are our property -- why should
we give access” to cameras if teams don’t get a share of the
television rights, said Vaughters, who’s also president of the
teams’ association. He added that most in-car filming is now
done from the vehicles of French teams.  The Amaury family has controlled the Tour de France since
the 1940s, and manages it through its closely held Amaury Sport
Organisation. Paris-based ASO runs additional sports events,
including the Dakar rally and the Paris marathon. The family
shared in 136.6 million euros ($194 million) of dividends from
ASO between 2004 and 2008, according to company filings.  Television Income  Jean-Etienne Amaury is president of ASO, and his mother,
Marie-Odile, is on the board of the company. Vaughters said he
spoke with Marie-Odile before April’s Paris-Roubaix race. She
referred him to other ASO officials, who haven’t shown a
willingness to negotiate, Vaughters said.  The common conception “is that they could put on a race
with amateur riders from France if necessary,” Vaughters said.  Garmin’s Hushovd today won his second stage of this year’s
Tour de France, outsprinting Team Sky’s Edvald Boasson Hagen in
the rainy 16th stage.  Race director Christian Prudhomme said he was unable to
speak on the TV-income issue and couldn’t immediately make the
Amaury family available for comment.  Fight Doping  The Tour de France, broadcast in more than 180 countries,
gets about 60 percent of its income from TV rights, ASO
marketing director Laurent Lachaux has said, without giving
financial details. Most of the rest of the race income comes
from sponsorship and the fees it charges towns to host stages.
ASO distributes 3.4 million euros in prize money, while the
teams get an appearance fee of about 55,000 euros each,
RadioShack team manager  Johan Bruyneel  said.  The Tour differs from other competitions, such as the
 National Football League  and soccer’s  Champions League , because
organizers don’t give teams a share of TV money, according to
 Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports business strategy at the
U.K.’s Coventry University.  “It’s very, very unusual that the Tour de France doesn’t
share its revenue with the constituent parts of its brand,”
Chadwick said. “They’re adhering to a model that was first
introduced about a century ago.”  Milram Shut  By sharing income, ASO could even help fight doping that
has tarnished cycling for years because it would reduce
financial pressure on riders to win, Vaughters said. A stage win
at the Tour can make the difference between a sponsor renewing
its backing of a squad or not, Euskaltel team rider  Samuel Sanchez  told Eurosport after winning a leg in the Pyrenees on
July 14.  “Teams are constantly in danger of dissolving as soon as
their contract” with a sponsor ends, Vaughters said. “It’s not
sustainable.”  Germany ’s Milram shut after failing to find another sponsor
last season. San Luis Obispo, California-based HTC-Highroad may
have to close after this year if it can’t get more backing, team
spokeswoman Kristy Scrymgeour said. The team’s riders include
19-time stage winner Mark Cavendish of the U.K.  HTC barred television cameras from a team car on the first
day of the race, although it has changed its stance in recent
days because there isn’t a consensus among teams on what action
to take, Scrymgeour said.  Revise Model  Seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong ’s former team
RadioShack isn’t allowing France Television to film in its
vehicles. Its stance is partly motivated by the broadcaster
starting a move to ban radio contact between teams and riders in
an effort to make racing more unpredictable, the team’s manager
Bruyneel said in an interview.  Bruyneel said it’s time for cycling to revise its business
model.  “You have to take a stand at some point,” Bruyneel said.
“The prize money we get is insignificant. It’s normal that
someone who gets the biggest part of the cake doesn’t want to
share it but the riders and the teams are the key players in the
biggest races in the world.”  Luxembourg-based Leopard-Trek, which includes two-time Tour
runner-up  Andy Schleck  on its roster, wants to hold talks with
ASO after the 21-stage race finishes on July 24, spokesman Tim
Vanderjeugd said.  “We think it’s important but we are not going to go on
strike about it,” Vanderjeugd said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Saint-Paul-Trois-Chateaux, France, at 
9602 or  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  