-- 
Unions Ask N.Y. Attorney General to Stop Lincoln Center Getaway

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-19T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/unions-ask-n-y-attorney-general-to-stop-lincoln-center-getaway.html
Unions representing New York City
Opera singers and musicians petitioned New York Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman  yesterday to block the company’s plan to leave
 Lincoln Center .  The move, the unions asserted, would violate agreements
approved by the state allowing City Opera management to borrow
$24 million from its endowment to cover operating costs at
Lincoln Center.  “NYCO’s move from Lincoln Center has breached its
fiduciary duty,” said the letter from the  American Guild of
Musical Artists  and  Associated Musicians of Greater New York .  The action came four days after the  Paul Taylor Dance Company 
said it will step in to help fill the vacancy created by City
Opera’s exit from the David H. Koch Theater at the Upper West
Side complex.  The unions’ letter cited emergency agreements in late 2008
and early 2009 between the company and the attorney general’s
office permitting the opera to borrow from its endowment to pay
bills. The company is obligated to repay the $24 million,
according to a court order.  In an April 2009 filing required to secure a loan from a
fund set up by Lila Acheson and DeWitt Wallace, the founders of
Reader’s Digest, the opera company said its assets included “a
prominent location at the heart of the most important cultural
campus in the world,” and the “imminent opening of a newly
renovated theater.”  Can’t Pay Rent  City Opera will quit Lincoln Center because it no longer
can cover costs there, Artistic Director  George Steel  said at a
press conference last week. Steel said by performing at smaller
venues around the city, with orchestras and choruses of various
sizes, it can survive without further raiding its endowment.  The off-campus plans have provoked protests by artists who
have performed at the opera and would void the most recent
contracts with the singers and musicians.  The Wallace fund, the source of the $24 million, was set up
in 1982 to benefit Lincoln Center’s constituent companies. The
unions said that leaving Lincoln Center “flouted” the
fundamental purpose of the fund.  In May, AGMA, which represents singers, stage directors and
stage managers, had appealed to the  National Labor Relations
Board  to block City Opera’s exit. AGMA Executive Director Alan
Gordon said he didn’t know whether the request of the attorney
general will prove effective.  “I have no idea whether they’ll do anything, but you gotta
try,” he said.  A spokeswoman for Schneiderman confirmed that the office
had received the letter and declined to comment. Schneiderman’s
father, Irwin Schneiderman, is a former City Opera chairman.  Maggie McKeon, a City Opera spokeswoman, called the letter
“another distraction from the real issue. We take strong
exception to the suggestion that we have misled anyone. That
accusation is ridiculous.”  On July 14, Paul Taylor Dance Co. said that it will present
its 2011-2012 season at the Koch Theater, from March 13 to April
1, 2012.  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 