-- 
Murdoch Websites Return After Attackers Post False Obituary

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-07-19T12:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/murdoch-newspaper-sites-down-after-hacking.html
News Corp., the company embroiled in
a phone-hacking scandal, returned its U.K. newspaper websites to
normal today after attackers disrupted service overnight and
posted a fake obituary for Chairman  Rupert Murdoch .  The Sun and the Times were back online as of 9:30 a.m. in
 London . The Lulz Security group claimed credit for the attack.
Visitors to the Sun were redirected to LulzSec’s Twitter feed,
on which the group posted what it said was private data from the
London tabloid’s journalists. Last month, LulzSec took credit
for attacks on Sony Corp.  Murdoch and Rebekah Brooks, the former CEO of the News
International unit, will today appear before a U.K.
parliamentary committee to answer questions about voice-mail
hacking by the company’s journalists. Corporate websites are
increasingly being targeted by hackers who say they are taking
revenge for unethical behavior. Last year, the Anonymous group
claimed credit for attacks on  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
after the companies stopped handling payments for whistle-
blowing organization WikiLeaks.  News International is aware of an attack last night and its
sites are now running as usual, a spokeswoman said today.  LulzSec is known for its distributed denial-of-service
attacks, which can bring down websites by flooding them with
thousands of service requests a second. The group’s Twitter
account, @LulzSec, has more than 300,000 followers. The group
operates anonymously and doesn’t have listed contact
information.  Before being sent to the Lulz Security Twitter feed,
visitors to the Sun’s website were redirected to the Murdoch
obituary.  “This was the work of Lulz Security, dear media,” read a
statement posted on LulzSec’s Twitter account last night.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWSA)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Mac in New York at 
 rmac3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  