-- 
Rupert Murdoch Attacked With Foam-Like Substance at U.K. Hacking Hearing

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T18:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/murdoch-hacking-hearing-in-u-k-is-suspended-after-disruption-by-protester.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
was attacked with a foam-like substance as he testified before
lawmakers about the phone-hacking scandal in the U.K.  A man in a checked shirt walked from the public seating
area and pushed a plate of the substance into Murdoch’s face.
Murdoch’s wife Wendi stood up from behind her husband and swung
at the man, who was then marched out of the room by police
officers.  The attacker refused to give his name when asked by
reporters. The U.K. Parliament committee hearing into the
scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World newspaper, which was
entering its final minutes with questions from panelist Louise
Mensch, was suspended after the incident and resumed a short
while later with Murdoch jacket-less and the public gallery
cleared.  “I would like to apologize for the wholly unacceptable
treatment you received from a member of the public,” John Whittingdale, chairman of the House of Commons’s Culture, Media
and Sport Select Committee, told Murdoch, 80, at the end of the
hearing.  Tom Watson , a member of the panel who has spearheaded
the campaign against Murdoch, said “Mr. Murdoch, your wife has
a very good left hook.”  Body Scanner, X-Ray  A witness, 17-year-old school pupil Luca Morreale, said he
lined up next to the man this morning before they passed through
security including a body scanner and x-ray for bags. He had
identified himself as a blogger as they waited, Morreale said.  House of Commons Speaker John Bercow has asked for the
incident to be investigated, a spokeswoman said in an e-mail.  The hearing, which Murdoch initially refused to appear
before until being summoned, had already been disturbed when
members of the public were escorted out after standing and
silently holding blue signs that read “The People Versus
Murdoch” and “Murdoch Wanted For News Crimes.” Outside the
building, protesters shouted anti-Murdoch chants and brandished
signs that read “Smash Murdoch’s Evil Empire.”  Murdoch’s appearance before a U.K. parliamentary hearing
is a sign of how much the phone-hacking allegations have damaged
the New York-based company’s U.K. operations. In two weeks, the
company has closed a profitable newspaper, pulled out of a bid
to buy the rest of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and lost
two senior executives.  Not Quitting  The newspaper proprietor told the committee that he wasn’t
responsible for the scandal, saying that the blame lies with the
“people that I trusted to run” his operations and that he
wouldn’t resign.  “I’m the best person to clear this up,” he said.  It’s not the first security breach at the U.K. parliament.
In September 2004, five protesters entered the main chamber of
the House of Commons as legislators held a debate on whether to
ban fox hunting with hounds. That came four months after men
seated in the visitors’ gallery at the House of Commons threw
purple-colored flour-bombs at then-Prime Minister  Tony Blair ,
hitting him on the back.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 