-- 
Alberto Contador Launches Unexpected Attack as Tour de France Enters Alps

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-19T22:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/hushovd-wins-16th-stage-of-tour-de-france-as-voeckler-keeps-overall-lead.html
Alberto Contador  showed his Tour de
France defense isn’t over yet.  The Spaniard surprised rivals by attacking in rainy weather
in the foothills of the Alps and gained 1 minute, 6 seconds on
two-time runner-up Andy Schleck.  Thor Hushovd  won stage 16, a
101-mile ride between Saint-Paul-Trois-Chateaux and Gap.  Contador, who moved up one place in the overall standings
to sixth in the 21-stage race, also gained 18 seconds on
France’s race leader  Thomas Voeckler  yesterday. His attack was
matched by  Cadel Evans , who rose to second.  “It’s more than I could have hoped for,” Contador told
reporters. “I can’t waste any chances to make up time.”  Contador fell behind because of crashes in the first week.
He’s seeking his fourth Tour title in five years, although he
risks having his 2010 and 2011 race results wiped out next month
if the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for
Sport overturns his acquittal for doping last year.  There are five stages remaining in the race, which ends on
July 24. Today’s  111-mile Alps stage  finishes in Pinerolo,
 Italy , and includes a category 1 climb, the second-most
difficult. There are two further mountain stages before a time
trial in Grenoble and the last-day leg to Paris.  Voeckler now leads two-time runner-up Evans of  Australia  by
1 minute, 45 seconds. Frank Schleck is third, four seconds
further back. Andy Schleck is fourth, 3:03 off the lead, and
 Samuel Sanchez  is fifth. Contador is 3:42 behind Voeckler, who
says he was “at the limit” yesterday.  Mountain Passes  “It really surprised me” that Contador attacked, Voeckler
said. “Everyone was expecting for him to wait for the big
mountain passes” later this week.  Frank Schleck, Andy’s older brother, also said he hadn’t
expected any race contenders to attack yesterday.  Andy Schleck 
had said Contador was “not one of the most dangerous”
contenders any more.  Contador of the Saxo Bank team made his move on the final
climb, a six-mile ascent of the Col de Manse. He said he told
Sanchez, a fellow Spaniard with the Euskaltel team, he was
planning to attack. Sanchez joined him and Evans of BMC Racing
tracked them before pulling away on the descent to finish three
seconds ahead of the pair.  Hushovd of the Garmin-Cervelo team outsprinted Team Sky’s
Edvald Boasson Hagen, also a Norwegian. Scores of that country’s
fans cheered the riders on at the end.  “This is unreal,” Hushovd told Eurosport. “It was like
riding the Norwegian championship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  