-- 
Vale to Have Deal ‘Discipline’ After Spurning Metorex Bid

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-07-19T20:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/vale-ceo-ferreira-says-company-has-discipline-in-acquisitions-after-bid.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, will have discipline in making acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said, a week after he dropped
out of bidding for South African copper producer  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)   The company will only make “opportunistic” acquisitions
that bring shareholders returns, Ferreira said in an interview
at company headquarters in  Rio de Janeiro  today. Africa is the
“priority” for efforts to expand in copper output, he said.  Vale, aiming to boost production of the metal almost
fivefold to 1 million metric tons by 2015, on July 11 dropped
out of bidding for Johannesburg-based Metorex after  China ’s
Jinchuan Group Co. trumped its $1.13 billion offer with a $1.36
billion bid. Last year, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale produced about
207,000 tons of copper.  “If it’s a deal that won’t generate returns for our
shareholders, I’d rather not do it,” Ferreira said.  Ferreira, 58, replaced  Roger Agnelli  as CEO of Vale on May
22 after the Brazilian government criticized the company in the
past two years for not spending more on domestic steel projects
and for buying ships in China when the country was setting up
its own yards. Since taking over, Ferreira scrapped a plan to
sell shares of Vale’s fertilizers business in an initial public
offering, cut its long-term iron-ore output forecast by 10
percent and announced a share buyback of as much as $3 billion.  ‘Any Asset’  Vale is interested in “any asset” in the iron-ore,
fertilizer, nickel, coal and copper markets as long as it
creates growth and return for its shareholders, Ferreira said.
Energy assets aren’t “on its radar,” even as rival BHP
Billiton Ltd. has made such acquisitions, he said.  Ferreira, who just returned to Rio after two weeks visiting
customers and suppliers in  Europe , China,  Japan  and  Australia ,
is seeking to “intensify” the company’s relationship with its
shareholders.  “I want to strengthen the relationship with analysts and
investors. It will be much more intense,” he said.  Vale scrapped its planned IPO of its fertilizers unit
because it has low debt levels and doesn’t need additional
resources to develop the assets, Ferreira said. Selling shares
now would lead to discounts of as much as 45 percent in the
value of the assets, he said.  ‘More Clarity’  Vale, which is due to report its results for the second
quarter on July 28, expects to finish an internal review of all
its projects in the next 60 days, Ferreira said. The company
will have “more clarity” on its long-term nickel and copper
output forecasts after the review, he said.  Vale may report second-quarter profit before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $10.1 billion, a record
for the company, thanks to higher iron-ore prices and an
increase in sales volumes, Leonardo Correa, an equity analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  Sao Paulo , said in a note to clients
yesterday. Profit may rise further during the third quarter “as
iron ore volumes should increase and prices remain at very high
levels,” he said.  Vale gained 17 centavos to 46.22 reais as of 4:34 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. Before today, the stock lost about 5.1 percent this
year, compared with a 15 percent decline in the benchmark
Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  