-- 
Vale to Make ‘Opportunistic’ Deals, Keep Discipline Amid Record Earnings

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-07-20T15:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/vale-seeks-only-opportunistic-deals-to-control-costs-amid-record-profit.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, will only make “opportunistic” acquisitions as
it seeks to control expenditures amid record profit, Chief
Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said.  The company will be disciplined in pursuing acquisitions,
Ferreira said yesterday in an interview at Vale’s headquarters
in Rio de Janeiro, a week after he decided against entering into
a bidding war for South African copper producer  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) 
Vale has an “aggressive” organic growth strategy, he said.  Ferreira, 58, replaced  Roger Agnelli  as CEO of Vale on May
22 after the Brazilian government criticized the company in the
past two years for not spending more on domestic steel projects
and for buying ships in China when the country was setting up
its own yards. Since taking over, Ferreira scrapped a plan to
sell shares of Vale’s fertilizers business in an initial public
offering, cut its long-term  iron-ore  output forecast by 10
percent and announced a share buyback of as much as $3 billion.  “We have discipline in the capital allocation,” Ferreira
said. “I want to do good deals that generate return for
shareholders.”  Vale on July 11 dropped out of bidding for Johannesburg-
based Metorex after China’s Jinchuan Group Co. trumped its $1.13
billion offer with a $1.36 billion bid. Last year, Vale produced
about 207,000 tons of copper.  Missing Target  The company won’t make its target to produce 1 million
metric tons of copper by 2015, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s
director for marketing and sales, said late yesterday.  “We won’t be able to reach it,” Martins said at an event
in  Sao Paulo . “We would have to make acquisitions or new
discoveries. The 1 million metric tons still exists, but it’s
difficult to reach it by 2015.”  Vale said June 27 that it expects to produce 469 million
metric tons a year of iron ore by 2015, compared with an Oct. 28
forecast of 522 million tons. Delays in the development of some
projects and securing environmental licenses explains the
reduction, CEO Ferreira said yesterday.  “The last thing that investors want to see is Vale going
out and paying any price and overpaying just because they can,”
Jonathan Brandt, an HSBC Holdings Plc equity analyst in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “They are being cautious
with the capital and certainly returning a lot more capital than
some of their peers.”  Stock Buybacks  Brandt said he expects Vale to announce as much as $3
billion in additional special dividends later in the year, based
on HSBC’s net income forecast for the company. Vale is scheduled
to pay at least $5 billion in dividends this year, two-thirds
more than the amount distributed last year.  The company said June 30 that it will also spend as much as
$3 billion to repurchase stock, joining BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s biggest mining company, and Rio Tinto Group in returning
capital to shareholders.  Vale, which will invest a record $24 billion this year,
embarked on a plan to expand its iron-ore production capacity
about 50 percent by 2015 and diversify into other markets,
including base metals and potash, to take advantage of
increasing demand from emerging markets.  Vale fell 11 centavos, or 0.2 percent, to 46.04 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 11:20 a.m.  New York  time. Before today, the
stock dropped about 4.9 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent decline in the benchmark Bovespa Index. Melbourne-based
BHP declined 5.3 percent in so far this year.  African Expansion  Vale is interested in “any asset” in the iron-ore,
fertilizer, nickel, coal and copper markets as long as it
creates growth and return for its shareholders, Ferreira said.
Energy assets aren’t “on its radar,” even as BHP has made such
acquisitions, he said.  Africa is the “priority” for efforts to expand in copper
output, he said.  Vale scrapped a planned IPO of its fertilizers unit because
it has low debt levels and doesn’t need additional resources to
develop the assets, Ferreira said. Selling shares now would lead
to discounts of as much as 45 percent in the value of the
assets, he said.  China  is nearing the end of the monetary policy tightening
cycle and conditions are set to improve as of the fourth
quarter, Ferreira said.  “We will start to see from next month a change in the
direction of inflation,” he said.  Chinese Demand  Vale sees no slowdown in demand from China as the country
seeks to build 36 million low-income houses in the next five
years, Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said in an
interview July 5. Vale shipped about 41 percent of its total
iron-ore and pellets sales to China in the first quarter.  Vale, which is due to report second-quarter earnings on
July 28, expects to finish an internal project review in the
next 60 days, Ferreira said. The company will have “more
clarity” on its long-term nickel and copper output forecasts
after the review, he said.  Vale may report a record second-quarter profit before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $10.1 billion
because of higher iron-ore prices and increased sales volumes,
Leonardo Correa, an equity analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Sao
Paulo, said in a note to clients July 18. Profit may rise
further during the third quarter “as iron-ore volumes should
increase and prices remain at very high levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  