-- 
Vedanta Alumina-Expansion Petition Rejected by Indian Court

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-07-19T12:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/vedanta-alumina-expansion-petition-rejected-by-indian-court-1-.html
An Indian court today rejected
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s petition to allow the expansion of its
alumina refinery, further delaying a proposed $8.4 billion
investment by the nation’s biggest aluminum producer.  Unit Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. will decide on the next course
of action after studying the full verdict of the Orissa high
court, company lawyer Manoj Mishra said today by phone. The
government halted the expansion at Lanjigarh in the eastern
state on Oct. 21 for violating forestry rules.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , won
approval from the Orissa government on Aug. 10 to expand the
refinery’s capacity sixfold to 6 million metric tons. Two weeks
later, the environment ministry said Vedanta’s refinery may be
sourcing bauxite from mines without environmental approvals and
asked the London-based company to justify why the permit for the
refinery should not be canceled.  The  environment ministry  stopped construction at Lanjigarh
in October and placed conditions on the running of an existing 1
million ton refinery. A proposal to raise the capacity of a
dedicated power plant to 300 megawatts from 75 megawatts was
also denied.  Mukesh Kumar, chief operating officer of Vedanta Aluminium,
didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone.  Vedanta rose as much as 3.1 percent to 1,850 pence in
 London  and traded at 1,845 pence as of 1:21 p.m. local time. The
shares have declined 27 percent this year, compared with a 2.1
percent drop in the benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  