-- 
Vegetable Oil Output May Climb on Palm Yields, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-19T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/vegetable-oil-output-may-climb-on-palm-yields-oil-world-says.html
Vegetable oil production may gain 4
percent in 2011 following a larger increase last year as higher
yields in  Malaysia  and Indonesia boost  palm-oil  output, Hamburg-
based researcher Oil World said in a report today.  World production of palm, soy, cotton, groundnut, sun,
rape, palmkernel and coconut oils will rise to 145.7 million
metric tons this year, Oil World said. Palm oil production will
rise 8.5 percent to 49.8 million tons, according to the report.
Soy oil output will gain 5.2 percent to 42.3 million tons, the
researcher said.  “Palm oil production is set to continue to rise sizably
from a year earlier during the remainder of this year,” Oil
World said. “World production has recovered sizably since March
2011, mainly in Malaysia and Indonesia, with yields per tree
showing a clear-cut improvement after two years of below-average
productivity.”  Palm oil futures have lost 18 percent this year on
prospects for bigger inventories as better weather resulted in
higher output from  Indonesia  and Malaysia, the biggest
producers.  Malaysia will produce 18.6 million tons of palm oil in
2011, up 16 percent from a three-year low last year, Oil World
said. Indonesia’s output this year will rise 8.1 percent to 24
million tons, according to the report.  Palm oil production in the second half of the year will
total 26.8 million tons, up 2.2 million tons from last year, Oil
World said. Malaysian output will gain 9 percent from the second
half of last year to 10 million tons and Indonesian production
will rise 7.2 percent to 13.3 million tons, according to the
report.  “While yields reportedly recovered pronouncedly in the
first half of 2011, shortage of labor remains a constraint in
Malaysia where the industry is trying to convince the government
to apply a more liberal immigration policy to improve the labor
situation and make it possible for the plantations to minimize
losses and raise the oil extraction rates,” Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 