-- 
Wal-Mart de Mexico Profit Drops 3.4% Amid Store Openings

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-19T22:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/wal-mart-de-mexico-posts-second-quarter-profit-4-5-billion.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB,  Latin
America ’s largest retailer, said second-quarter profit fell 3.4
percent as the company increased spending to open new stores and
integrate Central American operations.  Net income totaled 4.49 billion pesos ($385 million), down
from 4.65 billion a year ago, the Mexico City-based company said
today in a  filing  to the Mexican stock exchange. Revenue grew
9.2 percent to 88.4 billion pesos even as same-store sales
disappointed, said Chief Executive Officer Scot Rank.  “This second quarter of the year certainly was a tough one
in terms of results,” Rank said in a conference call with
analysts. “Sales were below our expectations and we have taken
steps to improve sales immediately.”  Wal-Mart de  Mexico ’s same-store sales rose 2.4 percent in
Mexico during the quarter and 6.2 percent in Central America,
Rank said. The company spent 4.7 billion pesos on fixed assets
in the second quarter, 64 percent more than last year.  Earnings were in line with estimates from Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit and Deutsche Bank AG. Interacciones Casa de Bolsa
SA forecast profit of 5 billion pesos for the quarter.  The company opened 132 units compared with 56 during the
same quarter last year, Rank said. Most of the store openings
occurred in the last days of June, which kept them from boosting
sales more, he said.  There’s a limit on how many stores the Mexican economy can
absorb, said Raul Ochoa, an analyst at Interacciones Casa de
Bolsa in Mexico City. The number of new stores is outpacing the
increase in Mexican salaries and new jobs, resulting in sales
being taken away from existing ones, he said.  ‘Cannibalizing Itself’  “With so many new openings in certain areas, the market is
cannibalizing itself,” Ochoa said. “With one store so near the
other, you can’t have such notable growth.”  The higher spending on store openings, remodeling and the
introduction of Wal-Mart systems to Central America will pay off
later this year, Rank said.  “This investment that occurred ahead of time puts us in a
better position for the rest of the year despite the negative
impact on expenses for the quarter,” he said.  The company also ran into “system-related mistakes” in
Central America that hurt profits, Rank said. Those missteps
have been corrected, he said. In Mexico, the company has been
strengthening its strategy of “everyday low prices” since May
by negotiating lower costs with suppliers, Rank said. That
process will be concluded in July, he said.  Efforts to increase sales come as competitors, such as
Organizacion Soriana SAB, Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB
and Grupo Comercial Chedraui SA, have learned to match Wal-Mart
de Mexico’s prices, Ochoa said.  “The difference between Wal-Mart and its competition five
or six years ago was really big,” he said. “Now this gap has
narrowed a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Jonathan J. Levin in
Mexico City at   jlevin20@bloomberg.net  and
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  