-- 
Wells Fargo Advances on Record Profit, Cost-Cutting Plans

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-19T20:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/wells-fargo-profit-revenue-increase.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, climbed the most since November as profit rose to a
record and it announced a goal of cutting $1.5 billion in
quarterly costs by the end of next year.  Wells Fargo advanced 5.7 percent as executives revealed
details of a plan to shrink noninterest expense to $11 billion a
quarter by the end of 2012. Net income climbed 29 percent to
$3.95 billion, or 70 cents a diluted share, the San Francisco-
based company said today in a statement.  “The market is applauding the detail they gave regarding
new cost-saving initiatives,” said Shannon Stemm, an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , who has a “hold” rating on
the company. “Wells Fargo is ahead of its peers in recognizing
that cutting expenses may be the only way to combat revenue
weakness.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, is relying on
loan-loss reserves and cost-cutting to boost profit as a jobless
rate above 9 percent has tempered the U.S. economic recovery.
Consumer borrowing rose in May for the eighth straight month, a
sign that people may be ramping up credit-card debt as gasoline
prices and unemployment climb.  “Revenue remains king around here,” Stumpf said during a
conference call. “By becoming more efficient we can grow faster
and become more competitive.”  Revenue Matches Estimates  Revenue rose 0.3 percent from the first quarter, while
declining 4.7 percent from the same period a year earlier, to
$20.4 billion, matching analysts’ estimates. Pretax, pre-
provision income advanced 4 percent to $7.91 billion, compared
with the preceding three-month period. Total loans climbed $766
million to $751.9 billion as of June 30.  Noninterest expense declined $258 million from the first
quarter to $12.5 billion, which included $484 million in merger-
related costs and $428 million tied to operating losses, with
“substantially all” of that related to litigation around
mortgage foreclosures, the bank said in the statement.  Wells Fargo set aside $1.84 billion in the second quarter
to cover future loan losses, down from $3.99 billion in the same
period a year earlier, as net write-offs declined 37 percent to
$2.84 billion, according to the statement.  The lender posted $261 million in losses from having to
 repurchase  home loans, down from $331 million in the first
quarter. The bank had $1.19 billion set aside to cover future
mortgage losses. Outstanding claims declined to $2.24 billion of
original loan balance, down from $2.49 billion at the end of
March.  Shares Advance  Bank lending has picked up for businesses and corporations
as well, Federal Reserve data show. U.S. commercial banks’
holdings of commercial and industrial loans rose to $1.26
trillion in May, a 1 percent increase from the previous month.  Wells Fargo, the fourth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
advanced $1.53 to $28.41 at 4:15 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, the top performance in both the 81-company S&P 500
Financials Index and the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , with 24 firms. The
shares have declined 8 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent drop in the KBW index.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Wells Fargo’s
largest shareholder, held 342.6 million shares, a 6.5 percent
stake, as of March 31. Wells Fargo said it purchased 35 million
shares in the quarter valued at about $1 billion.  BofA, JPMorgan, Citigroup  The lender is the last of the four largest U.S. banks to
report second-quarter results. The biggest,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , reported an $8.83 billion loss today on costs tied to
defective mortgages. No. 2  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said last week
that profit rose 13 percent to $5.43 billion as revenue
unexpectedly climbed on gains from underwriting stocks and
bonds.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest, said profit surged 24
percent to $3.34 billion on higher investment-banking fees.  The four lenders, along with Ally Financial Inc., are in
advanced talks with state attorneys general and federal
regulators over deficiencies in their mortgage-servicing
operations. The companies face penalties that may exceed $20
billion, two people familiar with the negotiations have said.  Wells Fargo may be forced to hold less capital than
competitors after global central banks agreed last month to levy
extra capital rules for lenders whose size or systemic
importance means their failure could cause another financial
crisis.  The new rules will be “less burdensome” for the lender
than rivals such as New York-based JPMorgan, Andrew Marquardt,
an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc., said in an interview
before Wells Fargo announced its results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 