-- 
Wheat Jumps to One-Month High as Feed Use of Grain Fueled by Rally in Corn

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-07-19T19:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/wheat-jumps-to-one-month-high-as-feed-use-of-grain-fueled-by-rally-in-corn.html
Wheat futures climbed to a one-month
high on speculation that U.S. livestock producers will use more
of the grain as an alternative feed ingredient after the price
of corn rose.  Corn futures reached a five-week high after the government
said U.S. crop conditions deteriorated, while hot weather this
week threatens to erode yields. Corn and wheat futures for
September delivery have traded close to parity in the past
month, compared with an average premium for wheat of $1.95 a
bushel in the past year.  “All the wheat market is doing is following on the
coattails of corn,” Dewey Strickler, the president of Ag Watch
Market Advisers, said in a telephone interview from Franklin,
 Kentucky . “If the price relationship would continue to improve,
you would see more wheat used in the feed rations.”  Wheat futures for September delivery gained 4 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $6.935 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price climbed to $7.2775,
the highest for a most-active contract since June 16. The grain
is up 19 percent in the past year.  The dollar fell as much as 0.8 percent against a basket of
major currencies, enhancing the appeal of grain from the U.S.,
the world’s biggest exporter.  Usually, “the wheat market reacts more to the dollar than
the other grains,”  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag in
Quinter,  Kansas , said in a telephone interview.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 