-- 
Woodside Defers Decision on Orders for Pluto Project Expansion

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T03:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/woodside-defers-decision-on-orders-for-pluto-project-expansion.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , the company
building the A$14.9 billion ($15.8 billion) Pluto liquefied
natural gas project in  Western Australia , deferred a decision to
order equipment for a proposed expansion of the venture.  Perth-based Woodside, seeking more gas to underpin a second
phase of the Pluto development, needs to complete work to
evaluate a discovery off the northwest coast, the Australian
company said today as it announced a 17 percent gain in second-
quarter sales. “Technical difficulties”  hindered the
completion of tests at the Xeres-1 gas find in the quarter,
Woodside said in a statement.  Woodside last month increased Pluto’s estimated cost for
the third time since November 2009 and delayed its target for
shipping cargoes by six months until March 2012. Peter Coleman,
who replaced Don Voelte as chief executive officer in May, is
unlikely to make the final  investment decision  on the proposed
expansion until the second half of next year, according to
 Adrian Wood , a Sydney-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  “It appears he’s working toward a slower time line than
under Voelte, but is that a good thing or bad thing?” Wood said
by telephone today. “You can have some confidence that if and
when he does order the items and sanction the project it is
going to be a good and robust project. It may take longer to get
there, but it seems they’re not going to rush.”  Drilling Results  Woodside rose 1.8 percent to A$38.94 at 1:25 p.m. in
Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed. The
stock has declined 6.7 percent in a year while crude oil futures
in  New York  have climbed 26 percent in the same period.  Woodside said in April that, depending on the success of
the drilling results, it planned to order “long-lead items
around mid-2011 to maintain the earliest start up for an
expansion train.” The industry term train refers to LNG
processing lines.  The gas producer plans to drill the Kelt-1 and Noblige-2
wells in the third quarter, the company said today. Woodside
said it discovered gas at Xeres-1 during the second quarter.  “Successful outcomes from drilling and appraisal work is
one part of the business case required to provide the confidence
to order long-lead items for an expansion,” Woodside said
today. Woodside deferred a decision on tests until later this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 