-- 
Yahoo Sales Miss Estimates as Rivals Siphon Display-Advertising Revenue

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-20T00:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/yahoo-sales-miss-estimates-as-rival-sites-siphon-display-ads-shares-fall.html
Yahoo! Inc., the most-visited U.S.
Web portal, reported revenue that missed estimates as marketers
favored competing sites and a sales-team shakeup made it harder
to clinch advertising orders. Shares fell in late trading.  Excluding sales passed on to partner sites, second-quarter
revenue slipped 4.6 percent from a year earlier to $1.08
billion, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said in a statement.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated $1.11 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  led a U.S. sales team
overhaul that caused greater-than-expected turnover, while Yahoo
suffered as rivals Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  did a better
job getting Web surfers to linger. Yahoo is expected to cede its
spot as the top seller of display advertising in the U.S. to
Facebook this year, according to researcher EMarketer Inc.  “It’s almost hard to believe they can continue to
disappoint the Street, which we thought had fairly weak
expectations, but they’ve done that,” said  Clayton Moran , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  In display ads -- the banner messages or video clips that
flank websites -- Yahoo said sales, excluding funds passed to
partners, climbed 5 percent. That fell short of Moran’s 13
percent projection.  Web surfers spent an average of 6.7 hours on Facebook last
month, compared with 3.4 hours for Yahoo and 4.1 with Google,
according to researcher ComScore Inc. in Reston, Virginia.  Sales-Team Reorganization  Efforts to close deals were impeded by a revamp of Yahoo’s
sales team, Yahoo Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse said in an
interview.  “In the U.S., our sales force is really under a pretty big
transition, so we didn’t close the quarter as strongly as we
planned to,” Morse said. “We’ve been reorganizing our U.S.
sales force, changing our leadership and kind of overhauling the
way we sell in the market to continue to evolve.”  Sales excluding revenue passed on to partners will be $1.05
billion to $1.1 billion in the current period, Yahoo said. That
missed the $1.12 billion projected by analysts.  Second-quarter net income attributable to the company rose
to $237 million, or 18 cents a share, from $213.3 million, or 15
cents a share, a year earlier, Yahoo said. Profit attributable
to Yahoo, excluding some items, was 19 cents a share, matching
the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yahoo declined 4.7 percent to $13.90 in extended trading,
after closing at $14.59 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares
have fallen 12 percent this year.  Alibaba Progress  Bartz, now more than two years into a turnaround effort as
CEO, has shuffled the management team, slashed costs with job
cuts and invested in product development. She has recently been
criticized by investors for her handling of Asian assets,
including a stake in China-based Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  In May, the company said that Alibaba Group had transferred
its online-payments unit, Alipay, to a Chinese company mostly
owned by Alibaba CEO Jack Ma. The shift, which helped Alipay
comply with foreign-ownership restrictions in  China , fueled
concern that Yahoo’s stake would lose value.  Alibaba, which owns e-commerce businesses in China, helps
Yahoo benefit from the growth in the world’s largest Internet
market. The company has made headway in discussions aimed at
making sure Alibaba is compensated for the transfer, Bartz said
today during a conference call with investors.  “We have made substantial progress on the definitive
agreements,” Bartz said. “But until every word is finalized,
and every document is signed, we’re simply not done. We’ll
continue to work in earnest.” The discussions also involve
Softbank Corp., Alibaba’s largest shareholder after Yahoo.  Yahoo!  Japan   Greenlight Capital Inc., the hedge fund run by  David Einhorn , said it sold its stake in Yahoo for a “modest loss”
earlier this month, citing concern about the company’s
investment in China after the Alipay disclosure. Greenlight said
in April it bought shares, speculating that the China unit stake
may be worth as much as the company’s entire market value.  The company also is working to unlock  shareholder value  for
its stake in other Asian company, Yahoo! Japan Corp., Morse said
during the call. The effort, which may include a spinoff or
creation of a stock that would track the value of Yahoo! Japan,
is a “top priority” for the management team, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 