-- 
Yara Chief Says Submitted Bid for BASF Assets, Sees ‘Good Fit’

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-07-19T11:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/yara-chief-says-submitted-bid-for-basf-assets-sees-good-fit-.html
Yara International ASA (YAR) , the world’s
largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, said it
handed in a second-round bid for BASF SE’s fertilizer operations
as it seeks to add to its European nitrate output.  “We’ve submitted a bid, but we haven’t been given a
schedule other than that BASF has said, I think, that they
expect to close the deal in the first quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Ole Haslestad said in an Oslo interview today.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical company, is in talks
with potential buyers of its fertilizer units and has hired
Morgan Stanley to handle the sale. The assets include a nitrogen
site in Antwerp,  Belgium , and a share of a venture in  France ,
which together generate about 500 million euros ($710 million)
in sales.  The fertilizer industry is consolidating as rising food
prices spur farmers to plant more crops, boosting demand for
soil nutrients. Yara’s fertilizer deliveries were up 4 percent
in the second quarter, led by urea sales. Margins improved for
all its main product groups, with the strongest increase for
NPK, or nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, and nitrates.  Yara was outbid by CF Industries Holdings Inc. in a battle
to acquire Sioux City, Iowa-based Terra Industries Inc. last
year. For the BASF assets, Haslestad said he expected there to
be a “lot of competition” and that he’s “hoping” the company
would be successful.  “We expect the process will become more concrete over the
course of the autumn, and we would very much like to be a part
of it,” the chief executive said. BASF’s assets would provide
Yara with “more nitrates produced in  Europe , in proximity to a
market where demand is high. They would fit very well with our
structure -- our production and sales structure.”  Burrup Tender  The Oslo-based company is also competing with Orascom for
the remaining stake of Burrup Fertilisers Pty, an Australian
ammonia producer under receivership. Yara, which owns 35 percent
of Burrup’s parent, Burrup Holdings Ltd., wants to take full
ownership of the company. A short listing of the bidders is
expected to take place on July 22, Haslestad said.  “We very much want it, but it has to be at the right
price, not if it is tremendously overpriced -- it’s not as
important at that,” he said, declining to specify what its
price limit was.  -- Editors: Andrew Noel, Benedikt Kammel  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  