-- 
Zhongpin Says Report on Overstated 2010 Sales was Based on ‘Faulty’ Facts

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-19T21:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-19/zhongpin-says-report-on-overstated-2010-sales-was-based-on-faulty-facts.html
Zhongpin Inc. (HOGS) , a China-based pork
processor, said a report from the China Economic Review alleging
it overstated information including the number of hogs processed
had “numerous” errors.  The Review said on its website this week that its own
research indicated that Zhongpin overstated figures such as hogs
purchased from farms in China’s Henan province and its number of
retail stores. Zhongpin shares fell 8.9 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading yesterday after dropping 8.8 percent on July 18.  “That report, from the China Economic Review, has numerous
incorrect facts, incorrect assumptions, sometimes limited
sampling and is generally based on relatively superficial
understanding of the business and the industry,” Warren Wang,
chief financial officer of the Henan-based company, said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. “The report is full of
speculation and has no foundation in fact.”  Zhongpin is among Chinese companies listed abroad that have
faced questions about their credibility in recent months. Short
sellers said companies including Sino-Forest Corp. and Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. were exaggerating operations.  Zhongpin bought more than 30,000 hogs from Chuying farm in
2010, not 10,000 as the Review reported, Sterling Song, the
company’s investor relations manager, said on the conference
call. The hog processing estimates in the report were wrong;
Zhongpin bought and slaughtered about 4.8 million hogs in 2010,
he said. Zhongpin has 1,270 retail stores in  China , Song said.  Stands by Filings  Executive Vice President Baoke Ben said the company stands
by the information and numbers in its U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filings, and investors are welcome to come
visit Zhongpin’s operations in China.  The company said an internal check revealed the report’s
author hadn’t talked to any senior managers. The China Economic
Review said it holds no short or long position on Zhongpin, and
will review possible errors the company highlighted, Wang said.  Zhongpin fell 91 cents to $9.34 at 5:20 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The shares have fallen 54 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 