-- Ahmadinejad Allies Lose Ground in Iran Vote
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-04T12:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/ahmadinejad-allies-lose-ground-in-iran-vote.html
Iran’s parliamentary election may
strengthen the hand of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  at
the expense of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  Electoral officials confirmed wins by 190 candidates,
Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said on state
television today. Run-offs will be required for at least 30
seats as candidates failed to attract the minimum 25 percent
required, he said. There are 290 seats in parliament.  Early results showed the United Principlist Front leading,
state-run Press TV said. The group, which includes members of
the parliament, has criticized Ahmadinejad for poor economic
management and failing to show sufficient allegiance to
Khamenei, 72, who was appointed in 1989 as the country’s highest
authority.  Mohammad-Najjar didn’t announce the names of the 190
confirmed winners.  Officials sought to portray the turnout as a repudiation of
pressure over the country’s nuclear program  Khamenei had called for participation as a show of unity
against external threats. The vote took place as the U.S. and
European Union apply sanctions targeting  Iran ’s oil sales and
central bank in a bid to halt what they say is Tehran’s drive to
build a nuclear weapon. Iran says its program is civilian.  Disappointing Enemies  The turnout in this “sensitive time shows that despite
plots, pressures, sanctions and slanders by foreign circles and
their media, the nation firmly defends its national interests,”
Iran’s Foreign Ministry said in a  statement  published on its
website today.  Based on early returns, turnout was 64.2 percent nationwide
and about 48 percent in Tehran, Mohammad-Najjar said. About 60
percent of eligible voters cast ballots in legislative elections
four years ago.  “The Iranian nation proved to the world that it’s pursuing
its path steadfastly and disappointed the enemies that aimed to
poison the climate of the elections,” Mohammad-Najjar said.  Candidates who are leading the votes in Tehran include
parliamentary member  Ahmad Tavakoli , who has frequently
denounced Ahmadinejad’s policies, former oil minister Masoud Mir Kazemi, who was dismissed by the president last year, and Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, a former parliamentary speaker and adviser to
Khamenei, the official  Islamic Republic News Agency  reported
today.  Presidential Sister  Ahmadinejad’s sister, Parvin, lost her race in their
hometown of Garmsar, southeast of the capital, according to the
state-run  Mehr  news agency.  “It has been clear for some time that these elections
would not be free and fair,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William
Hague  said in a statement. “The field of candidates for this
election has been limited by the intensified vetting of
candidates, and the ongoing repression of dissent.”  The vote is the first since the disputed 2009 presidential
election that sparked mass protests. While Khamenei backed the
president ensuring his re-election, the two have clashed over
political matters including the president’s appointments and
choice of aides. In May last year the president stayed away from
work for a week after Khamenei overruled him by canceling the
resignation of Intelligence Minister Heidar Moslehi.  The outcome of the race is unlikely to affect Iran’s
nuclear policy. Iran holds a presidential election next year and
Ahmadinejad isn’t eligible for re-election.  About 48 million Iranians were eligible to cast ballots for
more than 3,400 candidates cleared to compete by the Guardian
Council, a body of jurists and clerics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  