-- Ahmadinejad Rivals Lead in Iran Parliamentary Returns, Boosting Khamenei
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-05T15:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/ahmadinejad-rivals-lead-in-iran-parliamentary-returns-boosting-khamenei.html
Opponents of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  were leading in Iran’s parliamentary election, which
may strengthen the position of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  Ballot counting ended and 225 candidates have secured
places in the 290-seat assembly, Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said today, without identifying the winners.
Candidates in 33 constituencies will have to take part in April
run-offs required where no candidate gains 25 percent of votes,
he said. Turnout was 64 percent, an 11 percent increase from
elections four years ago, Mohammad-Najjar said.  Khamenei had called for Iranians to turn out in the March 2
elections as a show of unity amid increased economic pressure on
Iran and threats of military strikes. The supreme leader, who
controls foreign and nuclear policy, has frequently clashed with
Ahmadinejad since backing the president against protesters who
charged that his 2009 re-election was rigged.  Khamenei’s “position has no doubt been drastically
strengthened,” said Amir Mohebian, head of the Tehran-based
Arya Strategic Studies Center in Tehran. The new parliament
won’t bring dramatic changes in  Iran ’s foreign policy, he said.  Candidates of the United Principalist Front and the
Stability Front have together secured about three quarters of
the seats, state-run Press TV  said yesterday , without giving
details. The former group has attacked Ahmadinejad for poor
economic management and failing to show sufficient allegiance to
Khamenei, 72.  ‘Current of Deviation’  The Stability Front has mainly focused criticism on
Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, a close aide and relative of the
president, whom they accuse of being the source of a “current
of deviation,” according to Mohebian. The group says
Ahmadinejad’s allies are inclined to celebrate an Iranian
identity instead of an Islamic one, are too lenient over women’s
Islamic attire and pose a challenge to the supreme leader’s
authority.  The vote took place as the U.S. and European Union target
Iranian oil sales and its central bank with sanctions, saying
they are needed to stop Iran from developing the capacity to
make nuclear weapons.  The balloting is the first since the disputed 2009
presidential election that sparked mass protests. Members of the
opposition movement that challenged Ahmadinejad at that time
aren’t contesting this election, narrowing the range of
candidates to those who favor strict adherence to the tenets of
the Islamic republic.  Political Factions  While Khamenei backed the president in 2009, ensuring him a
second term, the two have since sparred over political matters
including Ahmadinejad’s appointments and choice of aides. In May
last year, the president stayed away from work for a week after
Khamenei overruled him by canceling the resignation of
Intelligence Minister Heidar Moslehi.  Iran doesn’t have established political parties. Candidates
run without presenting programs, as part of the various factions
or as independents. In the case of some lawmakers, “only when
there’s a debate in parliament will it become clear which side
they swing toward,” Mohebian said.  The more than 3,400 candidates had to be screened by the
Guardian Council, a body of jurists and clerics that rules on
their suitability. Those denied permission to run in the
election include 30 current members of parliament, Abbas Ali
Kadkhodaei, a spokesman for the body, said last week, without
saying why they were disqualified.  Presidential Summons  Five candidates won seats in Tehran and the fate of the
remaining 25 will be decided in the run-offs, Mohhamad-Nahhar
said. Among candidates leading in Tehran were former Oil
Minister Masoud Mir Kazemi, who was dismissed by Ahmadinejad
last year, and Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, a former parliamentary
speaker and adviser to Khamenei, according to the latest list
for Tehran, published on the Interior Ministry’s  website 
yesterday.  Another politician seeking one of the capital’s 30 seats is
Ali Motahari, who had spearheaded a petition to summon the
president to parliament to be questioned over alleged illegal
actions and mismanagement, Mehr said. The unprecedented
initiative would act as a deterrent for future leaders, Motahari
said in an interview published today in the Tehran-based Mardom
Salari newspaper.  Parliament, which met today after a three-week break for
election campaigning, may push ahead with the move to summon the
president, Mohebian said. Ahmadinejad isn’t eligible to stand
for re-election next year.  Ahmadinejad’s sister, Parvin, lost her race in their
hometown of Garmsar, southeast of the capital, according to
Mehr.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  