-- AIG Sells $6 Billion AIA Stake to Cut Debt to U.S. for Post-Lehman Bailout
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-03-05T15:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/aig-to-sell-shares-of-asian-insurer-aia-to-help-repay-government-bailout.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that received bailout after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., is selling $6 billion of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) 
shares to help pay back the U.S. government.  The insurer is offering about 1.7 billion AIA shares at
HK$27.15 to HK$27.50 a share to institutional investors who
weren’t identified, according to a sales document obtained by
Bloomberg. New York-based AIG will hold about 19 percent of AIA
after the stock sale.  AIG was rescued in September 2008 after the collapse of the
subprime housing market and Lehman triggered credit rating
downgrades of the insurer. The bailout swelled to as much as
$182.3 billion, much of which the AIG has repaid through asset
sales. The Treasury still holds about three-quarters of the
company’s stock and other AIG-related assets, backed by
collateral including the AIA stake.  “AIG needs the money to repay the government,” said
 Andrew Sullivan , principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray Asia
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “For holders of the Hong Kong-
listed company, it starts to remove a known overhang so it’s a
long-term positive, but short term it hurts.”  AIG sold about two-thirds of the Hong Kong-based life
insurer in a 2010 initial public offering. Its stake before the
latest share sale has a market value of about $15 billion.
Proceeds from the latest AIA share sale will be used to lower
$8.4 billion AIG owes the Treasury to redeem interests in
special-purpose vehicles related to its rescue.  Independent Entity  After the IPO, AIA “has to be run as an independent entity
and has to be seen as being run as an independent entity,” said
Nicholas Yeo, the Hong Kong-based head of  China  and  Hong Kong  at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees about $265
billion. AIG’s share sale “is not something that bothers
investors. When it was IPO-ed, investors already expected it to
be run as it is, with or without AIG.”  AIA’s Hong Kong-traded shares are suspended today because
of the share sale, it said in a  statement  to the city’s stock
exchange. The insurer has climbed 27 percent since the close on
its first day of trading on Oct. 29, 2010. AIG surged 4.6
percent to $31.16 at 10:19 a.m. in New York, the highest
intraday price since May.  AIG has divested more than $50 billion in assets to repay
the government rescue, including non-U.S. life insurers, a
consumer lender and other businesses. The firm sold a $500
million stake in Blackstone Group LP in a block trade last week,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because he wasn’t permitted to speak about the
transaction.  Share Sale Discount  The offering price for the AIA shares represents a discount
of as much as 7 percent on the Hong Kong-based insurer’s closing
price of HK$29.20 on March 2. The sale is expected to be priced
no later than tomorrow, according to the statement. Deutsche
Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are taking orders for the
sale, according to a termsheet obtained by Bloomberg.  AIG held 3.96 billion shares, or a 33 percent stake, in AIA
as of May 31, according to the latter’s  interim report  last
year. The U.S. company has agreed not to sell its remaining
shares in the Asian insurer for another 180 days, according to
the sales document today.  The Treasury, which is looking to divest its AIG stake over
time, cut its holdings in May, selling 200 million shares for
$29 each. The government must receive an average of at least
$28.72 a share to recoup its investment.  AIG shares have  surged  28 percent this year to $29.80
through March 2, as the insurer reported fourth-quarter  profit 
of $19.8 billion tied to a tax benefit. The stock closed above
the government’s break-even price on Feb. 28 for the first time
since July.  Quarterly Swings  The AIA stake has contributed to swings in AIG’s quarterly
earnings, since the holding is marked to market every three
months. The shares added about $1 billion to fourth-quarter
earnings, while fueling about half the company’s $4.11 billion
third-quarter loss.  The AIA share sale gives AIG “progress toward paying off
the government a little more fully as well as reducing the
volatility of their core earnings,” said Paul Newsome, an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, in a phone interview
today. He has a “hold” rating on the stock.  Bailed Ou  AIG was rescued in 2008 as bets on the mortgage market
soured. The bailout was revised at least four times as the U.S.
extended more credit and lowered the interest charged.  The survival of AIG, once the world’s biggest insurer, fell
into doubt when  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
cut its credit ratings in September 2008. The reductions
threatened to force AIG to post more than $13 billion in
collateral when the company was already short on cash. AIG
couldn’t raise money by selling shares after the stock  plunged .  Lehman, the biggest underwriter of mortgage-backed
securities, filed the biggest bankruptcy in history on Sept. 15,
2008, with more than $613 billion of debt.  Pan Asia  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  halted the
pace of asset sales when he  took over  in 2009, saying the
company needed time to find the best prices. He said as recently
as last month that the insurer may wait to sell its AIA stake
and use the proceeds to reduce the government’s  77 percent
ownership  of AIG stock.  “We can think about using the proceeds if we decide to
sell AIA potentially for capital management,” Benmosche, 67,
said at a Feb. 15 investor conference in  New York . “Capital
management means we can buy some of the overhang from the  U.S.
Treasury .”  AIA, the third-largest Asia-based insurer by market value,
operates in 15 markets including Hong Kong, China,  Malaysia ,
 Thailand  and  Singapore .  CEO  Mark Tucker , 54, has overseen a 10 percent increase in
AIA’s embedded value in the year to November to $27 billion. The
estimate of the economic value of life insurance business using
actuarial and investment assumptions is used to value life
insurers.  AIG  sold  a Taiwan unit Nan Shan Life Insurance Co. for
$2.16 billion last year. In 2010, it sold American Life
Insurance Co. to MetLife Inc. for about $16 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  