-- Australian Treasurer Swan Welcomes Debate on Fairer Society
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-04T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/all-australians-should-benefit-from-asian-century-swan-says.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
he welcomes debate about reforms needed to build a fairer
society, sparked by his comments last week that resource tycoons
are acting in their own self interest.  “When you talk about building a fairer society, you’re
invariably accused by some of engaging in the politics of
envy,” Swan said in a  weekly note  published yesterday. He
speaks on the same theme at the  National Press Club  in Canberra
later today.  Swan last week wrote an article in  The Monthly  magazine
saying resource tycoons such as Gina Rinehart,  Clive Palmer  and
 Andrew Forrest  are undermining the Australian notion of a “fair
go” -- where everyone has an opportunity to prosper. He said a
handful of vested interests that have pocketed a
disproportionate share of the nation’s economic success now feel
they have a right to shape Australia’s future to satisfy their
own self interest.  The comments were an “irrational outburst,” Forrest,
chairman of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-
biggest producer of  iron ore , said in a statement on March 2.  “There have been the predictable reactions from the
predictable quarters,” Swan said yesterday. “This is far too
important a debate for our country and its future to dismiss
with tired old slogans.”  Australia ’s economy is propelled by a mining boom predicted
to last decades as the urbanization of hundreds of millions of
people in China and India drives demand for iron ore, liquefied
natural gas and coal.  “Australia is at a really important chapter of its
economic story,” Swan said. The government wants to create a
nation where “all citizens share in the benefits of the Asian
century, not just the fortunate few.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  