-- Australian Services Weakened In February as Non-Mining Industries Falter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/australian-services-weakened-in-february-as-non-mining-industries-falter.html
Australia ’s services industry
declined in February to the lowest level in almost a year,
driven by a drop in new orders as the gap between resources and
other industries widens, a private survey showed.  The performance of services  index  sank to 46.7 last month
from 51.9 in January, the weakest reading since March last year,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and the Australian Industry Group
said in Sydney today. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut  interest rates  in
November and December in the first back-to-back reductions in
two years, lowering the benchmark to 4.25 percent to boost
demand as inflation pressure eased. Resource projects in
Australia valued at A$456 billion ($490 billion), fueled by
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , are helping cushion a slump
in manufacturing and services hurt by a strong currency.  “The booming conditions in mining and mining-related
activity are not translating into increased activity in large
parts of the domestic economy and, with few exceptions, sales
and new orders for services and employment in the sector were
all lackluster in February,” Innes Willox, AIG chief executive
designate, said in a statement.  Employment in Australia stalled last year as the currency’s
climb hurt non-resource companies. Jobs probably gained by 5,000
last month and the  unemployment rate  rose to 5.2 percent, a
survey of economists showed before a March 8 employment report.  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for selling prices
fell to 44.2 from 46.9 and the employment measure slid to 47.5
from 51.2.  Sales declined to 47.5 from 49.4, and the reading for new
orders plunged to 45.6 from 54.1. The wages indicator dipped to
57.7 from 57.8, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  