-- BP, Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse, Tesco: Europe Equity Preview
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/bp-deutsche-bank-credit-suisse-tesco-europe-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European (SXXP)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.1 percent to 267.21. The
 Stoxx 50 Index (SX5P)  lost less than 0.1 percent to 2,503.47. The  Euro
Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E) , a benchmark measure for nations using the euro,
fell 0.1 percent to 2,546.16.  Banif SGPS SA (BNF)  : The Portuguese bank plans to sell
its Brazilian investment banking unit, Expresso reported,
without saying how it obtained the information. Banif fell 2
percent to 0.33 euros.  Benetton Group SpA (BEN)  : The Italian retailer’s board
said Edizione Holding SpA’s bid offer is fair after the board’s
adviser Morgan Stanley and HSBC gave their fairness advise,
according to prospectus documents posted on the company’s
website. Benetton rose 0.6 percent to 4.646 euros.  BP Plc (BP LN):  Europe ’s second-largest oil company by
market value reached an estimated $7.8 billion settlement with
businesses and individuals damaged in the 2010 Deepwater Horizon
oil rig disaster, removing one of three major litigation fronts
facing the company over the biggest offshore spill in U.S.
history.  Separately,  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary
said the company is prepared to settle with the U.S. and state
governments on “fair and reasonable” terms after reaching an
agreement with private plaintiffs. The shares were little
changed at 496.5 pence.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  (DBK GY):  Germany ’s largest lender was
hired with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)   and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to work on its $5 billion initial public
offering and give it access to more credit, a person with direct
knowledge of the situation said. Deutsche Bank rose less than
0.1 percent to 35.86 euros.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  (DPW GY): Europe’s largest mail carrier is
among companies interested in  Celesio AG (CLS1) ’s (CLS1 GY) unit that
provides logistics services to drugmakers, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter. Deutsche Post rose 1.1
percent to 13.54 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI)  : The German automaker may increase
production of its restyled B-Class compact car as orders surge,
Vice President for Sales and Marketing Joachim Schmidt told
Automobilwoche in an interview. Daimler rose 0.6 percent to
46.24 euros.  Electricite de France SA  (EDF FP): The world’s biggest
operator of nuclear reactors said it halted units 1 and 2 at its
Sizewell B nuclear facility in the U.K. Spokesman  Gordon Bell 
declined to provide further details. EDF rose 3.3 percent to
19.60 euros.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  (GLEN LN): Ivan Glasenberg,
chief executive officer of the Swiss-based commodities trader,
will receive a $109 million dividend, the Sunday Times reported.
Glencore fell 1.7 percent to 420 pence.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  (IAG LN): The
Iberia pilots union Sepla called 24 days of strikes during
March, April and May as it steps up protests against plans by
International Consolidated Airlines Group to start a low-cost
carrier, ABC reported. IAG rose 2.8 percent 167.3 pence.  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN)  : The Swiss travel company
has a “theoretical” interest in buying parts of  Thomas Cook
Group Plc (TCG) ’s Indian business while ruling out any move to buy a
 European (SXXP)  operation from the company,  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported. Kuoni Reisen rose 1.5 percent to 293 francs.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  : Lloyds Bank Group Plc’s
Halifax unit, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, said it is
raising its standard variable rate to 3.99 percent from 3.5
percent to account for higher funding costs after the European
debt crisis. Lloyds rose 2.5 percent to 35.64 pence.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  : Britain’s largest grocer said it will
create 20,000 jobs in the U.K. over the next two years as it
refurbishes and adds stores. Tesco fell 0.6 percent to 318.25
pence.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  : The world’s largest mobile-
phone company has no plans to leave  Greece  and doesn’t fear the
country’s economic situation, Kathimerini said, citing Chief
Executive Officer Vittorio Colao. Vodafone fell 0.7 percent to
170.6 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  