-- BP Rises Most in Month After Gulf of Mexico Spill Settlement: London Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-05T08:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/bp-set-to-gain-as-gulf-oil-spill-settlement-lifts-dark-cloud-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  rose the most in a month
after  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company reached a $7.8 billion
settlement with businesses and individuals over the 2010
Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster.  BP climbed as much as 3.1 percent, the biggest intraday
advance since Feb. 1, and traded at 507.90 pence as of 8:06 a.m.
in London. The benchmark FTSE 100 Index was down 0.3 percent.  The shares will probably rise at least 5 percent this week
to a minimum of 520 pence from the close of trading on March 2,
according to the forecasts of five oil industry analysts.  Jason Kenney , an analyst for  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in Edinburgh, said the
stock may climb as high as 580 pence over time if additional
spill costs stay within the company’s estimates.  The deal with businesses and individuals, reached after
markets closed last week, was lower than the $14 billion that
had been discussed, according to people familiar with the talks,
and the money for the settlement will come from a $20 billion
compensation fund that’s already provisioned for. BP Chief
Financial Officer Brian Gilvary said yesterday the company is
prepared to settle with the U.S. government for penalties under
the  Clean Water Act  if the terms are fair.  The agreement is “very positive,” said  Fadel Gheit , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York . It “could speed up a
government settlement and remove this dark cloud that has been
hanging over BP for two years,” he said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  BP’s market value has dropped by about 29 billion pounds
($45 billion) since the explosion on April 20, 2010, on the
Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 workers and started the
spill. Shares closed at 642.5 pence the day before the disaster.  Pollution Law  London-based BP still faces as much as $17.6 billion in
fines for pollution law violations in a suit by the federal
government, which will now take the lead in any trial over the
spill. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  yesterday
postponed the trial, scheduled to start today, in light of the
settlement.  “We remain prepared to settle with others on terms that
are fair and reasonable,” CFO Gilvary said on yesterday’s
conference call with analysts, echoing comments by Chief
Executive Officer Bob Dudley on Feb. 7. “But equally, we’re
prepared to go to court.”  Gilvary said it wouldn’t be appropriate to comment on
settlement negotiations with federal or state governments. The
settlement with individuals and businesses “removes a
significant amount of uncertainty for the company in terms of
the outlook, but also financially,” he said.  Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd., said
shares are about 25 percent below where they would be without
the accident. The settlement with victims may push up shares 5
percent, he said.  Stronger Position  “It’s by no means over, but by settling with the largest
group, BP is in a stronger position to negotiate with the
government,” Joyner said. “BP can say they’ve made it right.
The government is after an element of punishment, but if they
get too tough it will look like they’re really going after the
company, which they said they wouldn’t do.”  BP said the proposed settlement won’t increase the $37.2
billion charge it previously recorded in its financial
statements for costs associated with the spill. That figure
includes the $20 billion BP set aside for the claims trust fund.  BP would be able to absorb as much as $40 billion of costs
related to the spill and still maintain a stable outlook on its
A2 debt rating, which is five levels above the lowest
investment-grade rank, Moody’s Investors Service said Feb. 24.  Not Enough  The accord provides for a transition from the Gulf Coast
Claims Facility trust, through which BP said it has paid more
than 220,000  claims  from individuals and businesses. The company
warned that, although the accord is for $7.8 billion, the $14
billion remaining in the trust may not be enough to satisfy all
the costs the fund was created to address.  Before the settlement announcement, BP had been in talks
with lawyers for spill victims over a deal to be funded by
liquidating the remainder of the claims facility, three people
familiar with the matter had said.  “The whisper was that the deal would be closer to $14
billion, so if it turns out to be around $8 billion, that’s
clearly positive for BP,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Ltd. in  London . “There’s about 30 pence per
share of upside. The settlement with the government is still the
biggest outstanding item.”  ‘Strong Case’  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, whose lawyers will now
be leading the way in any trial, said Feb. 28 the U.S. has a
“strong” case over liability for the explosion.  “We are prepared to go to trial,” Holder said in
testimony before a U.S. House Appropriations subcommittee in
 Washington .  BP set aside $3.5 billion to pay Clean Water Act fines
based on its own lower estimate of barrels spilled and no
finding of gross negligence, or a conscious act or omission,
which would raise the level of penalty per barrel spilled to as
much as $4,300 from the $1,100 maximum as a result of simple
negligence.  “The share price deserves to be at about 560,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in London.
“It’s still messy, but this is one more step to putting it
behind them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  