-- BroadSign International Files for Bankruptcy With Plan to Sell Most Assets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-03-04T23:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/broadsign-international-files-for-bankruptcy-with-plan-to-sell-most-assets.html
BroadSign International Inc., a
maker of software for operating digital signs, sought  bankruptcy
protection  from creditors and said it intends to auction almost
all its assets.  The company, based in Boise, Idaho, listed debt of
$10 million to $50 million and assets of $1 million to
$10 million in Chapter 11 documents filed today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware. Two affiliates also
sought court protection.  “The most effective way to maximize the value of their
estates for the benefit of creditors is to complete a prompt
sale of substantially all their assets,” BroadSign Chief
Executive Officer Brian Dusho said in court documents.  BroadSign and its affiliates are insolvent and income is
“insufficient to continue their operations without an infusion
of further capital,” Dusho said. The company will seek court
approval to borrow as much as $328,295 to help fund operations
until it completes the sale.  The company’s software is used to manage digital
advertising across formats such as billboards, kiosks and public
transportation. BroadSign operates displays for airports, subway
systems, highways or supermarkets in  Canada , the U.K.,
Scandinavia, Spain and  Singapore , according to its website and
news releases.  BroadSign and its affiliates owe their 20 largest unsecured
creditors about $2.3 million, court papers show. Olton
Management is the largest, with a $1.3 million claim.  The case is In re BroadSign International Inc., 12-10789,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 