-- Calhoun Returns After Month’s Leave to Coach UConn to Victory
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-04T05:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/calhoun-returns-after-month-s-leave-to-coach-uconn-to-victory.html
Jim Calhoun  returned to coach the
University of  Connecticut  men’s college basketball team to a 74-
65 home win over the  University of Pittsburgh  a month after he
went on medical leave for a back ailment.  Calhoun, 69, underwent a two-hour surgery Feb. 27 in New
York to remove a large disk fragment that had been pressing on a
spinal nerve. The team went 3-5 in eight games during his
absence that began Feb. 3.  His surgeon sat in the stands watching the coach pace the
sidelines during the Huskies’ final regular-season game,
associate coach George Blaney said last night.  “I walked into the locker room and he was standing there
and I said, ‘I knew you were going to be here,’” Blaney told
reporters. “He just smiled at me, and then we just went out
there and performed today.”  Shabazz Napier scored 23 points and Roscoe Smith and Jeremy
Lamb each added 14 for the Huskies (18-12, 8-10  Big East ).  “He just brings that energy and it just makes me want to
fight harder, even when I’m tired, on my last straw,” Napier
said of Calhoun. “He just pumps his fist and I’m like, ‘I’m not
done, I’m going to keep going.’ And he did that for everybody.”  J.J. Moore scored 16 for Pittsburgh (16-15, 5-13), which
fought back from a 14-point halftime deficit to take a 61-60
lead with 2:51 left before UConn began a run that included four
free throws to cement the win.  “I thought for a stretch there we were about as good as
we’ve been all year long,” said Pittsburgh coach Jamie Dixon.
“We’ve shown stretches for a good amount of time, but not quite
long enough.”  UConn and Pittsburgh will both play in the first round of
the Big East Championship series on March 6 at  New York ’s
Madison Square Garden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  