-- Chavez Follows Script of Populist Predecessors: Enrique Krauze
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-03-04T16:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/chavez-follows-script-of-populist-predecessors-enrique-krauze.html
Modern Latin-American populism is a
20th-century development, involving the direct contact between a
leader (the caudillo) and “his” people.  Figures of both the left and right can lay claim to its
paternity. General Juan Domingo Peron of Argentina was a
quintessential populist. He had witnessed the ascent of Italian
fascism and admired  Benito Mussolini  to the extent of wanting to
erect “a monument to him on every corner.” These days,
Comandante Hugo Chavez is a postmodern populist, whose hero is
 Fidel Castro . He wishes to convert Venezuela into an
experimental example of “the new socialism.”  The two extremes are facets of the same political
phenomenon, which is identified not by its ideological content,
but rather by the way it functions. Here are 10 of its essential
characteristics.  -- It exalts the charismatic leader. There is always a man
(or in Peron’s  Argentina (ARGDPYOX) , a woman, too) who is “chosen by
providence,” and who will, once and for all, solve the problems
of the people.  -- The Latin-American populist constantly speaks to the
public and inflames passions, and does so without limitations or
preliminaries. Twenty-five centuries ago, a similar distortion
of public truth appeared in the person of the “demagogue” (as
distant from democracy as sophism was from philosophy) and
manifested itself in the agora, where the Greeks discussed
politics; in the 20th century, its venue has been the virtual
agora of sound waves and visual transmission.  Modern Media  From Mussolini (and  Joseph Goebbels ), Peron learned the
political importance of radio, which he and Evita used to
hypnotize the masses. Chavez, for his part, has surpassed his
mentor Castro in his frenetic use of television.  -- Latin-American populist leaders fabricate their version
of truth. These governments interpret “the voice of the
people” and elevate their interpretations to the rank of
official truth. At the same time, they despise freedom of
expression. They confuse legitimate criticism with militant
hostility and try to disparage it, control it or silence it.  In Peronist Argentina, the official and nationalist
newspapers -- including one that was openly Nazi -- could count
on generous subsidies, while the free press almost disappeared.
The situation in  Venezuela  today points in the same direction,
with freedom of expression under threat from increasingly
restrictive laws.  -- The Latin-American populist leader has no patience
with the subtleties of economics or finance. The national
treasury is his private patrimony. He can use it to launch
projects that he considers important or glorious, or he can use
it for personal enrichment. Or he can do both, without
considering the cost. He has a magical conception of the
economy. This ignorance or lack of analysis on the part of
populist governments has translated into disasters from which
countries have taken decades to recover.  -- The populist directly apportions wealth. This isn’t
necessarily negative in itself. But the Latin-American populist
doesn’t distribute wealth gratis: He focuses his contributions,
and expects to be paid back with obedience. A false idea of
economic reality is created and a culture of government largess
is enthroned.  And in the end, who pays the debt? Not Evita Peron (who
profited abundantly and stored her many millions in Swiss
banks), but the national reserves accumulated over decades and
the Argentine workers themselves with their “voluntary”
donations and, above all, the indebted future generations, whose
inheritance is devoured by inflation.  Wealth Redistribution  In Venezuela (whose caudillo distributes and
redistributes the profit from oil), the consequences of Chavez-
style government assistance will only truly be felt in the
future, when  oil prices  plummet or the regime carries its
dictatorial designs to its ultimate consequences.  -- The populist nurtures class hatred. Latin-American
populists oppose “the rich” (whom they often accuse of being
“antinational”), but attract “patriotic businessmen,” who
support the regime. The Latin-American populist doesn’t seek to
abolish the market by force; he subordinates its agents and
manipulates them.  -- The modern Latin-American populist tries to
permanently mobilize social groups. He summons, organizes and
encourages the masses. The public square is a theater where
“the People” are called to appear, continually demonstrate
their power and listen to invectives against the “evil forces”
within and outside the country. “The people” to whom the
caudillo makes his appeals aren’t of course the sum of
individual wills expressed in a vote and represented by a
parliament. It is a selective and vociferous mass.  -- Latin-American populism systematically maligns “the
exterior enemy.” Immune to criticism and allergic to self-
examination, the regime needs to divert attention toward
scapegoats who can be blamed for failures. Peronist  Argentina 
revived the old (and explicable) anti-American passions that had
been seething since the Spanish-American War; Castro converted
this passion into the essence of his regime.  For his part, Chavez rants about a U.S. invasion that is
likely only in his imagination, but in which an important sector
of the Venezuelan population has come to believe.  -- Latin-American populism has no respect for legal
order. Once in power, caudillos such as Chavez tend to take
control of Congress and move toward “direct justice.” For all
practical purposes, such justice becomes what the leader himself
decrees it to be. The Venezuelan Congress and judicial branch
are now, in effect, appendices of Chavez, just as they were in
Argentina under Juan and Evita Peron, who formally eliminated
parliamentary immunity and purged the courts.  -- Latin-American populism undermines, dominates and
tames or cancels the institutions of liberal democracy. Populism
fiercely opposes limits on power, which it considers
aristocratic, oligarchic and contrary to the “popular will.”  The reasons for the rise of these movements are diverse and
complex. But let me point to two. In the first place, they have
deep roots in an historical notion of “popular sovereignty,”
which the Neo-Scholastic thinkers of the 16th and 17th
centuries propagated throughout the Spanish empire, and which
had a decisive influence in the wars of independence from  Buenos
Aires  to  Mexico .  In addition, this kind of populism has a perversely
“moderate” or “provisional” nature. It never becomes fully
dictatorial or totalitarian, and is able to nourish a deceptive
illusion of a better future. It disguises the disasters it
provokes, delays the objective examination of its actions,
subdues critics, adulterates the truth, and corrupts and
degrades the public spirit.  (Enrique Krauze, the author of “Mexico: Biography of
Power” and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin America ,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Enrique Krauze  at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  