-- Chelsea Fires Villas-Boas, Names Di Matteo Coach Until End of the Season
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/chelsea-fires-coach-villas-boas-hires-roberto-dimatteo-as-his-replacement.html
Chelsea fired manager Andre Villas- Boas after eight months in charge, as the west London soccer
team slipped further back in the race for England’s final
Champions League slot.  Billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich , who hired the
Portuguese manager as Chelsea’s youngest coach in June,
yesterday named former player Roberto Di Matteo to run the team
until the end of the Premier League season.  “The results and performances of the team have not been
good enough and were showing no signs of improving at a key time
in the season,” read a  statement  on Chelsea’s website.  Chelsea’s decision came after a 1-0 loss at West Bromwich
Albion two days ago. The Blues are in fifth place in the
standings, out of the qualifying spots for  Europe ’s elite club
competition, which they’ve competed in for the past nine
seasons.  Villas-Boas joined the club after winning the second-tier
Europa League in his first season at Porto. Abramovich, who has
used eight coaches since 2004, hired the 34-year-old to try to
win the  Champions League . Di Matteo, 41, is a former Chelsea
midfielder and ex-coach of West Brom.  Chelsea plays Birmingham in an F.A. Cup replay tomorrow and
must overcome a 3-1 deficit against Napoli to stay in the
Champions League when the sides meet March 14. Villas-Boas’s
team had one win -- against 19th place Bolton -- in its last
seven games, a run that included a 3-3 home draw with  Manchester
United  after leading 3-0.  “The club is still competing in the latter stages of the
Champions League and the F.A. Cup, as well as challenging for a
top-four spot in the Premier League, and we aim to remain as
competitive as possible on all fronts,” Chelsea said in the
statement. “With that in mind we felt our only option was to
make a change at this time.”  Benitez, Mourinho  U.K. bookmaker William Hill rates former Liverpool manager
Rafa Benitez as the favorite to permanently replace Villas-Boas,
with ex-Chelsea coach  Jose Mourinho  a 3-1 shot to return. That
would mean a successful $1 bet would return $3 plus the original
stake. Mourinho, who’s currently at Real Madrid, is the favorite
to be in charge at Stamford Bridge at the start of next season,
according to Coral Racing Ltd.  “Given Roman Abramovich’s track record, Andre Villas-
Boas’s exit is perhaps not that surprising,” Coral spokesman
 David Stevens  said in an e-mailed statement. “But with no
obvious long-term plan in place at Stamford Bridge, the betting
to replace Villas-Boas is wide open.”  Di Matteo  Di Matteo, who joined Chelsea in 1996 for a then-club
record 4.9 million pounds ($7.8 million), scored in the team’s
defeat of Middlesbrough in the 1997 F.A. Cup final. He was part
of the squads that won the European Cup Winners Cup and League
Cup in 1998, and the 2000 F.A. Cup.  The Swiss national retired at age 31 after breaking his leg
in three places. He became coach of the Milton Keynes Dons in
July 2008, with the English League One club reaching the
playoffs in his first season. He joined West Brom in 2009 and
got the club promoted to the Premier League in his initial
campaign. He was replaced in February 2011.  Chelsea has struggled to retain coaches under Abramovich.  Claudio Ranieri  was dismissed in May 2004 in his fourth
season and replaced by Mourinho, who won the league in two of
his three seasons in charge. The Portuguese coach quit after a
disagreement with Abramovich, who hired  Avram Grant  in 2007.  Former Brazil and Portugal national team coach Luiz Felipe Scolari started in July 2008, though he didn’t complete a season
before being fired and replaced by interim manager  Ray Wilkins 
and then  Guus Hiddink .  Dismissed After Double  The Dutchman didn’t take the full-time job as he was still
overseeing  Russia ’s national team, and Abramovich brought in
Carlo Ancelotti. The Italian, who led Chelsea to the F.A. Cup
and Premier League double for the first time in the club’s
history, was dismissed in May 2011.  Villas-Boas never played soccer professionally, and got his
coaching qualifications when he was 17. Former England national
coach  Bobby Robson  picked him to work with Porto’s youth-team
coaches, and then Villas-Boas joined the staff of Mourinho at
Porto, Chelsea and  Inter Milan .  In Villas-Boas’s only season in charge, Porto won the
country’s Supercup, the Portuguese Cup, the Europa League and
the domestic championship, not losing a league match all season.  “You need to bring results and good football, this is the
target of Chelsea,” Grant, who took the Blues to the Champions
League final in 2008, told Sky Sports News. “It’s a club that’s
spent a lot of money to achieve the best so every time you are
losing games there are some problems about this. I think in this
case he was lacking a little bit of experience.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  