-- China’s Biggest Banks Boost Jan-Feb Loans, ICBC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T10:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-s-biggest-banks-boost-loans-in-first-two-months-icbc-president-says.html
(Corrects date for yuan deposits in ninth paragraph of
story published on March 4.)  New lending at  China ’s four biggest
banks rose by about 20 billion yuan ($3.2 billion) in the first
two months of 2012 from a year earlier, Industrial and
Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  President Yang Kaisheng said.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest commercial bank, increased its
lending in that period by about 15 billion yuan to 165.5 billion
yuan, Yang told reporters today at meetings of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference  in Beijing.  Chinese policy makers are under pressure to ease lending
curbs after  economic growth  moderated to the slowest pace in 10
quarters as  Europe ’s debt crisis capped  export demand  and home
sales fell. Authorities have pledged to boost credit support for
smaller businesses, major government-backed projects and the
construction of affordable housing this year.  The  People’s Bank of China  last month cut the amount of
deposits that lenders must set aside as reserves after new
lending in January was the lowest for that month in five years.
The week-long Lunar New Year holiday was celebrated in January
this year for the first time since 2009. Data for February new
loans will be released later this month.  ICBC (1398) ,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. (601288)  and Bank of China Ltd. are the nation’s biggest
commercial lenders.  Bad Loans  China’s new lending  peaked in 2009 as officials allowed a
credit boom to counter the effects of the global financial
crisis, raising concerns that asset quality may worsen.  Non-performing loans at Chinese banks increased for the
first time since late 2008 in the fourth quarter of last year,
reaching 427.9 billion yuan as of Dec. 31, while the bad-loan
ratio climbed to 1 percent from 0.9 percent at the end of the
third quarter, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said on
Feb. 17.  ICBC’s non-performing loans ratio has fallen to about 0.9
percent from more than 1 percent at the end of last year, Yang
said. The level of bad loans at China’s biggest banks are
“healthy” and “stable,” he said.  Competition among banks for deposits has intensified after
savings rates lagged behind inflation, prompting a diversion of
money to higher-yield investment products. Depositors in January
pulled 800 billion yuan from  savings accounts , about 1 percent
of China’s total, central bank data showed. It was the largest
monthly decline in at least 12 years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The industry’s average loan-to-deposit ratio rose to a
five-year high of 69.3 percent in January and pressure on
liquidity will constrain credit growth in 2012, Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst  Mike Werner  said in note last month.  ICBC’s loan-to-deposit ratio is about 60 percent, Yang said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  