-- China Auto Sales Seen to Have Worst Start in Seven Years as Economy Cools
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T05:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-car-sales-seen-having-worst-start-since-2005-on-economy.html
Automobile sales in  China , the
world’s biggest car market, may be having their worst start in
seven years as a slowing economy and record gasoline prices keep
consumers away from dealerships.  Deliveries of passenger autos, including sport-utility
vehicles and light-goods vans, in the first two months of 2012
fell 3 percent from a year earlier, based on the median estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the
biggest drop since 2005, when they fell 8.9 percent, according
to the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers , which will
release industry data later this month.  Slumping deliveries in the world’s second-largest economy
and  Europe  are undermining a revival in the U.S., where sales
are rising at their fastest pace in four years. In China, which
has fueled global growth in the past decade, foreign automakers
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are also facing tougher
regulations as the government rolls out policies favoring
domestic brands and clamps down on overcapacity.  “The days of China’s vehicle sales going through the roof
are over,” said Huang Wenlong, a Hong Kong-based analyst with
BOC International Holdings Ltd. “I don’t think the overall
economic situation is that optimistic.”  Curbing Overcapacity  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today in his report to the nation’s
legislature in Beijing that China will control the building of
auto plants and encourage mergers and reorganizations as the
government seeks to curb overcapacity and reduce pollution. The
country will promote new-energy vehicles and encourage the
scrapping of old vehicles, according to a separate report by the
nation’s top economic planner.  China’s monthly passenger-vehicle deliveries fell 24
percent to 1.16 million units in January, the most in more than
seven years, after an earlier-than-usual Lunar New Year holiday
season deprived dealers of a week’s worth of sales. February
sales will increase 27 percent from a year earlier, according to
the median analyst estimate in the Bloomberg survey.  Economists and analysts typically combine statistics for
January and February to remove the distortion caused by the
holiday, which occurs either month depending on the lunar
calendar.  CAAM predicted in January that the country’s passenger-car
sales may rise by 9.5 percent this year to 15.9 million units.  Car Sales  “The best scenario is for annual car sales to remain flat,
even if the automakers try harder in the latter half,” said
Zhang Xin, an analyst with  Guotai Junan Securities Co. (GJSZ)  in
Beijing. “The current official forecast for about 10 percent
growth doesn’t look realistic.”  China’s gross domestic product expanded 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011, slowing from a 9.1 percent gain in the
previous three months, as the government waged a campaign to
tame gains in consumer and housing prices. Growth will be about
8.5 percent this year, according to the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology , the slowest pace since the global
financial crisis in 2008.  China increased the wholesale price for average 90-RON
gasoline to a record 9,417 yuan ($1,493) a metric ton, or $4.20
a gallon, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
government data. American motorists paid $3.72 for a gallon of
regular gasoline in the week to Feb. 27, according to data from
the  Department of Energy .  “There are no incentives for consumers to buy,” said Cui
Dongshu, Tianjin, north China-based deputy secretary general of
China’s Passenger Car Association, an industry grouping. “They
worry about their income prospects and there are more and more
people delaying their purchase.”  Buy Local  Competition may intensify further among automakers if the
government follows through on its proposal to stop buying cars
from foreign brands.  All 412 models approved for purchase by state agencies this
year will be limited to Chinese brands, according to a proposal
disclosed by the industry ministry last week. The preliminary
list is open for public consultation until March 9, according to
the ministry.  Dongfeng Automobile Co. (600006)  and  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333)  were among
Chinese automakers whose shares surged on Feb. 27 on speculation
the government, the nation’s biggest buyer of vehicles, is
stepping up efforts to protect its domestic industry as they
struggle to compete against global producers such as GM and VW.
China stopped offering some incentives on investments from
foreign automakers this year to clamp down on overcapacity.  China Rebound  Global carmakers are counting on a rebound in China to help
drive earnings this year as auto demand in Europe is forecast to
decline for a fifth straight year as the sovereign debt crisis
unsettles consumers. Still, sales are accelerating in the U.S.,
where auto sales last month increased at their fastest pace
since February 2008.  Foreign brands accounted for nine of the top 10 car models
by sales in China last year, led by GM’s Buick Excelle with
253,500 vehicles, followed by the 247,500 VW Lavida cars sold.  Last month,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  opened a $490 million passenger-
vehicle factory in China on Feb. 24, increasing the automaker’s
manufacturing capacity in the country by a third to more than
600,000 vehicles annually. The company’s annual sales rose 7
percent to 519,390 units last year.  GM, the biggest overseas automaker in China, is poised to
receive approval to build a 7 billion-yuan factory in the
central city of Wuhan, according to a statement by the
provincial government last month. The plant will have annual
production capacity of 300,000 vehicles.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  