-- Wukan Villagers in China Elect Protest Leaders to Replace Ousted Officials
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-s-wukan-villagers-elect-new-leaders-after-december-s-land-protests.html
Two leaders of a protest over land
grabs in a southern Chinese village were elected to replace the
officials they helped oust, in a case that underscored the
Communist Party’s challenges in defusing social unrest.  Lin Zulian was elected the village chief and Yang Semao his
deputy, in a vote that saw thousands of people fill out ballots
March 3, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.
Five other seats on the village committee in Wukan, located in
southern  China ’s Guangdong province, were to be decided
yesterday, it said.  The peaceful resolution of the standoff has been lauded in
state media as China’s ruling Communist Party seeks to defuse
local cases of unrest without sparking broader protests ahead of
a leadership transition later this year. The standoff ended
after the protesters reached a deal with Guangdong leaders
including regional party secretary Wang Yang, seen as a  rising
star  among China’s top officials.  “The government has surely taken a conciliatory approach
because using force will not pacify social unrest,” Xiong Wei,
founder of the Beijing New Enlightenment Research Center, a
nongovernmental organization that advises villages on local
elections, said by phone from Wukan before the vote. “The cost
will be too huge. It will trigger too much public anger.”  Protests Rise  The protests in the fishing village were sparked by
disputes over land sales, allegations of election fraud and the
death of a local man in police custody.  The number of protests in China including strikes and
demonstrations rose to at least 180,000 in 2010, double the
number four years earlier, according to Sun Liping, a sociology
professor at  Tsinghua University .  The party’s concessions over Wukan, worked out with Wang’s
approval, led to speculation that it would serve as a model to
end similar disputes that periodically break out across China.
Regional leaders said the residents’ demands were “reasonable”
and local party leaders abused power when they seized land.  While the Communist Party decided not to crack down on
Wukan, it has done so in other places. The state-run Global
Times reported Feb. 17 that protests in Panhe were halted after
several of the protesters were arrested. A Dutch freelance
journalist, Remko Tanis, who went to report on the case, told
the Global Times he was beaten and ordered to leave.  Likely Candidate  Wang, who helped end the Wukan standoff, is considered a
candidate for a spot on the party’s Politburo Standing Committee
after the leadership transition, which will conclude early next
year. Wang “scored very well” for his handling of Wukan,  Li
Cheng , who analyzes Chinese politics at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , said in February.  Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  and other party leaders have said
repeatedly the government must address social unrest.  The Communist Party will tighten oversight of village
officials and impose harsher punishments on those who violate
the rules, the party’s Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection said on Feb. 28, according to Xinhua.  The commission said the party will investigate officials
who violate laws on land usage, committee elections and public-
property management, according to Xinhua.  Almost 36,000 government officials were punished in 2011
for legal violations, the Ministry of Supervision said the same
day, according to a separate Xinhua report. In a statement, the
ministry quoted an official it didn’t identify as saying that
corruption should be addressed “without mercy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  