-- China Shipping Studies Acquisition of Shipbuilding, Port Operation Assets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-04T08:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-shipping-studies-acquisition-opportunities-chairman-says.html
China  Shipping (Group) Co., the
nation’s second-largest container line, is looking for
acquisitions in areas including shipbuilding and port operations
as the industry struggles with overcapacity and slowing economic
growth, Chairman Li Shaode said.  The company has formed a team that will seek opportunities
to take over companies throughout the industrial chain for
shipping, Li told reporters today during meetings of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference  in Beijing.  “We will see if it’s the best time for deals given the
current situation for the shipping industry,” Li said.  Shipping lines including the world’s largest,  A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , have said they will increase rates to restore
profitability after the industry lost money last year.
Copenhagen-based Maersk, which lost 2.88 billion kroner ($521
million) in 2011, last month cut 9 percent of its capacity on
Asia-Europe trade to help make rate increases stick and has said
it may idle ships.  Li said he expects the container shipping market will have
more opportunities this year than  oil tankers  and dry bulk. The
company’s container shipping unit plans to raise prices starting
from April 1 following increases imposed by rivals, he said.  Large Oil Tankers  “We will focus on large oil tankers and container ships,”
Li said. “Dry bulk carriers won’t see great opportunities in
two to three years.”  China Shipping has long-term contracts of 10-15 years for
its dry bulk vessels and also long term contracts for oil
tankers, Li said.  The company also doesn’t rule out the possibility of
expanding its shipbuilding business, Li said. Such a move would
depend on the market, Li said, adding that the order book for
his company’s shipbuilding unit in Yangzhou is full until the
end of 2013.  Li also said that China Shipping had called on the Chinese
government for supportive measures for the industry including
policy changes that would allow shipping lines to pay taxes
based on tonnage of shipping, instead of the current corporate
income tax rate.  Vale SA, the world second-largest mining company,
approached China Shipping about cooperation on the so-called
Valemax very large ore carriers through its China agency and
brokers, Li said. China Shipping turned down cooperating until
Vale has Chinese approval for the ships, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  