-- China’s Sovereign Wealth Fund Received $30 Billion New Capital Last Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-04T07:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-s-sovereign-wealth-fund-received-30-billion-new-capital-last-year.html
China Investment Corp. (CHIVCZ) , the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, received $30 billion of capital from the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange by the end of last
year, Executive Vice President  Jesse Wang  said.  The funds were a one-time injection and any future capital
will have to be applied for separately, Wang told reporters
while attending meetings today of the  Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference  in Beijing.  Chairman  Lou Jiwei  said last month the sovereign fund had
received additional capital after having invested almost all its
cash in 2010. CIC was set up in 2007 with $200 billion from the
 Ministry of Finance . It had $410 billion of assets at the end of
2010, according to its latest annual report.  “We’re going to, still in accordance with our existing
asset allocation plans, expand our diversified assets in a
balanced manner,” Wang said of investments after the capital
injection.  Wang also said CIC won’t be participating in efforts led by
the Chinese government to help  Europe  resolve its debt crisis.
Such efforts, if any, may be conducted through the People’s Bank
of China, the  finance ministry  or the  International Monetary
Fund , Wang said. CIC is a commercial investor and so wouldn’t be
part of such aid, he said, without saying if the sovereign fund
would invest independently.  “If financial assets are undervalued in a certain region
and we think we can, with limited risk, get relatively good
returns, we’ll invest,” Wang said. “But we won’t make
decisions on a very speculative and short-term basis.”  CIC likes emerging markets for longer-term growth
prospects, Wang said. The fund is also confident in Chinese
banks and that any rebound in the bad-loans ratio for the
nation’s lenders won’t be “too big” because of ample
provisions, capital and profits, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  