-- China Cuts Growth Target to 7.5% as Wen Seeks Sustainable Growth: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T10:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-targets-7-5-growth-this-year-as-european-debt-crisis-slows-exports.html
China  pared the nation’s economic
growth target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place
since 2005, a signal that leaders are determined to cut reliance
on exports and  capital spending  in favor of consumption.  Officials will also aim for inflation of about 4 percent
this year, unchanged from the 2011 goal, according to a state-
of-the-nation speech that Premier Wen Jiabao delivered to about
3,000 lawmakers at the annual meeting of the National People’s
Congress in Beijing today.  Asian stocks fell as Wen, 69, said the nation needs to
shift to a more sustainable and efficient economic model and
achieve “higher-quality development over a longer period of
time.” China must boost the incomes of ordinary people, count
less on exports and investment and reduce the state’s role in
favor of private enterprise,  Zong Qinghou , the country’s second-
richest man, said in a March 3 interview.  “The growth target indicates the lowest level that the
government is comfortable with and is also a signal to local
officials that they shouldn’t solely focus on the rate of
expansion,” said  Michael Buchanan , chief Asia-Pacific economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Hong Kong . “China’s trend growth
rate is coming down but it’s still higher than this -- more like
around 9 percent.”  Fiscal, Monetary Policy  Wen reiterated that the government will maintain a
“proactive” fiscal policy and a “prudent” monetary policy.
The government in February lowered banks’ reserve  requirements 
for the second time in three months to boost lending and sustain
growth, following five interest-rate increases from October 2010
to July 2011 aimed at slowing inflation.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific  Index (SHCOMP) , which has gained for 11
straight weeks, fell 1 percent as of 2:20 p.m. in  Tokyo . The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.4 percent at 1:21
local time. The gauge, while up 12 percent in 2012, has declined
16 percent from a year ago as China’s growth decelerated to the
slowest since the second quarter of 2009.  The yuan weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar to 6.3047.  Elsewhere in Asia,  India ’s services industries expanded at
a slower pace in February, according to a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
Taiwan may say inflation slowed in February from January,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Europe Slowing  European services and manufacturing contracted last month,
a final composite gauge may show today. Italy, France and
 Germany  will also release services PMI data today. Euro zone
retail sales probably fell 0.1 percent in January from the
previous month, the third consecutive decline, economists
predicted ahead of the report.  The Institute for Supply Management may say service
industries in the U.S. grew at a slower pace in February, while
a Commerce Department report may show orders to U.S. factories
fell in January.  China’s government plans a budget deficit of 800 billion
yuan ($127 billion), or 1.5 percent of GDP, Wen said. That
compares with last year’s target of 900 billion yuan, or 2
percent of GDP, and the actual deficit of 850 billion yuan, a
figure altered by the use of a so-called budget stabilization
fund and shifting some local-government spending, according to
the speech. The Ministry of Finance in January gave preliminary
budget data indicating a 2011 deficit of 519 billion yuan, or
1.1 percent of GDP.  Analyst Forecasts  The growth target matched the median forecast of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month. Twelve of 15
economists forecast a 4 percent inflation goal, while the median
estimate of 13 respondents was for a budget deficit of 1
trillion yuan.  Officials are targeting money-supply growth of 14 percent,
according to the report, in line with the median forecast of 15
analysts for the rise in M2, the broadest measure. China has a
goal of increasing fixed-asset investment by 16 percent this
year, the National Development and Reform Commission said in a
report. That’s below the 18 percent median estimate of 12
economists.  Wen and fellow officials from the ruling Communist Party
are preparing to begin a once-in-a-decade handover of power
later this year to a new set of leaders. President Hu Jintao and
Wen will step down from their roles and let a younger generation
of leaders step in that’s likely to include Vice President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  Incomes ‘Too Low’  “The biggest hurdle facing  China’s economy  now is that the
government’s income is too high and the people’s income is too
low,” Zong, 66, chairman of Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co. and a
member of China’s legislature, said in the interview.  The country’s leaders may cut the bank-reserve ratio
further this year,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  Chairman Xiao Gang said in
Beijing. Xiao also said the state-controlled bank, China’s
fourth-largest by market value, will have loan growth this year
be similar to that of 2011.  “This low growth target with relatively high inflation
suggests monetary policy will be relatively relaxed,” said Liu Li-Gang, head of Greater China economics at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Hong Kong. “This in turn will
help increase bank lending and boost investment.”  The National People’s Congress, while often derided as a
rubber-stamp parliament, counts some of China’s most powerful
politicians and executives as its members. They wield power in
their home provinces and weigh in on proposals such as levying a
property tax, privatizing state-owned enterprises and changing
how China manages its currency.  Global Contributor  China was the largest contributor to global GDP growth in
2010 as it surpassed  Japan  to become the world’s second-largest
economy, after an average annual expansion of 10 percent for
three decades lifted more than 600 million people out of
poverty, according to the  World Bank . The nation’s urban
population last year surpassed that of rural areas for the first
time.  The annual economic-growth targets have been routinely
surpassed and are more indicative of the direction of policy.
Even so, gross domestic product expanded 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the least since the second
quarter of 2009. For the full year, growth was 9.2 percent after
2010’s 10.4 percent, compared with the 8 percent goal.  China’s  consumer prices  rose 5.4 percent last year,
exceeding the 2011 official annual target of 4 percent while
easing from July’s peak of 6.5 percent.  Average Target  Leaders are trying to ensure the expansion slows to no less
than an average targeted pace of 7 percent for the five years
through 2015.  At the same time, heightened pollution, a widening income
gap and an aging population along with an under-developed
social-security system are testing Communist Party leaders’
plans to shift to a more-balanced growth model.  On top of that, risks of a deeper slowdown may be rising as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is pushing the continent into
recession, curbing China’s exports, while the country maintains
rules that have ended a surge in  home prices . Fifty-nine percent
of global investors polled by Bloomberg in September said
China’s economy will expand less than 5 percent annually by
2016.  Foreign companies are still looking to the country for
growth.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC and Taco Bell fast-
food chains, said fourth-quarter profit gained 30 percent as it
opened a record 656 stores last year in China.  China’s exports fell 0.5 percent in January, the first drop
in more than two years, as a sluggish global economy hurt demand
and the weeklong Chinese New Year holiday disrupted trade. Sales
to the European Union rose 14 percent in 2011 after a 32 percent
gain in 2010, according to data from China’s customs
administration.  --Victoria Ruan, Zhang Dingmin, Henry Sanderson. With assistance
from  Kevin Hamlin , Stephen Engle, Michael Forsythe and Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  