-- China Raising 2012 Defense Spending to Cope With Unfriendly ‘Neighborhood’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T04:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-says-defense-spending-will-increase-11-2-to-106-4-billion-in-2012.html
China  plans to increase defense
spending 11.2 percent this year as the country’s expanding
global commitments and lingering territorial disputes drive
demand for more warships, missiles and fighter planes.  Military spending is set to rise this year to about 670
billion yuan ($106.4 billion),  Li Zhaoxing , spokesman for
China’s National People’s Congress, said yesterday ahead of a
speech today by Premier Wen Jiabao to open the annual 10-day
session of the country’s legislature.  China’s defense spending, the second highest in the world
after the U.S., has risen in tandem with the expansion of its
 economy  and a new focus by the Obama administration on the Asia-
Pacific region. China is also involved in spats with  Vietnam ,
the  Philippines  and Japan over control of oil- and gas-rich
waters and has a lingering territorial dispute with  India  that
erupted into a war in 1962.  “China’s got a lot of things that require a state to have
military hardware for,” Geoff Raby, who was  Australia ’s
ambassador to China until last year, said in a telephone
interview. “China lives in a neighborhood where it doesn’t have
any natural allies or friends.”  Satellite Maker Rises  China North Optical-Electrical Technology Co. (600435) , the maker of
military control systems and sensors, rose as much as 9.7
percent in Shanghai trading, the biggest intraday gain in more
than a month. The Beijing-based company was up 6.3 percent at
10.31 yuan as of 10:14 a.m.  China Dongfanghong Spacesat Co. (600118) ,
which builds satellites, advanced as much as 3.9 percent.  Defense spending has more than doubled since 2006, tracking
a rise in nominal gross domestic product from 20.9 trillion yuan
to 47.2 trillion yuan in that time. China’s spending on domestic
security will be higher than military spending this year for the
third straight year, according to  Finance Ministry  figures
released today, underscoring the government’s concerns about
growing social unrest and threats to stability in Tibet and
Xinjiang province.  The growing defense budget has stoked concerns among
China’s neighbors and the U.S., which announced last year a
strategic shift toward  Asia  including deploying forces to a base
in Australia. Chinese defense spending as a percentage of GDP
was about 1.3 percent in 2011, falling from about 1.4 percent in
2006.  ‘Reasonable and Appropriate’  “The Chinese government has maintained reasonable and
appropriate growth of defense spending on the strength of rapid
economic and social development and the steady increase of
fiscal revenues,” Li said.  He spoke a day before the start of the annual meeting of
the National People’s Congress, the 3,000-member parliament that
is legally the highest governmental body in China. Sessions run
from today to March 14.  U.S. analysts say actual Chinese defense spending is much
higher than the amount announced by Li yesterday. Phillip Saunders, director of the Center for the Study of Chinese
Military Affairs at National Defense University in  Washington ,
estimates China’s true defense spending is 50 percent higher
than the official budget because items such as research and
development as well as foreign weapons procurement are not
included. Li said research and procurement are included.  Off-Budget Items  Taylor Fravel, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology who studies China’s relations with its neighbors,
said the number of off-budget items such has foreign arms
procurement have decreased in recent years. China includes
support for veterans in its budget while the U.S. does not,
Fravel said.  While Chinese military spending is still officially less
than a fifth of U.S. defense spending, its neighbors are
concerned about the country’s expansive territorial claims.
China claims indisputable sovereignty over the islands, reefs
and shoals of the  South China Sea  and their surrounding waters,
demarcating a tongue-shaped claim on Chinese maps extending
hundreds of miles from mainland China.  China is “always ready” to use force if necessary to
ensure its territorial integrity in the South China Sea, Maj.
Gen. Luo Yan, deputy secretary general of the Chinese Academy of
Military Science, said today. China’s military should be
“strong and big,” and the country should do more to mark its
rightful claim to the area, he told reporters in Beijing.  ‘Scared Its Neighbors’  It also contests control over the Senkaku, or Diaoyu
islands with  Japan , which sparked a diplomatic standoff in 2010
after Japan detained a Chinese fishing boat captain when his
vessel collided with a Japanese patrol boat. Japan is “closely
watching” China’s military spending and is seeking greater
transparency in its outlays, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu
Fujimura told reporters today in  Tokyo .  Vietnam recently filed a protest saying China assaulted its
fishermen and prevented them from entering the Paracel Islands.
China responded by claiming sovereignty over the islands and
said it didn’t board the vessels.  “China scared its neighbors,” Saunders said in an e-mail.
“Now it is back on the path of greater restraint, but its
neighbors are still alarmed.”  U.S. concerns stem from Chinese progress in developing
modern fighters and precision ballistic missiles that can target
U.S. aircraft carriers, Saunders said.  In the past year, China began sea trials of its first
 aircraft carrier , a refurbished Soviet-era vessel acquired from
Ukraine more than a decade ago.  Military Buildup  Beijing is also continuing a military buildup across the
 Taiwan Strait . The U.S. is obligated by a 1979 law to provide
defensive weapons to Taiwan, which China claims as a province. A
Pentagon report published last August said that as of December,
2010, China’s People’s Liberation Army had deployed between
1,000 and 1,200 short-range ballistic missiles to units opposite
Taiwan even as cross-Strait ties have improved.  Last year the U.S. announced it would sell Taiwan $5.3
billion in upgrades for its 145  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16
fighters.  China will boost spending on domestic security by 11.5
percent this year to 701.8 billion yuan, outstripping spending
on defense by 31.5 billion yuan, according to a table in the
work report issued by the Finance Ministry.  Economic Interests  Economic interests around the world, including 812,000
workers abroad at the end of 2011, mean China’s military may
increasingly deploy across the globe. China set a frigate to
 Libya  last year to help evacuate thousands of Chinese nationals
during the revolt that saw the overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi . Li
said Chinese warships have made eight deployments to help
international efforts to protect sea lanes from Somali pirates.
Chinese peacekeepers now patrol as part of a United Nations
mission in  Sudan .  The country is also increasingly dependent on global
commerce for its well-being, factors which in past eras led
countries such as the U.K. and the U.S. to boost military
spending. Combined imports and exports last year amounted to
$3.6 trillion, and China, the world’s biggest energy consumer,
is also the world’s second-biggest oil importer after the U.S.  The U.S., with an economy less than three times the size of
China’s, has a military budget about between five and six times
as big. The Pentagon is asking for $613.9 billion next year,
which also includes $88.5 billion in supplemental spending for
wars. Unlike China’s, the U.S. defense budget is shrinking. The
Pentagon’s request is $31.8 billion less than the amount enacted
by Congress for 2012.  China’s defense spending increased an average of 16.2
percent a year from 1999 to 2008, according to figures from a
defense  white paper  published in 2009. While building up
spending, China has also proclaimed that it takes a
nonconfrontational approach in the region.  “China’s limited military strength is aimed at
safeguarding sovereignty, national security and territorial
integrity,” Li said. “It will not in the least pose a threat
to other countries.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  