-- China’s Second-Richest Man Says ‘Monopoly’ State Needs More Entrepreneurs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T07:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/china-s-second-richest-man-says-monopoly-state-needs-more-entrepreneurs.html
Zong Qinghou,  China ’s second-richest
man, called on the government to increase the role of private
business in the economy and said the nation’s prospective next
president agrees.  The 66-year-old self-made billionaire who is chairman of
 Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co (HWGZ) . and a member of China’s legislature,
said the nation should cut taxes and allow private investment in
more industries. When Vice President  Xi Jinping  “comes to
power,” he will encourage the development of private
enterprise, Zong said in a March 3 interview.  “The government has become a monopoly company that invests
in everything,” Zong said before annual meetings of the
 National People’s Congress  that start today. “The biggest
hurdle facing China’s economy now is that the government’s
income is too high and the people’s income is too low.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  set a growth target of 7.5 percent today
for 2012 which was down from an 8 percent goal in place since
2005. He has also pledged to adjust taxes today as the national
seeks to end the economy’s reliance on investment and exports
that in the past three decades produced average annual growth of
10 percent and fueled social unrest sparked by pollution,
corruption and a widening wealth gap.  Personal Income  The  World Bank  last week said China, where state-owned
companies control banking, energy and media, needs to depend
more on markets and private business to avoid derailing growth.  “It isn’t realistic to drive the economy by exports or
investment now,” said Zong, who is a delegate to the
legislature from eastern China’s Zhejiang province, where Xi
served as Communist Party Secretary from 2002 to 2007. China
should boost growth by cutting taxes to increasing individual
incomes, he said. “Ordinary people still lack money,” he said.  Wahaha’s Growth  Zong’s rise to wealth  began  with a 140,000 yuan ($22,230)
loan in 1987 when he and two retired teachers in the city of
Hangzhou started their business by selling popsicle, soda and
stationery. He built  Wahaha , which means “laughing children”
in mandarin Chinese, into a beverage maker that had 7 billion
yuan of profit last year. The privately-held company may boost
that to 10 billion yuan this year on sales of 85 billion yuan,
Zong said.  Wahaha’s growth is rare in China, where the 12 biggest
publicly traded companies by market capitalization are all
state-owned. The government is the majority shareholder in the
nation’s four largest banks, its three biggest  oil companies  and
the largest producers of cars, computers, steel, washing
machines and milk. Private investment continues to be limited in
industries such as tobacco and banking.  Bank Investments  Zong said he plans to propose that the government allow
more private companies to open banks and that they be exempted
from taxes if they extend financing to small- and medium-sized
enterprises. If possible, Zong said he would open a bank because
“I have money and my reputation is good.”  His personal wealth was estimated at $10.7 billion by Hurun
Report last year, trailing only the $11 billion of  Sany Heavy
Industry Co. (600031)  Chairman Liang Wengen.  Foreign businesses have also expressed concern about the
role of state-owned companies in  China’s economy . The movement
toward a market economy seems to be “pretty much stalled,”
Chris Murck, president of the Beijing-based American Chamber of
Commerce in China, which counts General Electric Co. and  Intel
Corp . as members, said in a January interview.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said last week in
Beijing that China’s economic-growth model isn’t sustainable and
that the nation needs to rely more on markets and the private
businesses.  Vice President Xi  Zong said Vice President Xi, in line to succeed  Hu Jintao 
as head of the Communist Party and President in a process that
starts later this year, also believes in the importance of
private enterprise as a result of his time in Zhejiang.  Private companies including Wahaha,  Alibaba Group Holdings
Ltd. (1688)  and  Zhejiang Geely Holdings Group Co. (175)  have fueled growth in
the province. Zhejiang, which ranks fifth among China’s
provinces and municipalities in per capita gross domestic
product, has the smallest gap between rural and urban
consumption of any region in China.  “Because he spent some time in Zhejiang, he believes
private enterprise is the main direction of economic
development,” Zong said of Xi. “I figure when Xi Jinping comes
to power, he’ll encourage the development of private
enterprise.”  China may pass the U.S. to become the world’s largest
economy during Xi’s tenure as president, according to estimates
by the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  