-- Coffee Crop in Indonesia Poised for Highest in 3 Years
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-03-05T11:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/coffee-crop-in-indonesia-seen-climbing-to-highest-in-three-years.html
The coffee harvest in  Indonesia , the
third-biggest grower of the robusta variety used in instant
drinks and espressos, is set to climb to the largest in three
years, potentially capping an 11 percent rally.  Production may increase 20 percent to 10 million bags this
year from 8.3 million bags a year earlier, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of seven exporters, two
traders and a roaster. That’s the most since 2009, according to
U.S. government  figures , and more than the 9.1 million bags
predicted by Volcafe, a unit of ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Robusta futures jumped to a five-month high in February as
Vietnamese growers, the world’s biggest, held back supplies. The
harvest from Indonesia starting in April may help replenish
inventories, limiting gains and containing costs for  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
maker of Nescafe and Nespresso. Prices may drop as low as $1,700
a metric ton from $2,015 now, according to INTL FCStone Inc.  “The tightness in the robusta market will be here for at
least another month,” said Oscar L. Schaps, managing director
of global soft commodities at INTL FCStone in Miami. “The
recent rise will attract more exports from  Vietnam .”  Global  coffee exports  fell 9.9 percent to 7.99 million bags
in January from a year earlier, the  International Coffee
Organization  said Feb. 29. Shipments from Vietnam fell 19
percent to 292,000 tons in the first two months, according to
the General Statistics Office in Hanoi. Farmers withheld beans
after prices plunged 14 percent last year, forcing roasters to
tap European stockpiles.  ‘Lone Supplier’  “Vietnam is almost the lone supplier of volume robusta
these last couple of months, until  India ,  Uganda , Indonesia,
 Ivory Coast  or even Brazil start to ship more volume come April
and May,” Volcafe said in a report.  Global robusta output will exceed demand by 2.5 million
bags this season, compared with a 700,000-bag shortage last year,
Macquarie Group Ltd. said Dec. 13. Expanding robusta harvests
contrast with an anticipated shortage in the arabica variety
favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , after the heaviest rains in two
decades damaged Central American plantations.  The May-delivery robusta contract dropped as much as 0.5
percent to $2,010 a ton before trading at $2,015 a ton on the
NYSE Liffe Exchange at 7:51 p.m. Singapore time. Prices for the
most active contract have gained 11 percent this year.  Exports may climb 14 percent to about 400,000 tons, said
Suyanto Hussein, chairman of the Association of Indonesian
Coffee Exporters and Industries. Local consumption may increase
to 250,000 tons from 200,000 tons, he said. Output declined last
year as a longer-than-usual rainy season damaged crops.  ‘Enough Sunlight’  “The weather is relatively good for the coffee harvest
this year,” Isdarmawan Asrikan, director at Surabaya, East
Java-based exporter PT Lintas Utama said by phone on Feb. 27.
The monsoon season was not as wet as a year earlier and “this
is good for the drying process as we should get enough sunlight,
resulting in good quality beans.”  Robusta, which is mostly grown in Lampung, Bengkulu and
South Sumatra provinces, represents about 75 percent of
Indonesia’s production. The harvest runs from April to July,
with a smaller crop through September. Each bag weighs 60
kilograms (132 pounds).  Exports from southern Sumatra fell to 5,358 tons in
February from 6,306 tons a month earlier, according to data
released by Lampung’s trade office today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  