-- Congo Asks Citizens to Return to Capital After Deadly Explosion
-- B y   R o b e r t   M b a k o u o   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-03-05T06:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/congo-asks-citizens-to-return-to-capital-after-deadly-explosion.html
Republic of Congo President Denis Sassou Nguesso urged citizens to return to their homes in the
capital, Brazzaville, to prevent looting after an explosion at
an arms depot killed more than 100 people and leveled houses in
the city.  Hundreds more were injured in the blast yesterday morning
in the eastern Mpila neighborhood that borders the Congo River,
Communications Minister Bienvenu Okiemy said on TeleCongo, the
state-owned broadcaster. Buildings were damaged as far away as
Kinshasa, the capital of  Democratic Republic  of Congo, 5
kilometers (3 miles) across the river. Xinhua reported more than
200 people died and at least 1,000 were hurt.  “We’re calling on the people of Brazzaville to go to
hospitals to give blood,” Okiemy said. “The neighborhood of
Mpila is grim. The houses there are ruined and even our citizen
soldiers who were in the camp are dead. We must do everything we
can so we do not have many more deaths.”  A fire at the Regiment Blinde base, housing weapons that
were going to be destroyed, set off the blast in the city,  home 
to about 1.3 million people. In 2009, mortars from the same camp
exploded though no one was killed. Congo, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
fourth-biggest oil producer, experienced a civil war from 1997
to 1999 that left at least 10,000 people dead and forced 800,000
people to flee their homes.  Investigation Planned  “We will launch an investigation to know what exactly
happened,” Sassou Nguesso said on TeleCongo. “I will assemble
the government to examine the situation. We will help everyone,
especially the wounded.”  U.S. officials saw hundreds of injured people in
Brazzaville hospitals yesterday, the U.S Embassy said in an e-
mailed statement. Homes were destroyed in the Mpila neighborhood
and there was damage in the districts of Ouenze and Talangai, it
said.  “I was in bed and there were two small blasts which shook
the hotel and that was followed by one enormous blast that blew
out the windows in the hotel and quite a lot of the ceiling
panels came down as well,” Patrick Mair, Africa analyst with
Control Risks, said by phone from Brazzaville. “It caused quite
a lot of confusion and a lot of uncertainty.”  At least six Chinese citizens were killed and dozens were
injured, Xinhua said, citing the Chinese Embassy in Brazzaville.
The people were employees of the  Beijing Construction
Engineering Group (BCEZ) , it said.  French Assistance  France , the former colonial ruler of Congo, said it planned
to send emergency aid to the Central African country.  “In these particularly tragic circumstances I wish to
express once again France’s solidarity with the Congolese
authorities and people severely affected by this tragedy,” the
French government said in a statement yesterday.  The Republic of Congo pumped about 300,000 barrels of oil a
day last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World
Energy. Companies including France’s  Total SA (FP) ,  Brazil ’s  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and the U.S.’s  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are exploring for, or
produce oil in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Mbakou in Johannesburg at 
 rmbakouo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  