-- Ducati Eyed by Hero MotoCorp as Indian Motorbike Maker Looks for Takeovers
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-03-05T12:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/ducati-eyed-by-hero-motocorp-as-indian-motorbike-maker-looks-for-takeovers.html
Ducati Motor Holding SpA (DMH) , maker of
luxury bikes ridden by celebrities such as  Brad Pitt , is among
assets being examined by  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL)  as  India ’s biggest
motorcycle maker looks for acquisitions to expand overseas.  “Lots of people have been coming to us with Ducati -- not
one banker but many bankers,” Pawan Kant Munjal, managing
director of Hero, said in a March 2 interview in  New Delhi .
“We’re talking to a lot of people. Not just Ducati -- whoever
comes to us, we talk to them.”  Ducati would add products such as the $28,000 Superbike
1199  Panigale S Tricolore  to a company that’s amassed a $1
billion war chest selling bikes for as little as 38,053 rupees
($763). Hero may be seeking to replicate the success of  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , maker of the world’s cheapest car, which is seeing
profits surge after buying Jaguar Land Rover Plc.  “It is an excellent fit -- Ducati is a big brand and has a
lot of technology; Hero is looking to be a serious global
player,” said  Deepesh Rathore , managing director of IHS
Automotive in India. “Hero might get it cheap. Thanks to the
European slowdown, Ducati’s numbers haven’t been great.”  Hero, which in December 2010 decided to exit a 26-year
partnership with  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the world’s largest motorcycle
maker, is looking to gain technology through partnerships and
acquisitions after that licensing relationship ends in 2014.
Last month, Hero entered into a partnership with Erik Buell
Racing, where it would sponsor two EBR teams in the AMA Pro
Racing National Guard Superbike Championship in return for
technology and design support for future models.  Hong Kong IPO  Hero (HMCL)  has cash reserves of about $1 billion, Munjal said.
The company had investments of 37.5 billion rupees, cash and
bank balances of 1.4 billion rupees, as well as reserves and
surpluses of 40.8 billion rupees as of Sept. 30,  according  to
the company’s latest earnings statement.  Investindustrial SpA, the Milan-based private-equity
company that owns Ducati, may hold an initial public offering of
the luxury-motorcycle maker in  Hong Kong  this year or sell it to
a rival, two people familiar with the plans said last month.  An external spokesman for Investindustrial declined to
comment on the possible sale of Ducati. He didn’t want to be
named citing company policy.  Investindustrial is seeking to sell or list Ducati for as
much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), the Financial Times
reported last month, citing  Andrea Bonomi , chairman of the
European buyout firm.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)   said last month it’s not
interested in buying Ducati, which was delisted in 2008 from the
Milan stock exchange.  Expanding Outside India  Hero and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  are looking to expand overseas as
competition intensifies in India, the world’s second-biggest
motorcycle market after  China , as Honda,  Yamaha Motor Co. (7272)  and
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  expand capacity in the country.  Honda is increasing its operations in India and will spend
as much as 10 billion rupees on its third factory near Bangalore
in southern India that will be ready in 2013, the company said
in August. When complete, Honda will have the capacity to build
4 million two-wheelers in India annually.  Motorcycle sales in India grew 15 percent in 2011 to 9.95
million units, according to data from the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers . The industry body said Jan. 10 it
expects deliveries of two-wheelers, including motorcycles and
scooters, in the year beginning April 1 will increase 11 percent
to 14 percent.  Africa, Latin America  Still, the Indian market is profitable for Hero. Net income
at Hero rose 43 percent to 6.13 billion rupees in the quarter
ended Dec. 31 and expects to sell more than 6 million units in
the fiscal year to March 31, New Delhi-based Hero said on Jan.
19. In the 11 months to February, Hero has sold 5.7 million two-
wheelers, it said on March 1.  Hero is looking to begin sales in  Africa  and  Latin America 
this year, following Bajaj Auto, which sells more than 35
percent of its products overseas and expects to exceed its
export target of 1.5 million units in the year ending March 31.  Hero aims to export 1 million units annually in five or six
years, Munjal said.  “We’ve been seen as a utility-bike maker, fuel-efficient
bikes, and somebody who’s at the lower level of the market,
who’s more small-town and rural-market focused,” said Munjal.
“So our ambition is to become one of the biggest global two-
wheeler players and to do that, you cannot only be in one small
segment.”  Following Tata  Hero’s  shares  declined 3.1 percent to 1,886.95 rupees at
the close in Mumbai, the lowest level since Jan. 31. The
benchmark BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  dropped 1.6 percent.  “Investors are scared about Hero’s plan of buying
Ducati,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with Brics Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai. “Hero will have to take on the burden in terms
of Ducati’s debt so initially there may be some pain.”  Indian companies have bought luxury brands and succeeded
before. Jaguar, acquired by Tata Motors from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
2008 for $2.4 billion, has helped drive profitability for
India’s biggest automaker. Tata’s net income last quarter
increased 41 percent to a record 34.1 billion rupees, led by the
Jaguar unit, which is generating more than half of the parent’s
revenue.  Hero may follow Tata’s lead should the motorcycle maker
negotiate a cheap price for Ducati, according to Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt.  “If they pay the current market price, it could be
negative as Ducati will take at least two years to turn
around,” said Banerjee, who’s based in  Mumbai . “If they get it
a low price, then it could be good for Hero as they will gain
technology and also the Ducati brand, which is strong around the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  