-- Etihad Deepens Search for Airline Partners, Bucking Trend
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-05T15:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/etihad-deepens-search-for-airline-partners-bucking-gulf-trend.html
Etihad Airways  plans to intensify
its strategy of growing passenger numbers via tie-ups with other
carriers, bucking the go-it-alone stance of Gulf rival Emirates,
Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said in an interview.  The third-largest Middle Eastern airline views signing
deals and taking stakes in smaller operators serving key markets
as a vital complement to spending money on planes as it builds
Abu Dhabi into a hub for inter-continental travel, Hogan said.  Emirates, the largest international airline, has nine
codeshare accords and no foreign holdings, while Etihad has 35
partners and is spending $400 million to build stakes in  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  and Air Seychelles Ltd. The difference arises because
Emirates and Qatar Airways Ltd., with 11 allies, are 26 and 18
years old, respectively, and have had time to grow, whereas
Etihad was founded in 2003 and needs feeder traffic, Hogan said.  “I don’t have a mandate to be the biggest airline in the
world, but I do have a mandate to be smart,” Hogan, aged 55 and
CEO at Etihad since 2006, said in  London . “They’ve got their
strategies. My strategy from day one was to build strong
bilateral relationships with codeshares and stretch my network.”  Etihad, which carried 8.3 million passengers in 2011, up 17
percent, compared with 31 million at Emirates in the 12 months
through March 31 and 16 million at regional No. 2 Qatar Air over
the same period, has also looked at Ireland’s  Aer Lingus Group
Plc (AERL)  and will explore other options to tap key markets where
airline managements are amenable to a tie-up, he said.  Hub Squeeze  “We’re not just collecting brands,” Hogan said. “It’s got
to be something which is the right fit, brings in incremental
revenue and, through restructuring, allows us to take out cost
and achieve scale. What we won’t do is just put money in and say
‘see you later,’ which other airlines have done.”  As at Emirates and Qatar, the focus of Etihad’s strategy is
to exploit the location of the Gulf on flyways between  North
America , Europe,  Africa  and  Asia  to build a transfer hub in
competition with Air France-KLM Group, British Airways and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and their European bases.  Hogan, who was born in  Melbourne , cites Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd., with which he has said he’d “seriously consider”
deeper ties, as illustrating the benefits of bilateral deals.
China Eastern Airlines Corp. said on its website that it and
Etihad have signed a agreement for closer cooperation in code-
sharing and areas such as ground-handling services.  German Limits  Scope for investments may increase as stumbling European
economies and high fuel costs weigh on margins, something that
has already led to the collapse of  Hungary ’s Malev Zrt., Hogan
said, forcing smaller airlines to accept that they cannot hope
to replicate the overheads of larger, full-service carriers.  Etihad took a major stake in Air Berlin to overcome the
constraints of Abu Dhabi’s air-services treaty with  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest aviation market, which stop it serving
locations such as Berlin, Hogan said. Even then, it “stalked”
the discount carrier for four years before making the move.  In “open skies” markets including the U.K. there are no
such restrictions, and Etihad will be free to serve London and
“one or two more cities” such as Manchester with  Airbus SAS A380
superjumbos  planes due for delivery from 2014, said the CEO, in
London to discuss fleet financing requirements with bankers.  Smarter Option  Equity investment of 105 million euros in Air Berlin will
be repaid in extra revenue in two years, Hogan said, making the
deal “smarter than buying 10 more aircraft to crack the German
market.” The European company is also a hybrid airline rather
than a pure discount carrier, with long-haul routes and a strong
position in corporate travel, which the CEO said he aims to tap.  The tie-up will save money through joint purchasing of fuel
and insurance, and the carriers will cooperate on adding  Boeing
Co. 787 Dreamliner  jets, Hogan said. Air Berlin, which has 14 of
the jets on order, will send pilots to  Abu Dhabi  for simulator
training and fit the same seats as Etihad, which is buying 41.  Etihad, which posted its first annual profit last year with
net income of $14 million, will take delivery of six planes this
year and eight next before aircraft from 100 ordered at the 2008
Farnborough Air Show spur growth in 2014. By 2017 the  fleet 
should number more than 160 jets compared with less than 70 now.  Aer Lingus Interest  Aer Lingus remains an investment prospect should Ireland
firm up plans to sell its 25 percent holding, Hogan said, with
assessments so far restricted to the likely sales contribution.  “All I’ve said is that if they were to open their books
then we’d have a look at it,” he said, adding that the Dublin-
based company has a “pension issue” that would have to be
evaluated. There has been “strong interest” in the stake and all
approaches will be considered if there’s a sale, the government
said Feb. 9.  Hogan said that there’s enough long-haul transfer traffic
to support multiple hubs in the Gulf, and the region effectively
has a local catchment area of almost 1 billion people within
three flying hours, taking in much of the  Indian subcontinent .  Still, the CEO said he’s cautious about taking a stake in a
carrier in  India , where  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  may be seeking
an investor, even after a ministerial panel recommended dropping
a ban on foreign airline holdings in favor of a 49 percent cap.  “We’d be very wary due to the regulation of the Indian
market,” he said. “You’ve just got to make sure that the rules
of business in any market you enter allow you to win. If we
don’t think it will work we’re not going to waste our time
because the margins in our business are so fine.”  Entry into one of the three global airline groupings is
also unlikely, mainly because of concerns among older operators
about the challenge presented by Middle East hubs, Hogan said.  “You never say never, but usually in each of the alliances
there is somebody who is terrified of Gulf carriers,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  