-- Leverage Dropping Most Since 2008 Leads Best Emerging Rally: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-05T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/leverage-dropping-most-since-2008-leads-best-emerging-rally-turkey-credit.html
Turkey  is reducing government debt
this year by the most since 2008, spurring the best bond rally
in the  emerging markets .  The Treasury plans to lower debt 16.5 percent by stepping
up repayments, according to its website. Lira-denominated bond
 yields  have plunged 175 basis points in 2012, the most among
emerging markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra
 yield  on Turkish dollar bonds over similar-maturity U.S. notes
fell to a three-month low of 322 basis points on March 1,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index shows.  The second-fastest growth after  China  among major economies
allowed Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to cut debt to 39.8
percent of gross domestic product last year from almost double
that when his party came to power a decade ago. While the
nation’s $284.9 billion market for government debt is almost
double the size of  Russia ’s, Turkey’s indebtedness relative to
its GDP is below that of Brazil,  India ,  Poland  and  Hungary ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s one of Turkey’s strengths, as debt relative to GDP
has come down a long way in the last 10 years,” said  Kieran Curtis , a London-based  fund manager  who oversees about $3.5
billion in emerging-market assets at  Aviva Investors Ltd. (MORAISS) 
“Fiscal policy is always going to be an important determinant
of bond yields in a country like Turkey.”  The government aims to reduce its debt to 37 percent of GDP
this year, according to the Treasury. That compares with 8.7
percent for Russia, 54 percent for  Brazil  and 57 percent for
Poland, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Treasury sold 2.24 billion liras ($1.3 billion) of
January 2022 fixed-coupon bonds today at an average annual yield
of 9.7 percent, higher than 10-year debt sold on Feb 14.
yielding 9.63 percent.  Economic Growth  Turkey’s $735 billion economy expanded 9.6 percent in the
first nine months of 2011, boosting government revenue. The
state had a budget surplus excluding interest payments on debt
of 7.1 billion liras ($4 billion) in January, up from 4.8
billion liras a year earlier, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek
said Feb. 15.  Turkey plans to repay 13.8 billion liras of debt this
month, while issuing 10 billion liras of new debt, according to
government projections published Feb. 29. By the end of May, the
government expects to shave another 3.1 billion liras from its
net overall borrowings, according to the plan.  The government has benefited from lower borrowing costs
because of cuts in Turkey’s benchmark interest rates. Central
bank Governor Erdem Basci reduced the one-week repo rate by 75
basis points last year to a record low 5.75 percent.  Turkey paid just 3.3 percent of GDP in interest payments in
2011, down from 15 percent in 2002, the year Erdogan’s
government came to power.  Private Debt  While public finances are improving, concern that private
indebtedness and trade imbalances will deteriorate further has
kept Turkey’s credit rating at junk.  Standard & Poor’s  rates
Turkey two levels below investment grade at BB. Moody’s
Investors Service has an equivalent rating of Ba2 and Fitch
Ratings assigns a level one step higher at BB+.  Turkey’s current-account deficit, the widest measure of the
balance of trade and investment, swelled to $77 billion last
year. The gap poses “a risk to overall financial stability,”
Frank Gill, an analyst at S&P, said in response to questions on
Feb. 21.  The so-called private  budget deficit , a measure of
indebtedness for companies and households, is equivalent to 8.7
percent of GDP, compared with a surplus of 14 percent of GDP in
2001, according to figures from the central bank. Companies have
a record 307 billion liras of debt maturing this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Default Risk  “The private sector is highly indebted in foreign
currency,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , a fund manager who helps oversee
about 11.5 billion euros ($15 billion) at  Landesbank Berlin (BEB2) 
Investment in Berlin, said in response to e-mailed questions.
The absolute level of government debt also “is still a very
high amount,” he said.  Roehmeyer said he’s not adding to holdings of Turkish debt
in part because yields are too low relative to historical
levels.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7722 against the dollar
at 5:25 p.m. in Istanbul, trimming this year’s rally to 6.7
percent.  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds against default using
five-year credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points to 228 today,
according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately-negotiated market. The
spread was 181 for Russia, rated three levels higher at S&P, 185
for Poland and 155 for  South Africa . The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Positive Impact  The yield on the benchmark two-year  notes  rose 1 basis
point to 9.25 percent. That’s down from 11.01 percent at the end
of last year in the biggest drop among 19 major emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The fact that the government is well-managed in its
finances does have a positive impact on yields,” said Mert Yildiz, an economist at  Renaissance Capital (RNCG)  who works in London
and Moscow. “It also has an impact on the risk premium. Both
the CDS and the  government bonds  are pretty low relative to
peers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  