-- Goodman Fielder Takeover Seen With Wilmar
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n ,   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-03-05T05:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/goodman-fielder-takeover-seen-with-wilmar-instant-31-real-m-a.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s largest palm oil trader, is giving investors in  Goodman (GFF) 
Fielder Ltd. the chance for a 31 percent return as it considers
an expansion into Crisco oil and Newman’s Own salad dressings.  Singapore-based Wilmar disclosed last week that it owns 10
percent of Goodman and is considering buying more of  Australia ’s
biggest baking company. Sydney-based Goodman, with baking, dairy
and oil brands that Wilmar says are “complementary” to its
existing consumer business, is trading at a  59 percent discount 
to its sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wilmar, which has tripled  revenue  from consumer products in
the last four years, could tap its distribution network to boost
sales of Goodman’s brands in Asia, according to BNP Paribas SA
and Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte. Goodman, which sells  Crisco ,
 Paul Newman ’s salad dressings and Wonder White breads in
Australia, would fetch as much as 89 cents a share in a takeover
by Wilmar or another buyer, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
That would value Goodman at A$1.74 billion ($1.9 billion), 31
percent higher than last week’s close, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  A takeover “makes a lot of sense,” Michael Greenall, a
Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at BNP Paribas, said in a phone
interview. “There’s potential benefit for both companies.”  Goodman  today  rose as much as 2.9 percent in Sydney trading
before closing up 1.5 percent at 69 cents. That’s the highest
level in more than six months. Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index fell 0.2 percent. Wilmar fell 0.4 percent to S$5.03 in
 Singapore , the lowest since Dec. 30.  Oil Palm Plantation  Wilmar, which already owned a 2 percent stake in Goodman,
became the company’s biggest shareholder when it bought the
remaining 8 percent on Feb. 27 using UBS AG as an intermediary,
according to regulatory filings.  A spokeswoman for Wilmar declined to comment on its plans
for Goodman. Goodman’s management hasn’t spoken to Wilmar’s
management since the increased stake was disclosed, Goodman’s
Sydney-based spokesman, Ian Greenshields, said on March 2.  “We have no offer in front of us,” he said. “We welcome
them to the share register.”  After starting in  1991  with an oil palm plantation in
Western Sumatra,  Indonesia , Wilmar has become the world’s
largest producer of the oil used for cooking and also to make
biofuel, chocolates and cosmetics. Sales have surged sixfold to
$44.7 billion in the past five years after a 60 percent jump in
 palm oil  prices and a decade of acquisitions that added sugar
refiners, flour mills and edible oil producers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Two Birds’  With more than 200,000 hectares of oil palm plantations in
Malaysia and Indonesia, Wilmar said it was building an
integrated agricultural products business from “origination to
branding, merchandising and distribution” when it announced the
purchase of the Goodman stake last month.  “If you are an upstream player and you want to go
downstream, one way to do this is to go and buy a product which
you then need to distribute,” said BNP Paribas’s Greenall.
“The other way is to buy a distributor which has the networking
channels or marketing channels throughout the world to sell your
products through.”  With Goodman, which has products to sell in  Asia  as well as
an established sales network in Australia, Wilmar would get
both. “You hit two birds with one stone,” Greenall said.  In 2010, Wilmar held 43 percent of the retail market for
cooking oil in  China , according to Euromonitor International.
The researcher forecasts sales of packaged food there to rise 51
percent to 1.48 trillion yuan ($230 billion) in the four years
through 2015.  Margins Shrink  Still, margins at Wilmar’s consumer business shrank last
year as China capped cooking  oil prices  for most of the year
even as costs rose. Falling prices also hurt profits in the
sugar business, which Wilmar acquired with the A$1.8 billion
purchase of Australia’s biggest refiner in 2010. As demand for
palm oil also weakened, profits fell for two consecutive years.  “They’re trying to look for other things to help to grow
the business,” Alvin Tai, an analyst at OSK Holdings Bhd., said
by phone from  Kuala Lumpur . “Wilmar really needs a good growth
angle.”  Goodman, founded in  1909  in the farming town of Tamworth,
competes for space on supermarket shelves for products including
La Famiglia bread, White Wings flour and Chesdale processed
cheese. The company’s sales and  profits  have fallen because of
rising ingredient costs and competition with Australia’s largest
supermarkets.  “Goodman is a turnaround story in the making,” said  Rohan Suppiah , an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng in Singapore. Wilmar
“can use those brands and apply them to their marketing
strategies in other parts of Asia, especially in China, where
they are particularly strong,” he said.  Praise Mayonnaise  Goodman, whose shares fell more than 60 percent from the
2005 initial public offering price of A$2 through its earnings
results in August, announced a strategic review last year and
has said it  may sell  certain parts of its business. Wilmar had
been in talks to acquire the Integro specialty ingredients and
the New Zealand milling businesses, Greenshields said last week.  Asia accounts for about  12 percent  of sales for Goodman,
which sells brands including Meadow Lea margarine, Meadow Fresh
long-life milk and Praise mayonnaise in China and  Southeast
Asia . While its sales fell in the six months through December,
revenue from Asia Pacific rose 10 percent and it was the most
profitable division of the company, last month’s earnings
release showed.  Relative Value  Wilmar or another buyer may pay as much as 89 cents a
share, or a 31 percent premium to last week’s closing price of
68 cents. That would value Goodman at an  enterprise value  of
about 10 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization in the twelve months through December, JPMorgan
analyst Stuart Jackson wrote in a Feb. 28 research note.  That compares with the median price of 10.7 times Ebitda
offered in twenty-five purchases of food companies in the last
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Wilmar may not be
the only interested buyer, according to Jackson.  “There could be other companies in the region that could
look at Goodman’s assets as a strategic opportunity to build a
food production base in Australia for export into Asia,” he
wrote.  Andy Bowley, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, said
Wilmar may be more interested in Goodman’s edible oils and fats
business and the New Zealand milling operation, rather than a
purchase of the whole company. Goodman may instead lure private
equity buyers, he said.  “It has turnaround potential, strong cash flows and
potential to unlock value in a break up,” he said. “ Goodman
Fielder  has certainly got to be on the list that private equity
would look at.”  Even after rising  32 percent  since Wilmar revealed its
stake, Goodman last week traded at 0.41 times sales, according
to Bloomberg data. That’s less than half the average valuation
afforded to 90 food manufacturers in developed economies with a
market capitalization of more than $1 billion, the data show.  “The market dislikes Goodman Fielder -- it has been a
perennial disappointer since listing,” Bowley said. “But the
market is underestimating the potential recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 