-- Greece’s Debt Swap Endorsed by IIF as Investors Left to Decide
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-04T09:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/greece-s-debt-swap-endorsed-by-iif-as-investors-left-to-decide.html
The  Institute of International
Finance , which represented private creditors in the negotiations
over  Greece ’s debt swap, endorsed the final terms of the deal
and left its members to choose whether to take part.  “The decision to participate in the debt exchange lies
exclusively with individual investors,” the IIF said in a
statement issued by e-mail today after a board meeting yesterday
in Zurich,  Switzerland . The Washington-based group represents
more than 450 financial services companies around the world.  Private creditors reached an agreement with Greek and
European officials last week on the biggest sovereign debt
restructuring in history. The plan seeks to reduce Greece’s
borrowings by about 106 billion euros ($140 billion) and lower
debt to 120.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  Under the deal, investors will forgive 53.5 percent of
their principal and exchange their remaining holdings for new
Greek  government bonds  and notes from the European Financial
Stability Facility. Euro-area finance ministers last week
authorized the EFSF to issue bonds for the swap.  The success of the deal depends on how many investors
participate in the transaction. The swap “will contribute
meaningfully” to Greece’s efforts to restructure its economy
and secure a new rescue package from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , the IIF said.  “These are important steps towards resolving the Greek
debt crisis, addressing the overall fiscal and sovereign debt
problems in the euro area, and restoring financial stability,
which is essential to foster economic growth and job creation,”
the IIF said in its statement.  New Panels  The trade group also announced the leaders of two panels
that will focus on particular financial services.  Walter Kielholz, chairman of Swiss Re, was named head of a
new asset management and investment council that will focus on
long-term investment issues. The panel’s members will be chief
executive officers and chairmen from asset managers, life
insurers, pension funds and sovereign wealth funds.  The group will “bring forward to the public policy debate
the unintended consequences that could result from uncoordinated
or poorly thought-through regulatory changes that might prompt
traditional long-term investors to take a shorter-term view,”
said  Charles Dallara , the IIF’s managing director.  The IIF also named Martin Senn, CEO of Zurich Financial
Services Group, as chairman of the group’s insurance regulatory
committee. Senn said the panel, composed of senior insurance
executives, will champion the insurance business and
“strengthen the IIF’s work in its dialogue with the official
regulatory authorities,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  