-- Greek Debt Swap Deadline Will Test Europe Efforts to Close Crisis Chapter
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-05T11:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/greece-debt-swap-deadline-this-week-to-show-if-europe-moving-past-crisis.html
The European Union faces a first
test in its attempt to turn the page on the two-year debt crisis
when  Greece ’s private creditors decide this week whether to sign
off on the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history.  The success of the 106 billion-euro ($140 billion) debt
swap, confirmed on the eve of last week’s European Union summit,
depends on how many investors agree to the writedown by the
March 8 deadline. Euro-area finance ministers will hold a
teleconference on March 9 to review the deal’s outcome.  “The European crisis is not quite over yet,”  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at UniCredit SpA in  London ,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. He said enough creditors
will probably participate in the writedown to avoid triggering
so-called collective action clauses, which could be used by
Greece to compel investors to participate and roil markets by
triggering credit-default swap insurance contracts.  The Greek government has set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with the transaction, in
which investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and
exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek  government bonds 
and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility. Euro-
area finance ministers last week authorized the EFSF to issue
bonds for the swap.  Reject Offer  Germany ’s DSW investor protection group advised
private sector bondholders to reject the Greek bond offer,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  Leaders of the EU last week said their focus will shift
away from budget-cutting to growth measures after completing the
details of a second Greek bailout package. Whether that 130
billion-euro package can proceed will depend on the outcome of
this week’s swap.  Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds climbed last week, with
 Italy ’s bonds showing the longest run of gains in 14 years,
buoyed by a second round of three-year loans offered by the
 European Central Bank . Stocks fell today after  China  announced
its lowest economic growth target since 2004 and European
services and manufacturing output was revised lower.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index fell 0.4 percent as of 4:05 p.m.
Frankfurt time. The euro broke a three-day decline, adding
0.2 percent to $1.3223.  “We’re in calmer waters,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said in an interview on Dutch television’s “Buitenhof” program
yesterday.  EU leaders have called Greece’s case unique while vowing to
keep the country where the debt crisis originated in the
monetary union.  ‘Sick Child’  “If you have a sick child in the family, you don’t abandon
it, but work on a remedy,” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said in a March 3 radio interview with state broadcaster
ORF. “That’s what we’re currently trying to do with Greece.”  The  Institute of International Finance , which represented
private creditors in the negotiations over Greece’s debt swap,
yesterday endorsed the final terms of the deal and left it up to
its members to choose whether to take part.  The plan, which private creditors reached an agreement on
with Greek and European officials last week, seeks to reduce
Greece’s debt to 120.5 percent of gross domestic product by
2020.  ‘Important Steps’  “These are important steps towards resolving the Greek
debt crisis, addressing the overall fiscal and sovereign debt
problems in the euro area, and restoring financial stability,
which is essential to foster economic growth and job creation,”
the IIF said in an e-mailed statement.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  baffled his
EU colleagues on March 1 by saying the bloc has a backup “plan
B” if the Greek debt swap fails.  “I have nothing to say about this odd declaration,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in Brussels the next day.
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said there’s “no plan B.
We have chosen the way how to deal with the crisis.”  Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt told reporters
today that “everyone knows that we’re not completely finished
in terms of the Greek situation, but we’ve taken substantial
steps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  