-- Rory McIlroy Holds Off Tiger Woods to Take Honda Classic, Top Golf Ranking
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/tiger-woods-scores-62-to-trail-mcilroy-by-two-shots-at-honda-classic-golf.html
Rory McIlroy said he took added
satisfaction from withstanding a career-best final round by
 Tiger Woods  to win the U.S. PGA Tour’s Honda Classic and become
the world’s No. 1 ranked golfer.  The reigning U.S. Open champion, McIlroy shot a 1-under-par
69 yesterday to finish 12-under for the tournament, two strokes
better than Woods and Tom Gillis. McIlroy finished his round
with five straight pars after Woods shot an 8-under par 62, the
lowest final-round score of his PGA Tour career.  “It was a lot more meaningful,” McIlroy said at a news
conference. “The way I won today was great. I just needed to
focus on my game and do what I needed to do.”  The 22-year-old from  Northern Ireland  is the first non-
American winner in 10  PGA Tour  events this season and moves past
 Luke Donald  atop the  Official Golf World Ranking .  Woods had four birdies and two eagles, including one at the
par-5 18th hole, to come within one shot of the course record
set by Brian Harman during the second round.  Woods pumped his fist after sinking the 8-foot eagle putt
and doffed his hat to acknowledge the fans cheering his name as
he walked off the 18th green. McIlroy at the time was on the
13th hole, where he made a birdie to rebound from his lone bogey
of the final round and keep his lead at two strokes.  “I wasn’t really paying much attention until he made that
eagle on 18,” McIlroy said after his third PGA Tour win. “I
heard the huge roar and it definitely wasn’t a birdie roar. It
was nice to have that two-shot cushion going into the last five
holes after holing that birdie putt.”  Second-Youngest No. 1  McIlroy receives $1.03 million and becomes the second-
youngest world No. 1 after Woods, who was 21 years and 5 months
when he first ascended to the top spot on June 15, 1997. McIlroy
is the 16th different player to reach No. 1.  Woods ranks third in PGA Tour history with 71 career wins,
the last of which came in September 2009 at the BMW
Championship. That tournament also marked the last time he shot
a 62, during the third round.  “I’ve been close to shooting this score, or scores like
this,” Woods, 36, told reporters. “And it was just a matter of
time before things all fell into place.”  Gillis made a 17-foot birdie putt at the 18th hole to tie
Woods for second place, his best career PGA Tour finish.  Lee Westwood  finished fourth at 8-under par, followed by Charl Schwartzel and  Justin Rose  at 7-under.  Miami Next Up  McIlroy and Woods will be among those headed to Miami for
the World Golf Championships-Cadillac Championship at the TPC
Blue Monster at Doral from March 8-11.  The limited-field event at Doral includes the top 50
players in the world rankings, the top 20 from last year’s
European Tour standings, the top 30 in last year’s FedEx Cup
standings, and the top 10 from both tours this year.  For those who don’t qualify, the PGA Tour also holds the
Puerto Rico Open from March 8-11.  McIlroy said he’ll take three weeks off to prepare for next
month’s  Masters Tournament , which starts April 5. He’s the 6-1
favorite to win the year’s first major, according to Las Vegas
Hotel & Casino’s sports book.  McIlroy, who blew a four-shot lead in the final round at
Augusta National Golf Club last year, said he would “take a
lot” from holding off his challengers yesterday.  “The way I managed myself around the golf course, the par
saves I needed to make early, I was able to do that,” McIlroy
said. “So there’s a lot today that I can take with me. It gives
me a little bit of confidence knowing if I get myself in that
position again, that I’m able to finish the job off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  