-- In Mumbai Slum, Sadistic Cops, Lying Doctors Killing People, Dreams: Books
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-04T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/in-mumbai-slum-sadistic-cops-lying-doctors-kill-people-dreams-books.html
When visitors arrive in Mumbai,
their first glimpse of the city will probably feature people
from slums near the airport defecating in open fields. This
demonstration of municipal neglect was already a familiar sight
when I lived there as a child in the late 1960s.  Beginning in 2007, New Yorker magazine staff writer
 Katherine Boo  spent three years reporting from Annawadi, one of
those slums -- a clump of shacks and ragged dwellings near a
sewage lake into which animal carcasses are sometimes tossed.  Her ardent new book, “ Behind the Beautiful Forevers ,”
introduces a handful of the residents, chronicling the lives of
people who for years have been briefly seen and rarely noticed.  The outlook is bleak but not pessimistic. Boo wants to
understand how people living in terrible poverty can find a way
out. (Only six of the settlement’s 3,000 residents have
permanent jobs.) She focuses on Abdul Husain, a teenager who
purchases trash, separates it into categories such as plastic,
paper and metal, and sells it to recycling plants.  We meet Abdul’s family, neighbors and a younger waste-
picker named Sunil, who worries that his body isn’t growing
normally because he can’t scavenge enough to buy food.  Boo also traces the enterprising, often underhanded efforts
of a woman named Asha Waghekar to become Annawadi’s first female
slumlord -- someone who unofficially oversees everything going
on in the settlement and delivers votes or bodies when political
events demand a show of support.  No Millionaires  Asha’s ambition reveals that  India  is changing for some of
its lowliest citizens as the country attracts foreign
investment. But while Asha may have a mobile phone and a “road
boy” combing for trash may occasionally earn $1 a day, these
slum dwellers are unlikely to ever escape Mumbai’s vast and
demoralizing “undercity,” as she calls it.  There’s no slum-dog millionaire in their midst.  Boo’s Annawadi saga is set in motion when Fatima, an angry
one-legged neighbor of Abdul’s, lights herself on fire and dies.
Fatima had been embroiled in a dispute with her neighbors, and
was trying to get them in trouble through her self-immolation.  Abdul, an inarticulate boy who usually keeps to himself, is
charged with inciting her suicide. When he’s carted off to jail,
evidence is invented and police and government bureaucrats try
to extract money from his mother to make the case go away.  Currying Favor  In the aftermath of Fatima’s death, we hear of Asha’s
struggle to curry favor with the elected official of Ward 76 so
she can amass more clout and money. She’s canny, performs favors
on commission and knows that success happened “only gradually,
as incremental advantages over one’s neighbors were parlayed
into larger ones.”  Boo’s principal accomplishment isn’t making us feel for
Abdul, Sunil or other children whose lives are blunted by
misery, or even those who swallow rat poison to kill themselves
because they can’t persevere.  What overwhelms the reader is Boo’s painstaking account of
police and state officials openly manufacturing evidence to
extract payments from people they should be helping, and doctors
and the police inscribing lies in public records about the
causes of multiple deaths.  Boo’s implicit subject is the pervasiveness of municipal
apathy and the casual sadism of people with a little bit of
power who seek quick windfalls from those far more vulnerable or
with fewer options.  Fake Death Certificates  She tells us who lied to the police, which police officer
deceived slum dwellers in trouble and which death certificates
weren’t true. Clothes sent to a nearby orphanage never reach
children and money slated for myriad anti-poverty programs is
diverted to enrich officials.  Boo says in an author’s note that the story she tells is
based largely on events she witnessed and multiple interviews
with almost 170 people, often through translators, supplemented
by documents from the police, hospitals, morgues and courts.  “Behind the Beautiful Forevers” doesn’t seek to portray
India or even Mumbai. It presents a tiny sliver of life in a
giant city. But it’s an important book that gives permanence to
people whose tragedies and deaths are too easily wiped from the
public record.  “Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death and Hope in a
Mumbai Undercity” is published by  Random House (BTG)  in the U.S. (256
pages, $27). It will be published in the U.K. by Portobello
Books on July 5. To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Nina Mehta writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 