-- Intervention Call by Asia Executives as Currencies in Best Start Since ’06
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-05T02:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/intervention-call-by-asia-executives-as-currencies-in-best-start-since-06.html
Asian exporters, battling a slump in
demand, are calling for their central banks to intervene after
capital inflows contributed to the  best start  to the year on
record for the region’s currencies.  Executives at LG Chem Ltd.,  South Korea ’s biggest chemicals
maker, and Bangkok-based Chengteh Chinaware ( Thailand ) Co. said
policy makers should curb volatility, while TLtek Co., an
exporter of auto-part making machines based on the outskirts of
 Seoul , cites the won’s strength against the euro for its
currency losses. The chairman of the Malaysian American
Electronics Industry, which represents U.S. companies such as
Motorola Inc., and Dell Inc., said the central bank should
“stabilize the ringgit.”  Asian policy makers switched focus to spurring economic
growth after slowing inflation prompted  Indonesia (IDBIRATE) , the
 Philippines  and Thailand to cut interest rates in the past six
months. The ringgit, won and Chinese yuan climbed more than 5
percent against the euro in the past year, making exports less
competitive as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps demand. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asian Dollar  Index (ADXY)  tracking regional currencies against
the greenback rose 2 percent this year, the most since the data
goes back to 1995.  “The central bank should intervene in case gains in the
won quicken and threaten tolerable levels,” Owen Sung, chief
spokesman at LG Chem in Seoul, said in a Feb. 28 interview. “A
sudden rally in the won will hurt our export earnings.”  Falling Shipments  Policy makers are more likely to focus on the slowdown in
global growth rather than the threat of rising  oil prices  on
inflation, according to Sameer Goel, the head of Asian rates and
currency strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in Singapore. Crude
reached a 10-month high of $110.55 on March 1 and has risen 8.3
percent this year.  “The export cycle has definitely been slowing down,” he
said. “There’s a less obvious reason for them to allow
appreciation to tackle imported inflation at this stage of the
cycle, unless oil prices remain a persistent concern.”  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of chips, posted a third straight decline
in profit in the three months ended Dec. 31.  Hyundai Steel Co. (004020) ,
South Korea’s second-biggest steelmaker, saw lower profit in the
quarter and forecast a 3.9 percent drop in sales in 2012.  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  India ’s biggest producer, reported an unexpected
loss after demand weakened in Europe.  Overseas sales in South Korea slowed to an average 6.8
percent in the first two months of 2012 after increasing 8.2
percent in December, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimated after
accounting for the Lunar New Year Holiday.  Shipments (PHEXYOY)  from the
Philippines shrank for an eighth month in December.  Capital Inflows  Money that policy makers in Europe and the U.S. are pumping
into their economies is finding its way to  Asia , where  interest
rates  are higher. Emerging-market bond funds attracted record
inflows of $2.14 billion in the first week of February and $8.7
billion this year, according to data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  Expanding capital inflows have an inflationary effect and
complicate policy making, Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said at a forum in  Manila  on Feb. 28. Bank
Negara  Malaysia  is seeking an “orderly” market and doesn’t see
a threat of imported inflation, Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said
on Feb. 27. Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul
said Feb. 29 it had intervened “a little bit” in the fourth
week of February. Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said
on Feb. 10 that the monetary authority had an intervention
strategy to preserve stability.  Curbing Volatility  Brazil  is ready to take more measures to stem a rally in
the real, the world’s third-best performing major currency in
2012, after broadening the scope of a tax on foreign loans and
bonds, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said on March 1.  Asian nations, whose foreign-exchange reserves dropped at
the height of the emerging-market sell-off in September, will
probably intervene to replenish their holdings, New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Robin Brooks and Stacy Carlson
wrote in a Feb. 1 report.  A rebound in reserves in South Korea and  Indonesia  this
year signaled policy makers probably sold their currencies.
South Korea’s holdings rose 1.4 percent in February to $315.8
billion after increasing 1.6 percent the previous month, Bank of
Korea data today showed. Indonesia’s reserves climbed 1.7
percent to $112 billion in January after retreating in the four
months through December.  China  has curbed volatility in the yuan since a government
report on Feb. 10 showed exports shrank in January for the first
time since November 2009, keeping the currency at 6.3 per dollar.
The currency rose 8.3 percent since the start of 2010.  ‘Stabilize the Ringgit’  “The yuan’s rise has seriously hurt our U.S. businesses,”
said Eva Chen, sales manager of Pacific Wide Ltd., a Taiwan-
registered company with factories in Guangxi, China, that
exports lamps. “But we are very lucky we started expanding in
China’s domestic market last year,” Chen said in an interview
in Taipei on Feb. 17.  Malaysia’s  export  growth slowed to 6.1 percent in December,
the least since May, a report in February showed. Inflation has 
held around 3 percent for the past year. The ringgit reached 
2.9873 per dollar on March 1, the strongest level since 
September.  “We hope the ringgit will be stable round 3.1,” Wong Siew Hai, chairman of the Malaysian American Electronics Industry,
said in an e-mail on Feb. 20. Bank Negara “needs to stabilize
the ringgit to a narrow range so that it’s more predictable and
help businesses to be competitive,” he said.  India’s growth is inevitably going to be slower partly due
to a “hostile” global environment,  Reserve Bank  of India
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in Mumbai on March 1.  Rising Risks  “The exchange-rate risk on the bottom-line has
increased,” Manish Mandhana, joint managing director at
 Mandhana Industries Ltd. (MMDN) , a garment supplier to Tommy Hilfiger
BV, said in an interview on Feb. 22 from Mumbai. “The
developments in Europe haven’t been encouraging, which means we
have to tighten our costs to maintain margins.”  Developing Asia may grow 7.3 percent this year, compared
with an earlier forecast of 8 percent and an expansion of 7.9
percent in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
report last month. Currency intervention is a valid instrument
for emerging-market central banks to use to “achieve sustained
and stable growth,” the IMF wrote in the Feb. 29 report.  “The strengthening baht will make life a lot harder for us
because we also need to cope with rising wage and energy
costs,” said Somnuk Nacasaksevee, deputy managing director at
Chengteh Chinaware, which makes Walt Disney Co. mugs shipped to
the U.S. and Europe. “The central bank should help minimize the
volatility.”  Continued euro depreciation could affect Samsung
Electronics Co.’s earnings, Robert Yi, Seoul-based senior vice
president for investor relations, said in a conference call on
Jan. 27. The won has gained 2.4 percent against the euro in the
past six months.  “It hurts my heart whenever I think of currency losses
from deals settled in euros,” said Ahn Yong Joon, chief
executive officer at TLtek, which gets 30 percent of its sales
from Europe. “I am also a little concerned that orders from
Europe may decline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  