-- Jailed Lawmakers Rule in India as Crime Brings Few Punishments
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-03-05T08:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/jailed-lawmakers-rule-in-india-as-crime-brings-re-election-not-punishment.html
Mukhtar Ansari has been in jail
since 2005, charged with ordering a rival’s murder by hit men
who pumped 400 bullets into the victim’s car. He doesn’t expect
that or more than 30 other charges to bounce him out of his day
job as a state legislator.  From behind bars, Ansari predicted he will be re-elected
with a majority in monthlong polls whose results will be
announced tomorrow in Uttar Pradesh, a 560-mile swath of
northern  India  stretching southeast from New Delhi. He has
reason to be confident given his three consecutive elections to
the region’s legislature since 1996, twice from prison.  “Anyone I killed got what they deserved but it’s not like
I have killed a busload of people,” the six-foot-five Ansari,
51, said as he sat in his Agra cell Jan. 30. “The poor need my
protection. I only fight against the powerful.”  Ansari is an  extreme embodiment  of the growing criminality
among politicians across the world’s largest democracy. More
than a quarter of federal and state legislators face charges
that also include rape, kidnapping and fraud, according to the
Association for Democratic Reforms, which has campaigned for
better governance since 1999.  Their presence in office drives out business and hinders
improvement in the potholed roads and failing education and
health services that weigh on  Asia ’s second-fastest-growing
major economy, according to S.Y. Quraishi, the head of India’s
 Election Commission .  ‘Growing Cancer’  “Criminal politicians are a deep and growing cancer in our
democracy,” Quraishi said in a Feb. 17 interview. “How can our
economy reach its potential when politicians rob the country
rather than invest in it?”  Politicians on trial or facing charges are free to run for
office in India, where the Ministry of Law and Justice says
criminal cases last for an average of 15 years. In the U.S., the
 median interval  of a federal criminal case in district court
from charges to disposition is 6.3 months, according to the
Administrative Office of U.S. Courts.  India’s law ministry and the election commission are
considering proposals to bar candidates if a court has charged
them with offenses that carry a sentence of five years or more.  Ansari’s murder trial has been on hiatus since 2008 after
the  Supreme Court  asked the  Central Bureau of Investigation  to
probe the case. Charges of kidnapping and firing an AK-47 at a
police commissioner have been dismissed by courts, and he has
never been convicted of a crime.  Mobile Messages  Ansari, wearing cream trousers and a black overcoat as mice
scurried under his wooden bed, said he has a band of 18,000
supporters to carry out orders he sends from jail using mobile
phones and scribbled notes, in contravention of prison rules.
Each week, 30 messengers arrive with news from his constituency
of Mau, 355 miles (572 kilometers) to the east of  Agra , he said.  In a sign of his clout, Ansari has been transferred among a
dozen jails over the last six years amid authorities’ concerns
he will take over the prisons, he said. In Ghazipur jail, where
the 220-pound Ansari was held in 2008, he had a volleyball court
built and was allowed to slaughter goats to liven up prison
meals, he said.  An official reached by phone at Ghazipur jail who declined
to give his name said a volleyball court did exist while Ansari
served time there and that it has since been removed. He hung up
the phone when asked about the goats.  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most populous province with
about 200 million people, is the country’s biggest political
prize, supplying a seventh of all lawmakers in the lower house
of the national parliament.  Crime-Ridden  The state’s assembly is also the most crime-ridden of the
five holding elections this year: 143 of 403 existing members
have been formally charged by a court, the ADR says. Ten judges,
including a former Indian chief justice, sit on the ADR’s
advisory committee, along with two former chief election
commissioners.  At least 35 percent of the 6,850 candidates running for the
Uttar Pradesh legislature have criminal charges against them, a
25 percent increase from the state election in 2007, the
advocacy group says, citing its  study  of candidate disclosures.  Nationwide, the number of lawmakers charged with offenses
has doubled over 14 years to 1,328 out of a total of 4,915,
according to the study. In state assemblies and the national
parliament politicians also are accused of lesser crimes, such
as lying under oath, defamation and electoral fraud.  “Investors will shy away from a culture where crime and
politics overlap, especially foreign investors who aren’t
familiar with how it fits into local business practices,” said
R.K. Gupta, Mumbai-based managing director at Taurus Asset
Management, which oversees $900 million.  Company Sacrifice  H.S. Gandhi, a former director at now-defunct Rajinder
Steels Ltd. in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, saw his company ruined
by police and government failure to tackle organized crime.  “The mafia would ask for a 50 percent cut from each
contract and the government would want 20 percent, which made it
impossible for us to invest money,” he said Jan. 17 by phone.
“What was once a promising young steel company was sacrificed
to sustain a culture of greed and corruption.”  Gandhi said he didn’t go to the police for help because
they were involved in the racket.  S.P. Kumar, an official in the  Ministry of Corporate
Affairs  in Uttar Pradesh, said he was not aware of the Rajinder
case. In general, he said, police protect companies from
intimidation or extortion demands by local gangs.  Battle for Control  Among at least seven others joining Ansari in seeking a
seat in the new Uttar Pradesh legislature from jail is Brijesh
Singh. He and Ansari have waged a two-decade battle for control
of eastern districts of the state, according to police reports
and interviews with two law-enforcement officials, who asked not
to be identified because they feared reprisals.  In the interview, Ansari agitatedly described how three of
his gang died in an ambush by Singh’s gunmen in 2001. In
retaliation, Ansari ordered six men carrying AK-47 assault
rifles to kill a Singh associate, regional lawmaker Krishnanand
Rai, said state prosecutor Awadesh Rai, who is not related to
the victim. Six other people in Rai’s vehicle also died in the
hail of bullets.  Ansari, who was in jail on charges of inciting rioting at
the time of Rai’s killing, denied ordering the murder. Ansari
has been charged in eight murder cases, as well as with
extortion, gangsterism and forgery. He has been acquitted of
murder once and homicide charges were dropped in five other
cases, according to his lawyer, Gopal Swarup Chaturvedi.  No Convictions  Singh, who has 25 murders among the 161 criminal charges he
faces, has not been convicted of a crime. Aamir Bai, an official
at Sabarmati Jail in Ahmedabad where Singh is being held, ruled
out a phone interview with him.  While the list of alleged offenders running for election in
Uttar Pradesh has lengthened over two decades, the region’s $87
billion economy has lagged behind. State gross domestic product
expanded an average of 4.7 percent since 1991 compared to 6.6
percent  nationally , according to government figures.  That gap is apparent in Mau, Ansari’s constituency.  “No company sets up here, because they are afraid of
getting mixed up with these thugs,” said Muhammad Taiyab, a
businessman whose firm employs 250 people making saris in Mau,
where votes were cast Feb. 11. “The government is meant to help
business. Instead it is our biggest problem.”  Home to a sixth of India’s 1.2 billion people, Uttar
Pradesh  captured  only 1 percent of foreign investment into India
in the six months ending September 2010, according to the New
Delhi-based Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of
India, the nation’s third-biggest trade body.  Skimming Funds?  Criminals enter politics as an easy way to make money,
while in office they skim off funds intended for development
projects, said ADR founder Jagdeep Chhokar, a former professor
at the Indian Institute of Management in  Ahmedabad .  “They bring muscle and money, which can be important
ingredients in winning elections,” said Chhokar, 67.
“Criminals find entering politics alluring. They can enrich
themselves by controlling government projects and taking
bribes.”  Ansari justified violence as a legitimate response in a
part of India historically fractured by enmities over caste or
religion. In parts of Uttar Pradesh, where the Oxford Poverty
and Human Development Initiative says 39 percent of people live
in “ severe poverty ,” communities turn to gangs for protection,
some shielded by political leaders and others led by them.  The violent behavior Ansari exhibits is at odds with his
privileged background. His grandfather was a president of the
Indian National Congress, now the federal ruling party, as it
campaigned against British colonial rule in the 1920s, and his
family holds large areas of farmland.  Raping and Burning  “When we were growing up, higher-caste men came and
attacked my village, raping the women and burning down homes,”
said Ansari, a Muslim father of two children who ran as an
independent in 2007 and has since founded the  Quami Ekta Dal , or
One Voice for All party. “Ever since that day, I have been
fighting. If anyone troubles the poor, I will murder them.”  Ansari’s self-portrayal as a defender of the under-
privileged ignores a grimmer reality. Criminal politicians use
their connections and the fear they inspire to win  contracts  for
road building and the transport of coal, and run the illegal
liquor trade in eastern Uttar Pradesh, according to a 2008
police survey of crime in parts of the state.  Caste Politics  Decades ago, Uttar Pradesh was run by Congress and produced
national leaders. Congress’s current president,  Sonia Gandhi ,
and its heir-apparent, her son  Rahul Gandhi , both represent the
state in parliament, as did Rahul Gandhi’s grandmother, the late
prime minister Indira Gandhi. In 1985, the party won 269 of 425
seats in a then-larger legislature.  Congress’s fortunes went into decline five years later when
the federal government extended job quotas for groups at the
lower end of the caste system. The 1992 destruction of a mosque
in Uttar Pradesh by Hindus also helped fuel the rise of parties
that sought power through appeals to voters’ identity. Congress
won just 22 seats in 2007.  The Bahujan Samaj Party of Chief Minister Mayawati, which
draws the majority of its support from those at the bottom of
the caste hierarchy, and the Samajwadi Party of her main
opponent, Mulayam Singh Yadav, now dominate the state’s
politics.  Exit Polls  The SP leads in exit polls published after voting ended
March 3 in the state. Three separate post-vote polls by the CNN-
IBN television channel with The Week magazine, Headlines Today
and India TV also showed the BSP coming second, the  Bharatiya
Janata Party  third and Congress fourth.  The BSP and SP parties fielded 330 candidates facing
criminal charges this year, according to the ADR. Congress,
whose state campaign was led by Rahul Gandhi in a key test of
his leadership, put up 120 such candidates. Its leading rival on
the national stage, the BJP, has 144 Uttar Pradesh candidates
facing charges.  BJP spokesman Prakash Javadekar and Abhishek Manu Singhvi,
a spokesman for Congress, both said in interviews that
candidates should be presumed innocent until proven guilty.  Voters support candidates such as Ansari because they think
they will protect them in the event of caste or religious
confrontations, Prakash Singh, a retired Uttar Pradesh police
chief, said in January. “The idea is, ‘Who cares if he is a
gangster? He is our gangster.’”  Stop Looting  A railway line divides poorer Muslims living in Mau’s old
town with more prosperous Hindus. It’s a combustible mix of
religion and poverty that has triggered six riots in the last
three decades. It’s also fertile ground for Ansari, who was
arrested for inciting violence in Mau that killed at least nine
people in 2005.  Television footage  showed him driving through
the town in an open-top jeep in defiance of a curfew.  Denying he was provoking rioters, Ansari, who survived a
1996 assassination attempt thanks to body armor that stopped
seven shots fired at his chest, said he acted as a peacemaker,
telling people to stop  looting  and go home.  “Ansari is not perfect but he is one of the few
politicians in India willing to stick up for Muslims,” Mohammad
Ansari, a doctor not related to Mukhtar Ansari, said in his Mau
clinic. “I’ll vote for him again even if he’s in jail.”  Ansari’s constituency suffers from the failing governance
that afflicts much of Uttar Pradesh. At the Yusufpura primary
school in Mau’s Muslim district, children took exams outside in
weak winter sun in January because there weren’t enough desks.
The government-run hospital was running out of painkillers.  ‘Compassionate Leadership’  “Real change in India will only come when we get the right
kind of state and local leadership, a progressive and
compassionate leadership,” said Taiyab, the Mau sari maker.
“Ansari has barely laid a brick in this town. He has left the
people to rot.”  Ansari has his sights set on winning a seat in the national
 parliament  in elections scheduled for 2014. “I will be out of
jail by then, which guarantees that I am going to win,” he
said. “This is just the start of my political career.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  