-- Nigerian Delta Unrest Cuts Oil Output by 1 Million Barrels
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-03-05T17:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/nigeria-s-nnpc-says-unrest-cuts-oil-output-by-1-million-barrels.html
Oil production in Nigeria,  Africa ’s
biggest producer, is down by about 1 million barrels a day
because of violence and theft in the Niger River delta,
according to the state oil company.  Output is yet to be restored at 40 onshore oil fields
mostly operated by Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  San Ramon ,
California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and smaller producers more than
two years after a government amnesty led to the disarming of
thousands of militants and a decline in attacks on  oil
companies , according to data obtained from the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp.  The “underlying tensions that mark the region were decades
in the making and have yet to be resolved,”  Antony Goldman ,
head of PM Consulting, a London-based risk advisory specializing
in West Africa, said today in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The concern among oil companies is that there is a risk of a
slide back to violence if stakeholders do not seize the
opportunity presented by the current relative calm to begin to
build a better and fairer future for the Niger delta.”  NNPC, as the state oil company is known, operates joint
ventures with Shell, Chevron,  Total SA (FP)  of  France , Irving, Texas-
based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  that pump more than
90 percent of Nigeria’s oil. Central government control of oil
revenue is resented by communities in the region and this has
spawned unrest including armed attacks on oil facilities and
theft from pipelines.  Organized Oil Theft  “We have been able to bring production back but it is
still below pre-militancy levels,” Ian Craig, Shell’s vice
president for exploration and production in sub-Saharan Africa,
said Feb. 21 at an oil conference in Abuja, the capital. “The
greatest challenge, however, is the massive organized oil theft
business and the criminality and corruption which it fosters.”  At least 150,000 barrels a day of oil is lost to theft,
resulting in increased production costs, reduced revenue and
“major environmental impacts,” Craig said. Shell on Feb.6 said
rising crude theft along its Nembe Creek trunkline threatens
daily exports of 140,000 barrels. The company has recorded over
250 incidents of theft and sabotage in its onshore operations
since January 2010.  Nigeria  is currently producing 2.68 million barrels a day,
short of a capacity of 3.7 million barrels, according to the
NNPC. Sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy depends on oil
exports for more than 95 percent of export income and 80 percent
of all government revenue.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s administration plans to
borrow 794 billion naira to finance deficit spending in 2012.
The country is losing at least $3.6 billion a year from still
unrestored output that could’ve helped government finances,
 Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Financial
Derivatives Co., said in a phone interview on March 2. He said
“there’s no way Nigeria can actually do 3.7 million barrels a
day” any time soon.  Attacks, Disruptions  Nigeria’s naira has weakened 2.3 percent against the dollar
over the last year and traded at 157.80 to the dollar as of
16:04 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital. The oil industry is
the second-biggest supplier of foreign currency to the local
 interbank market  after the central bank, which sells dollars
earned from oil exports at twice weekly auctions.  Output from Shell’s onshore fields in the West African
nation currently stands at about 600,000 barrels a day, half the
volume in 2005 before armed attacks and disruptions worsened,
Mutiu Sunmonu, chairman of Shell’s Nigerian unit, said on Feb.
22 at a conference in Abuja, the capital.  Chevron pumped an average of 236,000 barrels a day last
year,  Kurt Glaubitz , a company spokesman in Houston, said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Feb. 27, without giving
further details. That compares with 376,000 barrels a day the
company pumped in Nigeria in 2008, with at least 140,000 barrels
a day yet to be restored in swamp operations including the Olero
Creek, Abiteye and Dibi fields.  Offshore Fields  Production from Nigeria’s onshore fields and shallow waters
currently stands at about 1.34 million barrels of oil a day,
down from total production of about 2.5 million barrels before
armed hostilities against producers began early in 2006,
according to NNPC data. The rest of current production comes
from offshore fields.  Total output fell to as low as 1 million barrels a day when
armed attacks peaked in July 2009. At the end of 2005 deep
offshore contributed less than 10 percent of Nigeria’s oil,
compared with about a third currently. OPEC estimates Nigeria’s
capacity at about 2.5 million barrels a day.  Nigeria’s main militant group in the delta, the Movement
for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta , or MEND, on Feb. 6 said
it was resuming attacks against producers after it damaged a
pipeline operated by a unit of Eni on Feb. 4.  Shell, which has the biggest onshore operations in Nigeria,
has sought to reduce its exposure by selling some assets. The
company sold three oil leases in the western part of the delta
with a capacity of 50,000 barrels a day in 2010 to Seplat
Petroleum Ltd., a local producer.  Rising Costs  It disposed of another license in November to the Neconde
Energy Ltd. group and is in talks to sell interests in three
other oil leases.  Insecurity in the region has also helped to drive up costs.
Due to the activities of pirates and armed groups in the coastal
oil region, marine insurers last year included Nigerian waters
in a war-risk zone for which underwriters can charge additional
premiums, Lloyd’s Market Association Senior Executive John
Gurtenne said on Aug. 4.  The prevailing situation has resulted in a “reduced
appetite for exploration” and in “Nigeria’s reserves probably
being materially understated,” said Shell’s Craig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  