-- Obama Has ‘Israel’s Back’ Preventing Iran Nuke
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-04T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/obama-says-u-s-won-t-hesitate-to-use-force-against-iranian-nuclear-weapon.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
won’t hesitate to use military force to stop Iran from
developing a nuclear weapon, while asserting there is still time
for diplomacy and sanctions to work.  A nuclear-armed Iran threatens the security of the U.S. as
well as Israel and would trigger an arms race in the region,
Obama said in Washington to a conference of the American Israel
Public Affairs Committee, the biggest pro-Israel organization in
the U.S. He said international pressure including economic
sanctions is isolating and dividing the Iranian leadership.  “Iran’s leaders should know that I do not have a policy of
containment; I have a policy to prevent Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon,” Obama said. “And as I’ve made clear time and
again during the course of my presidency, I will not hesitate to
use force when it is necessary to defend the  United States  and
its interests.”  Whether and when to use military force to stop  Iran’s
nuclear program  has replaced the Israel-Palestinian  peace
process  as the dominant issue in Israel-U.S. relations. Obama’s
speech came on the eve of White House meeting with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who also will address Aipac. In his
34-minute speech, Obama set out no so-called “red line” that
if crossed by Iran would trigger a U.S. attack.  Netanyahu Reacts  Netanyahu said he was gratified to hear Obama reiterate his
position that Iran must not be allowed to build a nuclear weapon
and that the option of using military force remains.  “I appreciated that he made clear that when it comes to a
nuclear-armed Iran containment is not an option,” Netanyahu
said in Ottawa before leaving for  Washington .  The Israeli leader also cited Obama’s affirmation that
Israel has the right to act on its own if needed.  “I very much appreciated the fact that he said Israel has
the right to defend itself by itself against any threat,” he
said.  Obama’s relationship with Israel and the threat posed by
Iran has emerged in the U.S. presidential campaign. Three
Republican presidential candidates are scheduled to deliver
messages to the Aipac conference.  Obama said all parties should consider the “weightiness of
these issues” and the stakes for both the U.S. and Israel. He
warned that the approach in dealing with Iran must be
deliberate.  ‘Loose Talk of War’  “Already, there is too much loose talk of war,” Obama
said. “Such talk has only benefited the Iranian government, by
driving up the price of oil, which they depend upon to fund
their nuclear program. For the sake of Israel’s security,
America’s security, and the peace and security of the world, now
is not the time for bluster.”  Since the start of October, crude oil has risen 37 percent.
Oil futures for April delivery were $106.70 a barrel March 2 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Brent oil may rise to $150 a
barrel this year if diplomatic relations between Iran and the
west worsen, Barclays Plc forecast in a March 1 report.  Israeli President  Shimon Peres , addressing Aipac this
morning, said there is no disagreement between Israel and the
U.S. on the goal of stopping Iran’s from building nuclear arms.  “Our message is clear: Iran will not develop a nuclear
weapon,” Peres said.  Peres Medal  Obama, who also met with Peres after they spoke, told Aipac
he will award Peres the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the
highest U.S. civilian honor, later this year.  Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research.  The U.S. and the European Union tightened economic
sanctions following a Nov. 8, 2011, report by United Nations
inspectors that  Iran ’s nuclear research program may include
pursuing the capability to build a nuclear weapon. As a result,
Obama said, Iran is isolated and its economy ground to almost a
halt last year.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Washington-based
policy research group Foundation for Defense of Democracies,
said the only audience that counts for Obama’s message that he
won’t tolerate a nuclear-armed Iran is Netanyahu and Iranian
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  ‘Meaningful Action’  “It is now up to him to back up his words with meaningful
action that sends a message to Jerusalem and Tehran about the
strength of his resolve,” said Dubowitz, who has advised the
administration and members of Congress on sanctions. Those
actions, he said, include crippling sanctions, support for the
Iranian opposition and preparations for military action.  “Overall it was a very good speech,” Israeli Deputy
Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said on  Israel ’s Channel 2
television. “The point that we have to pay particular attention
to is that here, Obama has declared ownership; Iran is an
American problem, and we won’t allow it to go nuclear.”  The Iranians, he said, “need to pay very close attention
to what was said here.”  Aipac will also hear from Republican candidates including
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , all of whom have accused Obama of failing to give
Israel sufficient support. Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent
support from Jewish voters, according to national exit polls.  Romney Criticism  Campaigning near Atlanta before the next round of primary
contests on March 6, Romney said Obama has failed to impose
sufficiently harsh sanctions against Iran or make clear that
Iran having a nuclear weapon is “unacceptable to America.”  “I understand he just gave an address today talking about
all the great things he’s done to provide greater peace and
reduce the threat from Iran,” Romney told more than 1,000
voters in Snellville,  Georgia . “That hasn’t happened.”  Without specifically citing critics, Obama reaffirmed his
support for Israel and listed steps his administration has taken
to bolster Israel’s defense and defend its ally.  “There should not be a shred of doubt by now: when the
chips are down, I have Israel’s back,” Obama said. Political
opponents who attack his policies are “not backed up by the
facts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  