-- Hollande Repeats Call to Renegotiate EU Treaty; Rival Doubts Credibility
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-03-04T14:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/hollande-repeats-call-to-change-eu-fiscal-treaty-rival-doubts-credibility.html
Francois Hollande , the Socialist
candidate in France’s presidential election, repeated his
promise to renegotiate Europe’s latest fiscal treaty, saying it
puts undue emphasis on austerity and offers little about the
need for growth measures.  “Discipline is necessary on a European level; each state
needs to make an effort to improve its accounts,” Hollande said
on France 3 television today. “But it will be impossible to
meet these goals if there isn’t growth and jobs and activity.”  European Union leaders signed a German-inspired deficit-
control treaty on March 2 that puts a tighter curbs on spending
and mandates automatic corrections of deficits that stray from
targets. It is due to take effect on Jan. 1, 2013, and must be
ratified by at least 12 of the 17 euro-area countries. All 17
countries in the euro area, including  France , and eight EU
members outside the currency bloc signed the treaty.  “If tomorrow I’m president, I’ll say there are parts of
this treaty we can accept, but we won’t accept sanctions that
are against countries’ interests and, second, we’ll add growth,
activity, big industrial projects, Eurobonds to pull the
economy ahead.”  Hollande’s comments came the same day that Der Spiegel
reported that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  had all agreed not to
host the Socialist candidate before this year’s presidential
election because they are angry about his plan to renegotiate
the new budget pact.  ‘Lack of Credibility’  “There’s simply a lack of credibility when he says he
would want to renegotiate the European pact that all of your
partners just spent weeks negotiating,” Nathalie Kosciusko- Morizet, the spokeswoman for French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and the former ecology minister, said on Canal Plus television
today.  It’s up to each individual leader to decide whether they
want to host Hollande, a German government spokesman said today
by phone, declining to identified because of government rules.
She wouldn’t say whether there was any agreement among the
leaders and said that no decision had yet been made on
Hollande’s request for a meeting with Merkel in Berlin.  With less than two months to go before the first round of
French elections, Sarkozy trailed Hollande by 7.5 percentage
points in a LH2 poll of 971 registered voters for Yahoo!
published today.  Hollande, who has never held a government position, was the
Socialist Party’s leader from 1997 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 