-- Holocaust Family Weeps as Last Portraits Go on Show in Israel
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-03-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/holocaust-family-weeps-as-last-portraits-of-victims-go-on-show-in-israel.html
Dvora Milka Semmel fixes us with a
resigned grimace.  She has a blue kerchief, lined face and brown eyes. She
peers from a portrait painted months before she was gunned down
by the Nazis with 53 fellow labor camp inmates.  Her 79-year-old granddaughter, Nira Gold, stares
immobilized at the painting with tears welling, as she seeks
solace from her 73-year-old sister Amira Bar.  “The Nazis took the elderly out of a line-up -- that was
grandmother,” Gold says. “The minute they took her, the oldest
daughter ran after and they were both shot. Right in front of
everyone. I just wish there was a way to tell my mother” that
the painting exists, she says. “I’m crying for her.”  Bar nods. Their mother took them to Jerusalem’s  Yad Vashem 
Holocaust Museum often when they were children and “looked for
so long” for something from her mother. Her grandmother’s
likeness, hung next to that of Gold’s grandfather, hangs in an
exhibition, “Last Portrait: Painting for Posterity,” at Yad
Vashem.  About 6 million European Jews were killed in the Holocaust
during World War II in a Nazi campaign across  Europe  that
included random executions, plunder and death camps. Most of the
faces that look out from the exhibit’s charcoal, pencil,
watercolor and oil portraits didn’t survive.  Counterfeiters Film  Sketches include those of men who printed fake foreign
money for the Nazi regime and whose story was commemorated in
the movie “The Counterfeiters.”  For Avraham Zolenfeld, who says he was the youngest
counterfeiter, the portraits are less significant than his two
return trips to Sachsenhausen to revisit the printing press.  “I don’t recall at all the faces except for those I saw
after I was freed,” Zolenfeld, 87, says, shaking his head. “I
don’t want to disappoint but I prefer to remember places rather
than people.”  The exhibition’s portraits are grouped thematically and
into specific categories. The blurry lines and downcast glances
of the subjects in one such group reflect the precariousness of
existence in the camps and ghettos.  Moritz Muller worked in the hospital of the Theresienstadt
Ghetto and started painting and sketching the patients he cared
for. He recorded the date of the portrait and dates of many of
the deaths.  Unearthed Drawings  Jacob Lifshitz, active at the Kovno Ghetto, buried all of
his drawings in the Jewish cemetery a few days before the
ghetto’s liquidation. He died of starvation. His wife survived
to return, unearth the drawings, bring them with her to  Israel 
and donate them to Yad Vashem.  Four Czech artists in Theresienstadt used caricature, a
style which allowed them to capture the faces of many people in
just a few strokes. Their subjects added captions to their
likenesses such as that done by Max Placek on which Viktor
Ullman, the Czech composer who was sent to Auschwitz in 1944,
scribbled: “ Don Quixote  and Sancho Panza.”  “What is really characteristic and surprising is that we
almost don’t find Holocaust attributes in these portraits,”
curator Eliad Moreh says. “The message is that they wanted to
be remembered as human beings and not as victims.”  She quotes from a poem by Benjamin Fondane, that opens the
exhibition on its entrance walls: “I too had a face marked by
rage, by pity and joy. An ordinary human face.” Fondane was
killed in Auschwitz in 1944.  “Last Portrait: Painting for Posterity” runs through Fall
2012 at Yad Vashem, Har Hazikaron,  Jerusalem . Information:
 http://www1.yadvashem.org/yv/en/about/index.asp   To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 