-- Orix Targets $1.8 Billion Loan Growth Next Year Led by Consumers, Wealthy
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-03-05T01:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/orix-targets-1-8-billion-loan-growth-led-by-consumers-wealthy.html
Orix Corp. (8691) , the Japanese provider of
financial services ranging from leasing to insurance, aims to
expand loans at its bank unit by 150 billion yen ($1.8 billion)
next fiscal year on demand from households and wealthy clients.  Orix Bank Corp. (OTBZ)  targets 18 percent growth in lending for
the year starting April from 814 billion yen in March 2011, Akio Ushio, president of the unit, said in an interview. The bank
introduced a loan card on March 1 and began a private banking
service to lure clients with assets exceeding 100 million yen.  Having entered the banking business in 1993 focusing on
mortgages, Orix is seeking to diversify by attracting retail
customers seeking fast credit at outlets including automated
teller machines. A government clampdown that restricted lending
to consumers by  non-banks  has opened up a gap in the market that
the company can fill, Ushio said.  “For retail clients with or without wealth, a bank may be
more accessible than Orix’s other real-estate subsidiaries when
they borrow money,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based
analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  “Orix Bank’s 150 billion yen
loan target for next fiscal year sounds doable given their past
track record.”  Through its card, Orix aims to increase consumer loans by
100 billion yen in the next three years, Ushio said. The bank
has more than doubled corporate loans in the past three years to
180 billion yen by focusing on mid-sized companies in  service
industries  such as real estate, he said.  Acom, Promise  Acom Co. (8572)  and  Promise Co. (8574)  are among consumer finance firms
that had to reduce  interest rates  to 20 percent from as much as
29 percent and cap lending to low-income borrowers under a law
introduced in 2010. The legislation also forced lenders to
refund overcharged interest, leading to the  bankruptcy  of
Takefuji Corp. Loans at consumer lenders shrank to about 3
trillion yen by December 2010 from 8.5 trillion yen in 2003,
according to a government study.  “As a bank, we’re confident our consumer loans will grow
steeply after Japanese moneylenders reduced their market share
on tighter regulations,” Ushio said at the company’s Tokyo
headquarters last week. “Even with those regulations, the
country has big potential for growth in quick-money lending.”  Orix Bank, which holds 1 trillion yen of deposits, offers
loans ranging from 3 percent to 17.8 percent with a credit limit
of 8 million yen, the lender said in a statement on Feb. 28. The
bank lends to Japanese residents with annual income of more than
2 million yen, it said.  Private Wealth  Shares (8591)  of Orix have climbed 23 percent this year,
outperforming the benchmark Topix Index’s 15 percent increase.
The shares rose 0.3 percent in Tokyo as of 10:30 a.m.  For wealthy retail customers, Orix Bank formed its private
banking division this month with six staff, Ushio said. It will
target business owners, executives of foreign financial
institutions, and doctors and lawyers with annual paychecks
exceeding 50 million yen, he said.  The bank will focus asset management advice on real estate
in the first few years and will provide customers with loans for
property investment, Ushio said. The lender, which will broaden
services in the longer term, aims to get as much as 20 billion
yen of wealth assets in the year starting April, he said.  “2012 will be the year for Orix Bank to be really
aggressive,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  