-- Halifax Raises SVR to 3.99%, RBS and Santander Boost Pricing
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-03-04T12:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/lloyds-bank-s-halifax-unit-raises-standard-variable-mortgage-rate-to-3-99-.html
Lloyds Bank Group Plc’s  Halifax  (HFX) 
unit, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, said today it is
raising its standard variable rate by 0.49 percentage point to
account for higher funding costs after the European debt crisis.  “Following a review of our variable mortgage interest
rates, also known as lender variable rates, we are increasing
the Halifax Standard Variable Rate from 3.50 percent to 3.99
percent from May 1,” the company said in a statement on its
website. The increase “is due to the increased cost to us in
raising the money we lend to our customers.”  The Bank of England forecast in January that U.K. lenders
would toughen criteria on loans to households in the first
quarter due to strains in wholesale funding markets. Tighter
wholesale funding conditions and the economic outlook were
expected to restrict credit availability, the central bank said
in its fourth-quarter Credit Conditions Survey published Jan. 5.  Lenders must pay an average 127 basis points, or 1.27
percentage point, more than the  Bank of England  base rate for
deposits compared with 118 basis points below that benchmark
before 2007, Halifax said in an e-mailed statement today. The
cost of issuing a three-year note last month was 175 basis
points more than the three-month  London  interbank offered rate,
up from 11 basis points more than Libor for a four-year
securitization bond in 2006, Halifax said.  16 Pounds  On average, Halifax’s 850,000 customers with mortgages on
the standard variable rate will see their monthly repayments
increase by about 16 pounds, assuming a current balance of
67,500 pounds, according to the statement.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  yesterday said it
increased the rate on two of its non-SVR mortgage products
called Offset and The One Account by 0.25 percent to 4 percent
for new and existing customers. RBS’s SVR has not been changed
and remains at 4 percent, it added in the e-mailed statement.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  has also increased the rate new
customers will pay on four mortgages it offers through its
“Abbey For Intermediaries” product line due to higher funding
costs, according to London-based spokesman Andy Smith. The
Madrid-based bank’s SVR will remain the same, he said.  The rate on Santander’s two-year fixed 65 percent and 75
percent mortgages and two-year tracker 65 percent and 75 percent
mortgages will rise 10 basis points, Smith said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 