-- Pakistan’s Anwar Plans Lending Boost to Bolster Economic Growth
-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i   a n d   D a v i d   M e r r i t t
-- 2012-03-04T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/pakistan-s-anwar-plans-lending-boost-to-bolster-economic-growth.html
Pakistan ’s central bank aims to spur
lending to small companies, farming and housing in the next
three years to boost growth in an economy where  government
borrowing  has curbed credit and kept  interest rates  elevated.  “These three areas have to be stimulated and will become
engines of growth,” Governor Yaseen Anwar, 60, said in an
interview at the  State Bank of Pakistan  in Karachi on March 2.
He forecast the economy will expand by 3 percent to 4 percent in
the year ending June.  Anwar has kept the benchmark rate at 12 percent since he
was officially made governor in October, refraining from adding
to two reductions in 2011 as the nation grapples with the
fastest inflation in  Asia  after  Vietnam . He said government
borrowing is impeding credit, as insufficient tax collections
force Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s administration to turn
to central bank funding to finance flood rehabilitation and a
war against militants in the northwest.  “The State Bank cannot do much in isolation without the
government taking some very basic corrective measures,” said
Nasim Beg, executive vice chairman of Arif Habib Investments
Ltd. in Karachi, which oversees 35 billion rupees ($385 million)
in stocks and bonds. “The government will be likely to go for
aggressive populist spending early in this election year and
worry about meeting revenue targets later -- more pressures for
the governor.”  As acting central bank chief after Shahid Kardar resigned
in July citing policy differences with the government, Anwar cut
rates by 2 percentage points before pausing. Kardar had blamed
state spending for fanning prices, and he and his predecessor,
Syed Salim Raza, both quit before completing their three-year
terms at the monetary authority.  ’Zero Borrowings’  Anwar, who worked at Merrill Lynch & Co. and Bank of
America Corp. in his 33-year career before joining the  State
Bank , cited the government’s commitment to “zero borrowings”
from the central bank as one of the reasons for reducing rates
in July.  “We need attention on the revenue side in terms of  tax
reform ,” Anwar said, adding he thinks the government may meet
its collection target of 1.95 trillion rupees in the year ending
June 30. The ratio of tax to gross domestic product, which the
finance ministry estimates is 9 percent, “has to go up into the
teens,” he said.  Only one in 10 Pakistanis pay taxes, limiting the
government’s ability to fund a  budget deficit  that the
International Monetary Fund estimates may widen to as much as 7
percent of gross domestic product this year.  ‘Huge Potential’  Tapping the potential in small and medium companies,
agriculture and housing will increase Pakistan’s annual growth
rates to “much higher levels,” said Anwar. Agriculture
accounts for 21 percent of GDP and needs to be “harnessed” and
housing finance, which accounts for less than 1 percent of GDP,
has “huge potential,” he said.  Bank loans to farmers rose 20 percent to 149.7 billion
rupees in the seven months ended Jan. 31, according to the
central bank. The central bank’s target for farm lending is 285
billion rupees for the year ending June 30.  Pakistan faces faltering growth following floods in 2010
and 2011 and an insurgency near the Afghan border. The
disasters, security risks, elevated price pressures and a budget
shortfall have left the economy “highly vulnerable,” the
 International Monetary Fund  has said. The $175 billion economy,
which is due to hold general elections by next year, grew 2.4
percent in the year through June 2011, one of the smallest
expansions in a decade.  The Pakistan rupee is down about 6 percent against the
dollar in the past year on concern foreign reserves will shrink
as international aid dwindles. Anwar said the central bank has
intervened to the tune of $1 billion in the  currency market 
since July to “curb speculative activity.”  Pakistani inflation accelerated to 11.05 percent in
February, the second-fastest pace in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Government borrowing  rose 25.8
percent to 440 billion rupees from July 1 to Feb. 3, according
to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naween Mangi in Karachi  at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Merritt  in London at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  