-- Palm Oil Seen Rising 8% to Year High as Drought Wilts South American Crops
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-03-05T12:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/palm-oil-seen-climbing-7-to-year-high-as-inventories-decline.html
Palm oil  may advance 7.8 percent by
mid-April to the highest level in a year as cooking-oil demand
outstrips supply, according to TransGraph Consulting Pvt.
Chairman Nagaraj Meda, who has forecast prices for 13 years.  Stockpiles of soybeans, crushed to make a substitute oil,
will decline after dry weather hurt crops in Brazil and
 Argentina , said Meda, who’s also managing director of Hyderabad,
India-based TransGraph, an industry adviser. Palm oil may climb
to 3,500 ringgit ($1,159) from 3,246 ringgit now, before sliding
to 2,800 ringgit after July as prospects for the U.S. soybean
harvest become clearer, he said.  Palm oil, used in everything from candy bars to biofuel,
rallied last month by the most since December 2010 after drought
cut South American crops. Meda’s forecast for a near-term gain
is less bullish than a prediction from industry veteran  Dorab Mistry , who’s set to update his outlook at a conference this
week in  Malaysia , the second-largest producer.  There was positive price momentum following damage to the
soybean crop, Meda said in a phone interview on March 1.
Economic-stimulus packages in developed nations including  Europe 
had also helped to boost demand, he said.  Palm oil climbed 6.2 percent in February on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, touching 3,321 ringgit on Feb. 28, the
highest level since June, as soybeans and crude oil rallied. The
global soybean harvest may drop by 19 million tons in 2011-2012,
the most ever, after the dry weather, Hamburg-based researcher
Oil World said on Feb. 28.  Bull-Market Call  Mistry, director of Godrej International Ltd., has said
palm oil may advance to 4,000 ringgit.  Michael Coleman , managing
director at Aisling Analytics Pte., who is also addressing the
two-day meeting in Kuala Lumpur, said last month the commodity
may climb to $1,300 (3,925 ringgit) a ton by midyear.  Shifts in palm-oil prices help to influence  global food
costs , which have tumbled 10 percent since reaching a record in
February 2011, according to a  United Nations ’ gauge. Higher
prices boost profits at producers including Kuala Lumpur-based
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and Singapore-based Golden Agri-Resources Ltd.  Palm-oil prices would be supported by lower global reserves
of oilseeds, including soybeans, as well as increased cooking-
oil imports by India after local production dropped, Meda said.
The country is the world’s biggest palm-oil buyer.  Edible-oil shipments into  India  may rise as much as 11
percent to 9.3 million tons in the year that began Nov. 1, he
said.  Imports (SEAICPOL)  of crude palm oil and refined palm olein may
represent as much as 76 percent, he said.  Total cooking-oil production in the world’s second-most
populous nation may drop 10 percent to 6.88 million tons in
2011-2012 from 7.67 million tons the previous year as oilseed
crops were damaged by excessive rain and dry weather, said Meda.  Palm oil may perform “very well over the coming months,”
Coleman, co-founder of the Merchant Commodity Fund, told a
conference in  Singapore  last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Poole at
   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  