-- Israeli President Peres Sees ‘Frank Discussion’ With Obama on Iran Threat
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-04T16:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/peres-expects-frank-discussion-with-obama-on-iranian-nuclear-activities.html
Israeli President  Shimon Peres 
promised today that Iran’s nuclear weapons program “will be
stopped” and said there’s no disagreement between the U.S. and
 Israel  on that goal.  Israel doesn’t seek a war “but if we are forced to fight,
trust me, we shall prevail,” Peres said today at a conference
of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in Washington.  “The United States and Israel share the same goal -- to
prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon,” Peres said,
praising President  Barack Obama  for his support before Obama was
scheduled to speak to the same group, followed by a meeting
between the two men.  “There is no space between us. Our message is clear:  Iran 
will not develop a nuclear weapon,” Peres said.  Today’s meeting will be followed by talks in the White
House tomorrow between Obama and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  as the two allies try to bridge disagreements over how
to deal with Iran’s nuclear program. U.S. officials have called
for more time to let stricter sanctions force Iran to give up
the program. Israeli leaders have warned publicly that time is
running out for a military strike that could stop Iran from
developing nuclear weapons.  “I don’t think the U.S. or international community can
afford for themselves a nuclear Iran,” Peres said in an e-
mailed statement sent from his office in Jerusalem. “We have to
give sanctions time to work while keeping ready all the
alternatives, as Israel once again emphasizes that all options
are on the table.”  Netanyahu spent the weekend in Ottawa meeting Canadian
officials before he travels to  Washington  today.  Three Steps  Speaking on March 2 after meeting Canadian Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper , Netanyahu laid out three steps by Iran that he
said would preclude an Israeli attack: Dismantling its
underground nuclear facility in Qom, stopping uranium enrichment
and disposing of all enriched material other than what would be
used to make medical isotopes or generate atomic power.  Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Moshe Ya’alon told  Army Radio 
today that Netanyahu’s recent statements make it clear that in
the meeting with Obama “it will be emphasized that Israel is a
sovereign state that maintains its right to defend itself.”  Military Option  Obama, in an interview published March 2 in the Atlantic
magazine, said Iran can’t be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon
and the U.S. will do what’s necessary. He repeated that the U.S.
is leaving all options open and that the ultimate option is the
“military component.”  The U.S. and the European Union tightened economic
 sanctions  following a November 2011 report by United Nations
inspectors that Iran’s nuclear research program may include
pursuing the capability to build an atomic weapon. It said there
was evidence Iran was working on a weapon designed to fit on a
missile that could reach Israel and  Europe . Iran says its
nuclear program is for civilian energy and medical research.  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said today that
amid the failure of the international community to act to stop
bloodshed in Syria “what is the value of its promises to
protect the security of Israel?” Liberman spoke on Army Radio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  