-- Porsche to Appeal Court Ruling Over Executive’s Duty Violation
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-03-04T18:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/porsche-to-appeal-court-ruling-over-executive-s-duty-violation.html
Porsche SE (PAH3)  said it will appeal a
Feb. 29 court ruling that said  Ferdinand Piech  violated his
duties as a member of the carmaker’s supervisory board during
its takeover bid of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2009.  In a statement today that cites Piech directly, the
supervisory board member said the Stuttgart Higher Regional
Court’s ruling did not accurately assess the context in which he
made statements to reporters at an event in 2009. Porsche said
it will appeal to the Federal Supreme Court.  The court decided Piech, also chairman of VW, was wrong to
tell reporters at an event in Sardinia that he was unaware of
the extent of the option risks that the carmaker had built up in
bidding for control over VW and that he was wrong not to seek
clarity about it. The decision was part of a ruling voiding
votes by Porsche shareholders that discharged Piech and the rest
of the supervisory board from responsibility for the financial
year ending in 2009, the court said in a statement.  “I can’t -- even after examining the OLG Court in
Stuttgart’s ruling -- see how I violated my duties,” Piech said
in the statement today. The ruling “in my opinion doesn’t
assess the situation accurately,” he said.  The court ruled Piech’s words could also have been
understood as a critical comment, as part of the controversy
within the company at the time, arguing that the risk from the
options was incalculable.  Such a statement is also improper because it would endanger
Porsche’s creditworthiness, the court said.  Piech said today his “core position” at the time of the
comments to reporters was that the takeover “concept followed
by the then-executive board was no longer the right one for the
future.” For that reason, “the options -- and the risks that
go with them in the nature of things -- shouldn’t have been
maintained any longer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  