-- Protesters Tell Tsang to Resign as Weekend Marches Continue in Hong Kong
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-04T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/protesters-tell-hong-kong-s-tsang-to-resign.html
Thousands of protesters marched
through Hong Kong for a second day yesterday demanding the
immediate resignation of  Donald Tsang  as the city’s chief
executive.  The rally, organized by political group People Power, held
up effigies of Hong Kong’s leader and railed against Tsang’s
alleged acceptance of favors from local tycoons.  Protesters took to the streets again after a march through
the city attracted more than 2,500 people on March 3. Hong
Kong’s anti-corruption bureau has begun its first-ever probe
into a chief executive, investigating overseas trips that Tsang
took on luxury yachts and private jets from local business
people. Tsang is due to retire in four months, after six years
in office, when a new leader is selected on March 25.  “The chief executive has breached the anti-bribery
ordinance and we demand that he step down immediately,”
Christopher Lau, chairman of People Power, said. “We are also
protesting against the small circle election for chief executive
for the next term. It is unfair and we demand universal
suffrage.”  Hong Kong’s leader will be chosen by a 1,200-member
election committee from three candidates. Former Financial
Secretary  Henry Tang  suffered a blow to his campaign last month
when local newspapers reported that his wife had built a 209-
square-meter (2,250-square-foot) basement containing a wine
cellar, wine-tasting room, and movie theater, without obtaining
government approval. The popularity of rivals Leung Chun-ying
and Albert Ho has surged.  Between 4,500 and 5,000 people attended the latest
demonstration, according to Lau. A police officer on the scene
who declined to give his name put the number of protesters at
about 3,000. Two phone calls and an e-mail seeking confirmation
from the police’s public relations branch were not immediately
returned.  People Power is planning another protest on the day of the
election, Lau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  