-- Putin Opponents Protest Presidential Win Amid Fraud Claims
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2012-03-05T19:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/putin-wins-amid-election-fraud-allegations.html
Thousands of protesters rallied in
central Moscow’s Pushkin Square the day after Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  claimed victory in a presidential
election that international observers said was unfair.  More than 200 people were detained, some at unsanctioned
rallies in other parts of Moscow, Interfax reported, citing an
unidentified police official. Opposition leader Alexei Navalny
was held along with activists Ilya Yashin and Sergei Udaltsov,
it said. The Moscow police press office couldn’t immediately
confirm the number or identity of those arrested.  “Putin threw down a challenge to us all,”  Sergei Mitrokhin , leader of the pro-democracy Yabloko party, told the
Pushkin Square gathering, estimated by organizers at 20,000
people. “From this moment on, the real battle starts.”  The opposition is seeking to maintain pressure on Putin
after the Russian leader won another six years in the Kremlin
with about 64 percent of yesterday’s presidential vote,
according to the official tally. Putin, 59, has been in power
for 12 years, including the last four as premier.  Crowd numbers were lower today than during protests over
alleged fraud in December parliamentary elections that marked
the biggest unrest during Putin’s rule. Navalny called for new
tactics, such as a campaign of civil disobedience and sit-ins.  ‘Difficult Third Term’  “Putin is facing a difficult third term,” Lilit Gevorgyan,  Russia  analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London , said
today by e-mail. “Here the opposition and the Russian public
have an important role to play.”  A competing pro-Putin rally of 15,000 people took place
near the Kremlin today, a day after more than 100,000 people
attended the premier’s victory celebration there, state
television said.  Observers from the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe  identified violations including ballot-
stuffing at one-third of the polling stations monitored by the
democracy watchdog.  The ballot “didn’t meet important democratic standards,”
Tonino Picula from the OSCE’s parliamentary assembly told
reporters in Moscow. “The point of an election is that the
outcome should be uncertain. This was not the case in Russia.”  Independent Investigation  The U.S. State Department said it’s looking forward to
working with Putin after the election results are certified and
he’s sworn in. It also endorsed the OSCE’s preliminary report.  “We urge the Russian government to conduct an independent,
credible investigation of all reported electoral violations,”
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in an e-mailed statement.  Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , who came in second place
with about 17 percent, refused to congratulate Putin or
recognize his election victory.  Putin last night insisted he obtained a fair victory. “We
won in an open and honest fight,” he told backers hours after
polls closed last night. “We showed that our people can easily
distinguish between a desire for novelty and renewal from
political provocations which have only one goal: to destroy
Russian statehood and usurp power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  