-- Russian Stocks Jump to Seven-Month High on Putin Victory
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2012-03-05T16:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/putin-win-to-unleash-stocks-as-investors-foresee-reform-russia-overnight.html
Russian equities reached their
highest level in more than seven months on bets  Vladimir Putin ’s
return to the presidency will extend a rally in the developing
world’s cheapest stocks.  The 30-stock Micex Index added 1.1 percent to 1,625.74 at
the close in Moscow, its strongest since Aug. 3.  OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel (GMKN) , the country’s largest miner, increased 0.9 percent.
State-owned  VTB Group (VTBR) ,  Russia ’s second-biggest lender, rose 1.4
percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index climbed 1.5 percent to
1,752.17, the most since Aug. 5.  Putin  won  63.8 percent of the vote, according to
preliminary results from the Central Electoral Commission with
99.3 percent of ballots received. The  Micex (INDEXCF) , trading at the
lowest valuation among 21 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg,
has climbed 16 percent this year, beating gains in Chinese and
Indian stocks as oil jumped and protests following Dec. 4’s
allegedly fraudulent parliamentary elections were peaceful.  “Above all else, investors like the certainty,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in
 London , said by e-mail. “Consensus opines that a wall of money
has been sidelined, awaiting the outcome of the election before
being commited to the market.”  The win is an endorsement of Putin’s pledge during the
campaign to continue with a plan to privatize state companies
and undertake political reform, according to Mattias Westman,
managing director of London-based Prosperity Capital Management,
which has about $5 billion of Russian assets under management.
Westman was in the crowd at Moscow’s central Manezhnaya Square
after exit poll results giving Putin victory in the first round
were released.  ’Accelerated Reforms’  “It’s clear that Putin has broad and deep support and that
should be a comfort to markets,” he said from Moscow yesterday.
“We’re hoping this election will lead to accelerated reforms
and that should be good for state-controlled companies.”  The victory gives the former KGB officer a six-year term in
the job he ceded to protege Dmitry Medvedev in 2008 after eight
years because of a limit on serving more than two consecutive
terms.  Medvedev ordered a review of guilty verdicts against
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once Russia’s wealthiest man, the Kremlin
press service said today in an e-mailed statement. Prosecutor
General Yuri Chaika has until April 1 to complete the review of
cases against Khodorkovsky, 48, and his business partner  Platon
Lebedev , the statement said.  Declines in December  The  Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies
listed in New York slid 10 percent in December, the most for two
months, as protesters took to the streets of Russian cities
against election results that saw Putin’s United Russia party
win a reduced majority in the Duma amid allegations of voter
intimidation and ballot-box stuffing.  The Micex slipped 6.5 percent in the last month of 2011 and
capital outflows from Russia more than doubled last year to
$84.2 billion, central bank data show.  “We will see a lot more funds flow into Russia as we now
have six years of predictability,” Hawk Sunshine, who manages
$300 million of assets at brokerage IFC Metropol, said by phone
from Moscow yesterday. “What makes investors worry is that the
players in the game would change and that’s not going to happen
in Russia. We could see a big rally on Monday because of the
relief.”  950% Return  Since Putin, 59, became acting president on Dec. 31, 1999,
replacing  Boris Yeltsin  the year after the country defaulted on
$40 billion of domestic debt, the Micex has returned more than
950 percent to investors, about  eight times  earnings on the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Russia’s per-capita gross domestic product quintupled to $12,000
between 2000 and 2011, according to Citigroup Inc.  The RTS may rise to 2,500 by the end of the year should the
government under a Putin presidency implement “radical reform”
such as fresh Duma elections, the removal of privileges for
favored companies, and reduce its reliance on oil revenues,
 Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at Citigroup in Moscow, said in
a Feb. 27 research note.  “Incremental reform” would push the RTS to 2,000, while a
crackdown on protesters and the media amid rising  government
spending  could drag the RTS down to 1,500, Bond said.  ‘Legitimacy Deficit’  While more than 3,000 vote violations had been registered
Russia-wide by 6:40 p.m. in Moscow yesterday, according to
state-run newswire RIA Novosti, the Central Electoral Commission
said it identified three major “errors” in vote conduct that
won’t affect the outcome. Second-place winner Communist Party
leader  Gennady Zyuganov  has rejected the exit poll results and
said yesterday he would not recognize the election outcome as
legitimate. Zyuganov got 17.19 percent in the vote, according to
the Central Electoral Commission.  The “legitimacy deficit” that now plagues Putin after
December’s allegedly fraudulent Duma elections and the way his
intention to return to the presidency was handled will present a
“chronic problem” for the regime in his third term, said Ian Hague, who manages Russian equities as a partner at Firebird
Asset Management LLC in  New York . Hague said he is avoiding
shares of government-run companies such as natural gas monopoly
OAO Gazprom.  “The more unpopular he becomes due to factors beyond his
control -- such as the oil price, for instance -- the more
difficult it will be for his government to exercise power and
implement policies,” Hague said by e-mail yesterday. “This
will further complicate efforts to achieve balanced economic
growth and to address Russia’s significant structural economic
problems.”  Corruption Index  Oil and natural gas sales contributed almost 50 percent of
government revenue last year, according to official estimates,
and Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, is viewed as
the most corrupt major economy, according to Transparency
International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index.  “My overall take on Putin 3.0 is that it will be a much
more difficult and problematic term in office for him,” said
Hague, who founded Firebird in 1994 to buy shares in Russian
companies that were privatized after the collapse of the  Soviet
Union . “The Russian people have become tired of the lack of
choices available to them in their political lives and this
disaffection is likely to grow.”  Chapest Valuation  The Micex trades at the cheapest  valuation  of 21 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg because of the “lack of political
and financial transparency,”  Alec Young , an international
equity strategist at Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC,
said by phone in New York yesterday. “Both political and
corporate transparency will improve over the longer term in
Russia.”  The 30-stock Micex trades at 6.3 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies, the most expensive level since
August. Russian stocks are cheaper than  Hungary’s (BUX)  at 9.5 times,
 Turkey (XU100)  at 9.6, and  Brazil  at 11.  Returning 16 percent this year, the Micex is beating gains
of 12 percent in  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index and 14 percent
for India’s BSE Sensex Index. Only Brazil’s Bovespa offers
higher returns among the biggest emerging nations in 2012, at 19
percent.  A Putin victory is good for equities that have chief
shareholders closely associated with the incoming president,
Metropol’s Sunshine said. It will also bolster utility stocks as
it paves the way for an increase in tariffs, he said.  Putin’s win is also “good for Gazprom because you buy
Russia, you buy Gazprom,” Sunshine said.  Gazprom Jumps  Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer and
Russia’s largest company, jumped 0.6 percent to 196.81 rubles,
poised for its highest level since Aug. 2.  Among the “cheapest stocks in the whole universe,”
revenue of state-controlled Gazprom may be used to fund some of
Putin’s election promises, said Young at Standard & Poor’s
Financial Services.  Putin vowed to boost pensions and salaries for state
workers and the military during campaigning and has pledged to
increase government spending by as much as 4.8 trillion rubles
($164 billion), or 5 percent of economic output, through 2018,
according to estimates by Capital Economics Ltd. Putin, who has
sought to cultivate a tough-man image during his reign by riding
a horse shirtless and shooting a Siberian tiger with a
tranquilizer, also pledged to reverse “repressive” state
policies and reduce government stakes in companies like  OAO
Rosneft (ROSN) , the biggest oil producer.  Rosneft advanced 1.3 percent to 227.79 rubles in Moscow.
VTB Group rose 1.3 percent to 7.39 kopeks, its strongest close
since Nov. 8, and  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the country’s biggest lender,
added 0.7 percent to 102.27 rubles, a seven-month high.  Net Inflows  Net inflows into Russian stock funds reached $110 million
in the week ended Feb. 29, bringing the total for 2012 to $701
million,  Cameron Brandt , director of research at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based data firm EPFR Global, said on March 2.  Oil for April delivery was little changed at $106.71 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
today. Futures sank 2 percent to $106.70 a barrel on March 2,
taking the weekly decline to 2.8 percent, the first weekly loss
since Feb. 3.  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend and
biggest export earner, slid 0.8 percent today to $122. Prices
for the oil blend closed at $125.26 on March 1, a 3 1/2-year
high.  “We got the best of both for an external investor,
political continuance, the development of a sustainable
political situation and the awakening of an opposition
movement,”  Ian McCall , a managing partner at Quesnell Capital
SA, an emerging-markets investment adviser in Geneva that
manages 100 million Swiss francs ($108 million) including
Russian assets, said by phone from Geneva yesterday. “Reform is
in the air, but it won’t jeopardize the political situation in
the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  