-- Romney Camp Questions Santorum’s Competence as Focus Moves to Ohio Primary
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-04T07:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/romney-camp-questions-santorum-s-competence-as-focus-moves-to-ohio-primary.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s advisers questioned rival Rick Santorum’s
competence and electability and Santorum criticized Romney for
his health-care policies as  Massachusetts  governor ahead of
contests held March 6 on so-called Super Tuesday.  As the candidates competed in Ohio yesterday, the Romney
campaign said Santorum’s failure to qualify for some of the 66
Ohio delegates up for grabs is a symbol of broader troubles,
arguing that it shows the former Pennsylvania senator has a
disorganized campaign and couldn’t compete with President  Barack Obama  in the general election.  It’s “a failure that goes not only to delegates he won’t
win, but to organizational deficiencies that should give
Republican voters great pause as we get ready to face President
Obama,” Romney adviser Ben Ginsberg told reporters in a
conference call. “What that means is that that basic
organizational test that you’re going to have to have to battle
President Obama is a test that  Rick Santorum  and his campaign
have flunked.”  Ohio officials said last week that Santorum, 53, may be
ineligible to win 18 of the Ohio delegates because he failed to
file full slates in some congressional districts. He’s also
ineligible for at least some of the delegates at stake March 6
in  Virginia , where he didn’t meet requirements to be listed on
the ballot, and in Tennessee.  Super Tuesday  Taken together, Ginsberg said, Santorum has failed to
qualify for 16 percent of the 391 delegates who will be bound to
vote for a particular candidate by the results. Ohio is one of
the 11 Super Tuesday states that together control 466 delegates;
to win the nomination a candidate needs 1,144 delegates out of
the 2,286 that will be awarded nationwide.  Romney yesterday won a non-binding straw poll in  Washington 
state’s Republican caucuses.  Santorum, campaigning in Blue Ash, Ohio, didn’t respond to
a reporter’s shouted question about the delegate situation. His
spokesman Hogan Gidley said last week that Santorum’s campaign
was nothing more than “a small effort focused on  Iowa ” when
Ohio’s delegate filings were due in December and that momentum
has since shifted in his direction.  Close Ohio Race  “This race is going to be close in Ohio,” Santorum told
about 400 voters at a hotel in the Cincinnati suburb. “We are
going to be outspent, but we’ve been outspent in every race so
far. It won’t make a difference if you make a difference.”  Polls show a tight race between Romney and Santorum, a
swing state that Obama, a Democrat, won in 2008 and Republican
President  George W. Bush  won in 2004 in the general elections.  Santorum said Romney’s support as governor for
Massachusetts health-care legislation that, like the U.S. law
enacted in 2010, requires everyone to buy medical insurance
would damage the party in the general election.  “He is uniquely unqualified to go against Barack Obama in
the biggest issue in this election,” Santorum said.  Santorum pointed to a 2009  opinion piece  Romney wrote for
 USA Today  in which he said the “lessons we learned in
Massachusetts could help Washington” find a solution to the
health-care problem.  Romney, 64, has said as president he would repeal the
national health-care legislation and let states resolve the
question of insurance coverage.  Abortion Rights  Santorum also emphasized his social conservative
credentials, saying Romney has been inconsistent on those
issues. Romney, for instance, once supported abortion rights and
now opposes them.  “We need someone who has a track record of standing up for
what they believe, not changing positions as the climate
changes,” Santorum said.  He appeared with Tony Perkins, president of the Family
Research Council, an advocacy group for social conservatives who
oppose abortion rights that hasn’t endorsed a candidate.  “We’ve got to elect a candidate who understands the
connection between our economy and our family,” Perkins said of
Santorum.  Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine, who switched his
endorsement from Romney to Santorum, also appeared with the
former senator and said he would “rally our conservative base
like no one else will.”  Economic Message  Romney is pushing an economy-focused message, particularly
in hard-hit states like Ohio, whose economic health compared
with other states fell 6.3 percent between the first quarter of
2009, when Obama took office, and the third quarter of 2011, the
most recent data available, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States index.  “We’ve got good people running for office, but you know
these other guys have spent their life in government,” Romney
told more than 1,000 voters at a rally on a warehouse floor in
Beavercreek. “With our economy in distress, with jobs so badly
needed, with incomes having gone down, we need a president who
knows the economy to fix the economy.”  Romney also sharpened his position on the Sarbanes-Oxley
financial accounting overhaul enacted in the wake of the  Enron
Corp. (ENRQ)  scandal. Asked by a voter if he planned to “basically
repeal” it, along with the health-care bill and the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street regulation measure, Romney responded, “Yes.”  Romney has previously said he would seek to amend the
Sarbanes-Oxley law to make it less onerous for smaller firms,
and in a Jan. 26 debate in Jacksonville,  Florida , he called U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s proposal to repeal it along with
the health-care and financial regulation bills “pretty much
spot-on.”  Modern Law  “By the way, when I get rid of Obamacare and I get rid of
Dodd-Frank and I get rid of Sarbanes-Oxley, it doesn’t mean I
don’t want to have any law or any regulation,” Romney said in
Beavercreek. “It means I want to make sure it’s modern, it’s
updated, it goes after the bad guys, but it also encourages the
good guys.”  Romney and Santorum are the two leading contenders in a
Republican race that includes former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas . The March 6
contests include primaries in Oklahoma and  Tennessee , where
polls give Santorum the edge, and in  Georgia , Gingrich’s home
state where he leads in surveys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  