-- Romney Wins Washington Before Super Tuesday
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-04T07:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/romney-wins-washington-republican-straw-poll-before-super-tuesday-contests.html
Mitt Romney  won a straw poll in
 Washington  state’s Republican caucuses, gaining a boost heading
into Super Tuesday on March 6 when 11 states hold Republican
presidential contests.  The choice isn’t binding. Romney won 37.6 percent of the
straw poll votes, cast yesterday as participants entered the
caucuses, according to final results posted automatically on the
Washington State Republican party website.  Ron Paul was second with 24.8 percent of the votes and Rick Santorum came third with 23.8 percent. Former U.S House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  came in fourth with 10.3 percent of the votes.  “The voters of Washington have sent a signal that they do
not want a Washington insider in the White House,” Romney said
in a statement yesterday. “They want a conservative businessman
who understands the private sector and knows how to get the
federal government out of the way so that the economy can once
again grow vigorously. With the support of Washington’s voters,
I look forward with optimism to the primaries and caucuses to
come.”  Republican contests on March 6 include  Ohio , a swing state
that President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, won in 2008 and
Republican President  George W. Bush  won in 2004 in the general
elections. Polls give Santorum the edge in Oklahoma and
Tennessee, and Gingrich leads surveys in his home state of
 Georgia .  State Convention  Delegates chosen in Washington yesterday participate in
later selection events leading to the state convention that
begins May 30. The state sends 43 delegates to the national
Republican convention, 40 of them bound to a candidate for one
round of voting and three unpledged delegates selected by the
state Republican committee.  There’s no party registration in Washington, so voters were
asked to sign a form saying they are Republicans. They were to
write their presidential preference on sign-in sheets, the state
 Republican Party  said in a memo distributed by e-mail.  Romney told listeners in Bellevue, Washington, on March 2
that their backing could bolster his momentum heading into Super
Tuesday.  “There are going to be a bunch of states that are going to
make their mind up in the next couple of days, but you guys are
first,” the former Massachusetts governor said.  Other Super Tuesday contests include primaries in  Virginia ,
where only Romney and Paul are on the ballot, Massachusetts and
Vermont, and caucuses in Alaska, Idaho, and North Dakota.
Wyoming also begins its delegate-selection process at county
conventions that start on March 6, with some results reported,
and end on March 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  