-- Romney Gains Endorsements Ahead of Super Tuesday
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-04T17:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/santorum-says-a-gingrich-exit-would-narrow-romney-s-lead-among-republicans.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  gained momentum in the Republican presidential
primary, picking up endorsements and rising in polls before
state contests March 6 that may determine the party nomination.  Fresh off a victory yesterday in Washington’s caucus,
Romney won the backing of U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
of  Virginia  and Oklahoma Senator  Tom Coburn , as surveys showed
him building support in  Ohio , a political bellwether, and
holding an outsized advantage over rivals in Virginia.  The developments boosted Romney, the former Massachusetts
governor and second-time presidential candidate, in a tight race
with Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator who has
emerged as his main rival. The two are competing for an edge on
so-called Super Tuesday, when 11 states controlling a total of
466 delegates hold contests.  Santorum said he’s likely to narrow Romney’s lead in the
nominating fight should former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
decide to drop from the race.  Speaking on the “Fox News Sunday” program, Santorum
predicted he’ll do “very well” in Ohio, one of the March 6
primary states, overcoming his money disadvantage against
Romney.  “It’s always harder when you’ve got two conservative
candidates out there running in the race,” said Santorum. “If
you continue to combine the votes that Congressman Gingrich and
I get, we’re doing pretty well.  ‘‘Newt’s got to figure out where he goes after  Georgia ,”
he said. “We’re the ones that are the clear alternative.”  Gingrich in Georgia  Surveys show Gingrich, who represented Georgia in Congress,
leading in that Super Tuesday state, though he is running at
least five to 10 percentage points behind Romney and Santorum in
most national polls and according to a series of Gallup Daily
tracking polls.  “This race narrows to two candidates over time and that’s
where we have our opportunity,” Santorum said on Fox.  Gingrich, speaking on ABC’s “This Week” program, rejected
any suggestion he should drop out. “We’re going to go on,” he
said. Romney “is a frontrunner without any question, but I
think he’s not a very convincing frontrunner, and he’s a long
way from having closed out this race,” said Gingrich.  Gingrich said there ‘is a huge difference between Santorum
and me,’’ calling Santorum “a labor union senator from
 Pennsylvania .” Once the race moves away from the industrial
states “it gets harder for Rick to put together a majority,”
said Gingrich.  Romney Gains  Romney, who won a nonbinding straw poll taken during the
Washington State caucuses yesterday, was shown to be gaining on
Santorum in an NBC/Marist poll released today, with 34 percent
for Santorum to Romney’s 32 percent, within the margin of error
of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  The Super Tuesday contests will help determine how long the
race will continue and whether Santorum has a chance of mounting
a sustained challenge to Romney for the nomination. Ohio, a
swing state with a large population of evangelical voters, will
be a test for both candidates. To win the nomination a candidate
needs 1,144 delegates out of the 2,286 that will be awarded
nationwide.  The Tuesday contests also include primaries in Oklahoma and
 Tennessee , where polls give Santorum the edge.  Republican Solidarity  Gingrich said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program that all
Republicans would join to back the eventual nominee because
President  Barack Obama  has been “such a disaster” for the U.S.  Speaking on the same program, Virginia Representative Eric Cantor, the House Republican majority leader, said he endorsed
Romney because he would lower taxes and help the U.S “get back
on track” as a nation. Coburn endorsed Romney in today’s
Oklahoman newspaper.  The Romney campaign portrayed Cantor’s endorsement as
evidence that the  Republican Party  is coalescing around their
candidate, and regards Santorum as detrimental to their chances
of holding the U.S. House and winning the Senate.  “Republicans want coattails, not concrete shoes,”  Eric Fehrnstrom , a Romney adviser, told reporters traveling with him
to Atlanta for a campaign event there. “ Rick Santorum  is a
concrete shoe for Republicans who are running for the Senate or
for the House.” He also said Santorum would be the “wrong
contrast to put up against President Obama in the fall.”  Santorum’s Eligibility  Ohio officials have said that Santorum, 53, may be
ineligible to win 18 of the Ohio delegates because he failed to
file full slates in some congressional districts. He’s also
ineligible for at least some of the delegates at stake in
Virginia, where he didn’t meet requirements to be listed on the
ballot, and in Tennessee.  As the candidates competed in Ohio yesterday, the Romney
campaign said Santorum’s failure to qualify for some of the 66
Ohio delegates up for grabs is a symbol of broader troubles,
arguing that it shows Santorum has a disorganized campaign and
couldn’t compete with Obama in the general election.  Santorum, speaking on Fox, said the Virginia filing
deadline was in early December, before his campaign had national
prospects.  “I was out running across the state of  Iowa  and sitting at
2 percent in the national polls,” he said. “With very, very
limited resources we didn’t have the ability to go out.”  ‘Played for Fools’  The candidates spoke as the president prepares to speak to
the American  Israel  Public Affairs Committee meeting in
 Washington . It’s the biggest pro-Israel organization in the U.S.  The conference, being held today through March 6, is an
opportunity for Obama to bolster his support among Jewish-
American voters, while Obama’s Republican opponents probably
will use the conference to make the case Obama’s support of
Israel has been insufficient. Romney, Santorum and Newt Gingrich
are scheduled to make remarks to the conference on March 6.  If and when to use military action to stop  Iran ’s nuclear
weapons program has replaced the Israel-Palestinian  peace
process  as the dominant issue in the Israel-U.S. alliance.  “We’ve had no evidence that the president is prepared to
take steps to stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon,”
Gingrich said on CNN’s “State of the Union” show. “They talk
and the Iranians build. They talk and the Iranians build. And
we’re being played for fools.”  Republican candidate  Ron Paul , a Texas congressman, also
criticized Obama on CNN, saying the U.S. shouldn’t interfere in
the Iran-Israel standoff.  “It doesn’t make any sense to bomb a country that is no
threat to anybody just because they might get a weapon,” Paul
said. “I’d try to calm it down a little bit,” he said, “but I
don’t think we should tell Israel what they should and shouldn’t
do.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ; Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Atlanta at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  