-- Schroder Buys Gome, Hynix Convertibles as Growth Boosts Electronics Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-03-05T05:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/schroder-buys-asian-convertible-bonds-as-regional-stocks-rally.html
Schroder Investment Management Ltd.
said it bought convertible bonds of  China ’s second-biggest
electronics retailer last month, and added Asian semiconductor
and computer-parts manufacturers as the region’s stocks rally.  The asset manager, which oversees $1 billion in Asian
equity-linked notes, bought securities issued by  Gome Electrical
Appliances Holdings Ltd. (493)  as Chinese policy makers took steps to
boost home building, Singapore-based convertible analyst Dorian
Carrell said in an interview. It also bought  Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. (000660)  of  South Korea , the world’s second-largest chipmaker, and
Taiwanese companies  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  and  Wistron Corp. (3231)  in the past
two months to profit from improving dynamic random access memory
prices, he said.  “We like Gome’s exposure to the home-appliance market,
which may be boosted by government housing programs,” he said
yesterday. “Gome is also delivering operational and margin
improvements. As for Hynix, it’s a strong turnaround candidate,
with stabilization in DRAM prices the key catalyst.”  China aims to add 36 million units of affordable housing by
2015 to limit public discontent over property prices. Officials
will increase support for construction of the homes and ensure
that “loan demand from first-home families” is met, the
People’s Bank of China said on its website Feb. 7. Convertible
bonds, which give holders the safety of coupon payments and the
option to convert them into shares to participate in stock
gains, are benefiting from a surge in the MSCI Asia-Pacific
 Index (MXAPJ)  of shares outside  Japan , up 13.6 percent this year.  Scaling Back Singapore  China will sell 250 billion yuan of bonds on behalf of
local governments this year, up 25 percent from 2011, the
finance ministry said in a report to the National People’s
Congress in Beijing today. The increase was required mainly for
low-income housing and public-welfare projects, it said.  Gome’s 3 percent bond due September 2014 has gained 7.2
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
pushing the yield to 2.44 percent from 4.96 percent. Hynix’s
2.65 percent note due May 2014 rose 3.9 percent this year as of
Feb. 15, when it was last traded. Their stocks have risen 32
percent and 36 percent respectively in 2012.  The rally is being underpinned by signs the  U.S. economy  is
recovering, with manufacturing expanding in January at the
fastest pace in seven months. The  European Central Bank  lent
529.5 billion euros ($699 billion) of three-year loans to 800
lenders on Feb. 29. Euro-area governments sanctioned 130 billion
euros of bailout funds to Greece on Feb. 21.  Fund Performance  Schroder also bought convertible notes issued by Hong Kong
developer  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  in February, while scaling back bets
on Singapore’s real-estate market by selling  Capitaland Ltd. (CAPL)  and
Ascenda Real Estate Investment Trust Ltd., Carrell said. It
added Temasek Holdings Pte, whose bonds are exchangeable into
the shares of lender Standard Chartered Plc, he said.  Schroder’s $122 million  Asian Convertible Fund (SCHACBC)  returned 7.6
percent to investors this year, beating 55 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s benchmark
Asia ex-Japan Convertible Index, compiled by UBS AG, rose 6.5
percent on hedged basis over the same period. Schroder manages
Asian funds in a joint venture with Fisch Asset Management AG of
 Switzerland .  ‘Under-Appreciated’  “We believe the market is under-appreciating the potential
increase in earnings in China with one of the most attractive
convertible structures in the Asian market,” Carrell said.  Gome is benefiting from demand for appliances in the
world’s most populous nation, forecast to reach 2.14 trillion
yuan ($339 billion) by 2015, according to London-based
researcher Euromonitor International. The company will start
accepting orders for Apple Inc.’s latest iPhone 4S at its 1,600
stores from today.  Carrell said the fund favored Korean and Taiwanese
chipmakers after yen gains in 2011 hurt Japanese rivals
including  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  The Tokyo-based company, which had
12 percent of the DRAM market, filed for bankruptcy on Feb. 27.
Benchmark prices for the chips jumped 17 percent last week to
$1.05 apiece on March 2, after more than halving over the
previous 12 months,  data  compiled by DRAMeXchange show.  “The bankruptcy of Elpida has removed nearly 20 percent of
global market supply,” Carrell said. “This should drive up
prices and improve Hynix’s margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  