-- Stevens Colliding With Traders as Mining Boom Means Stronger Aussie Rate
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-05T11:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/stevens-colliding-with-traders-as-mining-boom-means-stronger-aussie-rate.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens , who cut  interest rates  twice last year to help
manufacturers and consumers, is diverging from traders expecting
a mining boom to lift the local currency to the most in more
than 20 years.  Stevens welcomed the so-called Aussie’s surge versus U.S.
and European peers as recently as November to hold down
inflation. Now that strength is “a bit odd,” he said on Feb 24
in testimony to lawmakers. The RBA’s  trade-weighted index 
climbed to its highest level since 1985 on March 2 and analysts
raised their forecasts versus the  U.S. dollar  the most in almost
nine months.  A weaker local currency would help companies including
BlueScope Steel Ltd. and Billabong International Ltd. by making
their goods cheaper overseas, easing political pressure on Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  as she tries to rebalance an economy
dominated by natural resource exports. Anticipating inflows from
foreign investors, analysts last month revised estimates for the
Aussie to $1.04 by mid-year from a prediction of 99 U.S. cents
in January.  Mining, Services Divergence  “Australian dollar strength will be a tough trend to fight
in the short term,”  Paresh Upadhyaya , director of currency
strategy in  Boston  at Pioneer Investment Management Co., which
has $210 billion in assets said by telephone Feb. 27. “The
divergence between the mining sector and the service sector is
getting worse. We believe the RBA will cut rates within the next
two meetings to help alleviate some of the strain.”  Upadhyaya said he doesn’t plan on adding to his Aussie
holdings.  Analysts raised forecasts for the currency even as a Credit
Suisse Group AG Index based on swaps shows the RBA will  lower 
its benchmark interest rate by 40 basis points, from 4.25
percent, within a year, the biggest easing for a developed
market central bank after Sweden’s Riksbank. Policy makers  cut 
rates by a total of 50 basis points in November and December
before holding borrowing costs unchanged in February as  Europe ’s
debt crisis showed signs of abating.  All 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey said the RBA
will keep the target rate unchanged at 4.25 percent at a meeting
tomorrow.  The central bank is struggling to balance a slump in non-
mining industries during the nation’s biggest resource-driven
investment boom in a century. Australian manufacturing shrank to
a record-low 8.6 percent of the economy in the first three
months of last year and in the past three years households have
 saved  at the highest rate on average in more than two decades.  Exports Drop  “In the sectors that are not benefiting from the
advantages that the higher commodity prices have brought,
consumers are beginning to struggle with the stronger Aussie and
higher inflation,” Ken Dickson, investment director of
currencies at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, which
manages about $235 billion, said on Feb. 27 by telephone. “Our
expectation is the Aussie will weaken off through the year.”
Standard Life doesn’t hold any Australian dollar positions, he
said.  Slumping Sales  The nation’s auto exports plunged to the lowest since 1998
last year, leading to job cuts at General Motors Co. and Toyota
Motor Corp.’s local units. Sydney-based David Jones Ltd., the
nation’s second-largest department store chain, said Feb. 23
that second-quarter sales fell 3.1 percent as spending stalled
and the strong currency made it cheaper for shoppers to buy from
overseas websites. Retailers such as JB Hi-Fi Ltd. and  Billabong (BBG) 
also blamed the economy for falling profits.  The slump is taking a political toll on Prime Minister
Gillard, who withstood a leadership challenge from predecessor
Kevin Rudd last month. Her Labor Party trails opposition leader
Tony Abbott’s coalition by 10 percentage points, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian on Feb. 27.  The Australian dollar fell 0.5 percent to $1.0682 as of
11:04 a.m. in  London , within 2 cents of $1.0856, the year’s high
reached Feb. 29. It touched $1.1081 on July 27, the strongest
since being freely floated in 1983. The local dollar traded at
A$1.2353 per euro after gaining to A$1.2133 on Feb. 7, the
highest since Europe’s common currency was created in 1999.  Compared with the currencies of 21 nations that account for
at least 90 percent of  Australia ’s total trade, the Aussie
reached a level of 79.3 on March 2, its strongest since 1985, an
RBA index shows. The gauge has averaged 60.28 since the currency
was unfixed.  Top Rating  A higher currency in part reflects overseas investors
increasing holdings in Australian sovereign bonds to a  record  80
percent in the third quarter of last year, according to central
bank data. The nation’s 10-year note yielded as much as 4.13
percent, compared to 2.1 percent in the U.S. this year. Stakes
probably rose to 83 percent in December, Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimated Feb. 24.  Credit Agricole CIB, the most-accurate forecaster of the
Aussie-U.S. dollar rate in the past two quarters, predicts the
currency will end 2012 at $1.10. Australia’s bonds will continue
to attract investors and the nation’s economy will benefit from
a “soft landing” in  China ,  Mitul Kotecha , head of global
currency strategy in  Hong Kong , said Feb. 28 by telephone.  Futures traders anticipate the Aussie will rise against the
dollar. The difference between wagers on the currency
strengthening and weakening advanced to a seven-month high of
78,201 in the five days ended Feb. 28, from 78,044 contracts at
the end of January, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Losing Luster  Australian government debt produced the worst performance
since June 2009 in February as investors favored corporate notes
and equities amid signs of easing in Europe’s crisis. The bonds
lost 1.1 percent, ranking 25th out of 26 sovereign debt markets
tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  A Citigroup Inc. gauge of Australia’s terms of trade for
commodities, which measures the price of exports relative to
imports, fell 4.6 percent last month and reached its lowest
since September 2010 on March 1. The RBA’s Aussie-denominated
raw-materials price  index  dropped to 98.1 in February, the
lowest since December 2010.  Terms of trade may see a further “modest decline” through
the year along with slowing Chinese growth, said Emma Lawson, a
Sydney-based currency strategist at National Australia Bank
Ltd., the second most-accurate forecaster. NAB expects a decline
to $1.03 in June and $1.01 by December.  Aussie May Drop  “At such a point where AAA sovereign demand stabilizes,
the Aussie will move to better reflecting commodity prices,”
Lawson said Feb. 28 by telephone.  That’s what policy makers are counting on.  “We do continue to ask ourselves whether what is happening
in the currency makes sense,” Stevens said Feb. 24 to the  House
of Representatives  Standing Committee on Economics. “The most
recent bout of strength is happening at a time when the terms of
trade have actually peaked and have started to come down.”  Stevens was echoing comments made after the RBA’s Feb. 7
policy decision, when he said that in trade-weighted terms the
currency “is somewhat higher than the bank had previously
assumed.” In November, when the RBA made its first rate cut
since April 2009, he noted the currency’s strength and said it
had contained inflation.  RBA ‘Jawboning’  “It’s the first time that I can recall the RBA actually
acknowledging that they feel that the currency has strengthened
beyond what is justified by commodity prices,” Ray Attrill,
head of currency strategy for BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said
Feb. 28 by telephone. “The RBA is jawboning.”  BNP forecasts the Aussie will trade at $1.05 by mid-year
before rising to $1.12 by year-end.  The RBA on Feb. 10 cut its forecast for growth in gross
domestic product to 3.5 percent from the Nov. 4 estimate of 4
percent. That would still be Australia’s strongest gain since
2007. The central bank said consumer prices will rise 3 percent,
at the upper range of its target and less than a previous
prediction of 3.25 percent. Price gains have averaged 2.7
percent since the beginning of 2009.  The estimates are based on the currency at $1.07, stronger
than the RBA’s previous assumption of $1.03.  Predictions of lower growth take into account falling
foreign demand.  Exports to China , Australia’s largest trading
partner, fell 13.4 percent to $6.3 billion in January, the least
since May and down from a record $8.4 billion in September,
according to Chinese government data.  Lower China Sales  While the Aussie’s strength has made manufactured goods
costlier abroad, demand for commodities from Asian nations
including China has bolstered the balance sheets of mining
companies BHP Billiton Ltd., based in  Melbourne , and  Rio Tinto (RIO) 
Group of London.  “The China hard-landing scenario will come back into play
and Australia is the most leveraged player on global growth
right now, so it’s definitely going to be very vulnerable,”
said David Woo, global head of rates and currencies at Bank of
America Corp. in New York. “It’s a global demand and commodity
price story that will drive the Aussie lower.”  Woo expects the currency to fall to $1.04 by June and trade
at 98 U.S. cents in December.  China’s Growth Target  China’s government will target economic growth of 7.5
percent this year, the lowest goal since 2004, according to a
speech that Wen Jiabao will read to about 3,000 lawmakers at the
annual meeting of the National People’s Congress in Beijing
today. By cutting the 8 percent goal maintained from 2005 to
2011, Wen is signaling the ruling Communist Party’s
determination to shift the makeup of growth toward consumption
and away from exports and investment.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, is
reviewing its Bell Bay aluminum smelter in Australia because of
rising costs and declines in prices for the metal. Rio may shut
the smelter, threatening as many as 600 jobs, the Australian
Financial Review reported today, without citing anyone.  “The aluminum sector in Australia is facing tough market
conditions in the form of a high  exchange rate , higher costs of
production and low aluminum prices,” Ray Mostogl, general
manager at the Bell Bay operations said today in an e-mail,
without detailing the options of the Tasmanian operation.  Dependent on Resources  Australia has grown more dependent on resources as
employment in manufacturing dropped by about 30 percent since
2007, while mining and government rose by more than 50 percent,
HSBC Holdings Plc estimates. An index of the nation’s services
industry declined in February to 46.7, the lowest in almost a
year, Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the Australian Industry
Group said today. A reading below 50 signals a contraction.  BlueScope, based in Melbourne and the nation’s biggest
steelmaker, stopped most exports and cut about 1,000 jobs.
OneSteel Ltd. of Sydney, the second largest, said Feb. 21 it
will focus to iron ore instead of its unprofitable steel unit,
eliminating 430 jobs. Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia’s largest
airline, said Feb. 16 it will lose about 500 positions in its
maintenance and catering divisions.  Australia has “two very different economies, running at
two very different paces, so the RBA has a challenge in terms of
having a monetary policy that tries to fit all,” Callum Henderson, global head of foreign-exchange research in  Singapore 
at Standard Chartered Plc said March 2 by telephone. “The
continuing slowdown in China should, along with other factors,
weigh on the Aussie and cause it to have a correction back
toward the parity level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  