-- Syrian Defectors Battle Assad as Deaths Mount
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-03-04T12:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/syrian-defectors-battle-assad-as-deaths-mount.html
Syrian soldiers loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad fought opposition forces in at least three
cities today as the death toll mounted amid growing
international pressure to end almost a year of violence.  Soldiers battled in Homs after regaining control of the
city’s Baba Amr district from rebels on March 1, while clashes
escalated in the cities of Idlib and Hama, Mahmoud Merei, head
of the Damascus-based Arab Organization for Human Rights, said
in a phone interview today. Five people were killed today, he
said.  At least 46 people were killed yesterday, including 14
government soldiers, three army defectors and 29 civilians, Rami
Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
Human rights, said by telephone from  London .  The monthlong siege of Homs has led to intensified
international pressure on President Bashar al-Assad a year after
his forces began a crackdown on protests. The army has used
tanks and artillery to fight opposition forces and more than
7,500 people have died in the conflict, according to the  United
Nations .  An International Committee of the  Red Cross  team that
arrived in Homs on March 2 with Syrian Red Crescent Society
members wasn’t allowed into Baba Amr, the Red Cross said. The
Syrian government told the Red Cross it can’t enter until mines
and booby traps are cleared, the  British Broadcasting Corp. 
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
The  BBC  also said there were unconfirmed reports of mass arrests
and summary executions by Syrian forces in the district.  Joint Effort  Saudi Arabia  said Gulf Cooperation Council members are
prepared to participate in any joint effort to help Syrians
protect themselves from the Assad government, the  Saudi Press
Agency  reported March 2.  The European Union said March 2 that it is preparing
“further targeted restrictive measures” against  Syria ,
according to a statement from a summit of its leaders in
Brussels. The EU also said it recognized the Syrian National
Council, the main opposition alliance, as “a legitimate
representative of Syrians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  