-- Unleashed Spending Floods Americans in Negativity: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-03-04T15:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/unleashed-spending-floods-americans-in-negativity-albert-hunt.html
This may come to be known as the
Samuel Alito election.  The U.S. presidential contest is predominately about Barack Obama’s stewardship of the economy and the political-cultural
divide in the  Republican Party . It’s also about the huge sums of
money sloshing around, after Justice Alito replaced Sandra Day O’Connor on the  Supreme Court  and provided the swing vote in the
2010 Citizens United case.  Supporters claimed that allowing unlimited contributions
from individuals, corporations and unions would create a more
educated and enthused electorate, and enable the insurgent party
to more effectively make its case.  Instead, the Republican primary contest has produced the
most negative, mean campaign since the Watergate scandal brought
about campaign-finance reform four decades ago. Turnout is
mediocre and the appeal of the Republican brand has plummeted.  Those who backed the Supreme Court’s decision contend that
Citizens United isn’t responsible for the proliferation of so-
called super-PACS with multimillion-dollar contributors such as
the Las Vegas gambling magnate  Sheldon Adelson .  That is only true technically.  Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission overturned
precedents and ruled that corporate money could be used for
“independent” efforts to promote political candidates. It was
a 5-to-4 decision.  Super-PACS  Later, an appellate court, citing the high court case,
found that wealthy individuals could give unlimited sums to
super-PACS, which aren’t permitted to coordinate their actions
with candidates they support.  There had been similar efforts in earlier campaigns: In
2004, a group called the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, funded
largely by rich Texans, assailed the military record of the
Democratic nominee, Senator  John Kerry  of Massachusetts, a
decorated Vietnam War hero; the billionaire  George Soros  was a
prime funder for independent efforts against President  George W. Bush . The lax Federal Election Commission later found such
efforts illegal and fined the organizations.  What about Rick Perry, Citizens United defenders ask? The
Texas governor had plenty of money and bombed. What that
demonstrates is that no matter how much money he has, a
candidate with a room-temperature political I.Q. is doomed.  For less-challenged candidates, money is still the mother’s
milk of politics. Obama, once a campaign-finance reformer, is
making up for lost time. He has encouraged top White House aides
and certain Cabinet members to help his super-PAC shake money
from rich contributors. His campaign manager, Jim Messina,
assured New York fat cats that the president had no intention of
politicking against  Wall Street .  The Obama campaign, which through the end of January had
raised more than twice as much as the leading Republican, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , insisted that the Republican
super-PACS gave the president no choice; they made him do it.  On the Republican side, Adelson, with his family, has given
more than $11 million to a super-PAC backing  Newt Gingrich ,
keeping the dying campaign alive. The billionaire casino czar is
under investigation by the  Justice Department  and the Securities
and Exchange Commission for his interests in  China . He has asked
other candidates seeking money for a commitment to help Israel
obliterate any Iranian nuclear facilities.  Gingrich and the funder of his “independent” super-PAC
huddled in  Las Vegas  last month; neither has disclosed what they
talked about.  Romney Allies  The Romney super-PAC, which so far has spent more than all
the other independent groups combined, including those
supporting the president, is run by close political and personal
associates; the candidate has urged his campaign aides to help
this “independent” effort.  Of the 30,146 television spots broadcast by the Romney
group, Restore Our Future, 29,642 were negative, according to
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks and monitors political
television advertising. In  Ohio , Romney’s backers have put up
three commercials, two attacking Rick Santorum as a crypto-left
winger and one praising Romney for helping a colleague find a
missing child. Over the past two weeks, the negative ads have
run 2,019 times; the positive one, 154 times.  These figures paint a somewhat distorted picture as some
legitimate comparison ads are classified as negative; and some
of the critical ones are very legitimate: commercials pointing
out the lavish consulting fees paid to Gingrich by  Freddie Mac ,
or those drawing attention to Romney’s  Massachusetts  health-care
measure, a precursor of Obama’s national initiative.  Still, much of the advertising is trashy and cheap, the
sort of stuff that turns off voters.  And that is what is happening. The Republican electorate,
desperate to get rid of Obama, was thought to have all the
intensity and energy in 2012, much like the Democrats four years
earlier.  Yet in the first batch of primaries, turnout overall hasn’t
increased from 2008, supposedly a doldrums year, though there
are no competing Democratic contestants this time.  And the Republican brand, as measured by the favorability
or positive ratings in almost every major poll, is continuously
sinking to its lowest level in almost 40 years.  That’s what cash-rich politics often produces; a race to
the bottom, not a bigger marketplace to showcase ideas. It’s
hard to find a Republican who argues that voters have been
treated to an inspiring and informative debate; privately, some
are beginning to doubt the wisdom of  Citizens United  and the
unleashing of super-PACS.  It’s only going to get nastier, dirtier, this autumn when
so-called 501(c)(4) groups, which can accept secret and
unlimited corporate and labor-union funds, kick in.  Because of Alito and his majority, the courts aren’t a
recourse. The only mild palliative might be to pressure Congress
to pass the Disclose Act, which would end the secrecy of big
donations and require super-PACS to list top donors in ads.  Even something that mild is a slog in this Congress. The
only shot may be if Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , disgusted
with the havoc the court decision has wreaked on campaign-
finance laws, puts on his reformer hat and shames his Senate
colleagues to pass this measure.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 