-- Crude Oil Declines in New York After China Lowers Economic Growth Target
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-05T13:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/west-texas-intermediate-crude-oil-opens-little-changed-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil traded near a three-day low in
New York amid concern of slowing consumption in  China  after the
country lowered its growth goal.  Futures were little changed after falling 2.8 percent last
week, the first weekly decline in a month. China, the world’s
second-largest oil user, will aim for economic growth of 7.5
percent this year, the lowest goal since 2004, Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said today. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and
U.S. President Barack Obama will meet today to discuss
confronting  Iran’s nuclear program , even as Obama asked Israel
to help tone down “too much loose talk of war.”  “The lower growth target from China is negative for
commodities because China has been the driver for  oil prices  in
recent years,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “The  Iran  crisis is preventing speculators
from dropping their long positions in oil. It is serving as
protection against a sharper price drop.”  Oil for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was at $106.65 a barrel, down 5 cents, at 1 p.m. London time
after falling as much as 1.1 percent to $105.50. Prices are up
7.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement was at $124.24 a barrel, up
59 cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The
European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate widened
to $17.58 a barrel from last week’s close of $16.95.  Iran Tension  The U.S. won’t hesitate to use military force against Iran
if necessary, Obama told a conference of the American Israel
Public Affairs Committee yesterday. There’s still time for
diplomacy and sanctions to work, he said. Prices slid the most
this year on March 2 after he said in an interview with the
Atlantic magazine that a pre-emptive strike might generate
“sympathy” for the Persian Gulf country.  Iran may shut the Strait of Hormuz if the country is
threatened, Masoud Jazayeri, the country’s deputy chief of
military staff, said in an interview, according to Iraq’s Biladi
television. The waterway is a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s oil.  Oil rose earlier after a fatal vehicle collision and fire
at a pumping station this weekend prompted  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to
close the pipeline near Chicago.  “You can always gauge how nervous the market is” after
news of a pipeline closure, said  Jonathan Barratt , chief
executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity markets newsletter
in Sydney. “That’s the jittery nature of the market at the
moment. Iran is still a wildcard.”  Local Price Pressure  Enbridge shut  lines 14/64 and 6A  after two people were
killed and several others injured in the crash that ignited the
fire at a pumping station near New Lenox, Illinois, about 36
miles (58 kilometers) southwest of Chicago.  The 6A line, with a capacity of 670,000 barrels a day, has
since resumed, Calgary-based Enbridge said. The 14/64 line can
carry 320,000 barrels a day. Line 14 is forecast to be shut
until the evening of March 7 and 64 until the afternoon of March
8, Lorraine Little, a spokeswoman for Enbridge in Superior,
Wisconsin, said in an e-mail.  “The pipeline closure could pressure local prices in the
North American market, but I can’t see any price implications
for global markets,” Commerzbank’s Fritsch said.  New York  crude futures remain within an upward-sloping
trend channel on the daily chart going back about a month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bottom of this
channel, representing technical support, is around $106.40 a
barrel today. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels.  Hedge-Fund Positions  Hedge funds  increased net-long positions in New York crude
oil by 5 percent to 272,032 in the seven days ended Feb. 28,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report. Wagers gained a fourth week to
the highest since May 3, the report showed.  Money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 18,907
contracts in the same period, according to data from ICE Futures
 Europe . Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 126,802 lots,
the exchange said today in its weekly report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  