-- Myanmar Nearing Decision on Currency Float in Biggest Shift Since Opening
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-05T06:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-04/myanmar-nearing-currency-float-in-policy-shift.html
Myanmar is nearing a decision to
dismantle its fixed exchange rate, which risked holding back
trade and investment as the country seeks economic ties with
western nations after five decades of military rule.  Authorities will soon announce a shift to a managed float
of the kyat, and seek to keep it from rising beyond the informal
rate of about 800 per dollar, a person familiar with the
discussions said. Officials will then activate an interbank
exchange market, in which the central bank will intervene to
influence the kyat’s value, according to the person, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  The step would mark President Thein Sein’s biggest economic
shift since he began removing the remnants of military rule
after taking office last year. With the U.S. and European
nations pledging to review sanctions after April 1 by-elections
involving dissident leader  Aung San Suu Kyi , the change would
lay the groundwork for reconnecting Myanmar to global commerce.  “It would be a considerable victory for the reformers,”
said Sean Turnell, a professor at Macquarie University in Sydney
who conducts research on Myanmar’s economy. “The people who
would lose out the most would be the inner core of the highest
echelons of the military, which used the old rate to accumulate
reserves that were used to do what the military wanted to do.”  Current System  The managed float would end a 35-year official peg to the
International Monetary Fund’s special drawing rights, under
which a dollar fetches 6.4 kyat, about 125 times stronger than
the informal market rate. Restrictions on capital flows have
left a legacy of about seven unique exchange rates in Myanmar.  Scrapping the complex multiple-rate system would reduce
constraints to growth in a country with the potential to become
“the next economic frontier in Asia,” the Washington-based
IMF, which has provided guidance to Myanmar,  said  on Jan. 25.  Myanmar banks are seeking training from regional lenders as
sanctions in place for more than two decades have deprived the
banking sector of technical expertise, complicating efforts to
modernize the financial system.  Standard Chartered Plc and General Electric Co. are among
European and U.S. companies seeking to invest in Myanmar if
sanctions are eased. Investor  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers
Holdings who predicted a global commodities rally in 1999, said
Feb. 22 he’d put all his money in Myanmar if he could.  Resource Riches  The country of 64 million people bordering India and China,
with resources including rubber and natural gas, largely
disconnected from the global economy after democracy ended in
the early 1960s.  The government is preparing to activate licenses granted to
11 local banks last year to act as authorized dealers in U.S.
dollars, euros and Singapore dollars in a wholesale interbank
exchange market. The banks are seeking relationships with
foreign lenders in major trading partners such as Thailand,
Singapore and China, the person familiar with the talks said.  Myanmar’s central bank will also auction foreign exchange
under the new system, according to the person. Reducing controls
on flows of currency, which include a requirement that all
imports be paid for with export earnings, will take time in
order to prevent a flood of cheap imports, particularly from
 China , the person said.  Overvaluation Risk  A managed float would help private exporters, whose goods
have become less competitive as the informal market rate for the
kyat appreciated to about 800 this year from 1,300 in 2006, the
fastest gains in  Southeast Asia , according to a  paper  written in
January by Koji Kubo, a research fellow at  policy group 
affiliated with the Japan External Trade Organization.  “The risks of an overvalued exchange rate are even
greater” with a more open economy,  Joseph Stiglitz , a Columbia
University professor, Nobel laureate in economics and former
World Bank chief economist, said in an interview with the Wall
Street Journal after a visit to Myanmar last month. “They made
it very clear that they are headed for foreign-exchange-rate
unification,” he also said, according to the newspaper.  Natural gas sales to neighboring  Thailand  over the past
decade have helped boost Myanmar’s foreign-exchange reserves,
which rose to $5.5 billion in 2010 from $201 million in 2000,
Asian Development Bank data  show . The central bank aims to
preserve the value of the kyat, according to its website.  “The parallel exchange market has been left uncontrolled
by the government,” Kubo wrote. “By unifying the segmented
foreign exchange market, the government and the central bank can
influence the exchange rate of the private sector and bring more
stability.”  Bailout Danger  Moving to a managed float would mostly hurt state
enterprises that use the official rate, raising the prospect of
bankruptcies, non-performing loans and fiscal bailouts if not
properly managed, Kubo wrote.  Myanmar laws currently restrict foreign banks from
conducting transactions in the country, a provision that must
change in 2015 as part of an agreement with the 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations . As of November 2010, 13
foreign banks had set up representative offices in Myanmar, 10
of which are from Asean nations, according to the central bank.  While the state-owned Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Myanma
Investment and Commercial Bank, and Myanma Economic Bank are
permitted to operate abroad, the U.S. maintains financial
sanctions on them.  Economic Sanctions  American sanctions also ban imports, restrict money
transfers, curb aid money, freeze assets and target jewelry with
gemstones originating in Myanmar. The European Union has lighter
restrictions, including a ban on weapons sales and imports of
minerals.  Myanmar will likely issue more treasury bonds to domestic
investors to finance fiscal deficits, reducing its reliance on
printing money to fill budget gaps, the person familiar with the
economic-policy talks said. Bond sales to foreigners are
unlikely to happen anytime soon, the person said.  Myanmar is among the poorest countries in  Asia , with
citizens earning an average of just $2.25 per day, according to
IMF estimates. Inflation averaged about 24 percent a year over
the past decade, IMF data  show .  “Further reducing inflation would require stopping the
financing of the fiscal budget deficits through money
creation,” the IMF said in January. “A prudent fiscal policy
is essential to maintain macroeconomic stability, especially
during the exchange rate unification process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  