-- Abu Dhabi Bank CEO Sees Lenders Stealing Market Share for Growth
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-10-08T11:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/abu-dhabi-bank-ceo-sees-lenders-stealing-market-share-for-growth.html
United Arab Emirates’ banks will need
to boost income from fees and steal market share from foreign
rivals to compensate for sluggish loan growth, the chief
executive officer of the country’s second-biggest bank said.  “There are new ways of making money - wealth management
products, markets, cash management or new innovative ways,”
Alex Thursby, head of state-controlled  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC , told reporters today at a conference in Abu Dhabi.
“There are going to be a lot of offers to customers that they
got previously from the more international banks.”  Growth in U.A.E. bank lending slowed to one percent to four
percent after the financial crisis in 2008, compared with
expansion of 30 percent annually in the four years prior to
that. Lending in the second-largest Arab economy has increased
5.6 percent in the seven months through July this year.  Over the next five years local banks will develop new
product strategies to meet the needs of a changing market, said
Thursby, who joined NBAD earlier this year from  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  Expatriates represent about 80
percent of the local population of 8.3 million.  “The change in the banking industry will be new product
development, new areas that will give growth,” Thursby said.
“U.A.E. banks will become, at the top end certainly, direct
competitors to the best practices that are held by some of the
two major or three major foreign banks.”  The U.A.E. has the biggest banking market in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, which also includes Saudi Arabia and
Qatar. Fifty-one commercial banks operate in the country,
including units of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   The U.A.E.’s wealth management business is dominated by
foreign banks including UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  NBAD’s first-half profit grew 26 percent to 2.62 billion
($714 million) dirhams as lending grew 5.4 percent. Interest
income made up 66 percent of operating income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  