-- Advent’s Oberthur Swells Cash Reserves After Refinancing Boost
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-10-08T15:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/advent-s-oberthur-swells-cash-reserves-after-refinancing-boost.html
Oberthur Technologies is building its
cash reserves after growing demand for leveraged loans helped
the smartcard solutions provider boost debt refinancing.  The company owned by Advent International Corp. will raise
an extra 15 million euros ($20 million) after increasing its
six-year term loans by 25 million euros and reducing its bonds
by 10 million euros, according to a person with knowledge of the
deal. The revised euro and dollar covenant-light tranches now
total about 465 million euros while the senior notes amount to
190 million euros, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the refinancing is private.  Demand for floating-rate corporate credit such as leveraged
loans is growing on concern central banks will soon begin
raising rates. That’s pushed the average interest margin on the
debt of European companies owned by buyout firms down to 458
basis points more than benchmark lending rates compared with a
spread of 474 basis points in the first half of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ari Levine, a spokesman for Advent International who works
for Citigate Dewe Rogerson, declined to comment on the
refinancing.  Oberthur,  based in the Paris suburb of Colombes, will pay
interest of 475 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate for the $280 million  term loan  and 500 basis points
more than the euro interbank offered rate for the 260 million-euro portion, said the person. The loans, which have a 1 percent
floor on the benchmarks, will be priced at 99 percent of face
value and may be allocated tomorrow.  Arranging Banks  The 6 1/2-year bonds may yield 9.25 percent to 9.5 percent,
the person said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc are coordinators and bookrunners of the
refinancing. Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe
Generale SA are joint lead arrangers and bookrunners, according
to Bloomberg data.  Covenant-light loans and bonds typically give companies
more financial leeway as they don’t contain financial-maintenance provisions requiring the borrower to meet
restrictions such as the level of debt relative to earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  