-- Aircraft Noise Tied to Heart Disease in Two Studies
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-10-09T16:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/aircraft-noise-tied-to-heart-disease-in-two-studies.html
Two studies linked aircraft noise to
higher rates of cardiovascular disease in results that may fuel
debate about the effect airports have on their neighbors.  The first  study  found rates of strokes and heart disease
increased with people’s proximity to London’s Heathrow Airport,
Europe’s busiest hub. The  second  found that U.S. seniors on
Medicare who were exposed to the most airplane noise were also
more likely to have been hospitalized for heart disease. The
 British Medical Journal  published both papers.  Today’s research adds weight to the idea that where you put
an airport doesn’t just affect neighbors’ quality of life, but
also their health, Stephen Stansfeld, a psychiatry professor at
Barts and the London School of Medicine, wrote in an  editorial 
published alongside the two studies. Heathrow, in particular,
has been mired in debate over how to add capacity to  London ’s
airports.  “The results imply that the siting of airports and
consequent exposure to aircraft noise may have direct effects on
the health of the surrounding population,” Stansfeld wrote.
“Planners need to take this into account when expanding
airports in heavily populated areas or planning new airports.”  Heathrow handled 70 million passengers last year. London
Mayor Boris Johnson has said he’ll block any expansion around
the airport -- which is surrounded by densely populated
neighborhoods -- in favor of a new hub in the River Thames
estuary.  Noise Levels  The BMJ’s Heathrow study looked at 3.6 million people who
lived in 12 London boroughs and nine districts west of London,
using Civil Aviation Authority aircraft noise models from 2001
and hospital admissions data from 2001 to 2005 to draw a
comparison. Researchers said they took ethnicity, social
deprivation and smoking into account, using lung cancer deaths
as a proxy to help determine smoking rates.  About 2 percent of the population the London researchers
studied lived in the area with the highest level of noise --
more than 63 decibels in the daytime or more than 55 decibels at
night-time. By way of comparison, that’s within the  range  of
laughter or normal conversation, according to the National
Institutes of Health.  Those living in the noisiest, 63-decibel-plus areas were 24
percent more likely than people living in areas with noise
levels of 51 decibels or fewer to be hospitalized because of
stroke and 14 percent more likely to be hospitalized because of
cardiovascular disease, the researchers said.  The U.K. study was conducted by the U.K. Small Area Health
Statistics Unit and funded by Public Health England and the U.K.
Medical Research Council, with support from the European Network
for Noise and Health.  The U.S. study was funded by the Federal Aviation
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  