-- Taiwan Bond Yield Drops to Lowest This Month After Exports Fall
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-08T08:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/taiwan-bond-yield-drops-to-lowest-this-month-after-exports-fall.html
Taiwan ’s 10-year bonds rose, pushing
the yield to the lowest level in almost two weeks, as falling
exports and the U.S. debt gridlock saw investors favor the
relative safety of sovereign notes.  Overseas  shipments , which account for around three-quarters
of the island’s economy, slumped 7 percent in September from a
year earlier after rising in the previous four months, official
data showed yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  closed at
the lowest level in a month yesterday, after Asian stocks slid
for a second day, as U.S. lawmakers remained deadlocked over
extending the nation’s debt limit to avoid a default.  “It’s a reflection of yesterday’s economic data and the
U.S. stock market,” said Sandy Liao, a fixed-income trader at
KGI Securities Co. in Taipei. “Some buying sentiment has
emerged for bonds.”  The yield on the 1.75 percent government notes due
September 2023 fell two basis points to 1.649 percent, according
to Gretai Securities Market. That is the lowest level for
benchmark 10-year bonds since Sept. 26. Taiwan will sell NT$30
billion ($1 billion) of five-year securities at 1.16 percent
tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 10 fixed-income
traders surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Taiwan’s dollar closed little changed today at NT$29.542
against its U.S. counterpart, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show.
The currency dropped 0.5 percent in the final 14 minutes of
trading on suspected intervention by the central bank. The
monetary authority has sold the local dollar in the run-up to
the close on most days since March 2012, according to traders
who asked not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the  Taiwan dollar 
were little changed at NT$29.32 against the greenback, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped seven basis points to 3.94 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.385
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  