-- Alcoa Profit Exceeds Estimates After Aerospace Segment Gains
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-10-09T15:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/alcoa-earnings-top-estimates-after-gains-at-aerospace-segment.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported better-than-forecast quarterly earnings after
its smelting business returned to profitability and results
improved at a unit that makes auto and aerospace parts.  Third-quarter net income excluding plant-closing costs and
other one-time items was 11 cents a share, New York-based Alcoa
said in a statement yesterday. The engineered products division,
a supplier of aerospace companies such as Boeing Co. and Airbus
SAS, saw after-tax operating income rise 22 percent to $192
million, while the primary metals business earned $8 million.  Alcoa’s so-called downstream divisions -- which make
rolled, forged and extruded aluminum products -- have accounted
for a growing proportion of the company’s revenue in the past
year. They’re the focus of efforts by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  to reorient Alcoa to
capitalize on rising demand for high-tech components in the
latest generation of cars and commercial aircraft.  “You see the increased importance of the downstream
business and the continued growth and profitability,” Kleinfeld
said in a phone interview yesterday. “The share price is
undervalued and has not built in the repositioning that we are
undergoing but I believe it will get there.”  The earnings were published after the close of regular
trading in New York yesterday. The shares rose 3.4 percent to
$8.21 at 11:21 a.m. local time today. They earlier gained 4.4
percent, the most intraday since April 2012.  Price Decline  Net income was 2 cents a share in the quarter, compared
with a 13-cent loss a year earlier. Sales fell to $5.77 billion
from $5.83 billion, beating the $5.63 billion average estimate.  Alcoa, typically one of the first U.S. companies to report
quarterly earnings, was removed from the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  on Sept. 10 after 44 years. As well as the 8.5 percent
drop in its share price so far in 2013, Alcoa’s  credit rating 
was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service in May. While the
company invests in its downstream operations, its smelting
business is under pressure from a decline in aluminum prices.  Aluminum futures on the London Metal Exchange averaged
$1,845 a metric ton in the quarter, down 13 percent from a year
earlier. Global output has exceeded demand for a ninth straight
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at
$1,758 in June, almost a four-year low.  Despite the slide in prices, the primary-metals unit made a
third-quarter profit, compared with a year-earlier loss of $14
million, because of efficiency gains and favorable foreign-exchange rates, Alcoa said. The average of three analysts’
estimates was for a $30 million loss.  Customer Inventories  Alcoa reiterated its estimate that global aluminum demand
will grow by 7 percent this year. Demand growth in  China  will be
12 percent, up from a previous view of 11 percent. Demand from
the global  aerospace industry  will grow as much as 10 percent
and auto demand growth will be as much as 4 percent, the company
said in a  presentation  on its website.  The rolled-products unit, whose customers include the
aerospace and packaging industries, posted an after-tax
operating profit of $71 million in the quarter, down from $89
million a year earlier. The segment that mines bauxite and
refines alumina saw earnings rise to $67 million, from a year-earlier loss of $9 million.  Alcoa said fourth-quarter earnings in rolled products
excluding one-time items will drop 25 percent from the third
quarter. That would mean a year-on-year decline of about 31
percent. Some of the division’s shipments to aircraft
manufacturers will be lower because of the inventories that some
customers have built up as they introduce new aircraft models,
Kleinfeld said on a conference call to discuss results with
analysts.  “Guidance looks disappointing,” Brian Yu, an analyst at
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. said in a note. “We were
expecting rolled products to hold steady.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  