-- Aleppo, Venice, Berlin Gas Lamps Make 2014 Watch List
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-10-08T18:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/aleppo-venice-berlin-gas-lamps-make-2014-watch-list.html
The city of  Venice , which has been
overrun by cruise-ship traffic and tourists, and New Jersey’s
Hudson River Palisades are among 67 sites that need to be
preserved, the  World Monuments Fund  said today.  The fund’s 2014  World Monuments Watch  includes the
Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in St. Louis,  Missouri ,
known for its arch; war-torn Syria’s Citadel in Aleppo;
Tanzania’s Dar es Salaam; and tens of thousands of gas lamps in
Berlin.  The city of Berlin wants to replace the gaslights with
florescent lamps but those seeking their preservation believe
that restoration “would make more sense,” fund President
Bonnie Burnham said today at a news conference.  “The Watch is a call to action,” Burnham said in an
interview. “It really does seem to invigorate people who are
ardent in their efforts but don’t believe they can have an
impact.”  Founded in 1965, the New York-based nonprofit has tried to
preserve 740 architectural and cultural sites in 133 countries,
from the Pokfulam Village near Hong Kong chosen today, to  St.
Paul’s Cathedral  in  London  and the  Orange County Government
Center  in Goshen,  New York . The fund placed the nation of Iraq
on its list five years ago.  Any organization or individual can nominate a site for the
list. A grocery clerk in  New Zealand  launched a campaign to put
the  Nalatale  ruins in Zimbabwe on the fund’s watch list last
year and succeeded, Burnham said.  New Ships  “We are launching new ships at sea, but we don’t know that
they’ll reach their destination,” Burnham said about the list.  The Palisades made the list because plans for a 143-story
building by the South Korea-based electronics giant  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  would threaten its scenic view.  “This is a noble cause,” said Albert K. Butzel, a lawyer
in the fight to block the building’s construction. “This will
help sharpen our campaign.”  Other U.S. sites listed include the St. Louis arch, which
has suffered corrosion over the years; the Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, house and studio of Japanese-American woodworker
 George Nakashima , who died in 1990; architect Frank Lloyd Wright’s home at the  Taliesin  estate in his native  Wisconsin ;
and sculptor  Donald Judd ’s buildings at the Chinati Foundation
in Marfa, Texas.  Houses of worship in need of restoration made the list
including the Collegiale Sainte-Croix de Liege in  Belgium ; the
churches of St. Merri and Notre-Dame de Lorette in Paris; and
several wooden churches in the Romanian towns of Oltenia and
Transylvania.  The complete Watch List is at  http://www.wmf.org/watch .  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on birds,
Jeffrey Burke on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 