-- American Nobel Winners Say Research Threatened by Cuts
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-08T11:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/american-nobel-winners-fear-for-research-as-funding-cut.html
Three U.S. scientists who won the
 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine  for insights on the
transport system of cells said discoveries through basic
research are threatened by government inaction and budget cuts.  James Rothman, 62, professor of biomedical sciences at  Yale
University ; Randy Schekman, 64, professor of molecular and cell
biology at the University of California, Berkeley; and Thomas C. Suedhof, 57, a physiology professor at  Stanford University ,
yesterday won the prize for detailing how chemicals produced by
cells are shuttled from one place to another. The work has led
to new production methods for insulin and opened new avenues for
treating disease.  The U.S. government shutdown, now in its second week,
brought a halt to basic research at the  National Institutes of
Health . The agency also suspended grant applications. On March
1, President  Barack Obama  ordered the NIH to cut $1.55 billion,
or 5 percent, of its 2013 budget. Science funding is
“imperiled,” Suedhof said yesterday during a conference call.  “Particularly now people need to be reminded that that
investment is being eroded and suspended because of government
inaction,” Schekman said in an interview.  The three Nobelists credit their discoveries to the support
of laboratory research that began without an obvious benefit to
medicine. Still, their work on how cells shuttle hormones and
other molecules from one area to another led to human insulin
being made from yeast cells. That advance now accounts for a
third of the world’s supply of insulin, Schekman said.  Chiron Corp., an Emeryville,  California , company bought for
$5.7 billion by Novartis in 2006, developed the techniques for
using the scientists’ discovery to make medicinal proteins,
Schekman said.  Support Waning  Support for basic research that can lead to new therapeutic
techniques is on the wane, Rothman said.  “I had five years of failure before the first initial
success,” Rothman said in an interview. “That kind of support,
there’s less of it now. And that’s a pressing national issue.”  Schekman  began researching how the cell’s transportation
system works in the 1970s. He studied yeast, a single-celled
organism, and found cells that experienced traffic jams, with
packages of proteins piling up. The cause was genetic, and
Schekman was able to identify the mutated genes involved in the
congestion.  “Being able to study this in yeast made the discovery of
the machinery responsible for doing this much simpler,” he
said.  Protein Complex  Rothman ’s research in the 1980s and 1990s unveiled a
protein complex that enables transporters in mammalian cells to
dock and fuse with their targets, much like the two sides of a
zipper. Some of the genes discovered by Schekman expressed
proteins that corresponded to the proteins Rothman had found.  “We were studying the same thing by different means,”
Schekman said. “It was very gratifying to realize that, while
he studied mammalian cells growing in cell culture and my
laboratory studied baker’s yeast growing in a broth, we would
both uncover the exact same pathway with the very same
molecules. All cells use this machinery to export molecules.”  Together, Rothman and Schekman mapped key components of the
cell’s shipping system. For their work, they shared the 2002
 Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award , sometimes called
“America’s Nobel.”  Nerve Cells  Suedhof  built on these findings in the 1990s by describing
how cells know when to open the packages. Intrigued by how nerve
cells communicate with each other in the brain, he searched for
proteins that were sensitive to calcium, which was known to be
involved in the process. He identified the machinery that was
set in motion by an influx of calcium ions, opening the zipper
and releasing the contents of the package.  “Through their discoveries, Rothman, Schekman and Suedhof
have revealed the exquisitely precise control system for the
transport and delivery of cellular cargo,” the Nobel Assembly
said in a  statement . “Disturbances in this system have
deleterious effects and contribute to conditions such as
neurological diseases, diabetes and immunological disorders.”  In diabetes, for example, cells can’t ingest sugar because
transporters that normally reside on the cell surface and import
the sugar are stuck inside. Drugmakers could potentially improve
insulin release and target the machinery that feeds the cell.  “This is a fundamental discovery of cell physiology,”
Juleen Zierath, chairman of the Nobel Committee for Physiology
or Medicine, said in a webcast interview. “They provide insight
into disease progression and prospective treatments.”  Suedhof shared the  Kavli Prize  in Neuroscience in 2010 with
Rothman and Richard Scheller of Genentech Inc., now part of
 Roche Holding AG , for their work revealing how signals between
nerve cells are transferred in the brain. Suedhof and Scheller
shared  this year’s Lasker prize .  Alzheimer’s Disease  Suedhof was working in the laboratories of  Michael Brown 
and Joseph Goldstein at the University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center at  Dallas  when the two men  won the Nobel medicine
prize  in 1985. His  laboratory  at Stanford is studying how
malfunctioning signals in the brain may contribute to disease
such as Alzheimer’s and autism.  While the discoveries by Rothman, Schekman and Suedhof
haven’t yet led to medicines, they have produced better
diagnostics for disease, said Goeran K. Hansson, secretary of
the Nobel Committee for Physiology or Medicine, at a news
conference in Stockholm.  Rothman was born in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and holds an
undergraduate degree from Yale University and a doctorate from
 Harvard University . Schekman, born in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota ,
received his bachelor’s degree from the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles , and holds a doctorate from Stanford.
Suedhof was born in Goettingen, Germany, and obtained his
medical degree from the University of Goettingen in 1982. He is
now a U.S. citizen.  Stem Cells  Last year’s  Nobel prize  for medicine went to stem-cell
pioneers John B. Gurdon and Shinya Yamanaka. Gurdon’s early work
in transferring DNA between a tadpole and a frog paved the way
in 1996 for the cloning of Dolly the sheep. Ten years later,
Yamanaka turned mouse skin cells into  stem cells  with the
potential to become any cell in the body.  Like Gurdon did after winning last year, Schekman urged
governments to fund basic research.  “Our investment in basic science in this country is
crucial,” Schekman said. “One can understand an important
process that can be useful in biotech and other industries.”  Dynamite Inventor  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The  Nobel Foundation  was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  Peter Higgs, 84, a retired professor of theoretical physics
at the  University of Edinburgh , and Francois Englert, 80, a
retired professor at the Free University of Brussels, won the
Nobel Prize in Physics for describing the Higgs boson, a
theoretical particle that may explain where mass comes from, the
 Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences  said today in Stockholm.  An economics prize was created almost seven decades later
in memory of Nobel by the Swedish central bank. Only the peace
prize is awarded outside Sweden, by the five-member Norwegian
Nobel Committee in Oslo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  