-- Delta to AMR Jet Deliveries Stall on Government Shutdown
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   C a r o l i n e   C h e n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-10-08T23:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/amr-joins-airlines-with-jet-delays-on-government-shutdown.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
 American Airlines  are waiting on new jets stuck as far afield as
Germany with the partial shutdown of the U.S. government
stalling deliveries across the global aerospace industry.  An Airbus SAS A319 due to be delivered today to American is
still on the ground in Hamburg, joining other Airbus jets idled
in Europe for  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  In
Canada,  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  said it has a Delta-bound regional jet
and a turboprop for a buyer it didn’t identify.  The tardy shipments show the fallout for airlines and
planemakers from the federal stoppage even as  air travel  remains
unaffected. Makers of smaller planes also may be pinched,
because a government closing until mid-October would delay 130
aircraft valued at $1.5 billion amid the peak season for those
deliveries, the General Aviation Manufacturers Association said.  “It wasn’t on people’s radar,” said George Hamlin, a
former Airbus executive who runs Fairfax, Virginia-based Hamlin
Transportation Consulting. “We haven’t had something like this
happen. Everyone was preoccupied with the greater implications
of the shutdown, and yet it impacts all sorts of things.”  Deliveries have been held up by the shuttering of a U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration office in Oklahoma City, where
the planes must be registered before they can fly in the U.S.
FAA employees at that office aren’t among 800 being recalled to
work this week.  Airbus Planes  While  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  reported no
disruptions involving its new aircraft, other airlines weren’t
as lucky. Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways  has a wide-body A330
at an Airbus facility in Toulouse, France, the planemaker’s
home, and may face a late delivery this week for a single-aisle
A321 that’s now in Hamburg. American’s A319 is marooned in
Hamburg as well, as is JetBlue’s first A321.  “We’ve purchased it, but we can’t fly it back to the U.S.
until it’s registered,” Mike Miller, a spokesman for New York-based JetBlue, said in an interview yesterday.  Boeing Co. is using temporary mail-in registration to avoid
any delivery snarls, Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman, said by e-mail. The registry regulations don’t apply to Boeing’s customers
outside the U.S., according to Alder, who said the Chicago-based
company was “taking steps to mitigate potential delays” while
declining to say whether any deliveries had been halted.  Bombardier Planes  The customer for Bombardier’s stalled Q400 turboprop
delivery isn’t being identified, said Marc Duchesne, a spokesman
for the Montreal-based planemaker.  Anthony Black , a Delta
spokesman, said the delayed Bombardier CRJ900 regional jet was
for the carrier’s Endeavor unit.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  said “it could be affected in the coming weeks
if the shutdown continues” even though the  Sao Jose dos Campos ,
Brazil-based company hasn’t had any delays with regional jets
for U.S. buyers.  The shutdown could threaten fourth-quarter deliveries, said
GAMA, which represents light-aircraft makers and their
suppliers. The year’s last three months typically account for 35
percent of annual general aviation aircraft shipments valued
about $8 billion, GAMA said in a statement.  “The longer the shutdown continues, the more likely it is
to cause economic difficulties and job losses,” GAMA said.
Handovers of 12 planes already are stalled, according to the
group, whose members include Boeing’s business-jets unit and
 Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell Helicopter and Cessna Aircraft.  Service Dates  Late jets aren’t yet affecting U.S. airline operations,
because many of the delayed planes aren’t due to enter service
until November or later, the carriers said. That may change,
according to consultant Hamlin.  “It’s good that some carriers have not been discomfited,
but I would expect that to be a relatively brief period,”
Hamlin said in a telephone interview. “I know of airplanes put
in service almost immediately.”  American, whose planned merger with US Airways has been
stalled by a federal antitrust lawsuit, is due to get two more
A319s this month, said  Andrea Huguely , an American spokeswoman.
Those planes are among 16 A319s it will take this year to
refresh one of the oldest U.S. airline fleets.  The FAA workers returning to their jobs this week were
initially deemed nonessential for safety and sent home without
pay when the shutdown began Oct. 1.  About three-quarters of those workers oversee major airline
operations. Most of the others will keep an eye on the “most
critical” production of aircraft and parts, according to an FAA
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  