-- Angola Bulldozers Give Slum Dwellers New Life Amid Oil Boom
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   M a n u e l   S o q u e
-- 2013-10-09T13:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/angolan-bulldozers-drive-slum-dwellers-to-new-life-amid-oil-boom.html
Francisco Antonio, a 55-year-old
bricklayer, smiled while his children removed furniture ahead of
government bulldozers preparing to smash his concrete house.  Then four youths mugged a reporter standing beside him.
Antonio was being moved out of one of  Angola ’s most dangerous
slums.  “Crime is a big issue here,” said Antonio, a self-employed father of six who’s lived for 25 years in Sambizanga, a
hillside settlement near the port that’s one of the poorest
parts of Luanda, the capital. “Some people may not agree, but
what the government is doing is good.”  The Angolan government has accelerated the razing of slums
since the removals began in 2001, after rural people sought
refuge during a 27-year civil war. It’s moving residents to the
Zango development zone, constructed by  Brazil ’s Odebrecht SA
about 40 kilometers (25 miles) inland.  By doing so it’s also helping meet demand for prime real
estate as the middle class in  Africa ’s second-largest crude oil
producer expands. Mercer ranks the city as the world’s most
expensive for expatriates.  Luanda, which had a population of 500,000 before Angola’s
independence from  Portugal  in 1975, is jammed with more than 6
million residents. It’s Africa’s fifth-largest city after Cairo,
Lagos, Kinshasa and Johannesburg; more than two-thirds of
residents live in shantytowns known as musseques, according to
Luanda-based Development Workshop, an aid group formed in 1981.  Office Space  The several thousand people living in Zango take a train or
mini-bus taxis to work in Luanda if they work. The country’s
jobless rate is estimated at more than 20 percent by the  Economy
Ministry .  Office space in central Luanda is selling at about $1,000
per square meter (10.76 square feet) for undeveloped land and
between $7,500 and $10,000 for space in buildings even after an
eight-year construction boom and the global economic slowdown,
according to Daniel Esteves, a real estate agent at Luanda-based
Empreendimentos e Mediavso Imobilisria Lda. Banks including
Standard Bank Group Ltd. have established offices in the city.  The government is giving the slum residents the choice of a
house elsewhere or cash, the equivalent of $150 per square meter
of their current accommodation, according to residents including
Anitemia Fernandes, an unemployed 24-year-old who moved to a
two-bedroom house in Zango from one half the size in Sambizanga.
Her new one-story concrete home, which is painted purple, has
indoor plumbing and a small yard. Each block has its own color.  Forced Evictions  The government shipped belongings and bussed in residents
in a “process handled very well,” unlike the past when people
were treated like “cattle in trucks,” Fernandes said.  Infrastructure to house more than 2 million people is under
construction in a 54-square-kilometer (21-square-mile) area of
the city including the neighborhoods of Cazenga, Rangel and
Sambizanga, Bento Soito, director of the government’s  Technical
Office for Urban Redevelopment, said in a May 23 interview with
state news agency Angop. The process could take 15 to 20 years,
he said. Soito declined to comment when called by Bloomberg.  The state has yet to fully meet a 2008 promise to build one
million houses by 2012 because of slow implementation and the
world economic downturn, Allan Cain, executive director of
Development Workshop, said. Despite government pressure, banks
are reluctant to provide mortgages because the poor lack land
titles and collateral, he said.  ‘Remain Here’  Slum clearances began in Boa Vista, after rainy season
landslides killed residents. A road is only now being built in
the empty space. Advocacy groups, such as New York-based  Human
Rights Watch , criticized removals, saying they were forced
evictions without warning or adequate compensation. Residents
ended up in tents at Zango before houses were built.  “If I had a choice I would rather remain here than go
somewhere else,” said Joao Carlos, 45, a  taxi driver  who’s
lived in Sambizanga since birth. “Sambizanga is close to the
city, it’s close to everything. I can’t believe I’m leaving.”  The government also leveled the slums of Dimuca and
Campismo to expand a railway yard and a brewery drainage system.  Angola’s $114 billion economy will probably expand 6.5
percent this year, according to the central bank, as companies
such as  Total SA (FP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  pump about 1.8
million barrels a day of crude from offshore fields.  The government is attempting to diversify away from oil,
which makes up 97 percent of exports and 80 percent of  tax
revenue . A dependence on oil worker expatriates contributes to
prices such as the $6,500 a month to rent a two-bedroom
apartment in Luanda, according to Mercer.  School Classes  There’s been no census since 1970 and the  World Bank 
estimates the population at 21 million. The elite steer Porsches
and Range Rovers past slums like Sambizanga, which hold much of
the 54 percent of the national population that the United
Nations estimates live on less than $1.25 a day.  Residents were given no choice about the timing of their
moves. Their chief concern on reaching Zango were children
missing classes and consistent electricity.  “The government should have waited for the school year to
end in November,” Nini Tavares, an unemployed 30-year-old, said
in an interview at her new two-bedroom house. “My 6-year-old
daughter can’t go to school,” she said.  Property Deeds  Mara Baptista, Sambizanga district administrator, and
Agostinho Silva, vice president of the Luanda administrative
commission, were unavailable to comment after repeated visits to
their offices and telephone calls over the past month.  Compensating slum residents with new accommodation is
complicated because only 7 percent have formal property deeds
and even the wealthy lack them after the war’s turmoil,
according to Cain. Titles are granted by provinces, a long,
expensive process only available in the few areas with approved
plans, Cain said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Most urban residents with weak or non-existent tenure
rights benefit little from increasing land values,” Cain said.
“They’re susceptible to being forcibly removed.”  Authorities should consider informal occupation documents
granted by local chiefs, known as sobas, to ease the process,
while removals are less painful than they used to be, he said.  Back in Sambizanga, a reporter plucked his BlackBerry from
the dust after thieves tossed it away as they tried,
unsuccessfully, to escape police near Antonio’s house
overlooking dozens of ships and stacks of red, green and blue
freight containers.  Antonio said he’s keen to move to a safer place with more
space, plumbing and better sanitation. He said he expects to
receive two small houses in Zango, just like his nephew got.  “The cleaning-up process is going smoothly,” he said. “I
haven’t seen any discontent or demonstrations so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  