-- Arab Unrest to Cost $800 Billion as U.A.E. Benefits, HSBC Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-08T11:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/arab-unrest-to-cost-800-billion-as-u-a-e-benefits-hsbc-says.html
Political turmoil that started in
Tunisia in 2011 and swept across the Arab world will cost the
seven most-affected countries about $800 billion by the end of
next year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The unrest that toppled two leaders in Egypt, removed
Muammar Qaddafi from power in Libya, unsettled Bahrain’s
monarchy and plunged  Syria  into civil war will lower cumulative
economic output in the nations to just above $2 trillion from
$2.9 trillion over the four years, Dubai-based economists with
HSBC estimated in a report released today. The other two
countries included in the study are Jordan and Lebanon.  “Such a long period of sub-trend growth offers scope for a
period of more rapid expansion as troubled economies bounce
back,” Simon Williams and Liz Martins said in the report. “But
the capacity of policy makers to deliver a meaningful turnaround
in fortunes remains constrained” as public finances
deteriorate, they said.  The economic slowdown has widened the wealth gap between
the seven countries and Gulf Arab states, where a windfall from
energy exports helped stimulate growth and allowed Saudi Arabia,
the United Arab Emirates and Qatar to extend aid to countries
like  Egypt  and Tunisia engulfed by Arab Spring protests.  Egypt has received $12 billion in aid pledges from Gulf
countries to support dwindling foreign reserves and shore up
public finances since the military’s ouster of President Mohamed Mursi in July. The funds will help the economy expand 3 percent
in the fiscal year that ends in June 2014, HSBC said, revising
an earlier forecast of a 2.5 percent growth rate.  Violent Backlash  The estimate is still below the government’s target of at
least 3.5 percent. Egypt’s budget deficit will narrow to 12
percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year, according to
HSBC forecasts, two percentage points higher than the
government’s estimates.  “A return to pre-2011 levels of economic activity will
require full political normalization -- which will likely be a
lengthy and challenging process,” Williams and Martins said in
their note when discussing Egypt’s prospects for recovery. “A
marked pick-up in militant activity in Sinai, and reports of
sporadic violence in Cairo and Alexandria, also suggest that
maintaining security may prove challenging despite the
widespread clampdown on opposition groups.”  More than 50 Islamists were killed during weekend violence
across Egypt as Mursi’s supporters took to the streets to
denounce the military-backed government that replaced him, while
militant attacks killed almost a dozen members of the security
forces over the last two days in Sinai and elsewhere.  Libya Slumps  Egypt is struggling to recover from the chaos that
accompanied the 2011 uprising that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s three-decade autocratic rule. The revolt was followed by the overthrow
of Libya’s long-time leader Qaddafi.  Libya’s oil-driven economy may expand 0.7 percent this
year, HSBC said, compared with a forecast of 15.9 percent three
months ago, after protests and strikes cut crude exports. The
London-based bank also cut  Morocco ’s GDP growth forecast this
year to 2.8 percent from 3.4 percent.  By contrast, Bahrain’s economy, hurt by protests against
Sunni rulers in 2011, may expand 3.6 percent this year, compared
with a previous forecast of 3 percent, HSBC said.  Bahrain’s plight helped Dubai, the second-biggest sheikhdom
of the U.A.E., cement its status as the region’s financial and
commercial hub. The U.A.E.’s economy may grow 4.3 percent this
year and 4.6 percent in 2014, HSBC said, revising its earlier
estimate of 4 percent and 4.1 percent respectively.  The expansion, though, will send consumer prices up 4.5
percent next year, the highest level since 2008, one year before
a real-estate crash brought Dubai to the brink of default. The
expected acceleration in inflation will help reveal “what
lessons policy makers have drawn from the boom-and-bust cycle,”
HSBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  