-- ArcelorMittal Czech Plant Buys Time With $53 Million Investment
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-10-08T12:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/arcelormittal-czech-plant-buys-time-with-53-million-investment.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  Ostrava, the Czech unit
of the world’s biggest steelmaker, said operations are
stabilized for at least two years after a $53 million investment
to modernize the plant.  While the investment allows the unit to produce higher-quality steel and increase exports to markets such as Saudi
Arabia, its long-term prospects remain uncertain as prices and
demand for construction steel in Europe remain low, board member
Jan Rafaj said in an interview today.  “The investment should stabilize the plant for two to
three years, but it’s not a long-term solution,” Rafaj said at
an industry fair in Brno, Czech Republic. “ArcelorMittal made
it clear that it cares about the Ostrava plant, but only in the
timeframe of months rather than years.”  ArcelorMittal has already closed plants in western Europe
at Liege in Belgium and Florange in  France  and has said it’s
considering shuttering plants in eastern Europe as it battles
falling demand in its biggest market. The steelmaker has said
any closings in eastern Europe will take place over a few years
as the region is still a growth market and the company is
waiting to see how demand evolves.  Steel-industry earnings have slumped as steelmakers grapple
with spare capacity and Europe’s economic crisis saps
consumption of the metal. ArcelorMittal cut its full-year profit
forecast in August saying demand in the U.S. and Europe is
weaker than previously expected.  “There is overcapacity of steelmakers in Europe,” Rafaj
said. “Optimization will affect our region, too.”  Shares Decline  European Union steel use declined 5.7 percent in the first
half of the year, according to ArcelorMittal. European steel-industry  shares  have tumbled 8 percent in 2013, the second-worst
among 37 industry groups tracked by Bloomberg.  The European market remains very difficult with “extremely
low visibility,” Rafaj said. While there are small signs of
improvement in demand from clients such as construction
companies, it’s far from clear whether the trend is sustainable,
he said.  ArcelorMittal Ostrava sells up to 45 percent of its
production in the Czech Republic and exports the rest to
Germany,  Poland  and Slovakia. The company is also seeking
further opportunities in Asia and the Arab peninsula, according
to the executive.  The planned closing of  New World Resources Plc (NWR) ’s Paskov
coal mine next year will force the steelmaker to look for
alternative coal suppliers in neighboring Poland, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  