-- Mark Cuban E-Mail Asked Whether Mamma Trade Was ‘Kosher’
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-08T23:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/mark-cuban-e-mail-asked-whether-mamma-trade-was-kosher-.html
Billionaire Mark Cuban sent his
broker an e-mail asking about the propriety of a share sale that
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has since accused
him of making based on inside information.  “I wanted to make sure I was 100 pct kosher on that
trade,” Cuban wrote in the e-mail to Charles McKinney the day
after the transaction. “Can you check with your folks to make
sure all is cool,” he asked McKinney, who at the time was a
senior vice president at UBS Financial Services Inc.  That message was shown to  Dallas  federal court jurors today
as the owner of pro basketball’s Dallas Mavericks began the
first full day of defense in the trial of the SEC’s insider-trading case against him.  The SEC sued Cuban, now 55, in 2008 accusing him of selling
about $7.9 million in stock in the Canadian Internet company
Mamma.com Inc. in 2004 to avoid a $750,000 loss after he learned
nonpublic information about a private placement plan that would
dilute his shares.  Called to the witness stand by the SEC, Cuban testified
earlier this week that he did nothing wrong. The SEC is seeking
disgorgement of his alleged ill-gotten gains and unspecified
monetary penalties. The trial started Sept. 30.  Trade Unwound  Under questioning from defense lawyer Thomas Melsheimer,
McKinney, the broker, testified today that if there was a
problem with the trade it would have been identified and it
could have been unwound in the three days before it settled.  The e-mail string displayed for the jury showed that
McKinney forwarded it to a compliance officer at  UBS. (UBSN)   In it, Cuban described how he was invited to take part in
Mamma.com’s effort to raise money in a private investment in
public equity, or PIPE, plan.  “He tried to sell me on it,” Cuban wrote, referring to
Arnold Owen, the investment banker who was offering the PIPE.
“I guess that means its public since they were selling to
others as part of the raise.”  On cross-examination, McKinney told SEC lawyer Duane
Thompson he remembered nothing about the e-mail or whether he
discussed the Mamma.com sale with Cuban. Thompson pointed out in
his questioning that there was no written response to Cuban’s e-mail from anyone at UBS.  Cuban’s $695 Million  McKinney, who is now at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said he
manages $695 million for Cuban. On cross-examination, he said he
had carried out as many as 40,000 trades over 16 years for Cuban
and that Cuban’s business earned $2.5 million to $4.5 million
annually for the two firms where McKinney worked.  When Thompson asked how much McKinney made personally from
Cuban’s business, U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater, who
is presiding over the trial, told the witness not to answer.  Thompson asked McKinney if that amount of business would
make it unlikely that he would testify to anything implicating
Cuban in insider trading.  “I’d tell the truth without a doubt, sir,” the broker
said.  Cuban’s lawyers also called Christopher Aguilar, who was
general counsel for Owen’s firm, Merriman Curhan Ford Inc., in
2004 when the PIPE was sold.  Aguilar told the court his firm had a policy of keeping
PIPE information confidential and that public companies for
which Merriman was raising capital were put on a list
restricting firm employees from trading in their stock.  No Regulation  Under questioning by Stephen Best, one of Cuban’s lawyers,
Aguilar said there was no law or regulation on the books at the
time stating PIPE information was material nonpublic
information.  “We didn’t have anything official,” he said.  Aguilar said SEC officials had made statements at a
financial industry conference in early 2004 that they considered
a company’s intent to undertake a PIPE to be nonpublic
information. Aguilar said he drafted a letter he sent to firm
clients repeating that information.  The former Merriman general counsel also said his firm
didn’t require investors who spoke to its agents about the
Mamma.com PIPE to sign confidentiality agreements.  On cross-examination, SEC lawyer Jan Folena produced
Merriman’s engagement letter with Mamma.com and pointed out
where the firm said it would obtain nondisclosure agreements
from potential investors for the PIPE.  ‘Nondisclosure Agreements’  “I don’t think we did obtain nondisclosure agreements,”
Aguilar said.  At the close of today’s proceedings, attorneys for both
sides told the judge that the evidentiary portion of the trial
may be completed as soon as tomorrow.  While no proceedings are scheduled for Oct. 10 or 11, or
for the Oct. 14 Columbus Day holiday, the jury could hear
closing arguments and get the case as soon as Oct. 15, the
lawyers said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-02050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court
at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com ;
Andrew Harris in federal court in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  