-- Marks & Spencer Extends Decline on Doubt Over New Fashion Range
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-10-08T08:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/marks-spencer-extends-decline-on-doubt-over-new-fashion-range.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , Britain’s
largest clothing retailer, fell for a third straight day as
Sanford C. Bernstein cut the stock to underperform, adding to a
recent tide of negative analyst opinion.  The shares slid as much as 3.7 percent to 462.4 pence,
extending yesterday’s 2.8 percent drop. They have fallen 7.4
percent in three trading days, the most since September 2011.  Marks & Spencer’s revived autumn-winter fashion range is
likely to fall short of the “revolution” needed to spark a
turnaround in the retailer’s U.K. non-food division, Bernstein
analysts said today as they cut their rating from market
perform. Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  is pinning his
hopes on the new collection, which came into stores on July 25.  “We are skeptical that a dramatic turnaround will
materialize in the near-term,” analysts led by Jamie Merriman
said in a note. Bernstein’s earnings estimates for the 2015
financial year are 6 percent below consensus, he said.  Credit Suisse analyst  Simon Irwin  said yesterday that the
quarter ended last month was slower than expected for Marks &
Spencer’s non-food division. Also yesterday, BDO LLP’s High
Street Sales Tracker reported that September was “a challenging
month” for British clothing retailers, with sales falling 2.1
percent compared with the same month in 2012.  Bernstein today cast doubt on the potential for Marks &
Spencer’s latest clothing range, which Bolland is counting on to
help halt eight straight quarters of declining same-store sales
in the retailer’s U.K. general-merchandise division.  The brokerage said it surveyed a group of 50 to 70-year-old
women and others in their thirties and found that neither
customer group felt that much has changed in the new collection
relative to their expectations.  Marks & Spencer was down 2.7 percent at 467.5 pence at 9:44
a.m. in  London , trimming this year’s gain to 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  