-- Aston Martin Dropping Cygnet Following Lackluster Sales
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-09T09:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/aston-martin-dropping-cygnet-following-lackluster-sales.html
Aston Martin, the maker of sports
cars favored by Prince Charles and driven by James Bond, is
dropping the Cygnet city car following lackluster sales to
refocus on models more geared to their traditional customers.  “Cygnet production will end this year,” Sarah Calam, a
spokeswoman for the Gaydon, England-based manufacturer, said in
an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The model is based on
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s iQ subcompact.  The hand-stitched leather interior and Aston Martin badge
were not enough to persuade customers to pay 31,000 pounds
($50,000) for the model, more than double the price of the iQ,
which provided the engine, transmission and frame. Demand for
the model was about 250 a year, according to IHS Automotive. The
carmaker’s sales target was at least 1,500 annually.  Aston Martin, which unlike rivals isn’t backed by a larger
auto manufacturer, aimed to keep down development costs by
working with Toyota to bring the model, built in about 12
months, to market two years ago. Since then, London-based
investment firm Investindustrial purchased a 37.5 percent stake
and laid out plans in January to spend 500 million pounds in the
next four years on expansion.  Aston Martin is seeking to double sales by 2016 with new
models and widen its dealer network outside Europe. The British
manufacturer may invest in a sport-utility vehicle to broaden
its appeal among wealthy drivers, a person familiar with the
plan said last month.  Cygnet Failure  “The Cygnet project was a failure and it doesn’t make
sense to keep on producing the model as the premium city car
market in Europe isn’t performing well at all,” said Pierluigi Bellini, an analyst at IHS Automotive in Milan. “Dropping the
Cygnet while planning an SUV to expand outside Europe makes much
more sense.”  The super-car maker plans to appoint a new chief executive
officer before the end of the year, while current CEO Ulrich Bez, who has led Aston Martin since 2000, will probably become a
non-executive chairman, the person said.  Investindustrial Chairman Andrea Bonomi said earlier this
year he wants to expand Aston Martin’s lineup while establishing
partnerships to limit the cost of developing models. The U.K.
carmaker signed a deal in July to obtain engines from the AMG
high-performance division of  Daimler AG (DAI) , owner of Mercedes-Benz.
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler will receive a 5 percent stake
in Aston over time, depending on the progress of their technical
partnership.  Aston has a target of boosting annual sales to about 7,000
vehicles in 2016 from about 3,400 cars in 2012, with growth
propelled by catering to growing demand in Asia, North America
and South America, the person said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  