-- Aussie Dollar Remains Lower Versus Yen as U.S. Impasse Persists
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-08T00:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/aussie-dollar-remains-lower-versus-yen-as-u-s-impasse-persists.html
The Australian dollar held it’s
biggest one-day drop against the yen in a week as U.S. lawmakers
remained at impasse on how to end a government shutdown and
raise the debt limit, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  reiterated he won’t negotiate
with Republicans over the debt ceiling, adding to concern of a
default by the world’s biggest economy. New Zealand’s currency
fell versus all of its major counterparts after equities
worldwide declined.  “The Aussie is still susceptible to a fall if markets get
a little worried about both the debt ceiling and the U.S.
economic outlook,” said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
biggest lender. “The longer the political deadlock goes on and
the closer we get to those deadlines, the more destabilizing it
could be.”  The Australian dollar was at 91.26 yen as of 11:08 a.m. in
Sydney from 91.18 yesterday when it slid 0.9 percent, the most
since Sept. 27. The Aussie rose 0.1 percent to 94.35 U.S. cents.
New Zealand’s kiwi dollar was little changed at 83.01 U.S.
cents. It traded at 80.34 yen, little changed from yesterday
when it declined 1 percent.  Australia ’s  10-year bond  was at 4.06 percent, while the
three-year yield traded at 3.01 percent. New Zealand’s two-year
swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, was
at 3.48 percent, set for the highest close since Sept. 20.  Deadline Looms  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares lost 0.9
percent yesterday, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.2
percent.  Many U.S. government services have been shuttered for a
week and the country is nine days away from exhausting its
borrowing authority.  Senate Democrats are considering a strategy that would
allow Obama to raise the debt ceiling without requiring any
Republican to vote in favor of a debt-limit increase, said
Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat.
A test vote on the proposal could occur as soon as Oct. 11 as
the debates over the government shutdown and the debt limit have
merged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  