-- Lawmakers Back Military Death Benefit Halted by Shutdown
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-10-09T15:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/lawmakers-back-military-death-benefit-halted-by-shutdown.html
Death benefits for the survivors of
U.S. military personnel would be renewed under legislation that
House leaders plan to take up today after the payments were
halted by the partial federal shutdown.  “It’s disgraceful that they’re withholding these benefits,
but again tomorrow the House is going to act specifically on
this, and I hope the president will sign it,” House Speaker
 John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said yesterday at a news
conference on  Capitol Hill .  When most government funding ended Oct. 1 in a standoff
between President  Barack Obama  and  House Republicans , the
Pentagon stopped paying the $100,000, tax-exempt “death
gratuity” that’s intended to provide immediate cash to the
survivors of U.S. military personnel.  “Unfortunately, we don’t have the legal authority to make
those payments” until government funding resumes, Pentagon
Comptroller Robert Hale told reporters on Oct. 5. He said
emergency legislation that provided for military personnel to
continue receiving their pay lacked provisions authorizing the
death benefit.  In addition to the $100,000 death payment, the military has
halted benefits for survivors, including burial expenses and
travel to Dover Air Force Base in  Delaware  to receive the
remains of loved ones, according to Navy Lieutenant Commander
Nate Christensen, a Pentagon spokesman.  Flag-Draped Coffins  While Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel flew to Dover today for
the arrival of flag-draped coffins bearing four of the five U.S.
service members killed in Afghanistan over the weekend, families
wishing to be there had to pay their own way or seek help from
outside groups.  The lapse in death benefits is “heart-breaking for all of
us,” said Ami Neiberger-Miller, a spokeswoman for the  Tragedy
Assistance Program for Survivors , a nonprofit group based in
Arlington,  Virginia , that provides counseling to grieving
families of fallen troops.  The $100,000 death benefit typically
serves as “bridge money,” that “you’re able to use to bring
your family together,” she said in an interview.  The benefit also can be used to pay immediate expenses that
are otherwise difficult to cover after the loss of a fallen
soldier’s salary, Neiberger-Miller said.  “If your car payment is due in two weeks, this money is
really important,” she said.  Son Killed  Shannon Collins, whose son, Marine Lance Corporal Jeremiah
Collins, was killed in  Afghanistan  over the weekend, said that
“the government is hurting the wrong people.”  “Families shouldn’t have to worry about how they’re going
to bury their child,” she said in an interview with NBC News.
“I don’t necessarily have $10,000 to bury my son.”  Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, chairman of the
 House Armed Services Committee , said yesterday that Congress
intended that the family allowances would continue uninterrupted
during the shutdown.  “Judging by the Department of Defense’s own summary of
those programs, we believed that ’death gratuities’ would
continue to go to the families of those heroes who made the
ultimate sacrifice,” the California Republican said in a
statement. “If the Pentagon believes they need more explicit
authority to disburse these payments, I am sure the House will
provide it in very short order.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he was shocked that
U.S. military personnel could die for their country while their
families were handed an IOU.  “It’s an unbearable loss, but now they’re being denied
death benefits because of this senseless shutdown,” Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, said yesterday on the Senate floor. “It’s
shameful and embarrassing.”  Christensen, the Pentagon spokesman, said the government
continues to process claims under the  Servicemembers Group Life
Insurance  program and to pay benefits such as a monthly stipend
based on a deceased service member’s base duty pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  