-- Bags of Cash Show Iran Currency Squeeze Behind Nuclear Thaw
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-10-09T14:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/bagfuls-of-cash-show-iran-currency-squeeze-behind-nuclear-thaw.html
When Mohammad-Reza needed parts for
his heater company in  Iran  last month, he carried a bagful of
500-euro notes on a plane to Dubai and paid his German supplier
over coffee in a hotel lobby. Often, he says, he has to use even
riskier channels.  Mohammad-Reza, who declined to give his surname for fear of
reprisals, says he uses informal currency transfers called
hawala to get around the sanctions that cut Iran off from the
global banking system. “Everything’s based on mutual trust,”
he said in an interview in his Tehran office, describing a
widely used network of unofficial middle-men. “The currency
shops in Tehran don’t give you a receipt, and it’s not clear
when the supplier in  Germany , the  Czech Republic  or  South Korea 
will receive it. Sometimes money gets lost in transmission.”  Like the Iranian economy, Mohammad-Reza’s business has
shrunk under the impact of the trade and currency curbs imposed
by the U.S. and allies to restrain the Islamic republic’s
nuclear program. Iran’s  oil exports  have plunged by more than
half, slashing government revenue. President Hassan Rouhani
described the recession as a national security issue during the
campaign that culminated in his election in June.  In his first months in office, Rouhani is pushing for a
thaw in ties with the West that would help him meet election
pledges of reviving the economy. There’s a direct link between
that diplomatic shift and the impact of the sanctions, said
Afshin Molavi, senior research fellow at the  New America
Foundation  in  Washington .  ‘Spider Web’  “Iran is in a spider web of sanctions that have hurt its
economy, and Iranian leaders know it,” Molavi said in a phone
interview. “The pain was felt more acutely this year, and this
was something that made Iranian leaders more conciliatory.”  Talks between Iran and world powers are due to resume in
Geneva next week, amid optimism sparked by Rouhani’s trip to New
York last month. Oil is down more than 6 percent from a 2 1/2-year high a month ago, as expectations of détente with Iran
followed the easing of tensions over  Syria . The U.K. yesterday
agreed to take steps toward reopening its embassy in Iran.  While in the U.S., Rouhani had a historic telephone
conversation with President  Barack Obama , and told the
Washington Post he’s eager to resolve the nuclear dispute within
six months.  That timescale may have been put forward with the risk of
an economic crisis in mind, said  Mark Dubowitz , president of the
Foundation for Defense of Democracies, which advocates tougher
sanctions on Iran. The U.S. House of Representatives voted in
August for the restrictions to be tightened, though the measure
hasn’t gone into effect.  ‘Limited Time’  “Rouhani has limited time to deliver on his promise to
stabilize the economy,” said Dubowitz. “Iran is facing a
serious foreign exchange crisis.”  Dubowitz, together with Rachel Ziemba at New York-based
research firm Roubini Global Economics, published a study of
Iran’s currency resources last week that found reserves will
probably drop to about $70 billion by the end of this year.
Iran’s central bank said in July that it had reserves of more
than $100 billion.  What’s more, Iran probably only has immediate access to $20
billion, covering less than three months of imports, Dubowitz
and Ziemba said. About $50 billion is tied up in countries that
buy Iranian oil, such as China and  Turkey , and can only be spent
there under the sanctions regime.  ‘No Other Option’  Iran gets about $3.4 billion of oil revenue a month, and
almost half of that is accumulating in escrow accounts in those
countries, suggesting that Iran is struggling to find goods
there that it wants to import, Dubowitz and Ziemba said.  With trade links to  Europe  shut off, the shift in Iran’s
imports is visible in the shopping streets of Tehran. The Amin-Hozor neighborhood is full of appliance stores that mostly stock
Chinese goods, with the European brands that Iranians once
preferred becoming increasingly scarce. “It seems like there’s
no other option in Iran,” said Akbar, 55, the owner of one of
them, as he slapped price tags on washing machines and
dishwashers.  Jafar, 35, a salesman in one of the largest shops, said the
import of “high-quality goods” decreased sharply, though
there’s no shortage of Iranians ready to pay for them even with
inflation above 40 percent. He said some German brands are still
available, though those products actually come from Turkey.  It will take more than a drop in the quality of appliances
to force a change in Iranian policy, said Djavad Salehi-Isfahani, an economics professor at  Virginia Tech  in Blacksburg.  Bearable Hardships  “Iranians complain about stores full of Chinese goods that
are inferior in quality, but that’s not the end of the world,”
he said. “These are not the kind of hardships to force the
government to swallow its pride and make concessions in the
nuclear talks.” Salehi-Isfahani calculates that Iran can
finance about 18 months of imports.  Iran is classified as a mid-income country by the  World
Bank . Its per-capita economic output of $13,000 at purchasing-power parity is double  Egypt ’s and only about 15 percent below
Turkey’s,  according to  the IMF. On that measure, it ranked 78th
among 183 countries, according to IMF data from April.  Living standards are sliding, though, and official data may
conceal the decline. Rouhani’s new economy minister, Ali Tayyeb Nia, said last month that conditions are far worse than previous
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  had let on.  The rial lost more than half its dollar value in the 12
months before Rouhani’s election in June, though it has since
rebounded about 20 percent. Gross domestic product shrank 5.4
percent in the year through March, and Tayyeb Nia said last
month that it may take as much as four years to fix the economy.  ‘Time and Energy’  At the current rate of decline, not much of Mohammad-Reza’s
business would be left by then. Smoking cigarettes as he paces
around his office, he says his sales are down to about 200,000
euros ($272,000), from more than 600,000 euros three years ago.  Mohammad-Reza said he delivers the cash to suppliers
himself when he can, citing trips to Seoul and  Frankfurt  last
year as well as Dubai. Otherwise, he relies on money transfers
that “take a long time and aren’t reliable.”  “Even for small transactions, I need to spend a lot of
time and energy going through different channels,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  