-- Banco do Brasil Plans to Open a Broker-Dealer, Caffarelli Says
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-10-08T18:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/banco-do-brasil-plans-to-open-a-broker-dealer-caffarelli-says.html
Banco do Brasil SA , the largest bank
in Latin America by assets, plans to open a broker-dealer to
boost its equity-underwriting business in  Brazil .  “We plan to be the biggest bank in the Brazilian capital
markets as soon as possible,” Paulo Rogerio Caffarelli, the
firm’s vice-president for wholesale banking, said in a telephone
interview. “We plan to offer all types of investment-banking
services to our clients and will invest to do so.”  Banco do Brasil, which is controlled by the government, is
the nation’s fifth-biggest equity underwriter this year, the
same rank it held for all of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Owning a broker-dealer would allow the Brasilia-based
bank to expand in the business by allowing it to sell stocks
from equity offerings on its own, rather than relying on third-party broker-dealers.  Caffarelli said his company is planning to open the broker-dealer in partnership with another firm, which he declined to
name.  Banco do Brasil said it August it postponed for an
unspecified time a proposal to increase its stake in auto lender
Banco Votorantim SA. Banco do Brasil already holds 49.99 percent
of the voting shares and 50 percent of the preferred shares of
Sao Paulo-based Banco Votorantim.  Banco do Brasil’s plan was to use Banco Votorantim’s local
brokerage to build an investment bank with a more flexible wage
policy than state-controlled companies must follow, two people
familiar with the matter said in January.  Votorantim Financas SA and Banco do Brasil injected 2
billion reais ($905 million) into Banco Votorantim last year to
reinforce the lender’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  