-- Bandanna Continues Talks for Partners With Approval Pending
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-10-08T01:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/bandanna-continues-talks-for-partners-with-approval-pending.html
Bandanna Energy Ltd. (BND) , an Australian
coal developer, is continuing talks with potential partners for
its power-station coal project on expectation it will soon get a
government environmental approval.  The environmental go-ahead, which has taken about three
years, is expected early next month,  Michael Gray , managing
director of Brisbane-based Bandanna, said in an interview in
Singapore.  “One of the key concerns for investors is environmental
approvals so it’s most likely a joint venture won’t be finalized
until the final environmental approvals are in place,” Gray
said yesterday. “That’s something we’ll continue to negotiate
over the next three to five months.”  Bandanna said last month it’s in talks with Korea Midland
Power Co., a unit of  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , to sell a
partial stake in Springsure Creek, which is expected to deliver
first coal production in 2015. The most advanced talks are with
power generators in Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China, Gray said.  Bandanna may retain 50 percent to 60 percent of the project
with the balance held by two to four potential partners, he
said. Partners in the project are likely to be customers,
strategic partners or traders, Gray said.  The  stock  has slumped 19 percent this year in Sydney
trading, compared with a 10 percent advance in the benchmark
Australian index.  The Springsure Creek project is located in the Bowen Basin
in Queensland state, Australia. Rio Tinto Group is selling its
Blair Athol mine, also located in the Bowen Basin, to  Linc
Energy Ltd. (LNC)  for a dollar after closing the mine in November as
thermal coal prices slumped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  