-- Barcelona Targets Man. United Teen Januzaj, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-08T08:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/barcelona-targets-man-united-teen-januzaj-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Barca Eyes Januzaj  Barcelona will try to sign Adnan Januzaj, who scored twice
for Manchester United on his Premier League debut, if he rejects
a new contract, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Spanish champion has tracked Januzaj’s progress since
before he joined United from Anderlecht in 2011 and is confident
the 18-year-old will move to the Camp Nou when his agreement
expires in eight months, the newspaper added.  Ravel’s Raise  West Ham United will offer Ravel Morrison a salary increase
in January after the 20-year-old midfielder’s strong start to
the season, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Hammers also want to remove a 19 million-pound ($30.5
million) release clause in Morrison’s current agreement that has
18 months to run, the Mirror added.  Kompany Fears  Manchester City fears Vincent Kompany’s career is under
threat after the Belgian defender was ruled out for four weeks
after his second injury of the season, the  Daily Star reported .  City manager Manuel Pellegrini wants to send Kompany to see
a specialist in Denmark or  Germany  to find a way of managing his
body without suffering regular injuries, the newspaper added.  Feyenoord Defender  Arsenal is interested in signing Feyenoord central defender
Bruno Martins Indi, whom Everton tried to sign for 8 million
pounds in the offseason, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Gunners are also planning to loan striker Park Chu-Young to Wigan Athletic because the South Korean isn’t in
manager Arsene Wenger’s plans, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  