-- Batista Creditors Said to Weigh Seizures as Default Looms
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-10-09T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/batista-creditors-said-to-weigh-seizures-as-default-looms.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  bank creditors are
considering taking possession of two oil vessels used as
collateral on loans to  Eike Batista ’s shipbuilding company,
according to six people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Banks are talking to advisers and OSX officials to evaluate
whether they should seize the platforms if oil-producing sister
company goes into default, which would trigger cross-default
clauses on OSX debt, said the people, asking not to be named as
discussions are private. OSX borrowed $1.27 billion from 12
banks including Banco Santander SA and  DVB  Group Merchant Bank
( Asia ) Ltd. and is still negotiating to avoid filing for
bankruptcy protection, one of the people said.  OSX hired Credit Suisse Group AG to help sell the OSX-1 and
OSX-2 oil production vessels that guarantee the loans, the
people said. Creditors would join that sale process as they seek
to avert losses after OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA missed
a $45 million Oct. 1 bond payment that puts Batista on the brink
of  Latin America ’s biggest corporate default.  “For the banks, the best option is to get as much as
possible right now, whatever the amount is,” Dany Rappaport, a
portfolio manager at Investport, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“The equity investors won’t get to see any of it and that’s why
the value of these companies tends to zero.”  Offshore Fields  OSX is studying “business opportunities” for OSX-1 and
OSX-2, the company said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
Officials at DVB and Credit Suisse declined to comment, while
Santander didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  OGX, the centerpiece of Batista’s commodities group, is
considering filing for bankruptcy protection by the end of this
month, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.
Batista’s wealth has slumped $30 billion in 18 months after
crude deposits he valued at $1 trillion turned out to be duds
and he tries to convince bondholders to invest fresh capital.  OSX-1 is in OGX’s offshore Tubarao Azul field in  Brazil ,
while OSX-2 is docked in  Malaysia , according to Bloomberg ship-tracking data. Banks have loans secured by the so-called
fiduciary assignment of the two vessels, the people said.  Creditors with this type of guarantee wouldn’t lose
ownership rights over the assets used as collateral even in the
case of a  bankruptcy protection , according to Leonardo Morato,
chairman of the local affiliate of the Turnaround Management
Association of professionals involved with corporate recovery.
He declined to comment specifically on OSX’s case.  Better Price  In a default or cross-default process, creditors would take
possession of the asset and sell them, while under a judicial
recovery plan they would need to wait 180 days, said Morato, who
is also a partner at Veirano Advogados.  Creditors can sell assets regardless of any auction, public
sale or any other judicial or extra-judicial measure. Proceeds
will be used to pay the total value of the loan and expenses
related to the performance of the guarantee before going to the
company or other creditors.  DVB led a group of banks and government agencies --
including units of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Eksportfinans ASA, ING
Bank NV, Santander and ABN Amro Bank NV -- in a $420 million
loan for the acquisition and adaptation of OSX-1. The loan is
booked as 676 million reais on OSX balance sheet at June 30.  ING, Banco Itau BBA and Santander led a $850 million loan
in October 2011 syndicated to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Citigroup Inc.,
ABN Amro,  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and NIBC Bank NV to build OSX-2.
The loan is booked as 1.4 billion reais on OSX’s the company’s
balance sheet.  OSX’s $500 million of notes due 2015 have slumped 10 cents
in the past month to a record low 73 cents on the dollar today.  Total Debt  The international bond is also guaranteed by a vessel,
OSX-3, booked as 1.1 billion reais as of June 30. OSX’s total
debt was 5.3 billion reais, according to its second quarter
earnings release. Government-owned Caixa Economica Federal also
granted two loans of 1.1 billion reais for the shipyard unit,
according to the company’s earnings release. The loan has a 450
million-real guarantee from Santander, one of the people said.  OSX also had a 548 million-real debt with Brazil’s
development bank BNDES as of June 2013, which was rolled over
and matures Oct. 15, according to company filings. The loan has
guarantees from Banco Votorantim SA and no vessel as collateral,
two people with knowledge said.  “Regarding the 548.1 million reais loan from BNDES, OSX
informs that it is negotiating with the bank,” OSX said in an
e-mailed reply to questions.  The BNDES declined to comment on the OSX loan in an e-mailed response to questions.  Itau, Banco do Brasil, HSBC, ING, NIBC,  ABN Amro , BNDES,
Eksportfinans, Citigroup and Votorantim officials declined to
comment, while Caixa and  Credit Agricole  didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Better Price  OSX is negotiating to keep unit OSX Construcao Naval SA,
which holds the loans, out of bankruptcy proceedings to help
garner a better price for the ships, one of the people said. The
plan would see OSX Estaleiros SA, the other OSX unit, file for
bankruptcy protection. The most likely outcome is that the OSX
parent company seeks legal protection, the people said.  Batista, once the poster child for Brazilian
entrepreneurialism, raised billions of dollars in equity markets
to fund OGX’s drilling program and sister commodities startups
before selling bonds to investors including BlackRock Inc. and
Pacific Investment Management Co. When the offshore deposits
turned out to be commercially unfeasible, OGX lost more than 90
percent of its value and ran out of cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  