-- Bayer Lung Drug Wins U.S. Approval for Blood Pressure
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-08T22:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/bayer-lung-drug-wins-u-s-approval-for-blood-pressure.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s lung drug won U.S.
approval to treat two forms of pulmonary hypertension.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said it cleared the drug,
known chemically as riociguat. Pulmonary hypertension can lead
to death or the need for a lung transplant, the agency said
today in a statement approving the drug.  The pill, Adempas, is the first to treat the form of the
condition that lasts six months or longer often caused by a
blood clot in the lungs called chronic thromboembolic pulmonary
hypertension, or CTEPH. The treatment from Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer may generate sales of $639 million in 2017,
according to the average of six analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Adempas is the first in its drug class approved to treat
pulmonary hypertension and the first drug of any class to be
shown to be effective for patients with CTEPH,” Norman
Stockbridge, director of the Division of Cardiovascular and
Renal Drug Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said in the statement.  The  World Health Organization  separates pulmonary
hypertension, or high  blood pressure  in the arteries to the
lungs that makes the heart work harder, into five categories.  Exercise Help  The FDA approved Adempas to help CTEPH patients improve
their ability to exercise. The condition affects about 5,000
people each year and now is treated with a complex surgery,
according to the  Cleveland Clinic . Adempas can be used after
surgery or by those who can’t undergo surgery, the FDA said.  The drug also is approved to treat pulmonary arterial
hypertension that is often inherited or has no known cause to
improve patients’ ability to exercise and delay worsening of the
condition.  “Adempas belongs to a class of drugs called soluble
guanylate cyclase stimulators that help arteries relax to
increase blood flow and decrease blood pressure,” the FDA said.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , based in Allschwil,  Switzerland , is seeking
FDA approval for macitentan to treat pulmonary arterial
hypertension. The agency is expected to decide by Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  