-- BioLineRx CEO Sees Payments: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-09T15:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/biolinerx-jumps-as-ceo-sees-more-sales-israel-overnight.html
(Corrects to say the company expects revenue from royalty
payments in the headline and first paragraph. Shows in second
paragraph the CEO said “hopefully we’ll see potential
milestones.” Rephrases second and sixth paragraph to remove
words that the CEO and CFO didn’t say.)  BioLineRx Ltd. (BLRX) , the Israeli drugmaker
that last reported a profit in 2010, expects revenue from
royalty payments to grow next year on prospects for drug
approvals, according to Chief Executive Officer Kinneret Savitsky.  The company’s BL-1040 drug for heart attacks “is already
in a pivotal study for the European market and we expect results
in 2014 and hopefully we’ll see potential milestones, we might
see revenue from the royalties based on our agreements,”
Savitsky said by phone from  Jerusalem . “We’re going to start
our pivotal study by the end of the year,” for the BL-5010, the
company’s device for treating skin lesions, she said.  Roth Capital Partners LLC raised a price estimate on the
company by 67 percent yesterday, citing “multiple potential
positive catalysts” including a  cancer treatment  that makes
chemotherapy more effective. The firm estimates BioLine’s sales
surge to a record $40.6 million next year.  Shares of BioLine jumped 5.3 percent to a five-month high
of $2.80 after rising as much as 16 percent. The Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli companies in
the U.S. dropped 1.1 percent to 99.42, the second day of
declines. The Israel shares this morning trimmed gains,
declining 2 percent to 1.04 shekels, or $0.29, at 10:16 a.m. in
 Tel Aviv . The New York-traded American depositary receipts
represent 10 shares of the Tel Aviv stock.  BioLine develops medical treatments and then licenses the
distribution rights to larger pharmaceutical companies. It
received a $30 million advance payment in 2010 for its
schizophrenia drug from Cypress Bioscience Inc., which was later
acquired by Royalty Pharma AG. The company has not reported
revenue for the last two years as its drugs failed to reached
payment-triggering milestones in trials, Chief Financial Officer
Philip Serlin said in the interview.  No Buyback  “We had, on our latest balance sheet, we had $23.1 million
of cash on our balance sheet,” Serlin said. “That cash has
been budgeted for use in development. It gives us approximately
cash until mid-2015. Many or most of our current catalysts are
fully funded with this cash so we are in not in a position to do
any kind of buyback.”  OrbiMed Advisors LLC, a private-equity firm that maintains
assets in the  health care industry  for institutional investors,
became the company’s largest shareholder in February after
purchasing $8 million of new stock. In June, BioLine signed a
development deal with  China ’s Jiangsu Chia-Tai Tianqing
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for a hepatitis drug that could be
worth $30 million to the Israeli company.  ‘Real Deal’  “BL-8040 is the real deal and it is very promising,”
Robert Hazlett, analyst at Roth, said by phone from  New York 
about BioLine’s cancer drug yesterday. “Currently, Sanofi has a
product called  Mozobil  which is similar to BL-8040 but BioLine’s
drug is much more active and will likely be considered more
broadly by regulators. Mozobil is successful but BL-8040 could
be much bigger.” Mozobil brought in net sales of $130.3 million
in 2012,  Sanofi (SNY)  said in its latest half-year  report .  AudioCodes Ltd. (AUDC) , the Israeli company whose Internet calling
technology is used by Microsoft Corp., sank 4.7 percent to
$6.63. Andrew Uerkwitz, analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., downgraded
the stock to the equivalent of a hold from the equivalent of a
buy, citing a “full valuation” in a note dated Oct. 7. Trading
volume was double the daily average of the past 90 days. Israel-traded shares this morning slipped 0.7 percent to 23.89 shekels,
or $6.70.  Perrigo dropped 0.8 percent to $129.18, widening its
discount to Israeli shares to a two-week high. The Tel Aviv
stock narrowed the gap this morning, slipping 0.7 percent to
458.40 shekels, or $129.18.  Silicom fell 3.9 percent to $35.26, the biggest slump in a
month. The networking company based in Kfar-Sava,  Israel  traded
at a $1.09 discount to Israel-traded shares, the largest gap
since Aug. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  