-- BlackBerry Faces Breakup in ‘Bizarre’ Sale, Fund Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/blackberry-faces-break-up-in-bizarre-sale-fund-says.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  will probably be
broken up amid a “bizarre” bidding process that makes it hard
to value the smartphone maker, according to a Canadian pension
fund that’s considering an offer.  “It’s the most bizarre sales process I’ve seen in a long
time,”  Alberta  Investment Management Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Leo de Bever said this week in an interview. “We’re
looking at it, but nobody’s come to us with a proposal that
makes any sense.”  BlackBerry is soliciting rival bids after agreeing last
month to a tentative $4.7 billion offer from its largest
shareholder,  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  Under that pact,
BlackBerry has until Nov. 4 to consider other proposals while
Fairfax and a group of investors conduct due diligence and line
up financing. Investors have grown increasingly concerned that
the current deal will fall apart, sending the stock under $8 --
more than 10 percent below Fairfax’s $9-a-share offer.  Fairfax Chief Executive Officer  Prem Watsa , who stepped
down from BlackBerry’s board in August in order to put together
a bid, hasn’t named any of the other members in his buyout
consortium. While the group is seeking funding from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and BMO Capital Markets, no financing deal
has been announced.  Investors, meanwhile, have moved on to evaluating
individual BlackBerry units -- a sign a breakup is increasingly
likely, de Bever said.  ‘Carving Knife’  “We were looking at the individual assets because that’s
how you understand the whole company,” said de Bever, 65. “But
it doesn’t necessarily mean that we want to take a carving knife
to BlackBerry. The odds are that’s what’s probably going to
happen.”  Reuters  reported last week  that a number of technology
companies, including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Google (GOOG)  Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co., were in talks with BlackBerry about a sale.  Speculation that a rival bid may emerge helped drive up the
stock 3.6 percent to $7.97 on Oct. 7 and an additional 0.1
percent yesterday. Still, the shares remain down 33 percent this
year and have fallen about 95 percent from their 2008 peak.  BlackBerry’s latest outreach follows earlier attempts to
find buyers. Before announcing in August that it was formally
considering takeover bids, the company’s bankers spent almost a
year canvassing potential acquirers, people with knowledge of
the matter said at the time.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC
Capital Markets  quietly contacted would-be bidders and found
little interest in the whole company, especially among private-equity firms, the people said.  Strategic Buyer  Alberta Investment, which manages C$69 billion ($67
billion) for 310,000 current and retired government workers in
Alberta, would be more willing to consider an investment in
BlackBerry if there was a strategic buyer such as Google
involved, de Bever said.  Aimco, as the fund is called, also wants to see the value
of the company’s units disclosed, and a business plan for
developing those units in the future, de Bever said from
 Edmonton , Alberta.  Paul Rivett , president of Toronto-based
Fairfax, declined to comment on the sale process yesterday, as
did BlackBerry.  “We do not intend to disclose further developments with
respect to the process until we approve a specific transaction
or otherwise conclude the review of strategic alternatives,”
said Lisette Kwong, a spokeswoman at BlackBerry.  ‘Usual Suspects’  For a sale to work, someone who really understands
BlackBerry’s assets will have to step forward, de Bever said.  “You can be sure that pretty much all the usual suspects
are looking at this,” he said. “Now, how seriously -- that’s
the question. Looking and doing something are two totally
different things.”  If pension funds were to invest in  BlackBerry (BBRY) , it would
probably be in a coalition with private-equity investors, he
said. He declined to name other investors that may be in talks
with Fairfax and BlackBerry.  The smartphone maker has drawn interest from private-equity
firm Cerberus Capital Management LP, which is looking to sign a
confidentiality agreement with BlackBerry that would give it
access to additional financial data, a person with knowledge of
the matter said last week.  “Usually somebody comes to you and says, ‘This is what we
have in mind, we’ve got an operational partner for this, this is
how we’re going to deal with this asset and that constraint and
this possibility,’” de Bever said. “There’s detailed business
plans. Sometimes we initiate it. On this one, it’s a tough
nut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at   ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  