-- Blumont Says Former SouthGobi CEO Molyneux to Become Chairman
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-08T02:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/blumont-says-former-southgobi-ceo-molyneux-to-become-chairman.html
Blumont (BLUM)  Group Ltd. named former chief
executive officer of  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  as chairman,
spurring a rebound in Blumont stock in Singapore trading after
it plunged by a record yesterday.  Alexander Molyneux will buy 135 million Blumont shares and
formally assume the role of chairman after the transaction is
completed, the company said in a statement yesterday. Molyneux
was ousted as CEO of coal miner SouthGobi in September 2012.
Prior to that he was managing director, head of metals and
mining investment banking,  Asia  Pacific for Citigroup Inc.  Blumont jumped 73 percent, the most ever, reversing two-days of losses that shaved S$4.9 billion ($3.9 billion) from its
market value as restrictions were placed on the stock. Molyneux
will become chairman as Blumont, which said this month it has
held talks with 20 potential takeover targets or partners since
December, seeks to expand its minerals and energy assets.  “The new development would appear that Blumont is doing
everything they can to instill confidence in the company,”
Kelly Teoh, a market strategist at brokerage IG Markets in
 Singapore  said. “This should stem further selling and stabilize
the share price.”  Blumont rallied as much as 131 percent and was up 73
percent at 22.5 Singapore cents at 10:12 a.m. local time. Before
the rout began Oct. 3, the stock had advanced more than tenfold
this year.  The final price paid by Molyneux will be between 20
Singapore cents and 60 Singapore cents a share, Blumont said.
The transaction is expected to close within 30 days.  ‘Resources Champion’  “This is a company fast on its way to being Asia’s first
diversified natural resources champion,” Molyneux, who is based
in  Hong Kong , said in the statement. “With the unusual share
price drop, this is right time to get involved.”  Blumont last week scrapped a deal to buy Australia’s  Cokal
Ltd. (CKA)  for S$146 million the same day it announced the deal after
the share plunge on Oct. 4 affected the commercial terms
discussed with the the target. Trading was halted along with
commodity investors LionGold Corp. Ltd. and  Asiasons Capital
Ltd. (ACAP)  by the  Singapore Exchange  as it requested explanations for
large share price declines. The exchange said Oct. 6 shares of
the three companies have been declared designated securities,
prohibiting investors to sell them unless they hold the same
quantity of stock.  Molyneux was fired by SouthGobi, which mines steelmaking
coal in Mongolia, eight days after Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
dropped a takeover bid. The offer was dropped after Mongolia
passed a law restricting foreign state-owned companies from
controlling key assets.  Blumont has stakes in Azarga Resources Ltd. and  Celsius
Coal Ltd. (CLA)  and Molyneux is chairman of both companies, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  