-- Boehner Says Obama Wants House Republicans to Surrender
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r ,   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-10-08T23:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/boehner-says-obama-wants-house-republicans-to-surrender.html
U.S. House Speaker John Boehner
insisted on immediate negotiations with  Barack Obama , rejecting
the president’s stance that he’ll talk only after the partial
government shutdown ends and the risk of default is pushed back.  Obama told White House reporters today that he could accept
a temporary reprieve while he negotiates with Republican leaders
over fiscal and health policy. Yet only after Congress ends the
shutdown and raises the debt limit would he accept a list of
topics for discussions with lawmakers, Obama said.  “What the president said today was if there’s
unconditional surrender by Republicans, he’ll sit down,”
Boehner told reporters at the Capitol after Obama’s news
conference. “That’s not the way our government works.”  The dueling press conferences came as lawmakers began
taking the first tentative steps toward resolving the standoff.
Both sides are exploring actions that will be needed to end the
week-old shutdown and raise the debt limit before U.S. borrowing
authority lapses on Oct. 17. Republicans have sought spending
cuts and changes in Obama’s health-care law.  “We won’t agree on everything,” Obama said. “The parties
are pretty divided on a whole bunch of big issues right now.”  Obama didn’t answer directly when asked whether he planned
to make sure bondholders get paid first if Congress doesn’t act.
He said there would be consequences for the economy and the
creditworthiness of the U.S. if the government missed other
payments such as those to Social Security beneficiaries.  Senators Debate  If an individual doesn’t make required payments, the
president said, “You’re just a deadbeat and you can anticipate
that will hurt your credit.”  Senate Democrats introduced a bill today that would suspend
the debt ceiling through Dec. 31, 2014.  Because the Treasury Department can use so-called
extraordinary measures to stave off default, another increase
wouldn’t be needed until sometime in 2015. The previous debt-limit suspension expired on May 18 and the extraordinary
measures are lasting five months.  They are planning a test vote before the end of this week.  To succeed, they’ll need support from at least six
Republicans on procedural votes. They’ve gotten backing from one
Republican, while several others haven’t ruled out the
possibility of supporting the measure.  Reid Optimistic  “I am optimistic, even though that is against my nature,
that Republicans will not hold the full faith and credit of the
United States hostage,” said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
a Nevada Democrat.  There are signals that concern is building as the stalemate
drags on. The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is down 4.1
percent since reaching a record on Sept. 18. The index today
fell 1.2 percent to 1,655.45 at 4 p.m. in New York.  The Treasury sold $30 billion of  one-month bills  today at a
rate of 0.35 percent, the highest since 2008 and more than
double the rate on comparable one-month securities yesterday.
The difference in rates between one- and three-month bills
reached 28.9 basis points, the biggest since March 2008,
according to closing-market data.  Separately, officials in  China  and  Japan , America’s largest
foreign creditors with combined holdings of more than $2.4
trillion in Treasuries, sought to raise pressure on the U.S. to
resolve the impasse on the debt ceiling. A shift in asset
allocation by China, Japan or other major holders of Treasuries
could push up U.S. interest rates and cause swings in global
currency markets.  Market Volatility  Even as the probability of a U.S. government default is
“very, very small,” volatility in the markets will increase in
coming days, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  It is also affecting consumers. Gallup’s Economic
Confidence Index dropped 12 points last week, the second-largest
decrease after mid-September 2008 following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  House Republicans, who had previously discussed pairing a
debt-limit increase with a list of party priorities, haven’t
released legislation or set a time line for action. Instead,
they’re planning a vote to appoint a working group of House
members and senators to settle the multiple disputes.  ‘Utterly Vindictive’  “The American people are watching an unwillingness by one
side to negotiate and compromise,” Representative Tom McClintock, a California Republican, told reporters in
 Washington  today. “They are watching utterly vindictive actions
by the administration to intensify the pain of the shutdown, and
I think they are watching the collapse of the administration’s
signature program, Obamacare.”  House Democrats rejected the idea, saying it would recreate
the 2011 bipartisan supercommittee that was deadlocked.  “We don’t need a supercommittee,” said Representative
Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat. “The votes exist right
now” to reopen the government.  Still to be determined is whether House Republicans will
consider a vote to raise the debt-ceiling this week or wait for
the Senate to act, said two Republican congressional aides, who
asked for anonymity to discuss party strategy.  Six Republicans  If all Senate Democrats along with six Republicans vote for
giving Obama authority, they could send a  debt-limit  increase
without policy conditions to the Republican-controlled House
early next week. That would put pressure on Boehner, who opposes
a clean debt-limit bill.  “We’ve got a situation where you have a calendar running,
you have people who are frustrated and upset, and so let’s
figure it out,” Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican,
said in an interview at the Capitol yesterday. “We shouldn’t be
dismissing anything.”  Among Senate Democrats, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota
wouldn’t take a position on a clean debt-ceiling increase when
asked by reporters yesterday, and Joe Manchin of West Virginia
didn’t commit his support, either.  Republican Senator Mark Kirk of  Illinois  will support a
clean debt-limit increase. About a half-dozen other senators --
including Republicans Murkowski, John McCain of  Arizona  and
Susan Collins of  Maine  -- kept open the option of voting for a
debt-ceiling increase without conditions or helping one pass.  None of the proposals being floated has been embraced by
both parties and all face long odds.  Must-Pass Legislation  Bruce Josten, chief lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said in a statement that the spending bill and the
debt-limit increase are “must-pass” bills.  “The debt ceiling specifically must pass on a timely basis
to avoid inflicting substantial and enduring damage on the U.S.
economy,” he said.  The partial shutdown, which began Oct. 1, has shuttered
government services such as Head Start preschool programs and
national parks, and furloughed federal employees. Other
functions, such as mail delivery and Social Security benefits,
are continuing.  Republicans are insisting on changing the 2010 Affordable
Care Act, while Obama refuses to engage in discussions about
tying policy conditions to opening the government or raising the
debt limit.  The U.S. will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and
will have about $30 billion in cash after that. The country
would be unable to pay all of its bills, including benefits,
salaries and interest, sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the Congressional Budget Office.  The House has been passing separate funding bills for parts
of the government, including the National Institutes of Health
and national parks. Obama and Reid have rejected those measures.  “Wherever Republicans are feeling political pressure, they
put a bill forward,” Obama said at the news conference. “We
don’t get to pick and choose based on which party likes what.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  