-- Boies Opens in London With Bingham Hire: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/boies-opens-in-london-with-bingham-hire-business-of-law.html
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP is
opening its first overseas outpost with a  London  office headed
by securities and finance litigator Natasha Harrison from
Bingham McCutchen LLP.  “Natasha is a distinguished English lawyer, with a leading
practice in finance litigation and arbitration, areas in which
our firm’s work is increasing globally each year,” Boies co-founder Jonathan Schiller said in an e-mail.  Harrison, who acts on behalf of  hedge funds  and investment
banks, has represented the bondholders of all three collapsed
Icelandic banks, Landsbanki, Kaupthing and Glitnir, according to
her firm biography.  Boies Schiller is among the law firms advising Barclays Plc
over allegations that it manipulated the London interbank
offered rate.  The firm declined to provide more details about the new
office. Duane Loft, another Boies Schiller litigator, divides
his time between  New York  and London, according to the firm
website.  Deals  Solvay to Buy Chemlogics for $1.3 Billion for Oil Chemicals  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising  Solvay SA (SOLB) , which
agreed to buy U.S. producer Chemlogics for $1.3 billion in cash
to expand its offering of chemicals for the oil and gas
industry. Latham & Watkins LLP advised Chemlogics.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes Jacques Naquet-Radiguet and William H. Aaronson. Additional partners include
Jeffrey P. Crandall, executive compensation advice; and Neil Barr, tax.  Latham’s corporate team was led by David Allinson and Eli Hunt. Advice was also provided on environmental, intellectual
property, real estate, employee benefits, tax, and antitrust
matters.  The Belgian company is paying 10.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the business,
which generated about $500 million in annual sales, Solvay said
yesterday in a statement. The Brussels-based chemical maker will
sell about 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion) in hybrid bonds to
help support finances.  The purchase is part of Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu’s transformation of Solvay as he expands its offering
of more profitable materials. Profit from Chemlogics’s products,
used to ease friction in drilling, is growing at more than
10 percent, said Solvay, which already makes some ingredients
used in this area. That contrasts with a slowdown in sales at
polyvinyl chloride operations that Clamadieu is seeking to exit
via a joint venture with Ineos Group Holdings.  For more, click here.  Partner Moves  Goodwin Procter Adds Consumer Finance Partner in Washington  Goodwin Procter LLP added Benjamin P. Saul, a former
partner at BuckleySandler LLP, to its  Washington  office in the
consumer financial services litigation group.  Saul will concentrate on enforcement matters, while
continuing his litigation and regulatory practice, the firm
said.  “Ben has a national reputation in enforcement and in fair
lending and discrimination matters,” Thomas M. Hefferon,
chairman of the firm’s consumer financial services litigation
group said, in a statement. “As we continue to expand Goodwin’s
consumer financial enforcement practice in Washington and
nationally, Ben’s experience enhances our capacity and
capability to assist clients in meeting the challenges of
increased government investigation and regulatory enforcement
activity.”  Goodwin has lawyers at offices in  Boston , Hong Kong,
London,  Los Angeles , New York, San Diego,  San Francisco , Silicon
Valley,  California , and Washington.  IP Litigation Partners Wolfsohn and Goranin Join Duane Morris  Duane Morris LLP said David J. Wolfsohn and Aleksander J.
Goranin, formerly of the intellectual property boutique Woodcock
Washburn LLP, joined the firm’s IP litigation practice group in
Philadelphia.  Wolfsohn has represented defendants and plaintiffs in
patent, copyright, licensing, trademark, unfair competition-Lanham Act and trade secret cases in jury trials, bench trials
and arbitrations, the firm said. He led the Woodcock Washburn
litigation practice from 2010 to 2011.  Goranin was chairman of his former firm’s litigation
practice just prior to joining Duane Morris. He litigates
patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret cases. Goranin
recently was one of Microsoft Corp.’s lead lawyers in a multi-patent dispute with Barnes & Noble Inc. before the U.S.
International Trade Commission over the Nook e-reader software
platform, the firm said.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in offices in the
U.S. and internationally.  IP Litigator Leisa Smith Lundy Joins Holland & Knight  Leisa Smith Lundy joined Holland & Knight LLP’s New York
office in the intellectual property practice group. She was
previously at Fitzpatrick, Cella, Harper & Scinto.  Lundy’s focuses primarily on patent litigation, patent
validity and freedom-to-operate opinions, IP due diligence
investigations, and client counseling regarding patent portfolio
management, the firm said.  “With more than 15 years’ experience in IP litigation,
primarily representing major pharmaceutical corporations, Leisa
brings a wealth of knowledge about pharmaceutical patent
litigation,” Josh Krumholz, the firm’s IP practice group
leader, said in a statement. “She is the fourth significant
addition in the past year to our IP practice in New York.”  Holland & Knight has more than 1,000 lawyers in 18 U.S.
offices as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  K&L Gates Adds Corporate Partner to Orange County Office  K&L Gates LLP said it added David C. Lee to the
corporate/M&A practice in Orange County, California. He joins
the firm from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.  Lee focuses on capital markets transactions, mergers and
acquisitions, and equity and debt tender offers, the firm said.
He also advises on securities regulation, corporate governance
and general corporate matters.  “David’s extensive experience working with public
companies on corporate transactions and securities regulatory
matters further strengthens our existing public company practice
in the Orange County office and firm-wide,” David J. Perry,
administrative partner in K&L Gates’ Orange County office, said
in a statement.  K&L Gates has lawyers at 48 offices in the U.S.,  Asia ,
 Australia , Europe, the Middle East and South America.  IP Partner Joins Quarles & Brady’s Chicago Office  Quarles & Brady LLP announced that Eric T. Krischke joined
the firm’s Chicago office in the intellectual property group. He
was previously a partner at Schiff Hardin LLP.  Krischke’s practice spans IP law, though he has an emphasis
on patent portfolio management, strategic client counseling with
respect to patent validity and infringement issues, due
diligence investigations, pre-litigation analysis and
litigation.  He has particular experience preparing and prosecuting U.S.
and counterpart foreign patent applications in the mechanical
and electrical arts, the firm said. He also participates in
litigation involving disputes related to patents, trademarks,
copyrights and trade secrets, as well as in U.S. patent re-examination proceedings.  Quarles & Brady has more than 400 attorneys at offices in
the U.S. and  Shanghai .  Michelmores Hires Construction Lawyer in Exeter  Michelmores LLP added Brian Hitchcock, formerly of Trowers
& Hamlins LLP, to its construction team in Exeter,  England .  Hitchcock specializes in construction, engineering and
procurement law. He focuses on transactional construction work
for clients, contractors and professionals on various
commercial, education, housing and civil projects, the firm
said.  Michelmores now has 57 partners its U.K. offices.  Litigation  Chevron’s Ecuador Defendants Are Denied Jury Trial by Court  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  won a request to have a judge rather than a
jury decide its case over alleged fraud in an Ecuador pollution
verdict.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan ruled
yesterday that the Ecuadoreans and their legal adviser, Steven Donziger, don’t have a constitutional right to a jury trial
because the  San Ramon , California-based company isn’t seeking
damages.  “Defendants argue that they are entitled to a jury as a
matter of fairness,” Kaplan said. “But that argument -- even
if it had merit, which it does not -- is beside the point.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil firm, alleges that
Donziger and others, in a case over pollution in the Ecuador
jungle, won a $19 billion verdict against the company by fraud.
A trial in the lawsuit is scheduled for Oct. 15.  The trial was initially set to be held in two parts, with
damages being sought only against Donziger and his firm and not
the Ecuadorean plaintiffs in the environmental suit. Chevron
dropped its damages claim against the legal adviser and said it
no longer wanted a jury trial.  A jury in a civil case is guaranteed only if the plaintiff
is seeking damages, Kaplan wrote. Otherwise, parties must agree
to it, he said.  Residents of Ecuador’s Lago Agrio area near the Colombian
border have sought damages for about 20 years for pollution in
the Amazon rainforest that they allege was caused by Texaco
before it was acquired by Chevron.  Chevron denies there was any wrongdoing by it in Ecuador
and claims that Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at
its former  oil fields , which were taken over by state-owned
PetroEcuador. The U.S. company also said it was released from
future liability by an agreement between Texaco and Ecuador.  The company is seeking to bar the Ecuadoreans from
enforcing the verdict and disgorgement of any gains they won as
a result of the alleged fraud.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 