-- China Properties Markets Dollar Bonds as Yields Near 7-Week Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-10-08T04:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/bond-risk-in-asia-pacific-increases-credit-default-swaps-show.html
China  Properties Group Ltd. is
marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds as borrowing costs for
high-yield corporates in Asia near the lowest since July.  The company, which develops residential and commercial
properties in mainland China, is offering five-year notes to
yield about the high 13 percent area, a person familiar with the
matter said today. Yields on non-investment grade issues in Asia
fell to  7.65 percent  on Oct. 7, close to a seven-week low of
7.60 percent reached on Sept. 19, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes
show.  JPMorgan, the largest underwriter of corporate bonds
globally since Dec. 31, lifted its 2013 forecast for sales of
junk debt including leveraged loans to $1 trillion, according to
strategists led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York, as investors
signal confidence the U.S. won’t default on its debt. With gross
domestic product growth stymied and Congress paralyzed by
political wrangling over President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law, the Federal Reserve may delay tapering, fund managers
including Sage Advisory Services Ltd. and Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit in New York have said.  “There’s a definite improvement in sentiment for primary
issuance post the Fed not tapering,” Shankar Narayanaswamy, the
Singapore-based head for credit strategy at Standard Chartered
Plc, said in a phone interview today. “However issuance is
likely to be muted in the near-term given the continuing stand-off in the U.S. on the increase to the debt ceiling. If I take a
two- or three-month view, markets will remain conducive for new
issuance, including high-yield.”  Kookmin Bank  China Properties’ sale ends more than a week of zero
issuance for speculative borrowers in Asia outside Japan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China Properties, rated
B- by Standard & Poor’s, the rating company’s sixth-lowest non-investment grade, was considering a sale of dollar notes back in
May and met with investors in Hong Kong and  Singapore  at the end
of that month.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., another developer,
hired banks to arrange fixed-income investor meetings from
tomorrow, a separate person familiar with that matter said
today. It’s rated BBB+ by S&P, the risk assessor’s third-lowest
investment grade.  Kookmin Bank, a unit of South Korea’s largest lending
group, yesterday sold $500 million of three-year bonds priced at
a spread 125 basis points more than the three-month London
interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale received about $3 billion of orders from some 150
accounts, a person familiar with the matter said today. Asian
investors bought 59 percent of the deal, while 21 percent went
to Europe and the rest to the U.S. Kookmin is rated A by S&P.  Credit Risk  Credit risk in Asia rose today. The Markit iTraxx Asia
index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  increased 1
basis point to 149 basis points as of 7:59 a.m. in Hong Kong,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The
gauge is set for its second consecutive daily increase after
four days of declines, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced 1 basis point to
121 as of 11:09 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. The benchmark is on course for its highest close since
Oct. 2, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 1 basis point to 96.25
basis points as of 8:57 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The measure is on track for its highest close since Sept.
30, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  