-- California Obamacare Sign-Ups Exceed 28,000 in First Week
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-08T21:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/california-tops-28-000-in-health-exchange-enrollment.html
California  said 28,699 people were
signed up in the state’s health-insurance exchange in the first
week, while  New York  had more than 40,000 sign up.  The numbers for California, the largest U.S. state by
population, were for the Oct. 1 to Oct. 5 period and exceeded
expectations, Peter V. Lee, executive director of Covered
California, said at a news conference today in  Sacramento . New
York, the third most-populous state, said in a statement that
its pace of sign-ups shows the exchange is “working smoothly.”  The Oct. 1 rollout of the Affordable Care Act exchanges has
faced technical issues, with consumers unable to access parts of
the U.S. government’s website that serves people in 36 states.
California, one of 14 states running its own  website , has fared
better. Success is critical in California, where the Obama
administration has sent almost $1 billion in exchange grants.  “Looking back at this one week, the response has been
nothing short of phenomenal,” Lee said. “We anticipated we’d
have very low enrollment in the first week.”  Open enrollment ends March 31, and Lee estimated that
500,000 to 700,000 Californians would enroll with subsidies by
then. About 5.3 million Californians will have access to
coverage through the exchange or on their own, with about half
eligible for financial assistance by next year, according to the
state’s  website . An additional 1.4 million will be newly
eligible for the state’s Medicaid program.  New York  Almost 2.7 million  New Yorkers  don’t have health insurance
and more than 1 million will get coverage through the exchange,
the state said on its  website . The 40,000 figure reported is for
people who completed the full application process and were found
eligible for an insurance plan.  The insurance exchanges are a core part of the 2010 law
that seeks to provide health coverage for most of the 48 million
uninsured Americans. People using the exchanges can select from
health plans sold by private insurers and, depending on income,
may be eligible to have their premium costs subsidized with
federal tax credits. Some people also may be eligible for
coverage under an expansion of Medicaid, the joint state-federal
plan for the poor.  The health law championed by President  Barack Obama  has
been the focal point of the partisan budget dispute in Congress
that led to the current government shutdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  