-- Campaign Contribution Caps Questioned by U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-08T20:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/campaign-contribution-caps-questioned-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  signaled a
readiness to strike down more campaign-finance regulations,
casting doubt on some of the federal limits that restrict
donors’ total political giving.  In a one-hour argument highlighted by clashes over the
influence of wealthy donors, the court’s Republican-appointed
majority expressed support for the speech rights of an  Alabama 
man who says he wants to contribute to more congressional
candidates. Federal law limits what people can give candidates,
parties and political committees to $123,200 every two years.  “You have somebody who is very interested, say, in
environmental regulation and very interested in  gun control ,”
Chief Justice  John Roberts  said. “The current system, the way
the anti-aggregation system works, is he’s got to choose.”  Roberts and Justice  Samuel Alito , likely to be the pivotal
votes, both suggested overturning only some of the aggregate
limits. Neither showed any inclination to address more sweeping
arguments that would call into question the limits on
contributions to particular candidates.  Alito called the aggregate limits a “very blunt way of
trying to get at the problem” of political corruption. At
another point, he said those restrictions “might not all stand
or fall together.”  Citizens United  The campaign-finance fight is the court’s biggest on that
issue since the 2010  Citizens United  ruling allowed unlimited
corporate and union spending.  The new case focuses on contributions, rather than
spending. It raises questions about a landmark 1976 ruling,
Buckley v. Valeo, which said the government had broad latitude
to limit contributions to guard against corruption.  Though neither Roberts nor Alito suggested they were poised
to revisit that ruling, President  Barack Obama  said at a news
conference today that the new case could unleash a torrent of
new money.  “The latest case would go even further than Citizens
United,” Obama said. “Essentially it would say, ‘Anything
goes. There are no rules in terms of how to finance campaigns.’
There aren’t a lot of functioning democracies around the world
that work this way.”  The aggregate limits include a cap of $48,600 to federal
candidates and $74,600 to political parties and political action
committees during each election cycle.  Base Limits  Those restrictions, which date to 1974, are designed to
supplement better-known restraints known as base limits. Under
those, donors can contribute a maximum of $2,600 to particular
candidates per election, $5,000 per year to individual PACs and
$32,400 per year to each national party committee. The limits
are indexed for inflation and increase every election cycle.  The court is conducting business as normal this week,
issuing orders and hearing arguments, even as the  federal budget 
standoff leaves much of the rest of the government closed. The
justices are scheduled to consider additional cases next week.  The Obama administration is defending the aggregate caps,
which the Supreme Court in Buckley said prevent “evasion” of
the base limits. A three-judge panel used similar reasoning to
uphold the caps last year.  “Aggregate limits combat corruption both by blocking
circumvention of individual contribution limits and, equally
fundamentally, by serving as a bulwark against a campaign-finance system dominated by massive individual contributions,”
U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued.  Free Speech  Shaun McCutcheon, a Republican businessman from Alabama,
contends the caps violate his free speech rights, limiting his
political participation without serving a clear purpose.  McCutcheon gave a symbolic $1,776 to 15 challengers trying
to unseat incumbents in the 2012 election. He says he would have
given to a dozen more had the aggregate limits not blocked him.
He isn’t challenging the base limits.  McCutcheon’s lawyer, Erin Murphy, today called the limits
“an impermissible attempt to equalize the relative ability of
individuals to participate in the political process.”  The administration drew support from one of Obama’s
appointees, Justice  Elena Kagan , who said that without the
aggregate limits donors could contribute more than $3.5 million
to party committees and candidates, knowing that it would be
diverted to support of a favored candidate.  “Having written a check for 3.5 or so million dollars to a
single party’s candidates, are you suggesting that that party
and the members of that party are not going to owe me anything,
that I won’t get any special treatment?” she asked Murphy.  Post-Buckley Restrictions  As Obama’s solicitor general in 2009, Kagan argued on the
administration’s behalf in the Citizens United case.  Opponents contend that post-Buckley restrictions on
contributions to parties and PACs have made the aggregate limits
unnecessary. They also say federal law restricts the ability of
donors to earmark their contributions.  McCutcheon is arguing alongside the  Republican National
Committee  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican who is making more far-reaching arguments.  Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas  and  Anthony Kennedy  have said they would overturn the Buckley analysis, and
Alito has hinted he is open to revisiting it. That would subject
contribution limits to the same tough scrutiny as spending caps,
like those thrown out in Citizens United, and call the base
limits themselves into question.  Corrupting Influence  Scalia today questioned whether even a $3.5 million
contribution would have a corrupting influence in an era when
candidates, parties and political committees spend billions of
dollars on each election.  “When you add all that up, I don’t think 3.5 million is a
heck of a lot of money,” he said.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said the aggregate limits might
force candidates to raise money from a broader group of donors.  Supporters argue that “by having these limits you are
promoting democratic participation, then the little people will
count some, and you won’t have the super-affluent as the
speakers that will control the elections,” Ginsburg said.  The case, which the court will decide by July, is
McCutcheon v. FEC, 12-536.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  