-- Canada Dollar Falls to Four-Week Low on U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-08T21:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-as-housing-starts-exceed-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar fell to a four-week
low against its U.S. counterpart as a government shutdown in its
largest trading partner continued and the nation’s trade deficit
unexpectedly widened in August as imports rose to a record.  The currency was weaker versus all of its 16 major peers
even as a report showed the nation’s housing starts last month
exceeded forecasts. The International Monetary Fund cut its
global economic outlook for this year and next as capital
outflows further weaken emerging markets and warned that a U.S.
government default could “seriously damage” the world economy.  Markets are waiting for “U.S. lawmakers to come back and
make an announcement with respect to the U.S. budget impasse,”
Brad Schruder a director of foreign exchange at Bank of
Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “The existing ranges have
held” in dollar Canada trading.  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, declined 0.5 percent to C$1.0368 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, reaching the weakest level since Sept. 10.
One Canadian dollar buys 96.45 U.S. cents.  “The main market force is the U.S. shutdown,” Alfonso Esparza, senior currency analyst in Toronto at the online
currency trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone
interview. “Globally, the economy is growing, but slowing more
than expected. Some of the  emerging markets  are a bit of a
concern and it’s a bit of a commodity play.”  Price Swings  Currency swings as measured by the JPMorgan Global
Volatility Index fell to 8.73 percent, the least since May. The
measure reached a high this year of 11.96 percent on June 24.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields were
little changed at 2.56 percent. The 1.5 percent securities
maturing in June 2023 lost three cents to C$90.98.  Canada plans to sell C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion) of three-year bonds tomorrow, according to the Bank of Canada. The
securities mature in February 2017.  Canada’s trade deficit widened even as exports to the U.S.
that reached the highest since the end of 2011.  The August deficit increased to C$1.31 billion and July’s
shortfall was raised to C$1.19 billion from an initial C$931
million, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The deficit
exceeded all 20 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey that
had a median estimate of C$700 million.  Economic Data  Canada  housing  starts increased 5.3 percent to 193,637
units at a seasonally adjusted annual pace in September, up from
184,000 the month before, Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corp. said on its website. That compared with economists’
forecast of 185,000, according to the median of 21 responses to
a Bloomberg News survey.  “We’ve been in a very tight range,”  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia, said by phone from
Toronto. “Housing starts were a little stronger than expected,
but they didn’t really change the overall trend. The focus is on
the U.S. government shutdown and how it relates to Fed policy
and growth outlook.”  The Canadian dollar has lost 2.4 percent this year against
nine developed-market peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar is up 2.5 percent,
while the Australian currency fell 8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  