-- Canada Stocks Drop as U.S. Debt Deadlock Raises Default Concern
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-08T20:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/canada-stocks-rise-amid-housing-data-optimism-on-u-s-debt.html
Canadian  stocks  fell to a five-week
low as base metal producers retreated amid growing concern that
a deadlock among U.S. lawmakers over the debt limit could lead
to a government default.  Teck Resources Ltd. and First Quantum Minerals Ltd. dropped
at least 2.2 percent as raw-materials producers plunged to a
two-month low.  Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MBT)  sank 8.5 percent
after the Canadian government rejected the proposed sale of its
Allstream unit. Saputo Inc.,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor,
jumped to a four-month high after agreeing to buy an Australian
cheese producer.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 95.84
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,692.41 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the
lowest close since Aug. 30. Trading volume was in line with the
30-day average.  “The market is nervous about how entrenched the positions
seem to be on both sides of the aisle,” said Matt Skipp, chief
investment officer with Sw8 Asset Management Inc. in Toronto.
The firm manages about C$54 million ($52 million). “The irony
is, it’s the market sell-off that generally gets Congress moving
in the right direction. There’s always a moment of truth when
the market starts to fear the excessive rhetoric being flung
back and forth.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the nation’s economy risks
a “very deep recession” if Congress doesn’t raise the $16.7
trillion debt ceiling. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
the Republican-controlled House should vote to end the shutdown
and drop demands to change the 2010 Affordable Care Act. House
Speaker  John Boehner  said Reid and Obama should negotiate.  The U.S. government has been partially shut down since Oct.
1 and could default on its debt if lawmakers fail to reach an
agreement to raise the borrowing limit by Oct. 17.  Devastate Markets  Economists say failure by the world’s largest borrower to
pay its debt will devastate stock markets from  Brazil  to Zurich
and throw the U.S. and world economies into a recession that
probably would become a depression.  U.S. equities retreated 1.2 percent, giving the  S&P 500  the
biggest two-day decline since June.  Eight of 10 groups in the Canadian benchmark equity gauge
dropped, led by a 2.6 percent decline among health-care stocks.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. lost 3.6 percent to
C$109.80 for a third day of declines.  An S&P/TSX index of  raw-materials  producers plunged 2.4
percent to the lowest since Aug. 7. Fifty-four of the gauge’s 56
members fell.  Mining Shares  Teck Resources, Canada’s largest diversified miner, lost
2.8 percent to C$26.56 and First Quantum retreated 2.2 percent
to C$17.55 as copper futures dropped for a second day on concern
demand will slow in the U.S.  OceanaGold Corp. slumped 7.3 percent to C$1.40 after
agreeing to acquire Pacific Rim Mining Corp. in a deal valued at
C$10.2 million.  Manitoba Telecom plunged 8.5 percent to C$29.62, the
biggest slide in three years and the most in the S&P/TSX. The
Canadian government rejected the company’s planned sale of its
Allstream fiber-optic network division to an investment firm co-founded by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris .  Wireless Policy  The decision raises questions about Canadian ownership
policy in the wireless industry. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government has been trying to encourage competition in the
nation’s wireless sector, while stepping up scrutiny of foreign
investments.  Manitoba competitors, including Rogers Communications Inc.,
BCE Inc. and Telus Corp., advanced at least 0.2 percent to lift
an index of phone stocks to the second-best performance in the
S&P/TSX.  Saputo jumped 4.1 percent to C$51.50, the highest since May
30. The cheesemaker has agreed to pay about C$378 million for
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co., an Australian producer,
topping a rejected bid from Bega Cheese Ltd.  The deal will allow Saputo to target rising demand in  Asia 
for dairy products, Chief Executive Officer Lino Saputo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  