-- Canada Trade Deficit Widens in August on Record Imports
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-08T20:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/canada-trade-deficit-widens-in-august-as-imports-rise-to-record.html
Canada’s  trade  deficit unexpectedly
widened for a second month in August as imports rose to a
record, outweighing exports to the U.S. that reached the highest
since the end of 2011.  The August deficit increased to C$1.31 billion ($1.27
billion) and July’s shortfall was raised to C$1.19 billion from
an initial C$931 million, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. The deficit exceeded all 20 economist forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey that had a median estimate of C$700 million.  The country’s 20th straight trade gap underscores Bank of
Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem’s comments last week
that a shift to growth led by exports and business investment is
“elusive.” The bank has called the export recovery the slowest
since World War II, hampered by a strong Canadian dollar and
inconsistent global demand.  “Given what the Canadian economy requires at this point,
it’s not a good sign,” Doug Porter, chief economist at Bank of
Montreal’s Capital Markets unit in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “We are still struggling to make significant gains
in trade.”  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.5 percent to C$1.0367 per
U.S. dollar at 4:24 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
96.46 U.S. cents.  Imports rose 2.1 percent to C$41.1 billion in August,
including a 12.5 percent rise in energy products and a 6.4
percent rise in passenger cars and light trucks. Aircraft
imports rose 27.1 percent to C$1.35 billion.  Stronger Exports  Exports rose 1.8 percent to C$39.8 billion in August, with
shipments to the U.S. up 1.9 percent to C$30.1 billion, the
highest since December 2011. Canada’s trade  surplus with the
U.S.  widened to C$3.99 billion from C$3.44 billion.  The volume of imports advanced 1.2 percent and export
volumes rose 1.4 percent, Statistics Canada said. Volume figures
adjust for price changes and can be a better indicator of how
trade contributes to economic growth.  Canada will record deficits in the broader trade measure
known as the current account through 2015, according to a
Bloomberg economist survey taken last month. The current account
covers trade in services as well as goods.  Next month’s report, scheduled for Nov. 5, could be impeded
by a lack of U.S. data if the government shutdown in  Washington 
continues, Statistics Canada said.  “A continued shutdown will impede Statistics Canada’s
ability to release a complete picture of Canadian trade
statistics for the September reference period,”
Roland Boudreau, Statistics Canada’s director of its
international trade division, said in remarks e-mailed from the
agency’s Ottawa press office. “Specifically, data on Canadian
exports to the United States would be unavailable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 