-- Canada Rejects MTS Allstream Sale to Accelero on Security
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-08T15:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/canada-rejects-mts-allstream-sale-to-accelero-on-security.html
Canada cited security concerns in
rejecting  Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MBT) ’s C$520 million ($504
million) sale of its Allstream unit to an investment firm co-founded by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris .  Manitoba Telecom shares dropped the most intraday in five
years today after the decision. The Winnipeg, Manitoba-based
company’s Allstream unit operates a national fiber-optic network
that provides “critical telecommunications services to
businesses and governments, including the government of
Canada,” Industry Minister  James Moore  said in a statement
yesterday. He didn’t elaborate other than to say the sale to
Accelero Capital Holdings Sarl Group was blocked under national
security provisions in Canada’s foreign investment law.  The decision raises questions over whether Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s government is serious about opening the
nation’s telecommunications industry to foreign investment,
potentially leaving the market in limbo, said Mark Goldberg, a
telecom analyst. Accelero agreed to buy Allstream after the
governing Conservatives moved last year to allow foreign
companies to compete in the industry.  Gigantic Question Mark  “Fundamentally, it continues to raise a gigantic question
mark over the investment climate in Canadian
telecommunications,” said Goldberg, principal at Toronto-based
consulting firm Mark H. Goldberg and Associates.  Shares of MTS fell as much as 11 percent in Toronto, the
biggest intraday drop since October 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock fell 8 percent to C$29.76 at
11:20 a.m. in Toronto. It was little changed this year before
today.  Harper’s government has been stepping up scrutiny of
foreign investments. The government in June strengthened the
national-security provision of its foreign-takeover law, and has
increased oversight of state-owned enterprises.  MTS and Accelero issued separate statements saying they
were surprised by the move.  “MTS Allstream is extremely surprised and disappointed by
this decision,” Manitoba Telecom said in a statement yesterday.
“MTS Allstream and Accelero have responded openly and
constructively to Industry  Canada ’s requests for information in
the 136 days since the transaction was announced.”  Accelero said it was disappointed in the decision, which it
called “unfounded and unexpected.”  Analyst Recommendations  Analysts at Macquarie Capital Markets and Canaccord Genuity
today cut Manitoba Telecom ratings to the equivalent of sell.  “The buyer of last resort of Allstream has been rejected
by the federal government,” Adam Shine, an analyst at National
Bank Financial, said in a note today. He kept his rating as
underperform after cutting it on June 12 and continues to see
downside risk of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent. MTS Allstream’s
consolidated results will be hit by about C$35 million in one-time charges as part of the transaction, he said.  “As such, valuations for Allstream need to be scaled
lower,” Shine said.  Shares of the nation’s three biggest wireless companies
rose today. Montreal-based  BCE Inc. (BCE)  rose 0.4 percent to C$43.79,
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  of Toronto climbed 0.5 percent to
C$44.90 and  Vancouver ’s  Telus Corp. (T)  advanced 0.7 percent to
C$34.03.  Goldberg said the decision may undermine Manitoba Telecom’s
ability to finance its acquisition of new spectrum at a planned
auction next year and Allstream’s ability to raise funding for
operations.  ‘Sufficient Funds’  “There are a lot of questions that start with whether MTS
will have sufficient funds to bid” in the auction, Goldberg
said.  The government has tried to boost competition in the
Canadian mobile-phone industry for years by taking measures such
as making it more difficult for BCE, Rogers and Telus to make
acquisitions and buy spectrum.  Last year, Canada lifted restrictions on foreign investment
in the sector for companies with less than 10 percent of market
share by revenue and announced it would also limit how much
spectrum the three main incumbents could buy.  The government has become more vigilant about the security
of the nation’s telecommunications networks, and is considering
new rules on foreign wireless suppliers deemed security risks,
amid concerns about equipment provided by companies including
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s biggest phone-equipment maker,
a person familiar with the matter said in March.  Comprehensive Undertakings  Canadian Trade Minister Ed Fast said the same month that
Huawei had been banned from bidding on government
telecommunications contracts. MTS Allstream said in December it
had won a contract to provide Internet services to as many as
850 federal government sites across the country.  MTS said “Accelero has proposed far-reaching,
comprehensive and binding undertakings to the Canadian
government, including a commitment to invest C$300 million over
three years to pursue Allstream’s capital plans.”  MTS said the company and Accelero are reviewing their
options.  “We were told right at the end of the afternoon that the
minister has now rendered the decision and that was it,” Pierre Blouin, chief executive officer of the Winnipeg-based
telecommunications firm said in an interview. “There’s no
appeal in that type of process.”  Threaten Security  The Canadian government automatically reviews foreign
takeovers of businesses with more than C$344 million in assets
under a law called the Investment Canada Act. The law allows the
government to block deals deemed to threaten security.  Accelero is the Cairo and Paris-based investment firm co-founded by Sawiris.  In his earlier foray into Canada, Sawiris’s Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE backed Wind Mobile, an Ontario-based startup
carrier,  with a $700 million loan in 2008, helping finance the
company’s purchase of wireless spectrum.  Wind Mobile’s initial strategy of offering cheap prepaid
wireless service faced competition from other discount operators
such as Public Mobile, as well as the established brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  