-- Carney at 100 Days Confronts Looming Housing Battle: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/carney-at-100-days-confronts-looming-housing-battle-u-k-credit.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mark Carney 
marked his 100th day in office yesterday with his monetary
policy assured and a political battle looming over stability
risks from the government’s housing-market plans.  Since starting on July 1, he’s implemented forward guidance
on  interest rates , loosened liquidity requirements for lenders
and put  Jane Austen  on a bank note, while the economy he
oversees has shown increasing signs of strengthening, sending
bond yields to a two-year high. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  persuaded him to leave the  Bank of Canada  to
become the first foreigner to run the 319-year-old central bank,
giving him a mandate for change.  With guidance keeping monetary policy on hold, Carney’s
next big challenge may center on the central bank’s Financial
Policy Committee. Deadlocked U.S. budget talks raise the specter
of a debt default, and even if that’s avoided, he must still
lead a review of the government’s Help to Buy program to boost
mortgage lending, making him the arbiter of an initiative that’s
been criticized for threatening to stoke a housing bubble.  “The emphasis is going to switch to the FPC,” Keith Wade,
chief economist at Schroders Plc in  London , which has $388
billion of assets under management, said in an interview. “The
challenge for Carney will be if the housing market really takes
off, as this could bring him into conflict with the
government.”  Stronger Economy  Carney’s guidance is aimed at avoiding a sharp rise in
borrowing costs that could choke off the recovery. Under the
policy, the BOE plans to keep its key rate at a record-low 0.5
percent until  unemployment  drops to 7 percent, something the
central bank doesn’t see happening until the end of 2016.  Since Carney’s arrival,  the pound  has strengthened and
gilts fallen as the improving economic recovery stokes investor
expectations that the BOE will have to raise rates before then.  Sterling has advanced about 6 percent over the past six
months, the most among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yield on the  10-year
gilt (GUKG10)  has risen 26 basis points to 2.7 percent since Carney took
over. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold the debt instead
of similar-maturity German bunds has widened to about 90 basis
points. It reached 100 basis points last month, the widest
spread since June 2010.  Policy Decision  The Monetary Policy Committee will probably leave its key
rate unchanged and keep its bond-purchase program on hold this
week, according to two Bloomberg News surveys of economists. The
decisions will be announced tomorrow. The MPC concludes its
monthly meeting today to allow Carney to attend International
Monetary Fund meetings in  Washington .  After Carney’s first MPC meeting, the BOE issued a
statement saying an increase in market  interest rates  wasn’t
justified. A month later Carney, 48, revealed details of a
forward-guidance program that linked the benchmark rate to
unemployment.  “He’s been a breath of fresh air and has been able to
launch a new policy as well as look across all the bank’s
different instruments,” said  John Gieve , former deputy governor
for financial stability at the BOE. “His main priority is to
make sure the recovery continues and this isn’t another short-lived blip, while continuing to build up the resilience of the
financial system. What will take prominence depends on events.”  Getting the Message  Carney has set aside investor skepticism on BOE forecasts
and says consumers and executives are getting the message. He
gave four television interviews after introducing the policy on
Aug. 7, and traveled outside London for his first major policy
speech, addressing business leaders in Nottingham on Aug. 28.  He may need to do more. After his September appearance
before Parliament’s Treasury Committee, Chairman  Andrew Tyrie 
still said guidance is a complicated topic to explain.  “The bank is facing some communication issues,” said
Petra Geraats, an economics professor at the University of
Cambridge who’s written about central bank transparency. “The
market reaction was probably not what the bank had intended.”  On a visit to eastern England, Carney said guidance is
intended to give certainty about monetary policy to ensure the
recovery. He also said the central bank has the tools to ensure
the housing market doesn’t enter a “boom and bust phase.”  Those comments followed a range of data showing a pickup in
 house prices  and a decision by the government to begin the
second phase of its Help to Buy program three months earlier
than planned.  Bubble Risk  The measure, which provides government guarantees to help
people buy homes with smaller deposits, has raised concern it
will stoke excessive demand and create a bubble. A house-price
index rose to the highest in more than a decade, the  Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors  said on Oct. 8.  “It’s going to open up the market, we’re already seeing a
pickup in viewings and inquiries,” said Kirsty Keeton, manager
at Richard Watkinson & Partners real-estate agents in  Newark  in
the English midlands. “It’s going to be controlled. If the
market’s going too far, they don’t want to get their fingers
burned.”  To meet criticism of risks posed by Help to Buy, the
government has tasked the Financial Policy Committee with
reviewing the program annually starting next September.  The arrangement, along with a clause in the guidance
policy, heightens the importance of the FPC’s quarterly
decisions. While guidance includes two caveats related to the
central bank’s 2 percent inflation target, there is a third
linked to financial stability that enshrines the views of the
FPC in monetary-policy decisions. A finding by that panel, also
led by Carney, that monetary policy poses a “significant
threat” to stability may lead it to argue for tighter policy.  “The precise conditions for financial stability are
unfortunately very murky, though the idea behind it is right,”
said Cambridge’s Geraats. “The big issue for the bank’s
financial stability remit is the housing market, and for
monetary policy it’s definitely to communicate more effectively.
Carney’s got off to a decent start, but I think the bank can do
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  