-- Cash-Challenged CERN Lifted by Nobel Hunts for BRIC Funds
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-09T12:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/cern-hunts-missing-universe-after-higgs-boson-pioneers-win-nobel.html
The Geneva research center that made
the most important find in particle physics in half a century,
helping explain how the visible universe holds together, is
tapping developing nations to help fund its follow-up act.  CERN’s observation of a Higgs boson last year led to a
 Nobel Prize  in Physics yesterday for Peter Higgs and Francois Englert for their theoretical work predicting the particle’s
existence. CERN is now considering new multibillion-dollar
projects that may prove that other dimensions exist and track
what happened after the Big Bang formed our universe.  “It took us 50 years to complete our description of the
visible world,” CERN Director General Rolf-Dieter Heuer said at
a press conference yesterday. “It’s high time to go into the
dark universe. To open that window would be just great.”  The financial crisis made it harder to raise cash to build
on last year’s discovery of the so-called God particle, so the
European Organization for Nuclear Research, or CERN, is casting
the net wider, inviting more countries to contribute, including
 Brazil  and  Russia . One of the new systems may cost as much as 8
billion Swiss francs ($8.8 billion), compared with the 1 billion
francs CERN has said it needs to continue research at its
existing infrastructure.  “There’s never enough funding,” 65-year-old Heuer, who
plans to retire at the end of 2015, said in an interview. “If
your ambitions are not beyond the funding envelope, you’re
making a mistake.”  Largest Accelerator  New members, associates and other contributions could
supply as much as 800 million francs for current projects, CERN
has  estimated .  The existence of the Higgs boson helps physicists explain
how other particles have mass. CERN discovered the particle with
the world’s largest  particle accelerator , a 27-kilometer (17-mile) underground science racetrack in Geneva.  The Large Hadron Collider, which cost 6 billion francs to
build, shoots two beams of protons at each other at near light-speed, or more than 11,000 laps each second. Superconducting
magnets, kept at a temperature colder than outer space, guide
the beams so they hit each other with as much force as two high-speed trains. Some collisions release smaller elementary
particles, which are studied by magnetic detectors, one of which
contains more iron than the Eiffel Tower.  Standard Theory  The Higgs boson that CERN observed completes the  Standard
Model , the theory that explains physics for the 5 percent of the
universe that can be observed. Physicists have been searching
for explanations for the rest of the universe, which
theoretically exists though can’t be seen, and is thought to
have disappeared after the Big Bang.  The properties of the Higgs boson could point to fields for
investigation to find such dark matter or dark energy. By 2017
or 2018, CERN may have results from tests to indicate the level
of energy necessary to study such “new physics,” Heuer said.  That would help determine what CERN should build next: a
straight-line electron collider, which may cost as much as 8
billion francs, depending on its power, or a 100-kilometer
particle accelerator loop that would lie partly under Lake
Geneva.  The “E” in CERN ought to stand for “Everywhere” instead
of “ Europe ” since 2010, as all countries can become full
members, said Heuer, who was born in  Germany . Israel, Romania
and  Serbia  are on their way to becoming members, as is Cyprus,
whose parliament still needs to ratify the move.  Greater Energy  New sources of funding will help the research institute
upgrade its installations to work at higher energy levels. CERN
has estimated its deficit will rise to 353 million francs in
2018 from a forecast of 216 million francs this year.  Brazil, Russia,  Pakistan  and  Turkey  have applied for
associate membership, a new category, which costs a tenth of the
price of full membership, Heuer said. Such agreements allow
companies from those countries to bid for CERN contracts. CERN
agreed to Ukraine entering that category earlier this month.  “So BR- is there, -IC is not yet there,” he said,
referring to the BRIC acronym for Brazil, Russia,  India  and
 China . “I’m still hoping for at least one of the ICs. It takes
more time to say yes because of the economic situation.”  Still, the rest of the world isn’t sitting still.  Japan  is
considering a $7.8 billion linear collider project of its own.
CERN is open to helping to set up the facility and cooperating
on research, Heuer said.  International Visitors  An hour-long delay yesterday in announcing who won the
Nobel Prize for Physics was caused by a dispute in the  Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences  about whether scientists at CERN
should share the award, Swedish Radio reported today, citing a
member of the academy.  CERN’s Large Hadron Collider is down now for maintenance
and Heuer has taken advantage of the hiatus to offer underground
tours to 98 national delegations, including United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, and about 21,000 visitors. Next
year, the accelerator will start up again, working at higher
energy. An accident when the collider started in 2008 reduced
its ability to reach top power.  Heuer studied physics at the University of Stuttgart, and
worked at CERN from 1994 to 1998. He returned as director-general in 2009. Heuer said that when he retires, he will spend
more time with his wife traveling and on his hobby of model
trains. Before then, his main goal is to use the momentum of the
Higgs boson discovery to help CERN prepare funding for its plans
through 2030.  It’s important to ask for funding soon after making a
scientific breakthrough, otherwise “they might not even
remember that you discovered something,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  