-- China Calls Japan Report of Xi-Abe Handshake at APEC Meaningless
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-08T08:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/china-calls-japan-report-of-xi-abe-handshake-at-apec-meaningless.html
A Chinese foreign ministry official
refused to confirm a Japanese newspaper story that President Xi Jinping and  Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe shook hands at a
summit in Bali, calling the report “meaningless.”  Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying was asked three
times at a daily media briefing in Beijing today if Xi and Abe
met on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in Bali. Japan’s Yomiuri newspaper reported they shook
hands yesterday.  “What I have seen is some Japanese media reporting that
President Xi had a handshake with Japanese Prime Minister Abe on
the sidelines of the APEC leaders meeting,” Hua said. “Don’t
you think the relevant reports are meaningless?”  A handshake between Xi and Abe at APEC would mark a small
signal of rapprochement after months of hostility over a
territorial dispute. Japan’s purchase last year of three of five
islands in the East  China  Sea claimed by both sides posed one of
the most severe tests in the relationship since diplomatic ties
were established in 1972.  No formal bilateral summit has been held between Japan and
China for more than a year. Abe and Xi shook hands and spoke
briefly during a Group of 20 summit in  Russia  last month.  Asked a second time about the handshake, Hua said China
hadn’t delivered “any report on the issue that you mentioned.”
When she was asked about it a third time, Hua said Japan needed
to “show sincerity” and remove obstacles to improved
relations. She said China has been committed to solving the two
countries’ problems via dialogue.  “The Japanese side is only playing up these kinds of
reports,” Hua said. “I think the Japanese side should stop
putting the cart before the horse.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  