-- Chrysler Said to Add 500 Jobs at Mexico Plant for Engines
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-10-08T21:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/chrysler-said-to-add-500-jobs-at-mexico-plant-for-engines.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , will add about 500 workers at
a Mexican engine plant, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  will provide
details later this week when he visits the Saltillo area with
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, said the people, who asked
not to be identified speaking ahead of the announcement.
Chrysler has five plants in the area.  Chrysler’s investment will total $164 million to expand
production at the engine factory in the town of Ramos Arizpe,
one of the people said.  Shawn Morgan , a Chrysler spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  “Mexico is quite competitive in the automobile industry
and we’re going to see more investments like this,” Armando Soto, president of Kaso y Asociados, a Mexico City-based auto
industry consulting firm, said in a telephone interview. “This
kind of investment helps consolidate a region as an automotive
cluster.”  Automakers are expanding production in Mexico to capitalize
on lower labor costs that bolster the profitability of vehicles
sold in the U.S. market. Chrysler began building the ProMaster,
a Ram version of the Fiat Ducato light-commercial vehicle, at a
nearby facility in July. Marchionne said last week the van
assembled in Mexico uses some parts from Fiat’s Ducato facility
in Italy.  Crucial Aspect  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand is investing $1.3 billion in a
new plant in San Jose Chiapa with a capacity of 150,000 cars a
year.  General Motors Co. (GM)  has budgeted $691 million to expand
three existing Mexican factories. Fiat also builds the North
American version of the 500 subcompact at a plant in Toluca.  Sharing components, technology and production capacity
among brands is a crucial aspect of Marchionne’s plan to combine
Fiat and Chrysler. Future models will cut costs by sharing parts
that comprise as much as two-thirds of a vehicle’s value.  Fiat fell 0.7 percent to 6.25 euros today in Milan.
Chrysler is based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, while Fiat is based
in Turin,  Italy .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  