-- McKesson Said in Talks to Acquire Stake in Celesio
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-08T20:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/mckesson-said-in-talks-to-acquire-stake-in-celesio.html
McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the largest U.S.
pharmaceutical distributor, is in talks to acquire a majority
stake in Germany’s  Celesio AG (CLS1) , according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The discussions aren’t yet at an advanced stage and
McKesson may still fail to reach a deal with Franz Haniel & Cie
GmbH, the family-owned holding company that controls Celesio,
the person said, asking not to be identified as the matter is
private. Haniel in July hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to advise on
options including a sale of part or all of its holdings, two
people familiar with the matter said then.  Since  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ’s 2012 deal to buy 45 percent of
Alliance Boots, the owner of the largest U.K. pharmacy chain,
drug distributors have been examining their positions in Europe
and looking at ways to cut costs. Celesio’s shares have climbed
57 percent this year amid takeover speculation, giving the
Stuttgart, Germany-based company a market value of about 3.5
billion euros ($4.8 billion).  “There’s a precedent with cross-border deals in the
pharmaceutical supply chain,”  Ross Muken , an analyst with
International Strategy and Investment Group in  New York , said in
an interview. “Given their interest and the level of
speculation, I would say there’s a fair degree of chance this
happens.”  “McKesson does not comment on market rumors or
speculation,” the company said in an e-mail. Spokesmen for
Celesio and Haniel declined to comment on the talks, which were
reported earlier today by Dow Jones newswires.  Celesio rose 20 percent to 20.49 euros at close of trading
in Germany, the most since 1996. McKesson  gained  3.2 percent to
$133.72 at the close in New York, the highest price in more than
19 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  