-- CME Planning Aluminum Contract to Compete With LME
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-08T11:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/cme-planning-aluminum-contract-to-compete-with-lme.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, plans an aluminum futures contract in a direct
challenge to the  London  Metal Exchange.  “The market really wants an alternative,” Harriet
Hunnable, CME’s managing director of metals, said in London
today. “The aluminum market is a large one and needs a new
futures contract. It’s a market that today appreciates price
transparency. We can deliver that and good liquidity.”  The new contract will be physically delivered, Hunnable
said, declining to give a start date for the product.  Chicago-based CME, which is also starting a derivatives
exchange in London, is going after LME’s business after failing
to buy the largest industrial-metals futures market. The
warehouse network monitored by the LME is coming under
increasing regulatory scrutiny after MillerCoors LLC,  Encore
Wire Corp. (WIRE)  and other users said delays in getting metals were
distorting prices.  The LME was bought by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
last year for $2.2 billion and the 136-year-old exchange counts
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. among its
members. CME’s London exchange will also compete with  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s Eurex and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Liffe, the largest
derivatives venues in Europe. It was founded in the 19th century
and has a business that spans agricultural, energy, metal and
financial futures.  CME Europe is starting with currency derivatives in the
region as it seeks to attract volume. Interest-rate futures are
CME’s biggest business.  Hunnable declined to comment on whether the new exchange,
which has been delayed twice, will consider first trading
commodities when it opens rather than foreign exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  