-- Country Garden Rises to Five-Year High on Sales: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-08T09:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/country-garden-halts-trading-after-insider-information-report.html
Country Garden Holdings Co. (2007) ,
controlled by  China ’s richest woman Yang Huiyan, rose to the
highest in more than five years in  Hong Kong  trading after it
exceeded its 2013 property sales target by the end of September.  Shares of the developer, which resumed trading at 1 p.m. in
Hong Kong, rose 8 percent at HK$5.55 at the close of trading,
the highest since June 2008.  The developer had contracted sales of 64.7 billion yuan
($10.6 billion) in the nine months through Sept. 30, compared
with its 62 billion yuan sales target for the year, it said in a
statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today.  “The sales data are better than what investors expected,”
said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The company increased incentives for their
sales staff this year and its properties in  Malaysia  also helped
boost the data.”  Home sales in China have continued to improve as the
world’s second-biggest economy shows signs of a sustained
rebound and the government refrains from more cooling measures.
New home prices in almost all of the cities tracked by the
government gained in August.  Trading in the stock was halted at 9 a.m. pending the
release of an announcement in relation to possible insider
information, the Foshan, Guangdong province-based company said
in an earlier statement to the stock exchange.  Golden Week  Country Garden received buyer subscriptions for 109.5
billion  yuan  of properties so far this year, the Hong Kong
Economic Journal reported today, citing a memo to staff from
President Mo Bin. Subscriptions, which are different than
contracted sales, reached 18.5 billion yuan over the seven-day
National Day public holiday that started Oct. 1 and ended
yesterday, it said, citing the memo.  The figures in the Hong Kong newspaper were “preliminary”
and the company will review its internal procedures to ensure
employees keep confidential any sensitive or confidential
information, Country Garden said in the later statement.  Subscriptions don’t necessarily lead to contracted sales,
the data that Chinese developers usually report, said Kenny Wu,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at JI-Asia Research Ltd. Buyers pay
only a small deposit to show intent of purchase before signing
contracts with developers and can always pull out.  New home sales  in Beijing almost doubled in the first six
days of the week-long holiday from a year earlier, China
Securities Journal reported today, citing the municipality’s
commission of housing and urban-rural development.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  