-- CRH Joins Korea Gas Selling Euro Bonds as Borrowing Costs Fall
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-10-08T15:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/crh-joins-korea-gas-selling-euro-bonds-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
CRH Plc (CRH) , the biggest company on the
benchmark Irish stock index, joined  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  in marketing
bonds in Europe as corporate borrowing costs declined.  The building materials maker issued 750 million euros ($1
billion) of notes through its Finnish unit, CRH Finland Services
Oyj, according data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on
investment-grade bonds in euros fell 3.5 basis points to a one-week low of 2 percent, according to Bloomberg bond index  data .  Investor demand for corporate debt is being boosted by
speculation that global borrowing costs will hold near record
lows, with the U.S. government shutdown underpinning stimulus
measures. The political standoff is costing the American economy
about $160 million each working day, according to global market-research firm IHS Inc.  “The Fed is now more likely to continue to pump in money
to backstop the economy,” said Craig Veysey, head of fixed
income at Sanlam Private Investments Ltd. in  London . “That has
made companies more willing to issue and investors more
confident to invest. That will support issuance and keep yields
down.”  CRH Finland’s seven-year notes yield 107 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate, according to Bloomberg data.  Korea Gas sold 500 million euros of bonds due April 2019
yielding 103 basis points more than swaps. It was the Gyeonggi-based company’s biggest sale of notes in the currency, Bloomberg
data show.  Another energy supplier in the market today was  Gas Natural
SDG SA. (GAS)  The Barcelona-based company issued 500 million euros of
7 1/2-year notes through its Gas Natural Fenosa Finance BV unit
at a spread of 175 basis points.  RWE AG (RWE)  sold 500 million euros of 10-year notes yielding 93
basis points more than swaps. Germany’s second-biggest utility
issued the bonds through its RWE Finance BV unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  