-- Crude Gains as Lawmakers Seek Path to Raise Debt Ceiling
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-08T20:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/crude-gains-as-lawmakers-seek-path-to-raise-debt-ceiling.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced as U.S. lawmakers took tentative steps toward raising
the government’s debt limit and on a forecast that global demand
will increase.  Prices increased 0.5 percent. Senate Democrats are planning
a test vote before the end of this week on a measure that would
grant President  Barack Obama  authority to raise the $16.7
trillion debt ceiling, probably for a year, unless two-thirds of
both chambers of Congress disapprove. The  Energy Information
Administration  increased its forecast for WTI prices and raised
its demand estimates.  “There is a sense that they are going to get some type of
a deal done,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “But we are not out of the
woods yet, and a possible default is still a big concern.”  WTI for November delivery rose 46 cents to settle at
$103.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume
of all futures traded was about 22 percent below the 100-day
average at 2:38 p.m.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported U.S. crude inventories increased 2.76 million
barrels last week. WTI gained 0.5 percent to $103.53 in
electronic trading at 4:36 p.m. It was $103.56 before the report
was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent for November settlement advanced 48 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the day at $110.16 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 4.2 percent above the
100-day average. The European benchmark was at a premium of
$6.67 to WTI, compared with $6.65 yesterday.  Senate Plan  If all  Senate Democrats  along with six Republicans vote for
giving Obama authority, they could send a  debt-limit  increase
without policy conditions to the Republican-controlled House
with only a few days to spare before U.S. borrowing authority
lapses Oct. 17.  That would put pressure on House Speaker  John Boehner , who
opposes a clean debt-limit bill. He said on Oct. 6 that the
country could end up in default if Obama doesn’t negotiate over
the Affordable Care Act, which Republicans want delayed or
defunded. Obama insists that no conditions be attached to the
debt-limit increase.  “There is an underlying assumption that the  U.S. Congress 
will agree to a budget resolution and raise the debt ceiling to
avert a crisis,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York, in an e-mail.  Default Looms  Obama said in a press conference that he is happy to talk
with  House Republicans  “about anything,” but such negotiations
“shouldn’t require hanging the threat of a government shutdown
or economic chaos over the heads of the American people.”  A default could have catastrophic consequences that might
last decades, the Treasury Department said in a report. The
U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country, accounted for a
fifth of global demand last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “If history is an indication, this is not going to get
solved until the last moment,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter,
Florida-based director of Energy Analytics Group LLC.  Many U.S. government services have been shuttered for a
week. The shutdown cost $1.6 billion last week in lost economic
output, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS) , a Lexington, Massachusetts-based
global market-research firm.  EIA Forecasts  WTI will average $98.69 a barrel this year, up from the
September projection of $98.59, the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit, said today in its monthly  Short-Term Energy
Outlook . The world’s consumption will be 90.26 million barrels a
day this year, up from last month’s estimate of 90.06 million
and last year’s demand of 89.29 million.  U.S.  crude inventories  rose by 1.55 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 365.3 million in the week ended Oct. 4, based on the
median of 10 analyst estimates before a report tomorrow from the
EIA. The total would be the most since July 12.  The Bloomberg survey also showed that gasoline stockpiles
increased 1.05 million barrels last week. Inventories of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, decreased 1.15 million barrels.  “The market seems to be more focused on the expectation
that U.S. distillate inventories declined last week than the
anticipated builds in both crude oil and gasoline stocks,”
Evans said.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.5 percent, up from 20.3 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 442,036
contracts as of 4:36 p.m. It totaled 687,107 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.88 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  