-- Dangdang to YY Sink on IMF Forecasts: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-08T20:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/dangdang-to-yy-sink-on-imf-forecasts-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell for a second
day in New York, after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its
forecasts for  China ’s economic growth and warned that a U.S.
government default could “seriously damage” the world economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped 2.1 percent to 101.4
yesterday, slumping the most in three months.  YY Inc. (YY) , owner of
a social entertainment website, tumbled 15 percent and video
site owner  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  slid the most since July 2012. E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. sank 12 percent while container-ship operator  Seaspan Corp. (SSW)  plunged after disclosing plans to
offer convertible notes.  The IMF reduced its forecast for China to 7.6 percent this
year in a report released yesterday in  Washington , from a 7.8
percent estimate in July, and to 7.3 percent in 2014 from 7.7
percent. The Nasdaq Internet  Index (HSCEI)  tumbled 4.1 percent
yesterday, the biggest decline since November 2011, as all of
its 81 members dropped, while the China-US gauge advanced last
week to the highest level in 17 months.  “Negative U.S. news flow triggered overreactions in some
Chinese Internet names traded here,” Henry Guo, an analyst at
ABR Investment Strategy LLC in  San Francisco , said by phone
yesterday. “There’s been price inflation in some Chinese stocks
traded in the U.S. as the gains over the past few months were
quick.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.2 percent to $37.53
in New York, after dropping the most this month the prior day.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.2 percent as concern grew
that a deadlock among U.S. lawmakers over the debt limit could
lead to a government default.  Seaspan Offerings  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based  Dangdang (DANG) ,
China’s biggest online book retailer, tumbled to $10.10, the
biggest retreat since Aug. 14. The slump pared its gain this
year to 143 percent. Guangzhou-based YY sank to $41.71, losing
the most since May. Shares have rallied 193 percent this year.
Youku Tudou retreated 10 percent to $27.42, the largest slump
since July 17, 2012.  Seaspan, based in  Hong Kong , dropped 9.5 percent to $21.53,
slipping the most in two years. The company plans to sell 5.7
million ordinary shares and $125 million in convertible notes
due in 2018 in public offerings, it said in a statement Oct. 7.  Renren Inc., which owns a real-name social net-working
website, plunged 10 percent to $3.69, the biggest drop since
Aug. 15. The company surged 20 percent last week on speculation
that Baidu Inc., which in August bought a stake in Renren’s
Nuomi.com, may increase its investments.  Funds Outflows  The prospect of higher U.S. long-term interest rates and a
partial reversal of capital flows is leaving  emerging markets 
with weak fiscal positions or higher inflation particularly
exposed, the fund said.  President  Barack Obama  reiterated yesterday that he won’t
negotiate with Republicans over the partial government shutdown
and the U.S. debt limit. Many U.S. government services have been
shuttered for more than a week and the country is nine days away
from running out of its ability to stay under a $16.7 trillion
cap on borrowing.  “If the shutdown persists, we are going to get an
opportunity to pick off some names that were unfairly punished
in the down draft,” Chris Bertelsen, chief investment officer
of Global Finance Private Capital, which manages $2 billion in
assets including emerging-market stocks, said by e-mail Oct. 7.  ADRs of Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.
rose 4.5 percent to $3.75 in  New York  yesterday, rallying the
most in two months.  SMIC continues to see new customers for its 40 nanometer
chips since production started this year, according to an
Oriental Morning Post report posted on the company’s website,
citing Chief Executive Officer Tzu-Yin Chiu. Shanghai-based SMIC
plans to focus on new 28nm chips in the fourth quarter, the
report said.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index climbed 1 percent to
a one-week high of 10,534.94, while the Shanghai Composite Index
advanced 1.1 percent in the first day of trading after markets
closed Oct. 1 for the National Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  