-- Deutsche Bank Becomes Second to Sell ETNs Similar to Barclays’s
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-10-08T21:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/deutsche-bank-becomes-second-to-sell-etns-similar-to-barclays-s.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  has joined Credit
Suisse AG in offering exchange-traded notes that resemble
securities Barclays Plc rolled out in May that have already
surged to the top 10 in the U.S. in assets.  The  FI Enhanced Global High Yield ETNs (FIEG)  initially yield
twice the gains or losses of the MSCI World High Dividend Yield
USD Gross Total Return Index with adjustments such as for fees,
according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The benchmark includes global stocks that
pay higher-than-average dividends.  The securities started trading today under the ticker FIEG.
On May 20, Barclays introduced an ETN, structured with
billionaire  Ken Fisher ’s Fisher Asset Management LLC, by a
similar name that uses the symbol FIGY. The Barclays security,
which also employs two times leverage, has soared to the fifth-largest of about 200 U.S. ETNs, with $1.24 billion of assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse began offering a note last month, with the
symbol FIEU, that was similar to another created by Barclays and
Fisher Asset Management, with the ticker FEEU, Bloomberg data
show. Both ETNs started out tracking twice the gains and losses
of the STOXX Europe 50 USD (Gross Return) Index, according to
prospectuses filed with the SEC.  The Barclays ETN has $915.52 million in  assets . The Credit
Suisse security has  $56.78 million  after one month, making it
the 40th biggest in the U.S.  David Eckerly, a spokesman for Fisher Investments, declined
to comment on the Deutsche Bank notes or whether the firm worked
with the issuer in creating them.  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman
for the Frankfurt-based lender, and  Mark Lane , a spokesman for
Barclays in  New York , declined to comment.  The Deutsche Bank ETNs charge an investor fee that will be
based on the index performance and the three-month U.S. dollar
London interbank offered rate. The bank can charge 0.1 percent
for a repurchase and, if the index falls more than 40 percent,
the principal amount of the securities will be reset for a 0.05
percent fee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  