-- Disney Stops Issuing Paper Stock in Blow to Collectors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-09T20:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/disney-stops-issuing-stock-certificates-in-blow-to-fans.html
Walt Disney  Co. plans to stop issuing
stock certificates, delivering shares only in electronic form in
a blow to would-be collectors of the documents featuring
drawings of Bambi and  Mickey Mouse .  When investors transfer shares, paper ones won’t be
reissued, Disney said yesterday in a  regulatory filing . The
changes, which take effect on Oct. 16, will shrink the supply
for websites pitching the items as a way to interest children in
investing. The company said it will offer non-negotiable
certificates as a substitute.  Collectors have made Disney certificates the most popular
at GiveAShare.com, a Gilbert, Arizona-based company that
provides the documents in a frame for a fee. While many
companies have eliminated paper shares to save money, Disney’s
have stayed top sellers, said Bob Kerstein, founder of
 Scripophily.com , a website for collectors.  “It’s such a PR tool for them,” Kerstein said. “Disney
was the major holdout. I’m pretty surprised. Everybody’s in
cost-cutting mode.”  Disney’s stock certificates feature founder Walt Disney
surrounded by Dumbo,  Donald Duck  and other characters, according
to the website Oneshare.com, which also offers framed shares for
a fee.  “Like hundreds of other companies, Disney will no longer
be issuing paper stock certificates in an effort to create a
more secure and efficient system,” the company said in a
statement. Collectors may request non-negotiable “certificates
of acquisition,” Disney said.  “It’s not the same as a stock certificate, but it’s nice
that Disney is recognizing fans want something,” Kerstein said.  Collector’s Items  Stock certificates dating back to the company’s initial
public stock offering and hand-signed by Disney can fetch more
than $25,000, Kerstein said. Companies have been doing away with
them for years because of the expense, he said.  GiveAShare’s favorites list includes Disney,  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Because Facebook issues its
stock electronically, GiveAShare provides a personalized
replica, according to the site.  Disney’s change is likely to spark a last-minute rush among
collectors and higher prices for existing certificates,
according to Rick Roman, a co-founder of GiveAShare.  “Since we started, Disney has been the most popular,”
Roman said in an interview. “It appeals to kids, they have one
of the best-looking certificates and there’s some fanatical
adults that want them as well. That ends up being a good way to
teach kids about stocks.”  Disney, based in Burbank,  California , fell 0.6 percent to
$63.59 at the close in  New York . The stock has  gained  28 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  