-- Dollar Climbs Most in Month as Minutes Show Tapering Seen
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-09T21:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/dollar-falls-as-obama-to-nominate-yellen-for-fed-chairman-today.html
The dollar had the biggest gain in a
month as minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed
most policy makers said the central bank was likely to reduce
the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year.  The U.S. currency rose for a second day versus the yen as
President  Barack Obama  nominated  Janet Yellen  to run the Fed,
fueling bets it will maintain policies to spur economic growth.
The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which
took place before the Capital Hill deadlock over the budget and
debt limit, showed a lengthy debate over economic progress. The
pound slid as U.K. industrial production unexpectedly shrank.  “The FOMC minutes appear to have given a boost to the
dollar as markets focus on the key headline that most FOMC
members see tapering by the end of the year,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 New York , said in a phone interview. “Positions against the
dollar have been vulnerable for a while and are starting to
unwind.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index added 0.3 percent to
1,013.22 at 5 p.m. New York time and jumped as much as 0.6
percent, the biggest intraday advance since Sept. 5. It closed
on Oct. 3 at 1,007.87, the lowest since Feb. 20.  The greenback gained 0.5 percent to 97.34 yen and rose as
much as 0.8 percent, the most since Sept. 19 on an intraday
basis. The dollar appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.3524 per euro
and touched $1.3486, the strongest level since Sept. 30.
 Europe ’s shared currency rose 0.1 percent to 131.65 yen.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index rose to 8.84
percent after falling yesterday to as low as 8.68 percent, the
least since May 9. The 2013 average is 9.37 percent.  Aussie Rises  The Australian dollar gained versus most major counterparts
on estimates a report tomorrow will show  payrolls  climbed last
month by the most in five months, while the  unemployment rate 
remained at a four-year high of 5.8 percent. The Aussie rose as
much as 0.4 percent to 94.64 U.S. cents before trading at 94.45
U.S. cents, up 0.2 percent.  The pound slumped against the dollar and euro after the
 Office for National Statistics  said industrial output in the
U.K. dropped in August by 1.1 percent from July, when it gained
0.1 percent. The median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an increase of 0.4 percent.  “There’s a sense of disappointment in today’s data, which
has weighed on the pound,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London .  Sterling lost 0.8 percent to $1.5954 and touched $1.5916,
the weakest since Sept. 18. It dropped 0.5 percent to 84.77
pence per euro and touched 84.87, the weakest since Sept. 3.  Yellen Nomination  Fed Vice Chairman Yellen, 67, must be confirmed by the
Senate. She would succeed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term
ends Jan. 31. A White House official said earlier in an e-mailed
statement that Obama would nominate her today. At the
announcement, the president praised Bernanke for “tremendous
courage” in leading the central bank.  “Yellen’s nomination, which was widely expected, is still
a risk-positive event,” Dan Dorrow, head of research at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.
“We’ve got dollar strength against the safe havens.”  Minutes of the Fed’s Sept. 17-18 meeting released today
showed most officials said the central bank was likely to slow
its bond purchases under the quantitative-easting stimulus
strategy this year, even as they unexpectedly refrained from
such a move in September, and end the program in mid-2014.  ‘Wise’ Decision  The FOMC, acting before this month’s government shutdown,
held off tapering bond purchases and indicated budget cuts and
an increase in borrowing costs were drags on the expansion.
Policy makers wanted to see more evidence of steady growth to
combat 7.3 percent unemployment, they said in a statement.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said on Oct. 3 the
central bank’s decision was “wise” given the subsequent
partial government shutdown.  “We avoided a potentially very awkward situation of
reducing stimulus just on the eve of what now has developed,”
Lockhart told reporters at a conference in Atlanta.  U.S. borrowing authority lapses on Oct. 17 as congressional
Republicans seek spending cuts and changes to the nation’s 2010
health-care law, Obama’s signature legislative achievement.  About 35 percent of investors surveyed this week by
Citigroup Inc. expect the dollar to fall more than 10 percent
against the euro and yen in the event of a default. About 10
percent expect the greenback to gain more than 10 percent  The greenback lost 1.3 percent over the past month, the
worst performance after the Canadian dollar among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes. The euro gained 0.8 percent, the yen rose 2.1 percent.  Technical Levels  The Japanese currency will face further weakness versus the
greenback if the pair breaches resistance in the 97.50- to
97.55-yen area on an intraday basis, Roelof-Jan Van den Akker,
an Amsterdam-based technical analyst at ING Group NV, wrote
today in a client note. The pair will meet support between the
93.90-yen level and its 200-day exponential moving average of
95.53, according to Van den Akker. Resistance and support are
chart levels where orders may be clustered.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $30 billion, from $28 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $5.3 billion, the largest share
of trades at 17 percent. Options on the dollar-Mexican peso rate
totaled $4.1 billion, or 14 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 65 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-peso options
trading was 340 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  