-- Dutch Senate Forces Amendments to Pension Plan
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-10-08T20:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/dutch-pension-plan-faces-possible-failure.html
The Dutch government’s plan to trim
 tax deductions  for pension contributions ran into obstacles
after the opposition-controlled Senate demanded amendments to
the bill, a move that risks derailing 2.9 billion euros ($3.9
billion) in austerity measures.  “The plans presented this way are unwise therefore we
would like the cabinet to consider withdrawing the plans,”
Wopke Hoekstra, a senator for the  Christian Democrats , the
largest opposition party in the upper house, said in The Hague
today.  The passing of the pension bill was a first test for Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte ’s cabinet in the Senate, the Dutch
parliament’s upper house. The law is part of a 16 billion-euro
austerity package the coalition agreed to in November last year
when Rutte’s second cabinet took office. Of this amount, 3.5
billion euros was penciled in for next year. In addition, the
cabinet plans extra cost cuts and tax increases of as much as 6
billion euros for 2014.  The Democrats D66 and the Christian Union also criticized
the bill, while with Geert Wilders’ Freedom Party and the
Socialist Party have already said they are against it. Deputy
Finance Minister Frans Weekers asked the Senate to adjourn the
session and hold on to the bill for now.  “We don’t expect it to fail,” Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said on RTLZ television earlier today commenting on
the opposition’s position. “We will defend the proposal, we
will see how far we get.” He also said “there are
possibilities to reach out to” the Senate.  Retirement Age  The bill, presented by Weekers and Deputy Minister of
Social Affairs Jetta Klijnsma, passed the lower house in June.
The law limits the amount of pension premiums that are
deductible from income tax as part of a plan to gradually
increase the  retirement age . Opposition parties claim these
plans limit the possibility for younger people to save for their
pensions.  “The cabinet is cashing in on a firm limitation of the tax
deductibility of pension premiums and younger people will be the
victims,” said Peter Ester, a senator for the Christian Union.  Dijsselbloem and Deputy Prime Minister Lodewijk Asscher are
in talks with the opposition to get backing for the additional 6
billion euros in cost cuts and rate increases in order to get
support in the Senate at a later stage. Attempts to come to an
agreement have failed so far.  The popularity of Rutte’s cabinet has dropped since it was
installed last year. If elections were held now, Labor and the
 Liberal party  would retain only 29 seats in the 150-member lower
house, a drop of 50 seats, according to a poll by Peil.nl,
published Oct. 6. Labor would fall to 11 seats, while Rutte’s
Liberal Party would get 18 seats, according to the poll, based
on at least 2,500 interviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  