-- Earning Miles Tops Flying Jets as Smiles Soars: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-08T14:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/earning-miles-tops-flying-jets-as-smiles-soars-corporate-brazil.html
Smiles SA (SMLE3)  is outperforming parent  Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3)  like no other major airline
 loyalty program .  Smiles has  gained  23 percent in Sao Paulo since its April
initial public offering, while Gol tumbled 17 percent after
selling a stake in the frequent-flier unit. Local competitor
 Multiplus SA (MPLU3)  sank 25 percent during that time, with Santiago-based parent  Latam Airlines Group SA (LAN)  falling 20 percent after
adjusting for the difference between Brazil’s and  Chile ’s
currencies. In the same period,  Air Canada (AC/B)  outperformed  Aimia
Inc (AIM) , which manages the carrier’s Aeroplan mileage program.  Use of airline loyalty programs in Brazil is still low when
compared with the average in other countries, giving companies
such as Smiles “significant” growth potential, said Carlos Daltozo, an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) ’s investment unit.
Smiles also profits from agreements with credit card providers,
making it less dependent on Gol’s traffic, he said.  “After the IPO, Smiles gained more visibility and became
more focused on expanding its business when compared to how
things were when it was just part of Gol’s structure,” Daltozo,
who rates the stock the equivalent of buy, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “It’s a very attractive industry.”  ‘Doing Well’  Smiles, which raised 1.1 billion reais ($500 million) in
its April 25 IPO, makes money by exchanging discounted plane
tickets it buys from Gol for the value of the frequent-flier
miles accrued by passengers, profiting from the difference
between the cost of the tickets and the revenue generated from
the sale of miles. The airline benefits from the arrangement by
removing the liability of the loyalty program from its balance
sheet.  The company also gets paid for miles earned through other
channels, including credit card providers. Sources other than
Gol accounted for 64 percent of second-quarter sales, Smiles
said in its latest financial statement.  “Unlike Gol, Smiles doesn’t need to worry about debt, fuel
costs or currency swings,” Ivan Kraiser, who helps manage about
500 million reais as a partner at Legan Administracao de
Recursos, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “It just needs a stable
economy so it can keep generating revenue. So far, the company
is doing well.”  Gol’s Losses  Analysts covering Gol, which has reported six consecutive
quarterly losses, have cut their 2014 earnings forecasts by 40
percent in the past three months amid concern that a weaker real
will push expenses higher. The currency has weakened 7.1 percent
this year, and spending on fuel, which in Brazil is priced in
dollars, accounts for 41 percent of Gol’s operating costs,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The airline’s ratio of
 debt  to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is higher than 97 percent of its peers.  Smiles intends to increase its market share in  Brazil ’s
loyalty programs industry, which currently is about 26 percent,
by strengthening its relationship with credit card issuers and
partnering with retailers, according to a statement on the
company’s website.  After the IPO, Smiles boosted its staff to about 60 from 12
employees as it seeks to boost its business, said Chief
Financial Officer Flavio Jardim Vargas. Fewer than 5 percent of
Brazilians use loyalty programs, which compares with a rate as
high as 30 percent in more mature markets, signaling a good
growth potential for the industry, he said.  ‘Super Optimistic’  “There’s room not only for us to add more clients, but to
build closer relationships with the current ones, so they use
the program more often,” Vargas said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. “I’m super optimistic about the outlook for
growth.”  Ten of 12  analysts  covering Smiles recommend buying the
stock, while five of 11 rate Gol a buy, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Smiles, which closed yesterday at 26.70 reais, trades at
16.4 times its 2014 forecast earnings, compared with a ratio of
12.5 times for Multiplus. The frequent-flier company’s rally has
made the stock too expensive, according to analysts at brokerage
Brasil Plural CCTVM including Chris Recouso in Sao Paulo.  ‘Too High’  “The loyalty operator is priced too high,” the analysts
wrote in a note to clients dated Aug. 12. “This stock, properly
priced, would be trading in the 20 reais per share vicinity.”
They rate Smiles underweight, meaning they consider it among
“the least attractive stocks” in the industry.  Maquina da Noticia, an external relations company that
represents the brokerage, said in an e-mailed statement that the
analysts wouldn’t comment on Smiles beyond the contents of the
report, which still reflects their current view of the company.  Gol’s press office said in a e-mailed response to questions
that it wouldn’t comment on its stock performance. Chief
Executive Officer Paulo Sergio Kakinoff said in an Aug. 12
statement when the company released second-quarter earnings that
Gol has “a robust cash position, an adequate debt profile, an
efficient cost structure and focus on its flights’
profitability.”  Smiles was the frequent flier program run by the carrier
known as Varig, once Brazil’s largest, which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  before being sold to Gol in 2007. With Gol
now struggling to cut  costs  and return to profit, the Smiles IPO
diminished the risk of the airline’s troubles spilling over to
its subsidiary, Banco do Brasil’s Daltozo said.  “After the IPO, people can see more clearly that, no
matter what happens with Gol, Smiles can stand on its own
legs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  