-- Ecopetrol Weighs Bid for Brazil’s Largest Oil Field
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-10-08T20:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/ecopetrol-weighs-bid-for-brazil-s-largest-oil-field.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s state-controlled oil producer, is in talks with possible partners to
bid for  Brazil ’s largest oil prospect this month.  The Bogata, Colombia-based producer is weighing the
benefits of joining a bidding group as a minority partner at an
Oct. 21 auction the Brazilian government will hold for the Libra
field off  Rio de Janeiro ’s coast, Chief Executive Officer Javier Gutierrez said in an interview from his office today. Teaming up
with Brazil’s state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA, or Petrobras,
would be the best option, he said.  “If we get approval from the board it would be a minority
participation,” Gutierrez said. “The best would be to work
with Petrobras. They are at home and leaders in offshore deep
waters.”  Colombia’s largest oil company, with overseas operations in
Brazil, the U.S. and  Peru , is seeking to boost reserves and meet
a production target of 1 million barrels a day by 2015. Brazil
estimates there are as many as 12 billion barrels of recoverable
oil in the Libra field, the first prospect to be sold under new
production-sharing agreements for a deep-water area known as
pre-salt.  “We are talking with everyone but you have to wait,”
Gutierrez said.  Ecopetrol still plans to meet its current production target
of 798,000 barrels a day by year end, Gutierrez said. The
company is waiting for further details from  Pacific Rubiales (PRE) 
about a potential production-sharing agreement in the Rubiales
field after 2016, when Pacific’s license for the field expires.  New License  Last month Pacific Chief Executive Officer Ronald Pantin
proposed that Ecopetrol keep all primary oil production in the
field under a new license, with the two companies sharing
secondary production extracted using Pacific’s STAR technology.  “We have always been willing to look at Pacific’s
offers,” Gutierrez said. “In the case of Rubiales and Quifa,
basically what is being tested at the moment is the STAR pilot
project. Everything will depend on the final results.”  Ecopetrol has issued bonds both at home and abroad this
year as it looks to finance a $75 billion capital expenditure
program between 2013 and 2020. Ecopetrol will use some of the
money from last month’s $2.5 billion overseas bond sale to pay
suppliers outside of  Colombia , Gutierrez said.  “Not all the money will come to Colombia,” Gutierrez
said. “A significant amount could stay abroad. It will depend
on the evolution of our investment and purchasing plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  