-- Hedge Funds Should Do a Better Job of Making Their Case
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-08T13:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/hedge-funds-should-do-a-better-job-of-making-their-case.html
Hedge funds , once reserved for the
very wealthy, are being marketed to a broadening range of
investors with a sophisticated sales pitch: Because the funds’
ups and downs don’t coincide with those of stocks and bonds,
adding them to a portfolio will help maintain returns while
reducing nerve-racking gyrations.  They need to do a much better job of making their case,
starting with being more transparent about their performance.  Consider managed futures, a hedge-fund strategy that
involves making bets on derivatives contracts tied to the value
of items such as wheat or the Japanese yen. As  David Evans 
reports in the November issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine,
it’s a corner of the market riddled with hefty fees, specious
data on performance and conflicts of interest. Expenses as high
as 9 percent of assets often obliterate investor returns. An
index used to promote the funds doesn’t include billions in fees
and just contains data voluntarily reported by trading advisers.
Some funds’ prospectuses explicitly allow managers to benefit at
their clients’ expense -- for example, by secretly betting
against fund investments.  After advisers, brokers and others take their cuts, the
returns on managed futures leave much to be desired, at least in
recent years. Evans reports that of 63 funds that have filed
audited financial data with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, 29 left their investors with losses over the decade
from Jan. 1, 2003, to Dec. 31, 2012. Fees, commissions and
expenses ate up 89 percent of the 63 funds’ gains.  Meager returns, though, don’t necessarily mean managed
futures are worthless as an asset class. If, as their proponents
say, their performance is uncorrelated with that of stocks and
bonds, it’s possible that they can provide value as part of a
larger portfolio. The funds’ gains and losses would tend to
offset or mitigate those of the stocks and bonds, resulting in a
similar return with less volatility. This would reduce the
likelihood that investors would have to sell at a loss when they
need their money.  Unfortunately, the performance data that funds provide to
investors often aren’t complete and clear enough to verify such
claims. This situation is particularly troubling for the less
affluent customers that these funds are increasingly seeking as
investors.  If fund advisers and brokers want investors to buy their
sales pitch, they’ll have to be more forthcoming. They should
publish easy-to-understand information on how a generic
portfolio with and without their product would have performed
over different periods. They should also publish the actual
long-term impact of fees on investor gains or losses. Failing
that, if too many investors end up putting their money in funds
that generate fees while destroying value, regulators might have
to step in and impose the transparency people need to make
informed decisions.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 