-- Legal-Marijuana Trend Spreads as More States Weigh Votes
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/legal-marijuana-trend-spreads-as-more-states-weigh-votes.html
Voter support for legal marijuana in
 Washington  and  Colorado  is spurring similar campaigns in
California and three other states that together may bring pot
within lawful reach of almost 1-in-5 Americans.  Advocates are seeking the signatures of registered voters
in California, Arizona, Oregon and  Alaska , with a combined
population of 49 million, to put the question on ballots in
2014. Colorado and Washington last year legalized marijuana for
12.1 million people.  “Because of Colorado and Washington, it’s created a
cannabis tidal wave across the country,” Mike Jolson, 45, a
legalization activist in Santa Cruz, California, said by
telephone. “We want to capitalize on this wave.”  Washington and Colorado became the first U.S. states to
legalize recreational marijuana through referendums last
November, defying federal law that has prohibited pot since the
1930s. In August, the U.S.  Justice Department  said it wouldn’t
challenge the states, opening the door for others.  In Washington state, regulators are finalizing rules for
growing, processing and selling marijuana ahead of a Dec. 1
deadline to begin issuing licenses. In Colorado, which has
finished setting its rules, voters will decide next month
whether to tax retail sales at rates of as much as 25 percent.  “Their success in Colorado was very inspiring, and I
thought it would be a good time for us to try here,” said
Dennis Bohlke, a computer programmer from Phoenix who said he
modeled the Arizona initiative after the Colorado measure.  He has to collect 259,213 valid signatures by July 3 to add
his measure to the November 2014 ballot.  California Support  In California, more than half of residents support
legalizing marijuana, according to a poll by the nonpartisan
 Public Policy Institute of California  in  San Francisco  -- 52
percent of all adults. Counting only likely voters, the figure
is 60 percent. The telephone survey of 1,703 residents was
conducted Sept. 10-17 and had a margin of error of plus or minus
3.7 percentage points for all residents, and 4 percentage points 
for registered voters.  Because California is the largest state by population, the
campaign for legalization needs 504,760 signatures by Feb. 24 to
qualify. Jolson said he wants to get volunteers out in the
street to collect signatures.  In Alaska, one of the least-populated states, just 30,169
signatures are needed before the legislature goes into session
in January, Timothy Hinterberger, 57, a sponsor of the
initiative, said by telephone. More than 20,000 have been
collected so far, he said. If successful, the question would be
added to the primary election ballot in August.  Changing Opinion  Public opinion is shifting toward decriminalizing marijuana
use, Hinterberger said.  “With the passage of time, people who are now regular
voters have a lot more experience with cannabis and people who
are cannabis users,” Hinterberger said.  A majority, or 52 percent, of Americans favor legalizing
marijuana use, compared with 45 percent who say it should remain
illegal, according to  a survey  by the Pew Research Center
released in April. Young people are the most supportive, the
survey showed.  Deputy U.S. Attorney General  James Cole  said in an August
 memo  to prosecutors that the federal government wouldn’t
intervene in the formation of a regulatory structure to oversee
recreational marijuana in Colorado and Washington, so long as
they prevented out-of-state distribution, access to minors,
drugged driving and revenue from going to gangs and cartels.  A Justice Department spokeswoman, Allison Price, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ballot proposals.  ‘Accelerate Change’  The Justice Department’s decision “certainly does
accelerate change in public opinion and makes us more optimistic
about our chances in 2014,” said Dan Riffle, federal policy
director at the Marijuana Policy Project, a Washington-based
advocacy group. “It makes us more optimistic that the federal
government won’t be interfering with these laws when we pass
them.”  In addition to recreational use, there are efforts to
expand the 20 states that allow medical marijuana, Riffle said.  Ballot proposals to legalize medical marijuana use are
being circulated in six states:  Arkansas , Florida,  Idaho ,
 Nebraska ,  Utah  and  Wyoming , according to Allen St. Pierre,
executive director of the National Organization for the Reform
of Marijuana Laws, a Washington-based group that advocates
legalization.  Two pot measures are being circulated for signatures in
 Oregon , where a referendum to legalize recreational pot use
 failed  last year, 53 percent to 47 percent.  Cannabis Commission  One measure to legalize marijuana use requires 116,284
signatures to qualify for the November 2014 ballot, while a
second setting up an Oregon Cannabis Commission to regulate its
growth and sale requires 87,213 signatures, according to the
state. Paul Stanford, 53, of the Hemp & Cannabis Foundation,
says he has until July 7 and has collected about 15,000
signatures for each measure.  “We’d like to see Oregon’s economy take advantage of this
new market, which would be an economic boon,” Stanford said by
telephone.  Marijuana legalization could generate about $8.7 billion
annually in  tax revenue  for federal, state and local
governments, according to a 2010  report  by Jeffrey Miron, who
teaches economics at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Municipal governments are also weighing in. In  Portland ,
 Maine , voters next month will consider a measure to allow
possession of up to 2.5 ounces of marijuana for adults who are
at least 21.  Presidential Power  Some marijuana proponents are holding off until the 2016
presidential election, when voter turnout is typically higher.  Chris Lindsey, an attorney from Missoula,  Montana , and a
legislative analyst at the Marijuana Policy Project, said he’s
working toward adding a recreational-marijuana proposal to his
state’s ballot in 2016.  “Elections that involve presidential races tend to bring
out a younger set of voters and we think we’ll probably benefit
from having younger voters,” Lindsey said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 