-- Telecom Italia Joins Fiat, Portugal Telecom Rated Junk
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-09T07:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/telecom-italia-cut-to-junk-by-moody-s-after-ceo-bernabe-leaves.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the phone company
that lost its chief executive officer last week after a clash
with shareholders over how to pare debt, had its rating cut to
junk status by Moody’s Investors Service.  The one-level reduction to Ba1 strips Telecom Italia of its
investment-grade ranking for the first time since ratings started
last decade on its debt -- which at $39 billion is more than 
double its market value. The cut also puts the carrier in the 
same league as Portugal Telecom SGPS SA and carmaker  Fiat SpA. (F)   Explaining its decision late yesterday, Moody’s analyst
Carlos Winzer cited uncertainty over Telecom Italia’s ability to
strengthen its balance sheet sufficiently to offset a decline in
revenue and earnings in its domestic market -- one of  Europe ’s
most hurt by the debt crisis as consumers canceled phone
subscriptions or looked for bargains.  Standard & Poor’s  said
this week a cut to junk is “the more likely outcome” when it
completes its own review by the end of November.  “Junk level is a very bad news for Telecom Italia and the
company doesn’t have a clear strategy for the future,” Andrea
Giuricin, a media and telecommunications analyst at Milan
Bicocca University, said in a phone interview. “After the
downgrade the Italian government may decide to insist on
enforcing its so-called golden power.”  Brazil Dispute  Telecommunications and airlines are considered strategic
industries by Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s five-month-old
administration. The government has signed a decree giving the
state a say in any sale of fixed-line network to a foreign
buyer. It is also pushing for a state-controlled company to
invest in Alitalia SpA and ease a combination with Air France-KLM Group or another airline, people familiar with the matter
said this week.  Other Italian companies that are rated junk include Fiat,
which lost its investment grade in 2009 and whose most recent
Ba3 rating by Moody’s is three levels into junk. Aerospace and
defense company Finmeccanica SpA was stripped of its investment
grade this year.  Telecom Italia’s downgrade is also a blow for  Telefonica
SA (TEF) , the shareholder who last month increased its stake in the
holding company that controls Telecom Italia’s board. Telefonica
is in favor of a sale of Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  for cash, people familiar with the matter have
said. Franco Bernabe, who had been against a sale of Latin
American assets and preferred a capital increase and a spinoff
of Telecom Italia’s fixed-line network, quit on Oct. 3.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Telecom Italia rose to an 11-month
high of 399 basis points on Aug. 5 from 248 basis points in May
and now cost 370 basis points, Bloomberg data show. The swaps
imply a B1 rating, four steps below investment grade, according
to Moody’s Analytics.  The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreement and an increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Telecom Italia fell 1.7 percent 61 cents at 9:06 a.m. in
Milan, valuing the company at 11 billion euros. The stock is
down 11 percent this year, headed for its ninth consecutive
annual decline. Under Bernabe’s near six-year tenure as CEO,
Telecom Italia has lost about $40 billion in market value. The
company has also reported writedowns totaling about $19 billion
since 2011.  Financially ‘Solid’  In a statement, Telecom Italia said that it is “solid both
industrially and financially,” citing its cash-flow generation
of 32 billion euros in the last 5 years. “Deleverage has always
been, and will continue to be, a priority,” it said.  A Telefonica representative declined to comment.  Speaking to analysts Aug. 2, Chief Financial Officer
Piergiorgio Peluso said there is a risk of repayment of loans
Telecom Italia owes to the  European Investment Bank  in the event
of a downgrade and if the carrier can’t reach an agreement on
additional guarantees or a revision of the price.  Telecom Italia will have trouble meeting its full-year
earnings targets because of  Italy ’s economic weakness,
unemployment and the effects of tougher regulation and
competition, Moody’s said yesterday.  The company cut its profit forecast in August, saying it
expected a mid-single-digit percent decline from 2012, down from
an earlier forecast of low single digits. Second-quarter revenue
in Italy, where it competes with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind unit, slumped 10 percent as earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 13
percent. Telecom Italia is relying on growth in  Brazil  and
 Argentina  to offset the decline.  Marco Patuano, who was put in charge of the company after
Bernabe’s resignation, plans to propose turnaround measures to
the board next month, probably including recommendations on the
future of Telecom Italia’s Latin American assets.  “It’s really a question of how long they stay junk rated
and whether they can sell Tim Brazil or not,”  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein,
said after Moody’s downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  