-- Emerging-Market Economic Growth Stays Sluggish, HSBC Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-10-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/emerging-market-economic-growth-stays-sluggish-hsbc-says.html
Emerging-market economic growth
remains “muted” with a confidence gauge just above the
threshold signaling expansion, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The HSBC  Emerging Markets  Index rose to 50.8 in September
from 50.7 in August, the bank said in a report published today,
citing a survey of  purchasing managers . That’s still the third-lowest reading in more than four years. A value above 50
indicates expansion and below 50 signals contraction. The index
is compiled by London-based Markit Economics and tracks
conditions at more than 5,000 companies.  The measure averaged 50.3 in the three months through
September, HSBC said. That’s the least since the first quarter
of 2009, when emerging markets suffered a shortage of investment
and credit in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy. Among the largest emerging economies -- so-called
BRICs -- Brazil,  Russia  and  China  posted “modest” increases in
activity, while India’s reading fell for a third month and
declined at the fastest pace since March 2009.  “The September PMIs show economic conditions in emerging
markets are showing marginal improvement, although the data
remain disappointing overall,” Pablo Goldberg, the head of
global emerging markets research at HSBC in  New York , said in
the report. “Domestic economic conditions are still weakening
in emerging markets.”  IMF Forecast  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global
outlook as capital outflows further weaken emerging markets, and
warned that a U.S. government default could “seriously damage”
the world economy. A deadlocked  U.S. Congress  is struggling to
find a path toward raising the nation’s debt ceiling and ending
a partial government shutdown.  Growth worldwide will be 2.9 percent this year and 3.6
percent next year, the IMF said in a report released in
Washington. That compares with its July predictions of 3.1
percent and 3.8 percent, respectively. It sees emerging
economies growing 4.5 percent this year, 0.5 percentage point
less than three months ago.  Investors sold riskier emerging-market assets after the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled in June that it may begin to
withdraw stimulus measures, threatening to derail a recovery.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 4.5 percent this
year, compared with a 17 percent gain for the  S&P 500. (SPX)   The HSBC Emerging Markets Future Output Index, which gauges
company executives’ expectations for output in a year, fell in
September to hold “only slightly above” June’s record low,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  