-- Ethanol’s Discount to Gasoline Widens on Signs of Higher Output
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-10-08T20:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/ethanol-s-discount-to-gasoline-widens-on-signs-of-higher-output.html
Ethanol’s discount to gasoline
widened for a third straight session amid dry weather that will
help U.S. corn growers step up their harvest, enabling
distillers to increase production of the biofuel.  The spread, or price difference, widened 0.15 cent to 94.06
cents a gallon as the corn harvest, which started in September
and ends in November, will lower costs for makers of the fuel.
Output has risen 14 percent through Sept. 27 from a record low
in January, Energy Information Administration data show.  “The general trend is going to increase from here,” said
Mike Blackford, a consultant at Intl FCStone in Des Moines,
 Iowa .  Denatured ethanol for November delivery advanced 0.3 cent
to $1.69 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade after touching
$1.668, the lowest price since July 2010. Futures have dropped
23 percent this year.  November-delivery gasoline rose 0.45 cent to $2.6306 a
gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract covers
reformulated gasoline, made to be blended with ethanol before
delivery to filling stations.  U.S. cornfields will get mostly dry weather in the next six
days, allowing harvesters to work after a week of above-average
rain for more than half of the Midwest, T-Storm Weather LLC in
Chicago said in a report today.  Harvest Pace  Ethanol is made from corn in the U.S. About 12 percent of
the  crop was harvested  as of Sept. 27, according to the
Agriculture Department.  More recent  data  isn’t available because of the partial
government shutdown. Blackford said that’s contributed to lower
ethanol prices, as traders don’t have access to more up-to-date
information on the market.  He also said traders expect the shutdown to cut demand for
the additive.  Ethanol  inventories  dropped for a third week to 15.5
million barrels in the week ended Sept. 27, after hitting a
record low in June, according to the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Suit Filed  The American Petroleum Institute filed suit today against
the Environmental Protection Agency’s renewable fuel standard
blending requirements for 2013, calling them “unrealistic.”
Oil refiners and importers are required to use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol this year.  The EPA tracks compliance with the blending mandate with
Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINS, certificates attached
to each gallon of biofuel that are submitted to the government
and can be traded among companies.  Corn-based RINs fell 1 cent to 39 cents, while  advanced
RINs , which cover biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-based
ethanol, declined 1 cent to 50 cents, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The USDA  estimated  last month that the corn crop will reach
a record 13.8 billion bushels.  Corn Prices  Corn for December delivery declined 7.5 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $4.4175 a bushel in  Chicago . The December crush
spread of corn to ethanol was 1 cent, up from minus 1 cent
yesterday.  In cash market trading, ethanol rose 4 cents to $2.075 a
gallon in Chicago, 3.5 cents to $2.155 on the Gulf Coast, 2.5
cents to $2.05 on the West Coast and 1 cent to $2.21 a gallon in
New York, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  New York’s premium to Chicago narrowed 3 cents to 13.5
cents, while the West Coast’s discount to the Gulf widened 3.5
cents to 10.5 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  