-- EU Can Keep Airline Carbon Plan Using UN Credits, IETA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-10-08T16:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/eu-can-salvage-aviation-carbon-plan-with-un-credits-ieta-says.html
Europe may need to let airlines use
United Nations credits to meet pollution caps after countries
spurned the bloc’s plan to apply its carbon market to overseas
flights, according to the biggest emissions trading lobby group.  “There’s an opening for the European Union to negotiate
with other countries” on airlines’ compliance with its
greenhouse-gas limits, said Dirk Forrister, the president of the
International Emission Trading Association in Geneva. One option
is to allow flights from developing nations to use credits
created from UN-overseen projects to reduce emissions, he said
in a phone interview yesterday.  The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization on Oct.
4 approved steps toward a market to cut emissions in the $708
billion  airline industry  starting 2020. The UN agency declined
to back the EU’s plan to include flights into and out of Europe
in the bloc’s trading system before a global program starts,
even after it limited the scope to flights within its airspace.  The EU’s carbon market, the world’s biggest, started in
2005 and allocates tradable emission permits to polluters, which
must surrender them to cover discharges or pay fines. The bloc
expanded its program last year to cover airlines, triggering
protests from Saudi Arabia to the U.S. that prompted it to
suspend the carbon curbs on foreign flights for a year.  Emissions Reduction  Airlines in the EU could use cheaper UN credits to meet as
much as 15 percent of their emission obligations for 2012 and
1.5 percent for the following eight years. That share may need
to increase if the bloc wants to include international air
traffic in its market before 2020, Forrister said.  Use of credits by airlines in the eight-year period through
2020 may amount to about 10 million tons of carbon dioxide
equivalent, assuming international flights remain out of the
market, according to Itamar Orlandi, a London-based analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The total supply of new CERs was
11.2 million tons last month, UN data show.  EU permits for December, the benchmark contract, fell 2
percent to close at 4.88 euros ($6.62) a metric ton on ICE
Futures Europe in London. That’s more than eight times the 58
euro cents a ton for UN Certified Emission Reductions, or CERs,
created from greenhouse-gas reducing projects in developing
nations.  China and  India , the top two producers of CERs, are among
countries that protested the EU’s inclusion of overseas flights
in its carbon market.  Global Deal  “We have always said that the EU was ready to amend its
legislation to reflect the outcome of a global deal,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the commission on climate in
Brussels, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.
EU lawmakers will now determine what they want for the bloc’s
carbon market through 2020, he said.  Other ways the EU could encourage voluntary inclusion into
its emissions market may include setting aside some revenue from
sales of carbon allowances for climate-protection research,
Forrister said.  A diluted draft recommended by a majority of states in the
36-nation ICAO Council last month allowed the EU to continue its
program for flights within its airspace. The original version
that was suspended covered emissions from the whole length of
journeys into and out of the bloc.  While the EU proposal wasn’t endorsed by ICAO last week,
the EU still has the right to cap airline emissions within its
airspace before a global market starts, EU Transport
Commissioner Siim Kallas said Oct. 4.  “If the EU can correct some of the shortcomings in its
emissions trading system design, there is scope to find
agreement” with its trading partners on keeping some
international flights, Daniel Rossetto, the managing director of
Climate Mundial Ltd. in  London , said by phone in an Oct. 4
interview.  There’s a “better-than-even” chance the bloc is willing
to forgo charging for emissions outside its airspace, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  