-- EU Parliament Dilutes Proposal for Tougher Tobacco Regulation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-10-08T11:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/eu-parliament-dilutes-proposal-for-tougher-tobacco-regulation.html
The European Parliament scaled back
plans for more stringent regulation of the tobacco industry,
setting up a clash with national governments over draft
legislation meant to curb smoking in Europe.  The European Union assembly rejected a proposal to regulate
nicotine-containing goods like electronic cigarettes as
medicines, opting instead to apply rules on general product
safety. As part of a plan to ban the sale of cigarettes and
roll-your-own tobacco with characterizing flavors, the 28-nation
Parliament also voted to phase out menthol cigarettes over eight
years rather than three years agreed by EU governments.  The Parliament today in Strasbourg,  France , endorsed two
central positions of governments on the draft law: requirements
that cigarette packages feature a combined pictorial and text
alert covering 65 percent of the front and back and that the
health warnings appear at the top of the packs. Under current EU
rules, anti-smoking images on packages are optional while text
warnings are mandatory.  The stance by the EU’s only directly elected institution
follows months of industry lobbying over the latest bid to
prevent young people from starting to smoke in Europe, where
tobacco-related illnesses are estimated to kill one person every
minute.  Tobacco Kills  The 766-seat Parliament’s position also comes after an
agreement reached among EU governments in June, six months after
the draft law was proposed by the  European Commission , the
bloc’s Brussels-based regulatory arm. The differences between
the Parliament and national governments must be resolved in
negotiations that both sides aim to complete by May 2014, when
the assembly holds elections on a new five-year legislative
term.  Tobacco kills as many as 695,000 people a year in the EU,
or one person every 45 seconds, according to the commission,
which says a third of Europeans still smoke. Smoking is the
largest avoidable health risk in Europe, causing more problems
than alcohol, drugs, high blood pressure, high cholesterol or
obesity, according to the commission.  Cancers as well as cardiovascular and respiratory diseases
are linked to tobacco use. Saying that 70 percent of smokers
start before the age of 18, the commission described the goal of
its draft legislation as to make tobacco goods less attractive
to young people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  