-- EU Presses Ahead on Non-Euro Bank Backstop Over Objection
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-08T15:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/eu-presses-ahead-on-non-euro-bank-backstop-over-objection.html
The European Commission is pressing
ahead with plans to create a bank backstop for non-euro
countries in a rebuff to German and British objections, European
Union officials said.  The proposal would update the 50 billion-euro ($68 billion)
 balance-of-payments fund  so that it can provide direct aid to
banks if a nation’s financial stability is in jeopardy. The plan
has met stiff opposition from the U.K. and  Germany , who say
countries should rely on existing resources if their banks run
into trouble.  The commission wants a resource that can operate alongside
the euro area’s 500 billion-euro firewall, the European
Stability Mechanism, so that the entire 28-nation EU is braced
for the results of stress tests planned for 2014.  France  remains open to the idea and would like to get a
deal on bank resolution soon, a French official said. Bank
resolution talks will heat up in November as officials race to
get a framework in place by the end of this year, a second
French official said, speaking on condition of anonymity, like
the other officials cited here, because the talks are private.  The balance-of-payments tool is one of several financial
instruments foreseen, according to an official for the
Lithuanian presidency of the EU. Other tools would include two
types of credit lines and a “regular” macroeconomic adjustment
program, in which a country receives aid in exchange for meeting
a series of economic and fiscal conditions, the official said.  New Tools  Euro-area nations have a similar set of options via the
ESM. Euro finance ministers have agreed on the possibility of
direct bank aid and are now debating how and when it might be
available. For non-euro nations, the balance-of-payments fund
currently has about 40 billion euros available, after being used
to help Latvia, Hungary and  Romania .  Denmark, one of the non-euro nations that could be eligible
to use the new tool, hasn’t taken a position on the issue yet,
Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said. Public backstops may
take on particular importance if countries haven’t had time to
build up resolution funds paid for by bank levies, she said.  “We haven’t decided what to think,” Vestager said in an
interview. “We’re obviously concerned about what will happen if
a non-euro country joins in to handle resolving a bank, and we
won’t be able to draw upon the ESM for bridge financing if the
industry can’t pay right away itself.”  The commission has revised its proposal to backstop the
non-euro nations in part to address concerns expressed by
lawyers for the Council of the European Union, which represents
member states. The revised plan was accepted by the lawyers at a
recent technical meeting on the subject, according to two EU
officials.  Simon O’Connor, a spokesman for EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , declined to comment on the plans
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  