-- European Stocks Fall as Investors Watch U.S. Deadlock
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-08T15:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/europe-stock-index-futures-little-changed-amid-u-s-talks.html
European stocks  fell for a second
day, extending a four-week low, as investors watched the start
of the U.S. earnings-reporting season and efforts to end a
government shutdown in the world’s largest economy.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  lost 1.8 percent as Standard & Poor’s
said it may downgrade the phone company’s debt to non-investment
grade.  TGS Nopec Geophysical Co. (TGS)  tumbled the most in two years
after reducing its revenue forecast. Celesio AG jumped to a
three-year high on a report that McKesson Corp. may buy the
German drug distributor.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.8 percent to 306.84 at
the close in London. The equity benchmark dropped 0.2 percent
yesterday, to its lowest level since Sept. 9, after U.S. House
Speaker John Boehner said he will attach conditions before
backing a bill to increase the federal borrowing limit.  “Investors are nervous because of the political wrangling
in the U.S., though we do believe that there will be a last-minute compromise and nobody wants to be caught short,” said
Carsten Hilck, who oversees about $6.8 billion as senior fund
manager at Union Investment Privatfonds GmbH in  Frankfurt .  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 9 percent higher than the average of the past
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Amid a delay in the release of U.S. economic data because
of the shutdown since Oct. 1, investors turn their attention to
corporate earnings. Results from Alcoa Inc. after the close of
markets mark the unofficial start of the U.S. quarterly
reporting season. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co.
will also report this week.  U.S. Shutdown  The U.S. government entered a partial shutdown Oct. 1 after
Congress failed to pass a spending authorization bill for the
financial year. It suspended some services and sent hundreds of
thousands of workers on unpaid leave amid a disagreement between
Republicans and Democrats.  The deadlock has coincided with the need to raise the
government’s borrowing authority. Republicans demand changing
the 2010 Affordable Care Act before doing so, while President
 Barack Obama  has ruled out any negotiations on that aspect.  Senate Democrats plan a test vote before the end of this
week on a measure that would grant Obama the authority to raise
the debt limit, probably for a year unless two-thirds of both
chambers of Congress disapprove.  The Treasury Department has said it is likely to hit the
$16.7 trillion debt ceiling Oct. 17. If that happens, the
government will run out of cash to pay all of its bills at some
point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  German Economy  German  factory orders  unexpectedly fell in August, data
showed. Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
dropped 0.3 percent from July, when they fell a revised 1.9
percent, the  Economy Ministry  said. Economists had forecast a
1.1 percent increase in August, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 16 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 1.1
percent, while  Germany ’s DAX lost 0.4 percent.  France ’s CAC 40
slid 0.8 percent.  Telecom Italia fell 1.8 percent to 61.7 euro cents. A
reduction of the BBB- long-term  rating  to BB+ is the “more
likely outcome” after S&P concludes its review by the end of
next month, the ratings company said yesterday, citing Telecom
Italia’s uncertain strategic direction after Chief Executive
Officer France Bernabe quit.  TGS Sinks  TGS Nopec Geophysical plunged 15 percent to 147.50 kroner,
its largest drop since August 2011. Sales for the full year will
be between $810 million and $870 million, the company said.
That’s down from its previous forecast for revenue in the range
between $920 million and $1 billion. The oilfield surveyor cited
delays in getting permits for new surveys.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA lost 7.5 percent to 67.95
kroner, its biggest decline in almost two years.  Getinge AB (GETIB)  slumped 10 percent to 197.60 kronor, its largest
drop since March 2009. The maker of sterilization systems said
it will probably report a consolidated profit before tax of 560
million kronor ($87 million) to 570 million kronor for the third
quarter. The average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight
analysts is for pretax profit of 765 million kronor.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  slipped 1.3 percent to 67.20 Swiss francs after
JPMorgan Chase cut its  recommendation  on the drugmaker to
neutral from overweight, a rating similar to buy. The stock has
rallied 17 percent so far this year, compared with a 15 percent
increase for the Swiss Market Index.  Celesio jumped 20 percent to 20.49 euros, its biggest gain
since at least January 1996 and highest price since June 2010.
McKesson is in talks with majority shareholder Franz Haniel &
Cie GmbH to acquire the German company and may offer to buy
Celesio at about 22 euros a share, Dow Jones reported, citing
people it didn’t identify.  Ocado Group Plc rose 5.1 percent to 450.5 pence, its
highest price since it sold shares to the public in July 2010.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended that investors buy the
stock, saying the online grocer’s tie-up with Wm Morrison
Supermarkets Plc will accelerate growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  