-- Teva Plans Doubling of Respiratory Revenue to $2 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-08T16:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/teva-plans-doubling-of-respiratory-revenue-to-2-billion.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
plans to double respiratory-treatment sales to $2 billion in the
next five years, part of a strategy for countering a revenue
decline from its best-selling Copaxone multiple sclerosis drug.  Teva will submit regulatory applications for 13 new
inhalation products to compete in a $20 billion industry, the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in a Web  presentation 
led by Chief Scientific Officer Michael Hayden. Teva’s American
depositary receipts  rose  as much as 2.2 percent at $39.45, the
highest intraday price since Aug. 20, and was trading up 0.7
percent at 12:19 p.m. in New York.  “Teva’s already got a pretty big franchise in this area,
and the idea is now to take advantage of the expertise and
infrastructure and build upon it,” said John Park, co-portfolio
manager at Jackson Park Capital LLC’s Oakseed Opportunity Fund,
of which Teva shares make up about 5 percent of assets.
“There’s going to be all sorts of generic opportunities and
chances to use their platforms to deliver existing products in a
different way.”  The company’s respiratory-drug sales totaled $856 million
in 2012, driven by the ProAir and Qvar products, according to
Bloomberg data. Teva said today that its respiratory business
may quadruple to $4 billion in a decade. That would about match
annual revenue from Copaxone, which may generate less in sales
starting in 2014 because of competition from newer oral drugs as
well as possible generic products.  Spiromax Strategy  The Spiromax respiratory device provides several
opportunities to improve on competitors’ treatments for
conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, the company said. Other options include copying
existing drugs, such as GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s blockbuster Advair
drug, which would require replicating Glaxo’s device.  “Teva has been given limited credit, despite having close
to $1 billion in sales,” Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note before the investor
presentation. “This is probably Teva’s most under-appreciated
asset, and it is not surprising this would be the first vertical
discussed by management.”  The new estimates represent the first time Teva has
specified forecasts for a business unit under new Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Levin. The targets are conservative
compared with the strategy outlined by his predecessor,  Shlomo Yanai , who predicted in 2010 that respiratory-division sales
would account for $2.4 billion in revenue in 2015, out of a
group total of $31 billion.  Teva plans to hold webcasts discussing research and
development strategy about once every other month. The next
program, scheduled for Dec. 5, will focus on the New Therapeutic
Entities business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  