-- Ex-Sentinel Management Trader Pleads Guilty in Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-08T18:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/ex-sentinel-management-trader-pleads-guilty-in-fraud.html
Former Sentinel Management Group Inc.
portfolio manager Charles K. Mosley pleaded guilty to two counts
of investment-adviser fraud before a federal judge in  Chicago 
and faces as long as 10 years in prison.  Mosley and the cash-management firm’s chief executive
officer, Eric A. Bloom, were indicted last year on charges they
misled Sentinel clients about how their money was being handled.
They allegedly defrauded at least 70 customers of more than $500
million. Sentinel filed for bankruptcy in 2007.  While each man initially faced 20 criminal counts, Mosley,
49, of Vernon Hills,  Illinois , agreed to plead guilty to just
two and to cooperate with prosecutors. He entered his plea today
before U.S. District Judge Ronald A. Guzman after Assistant U.S.
Attorney Clifford Histed summarized the charges.  “How do you now plead to counts one and two, guilty or not
guilty?” Guzman asked Mosley.  “Guilty, your honor,” Mosley replied.  He and Bloom pleaded not guilty last year. Bloom’s trial is
scheduled for Feb. 24. Guzman said he would delay Mosley’s
sentencing until after then.  Mosley and lawyer Charles L. Nesbit left the courthouse
without speaking to reporters. While Bloom’s lawyers, Theodore
Poulos and Terence Campbell, attended today’s hearing, Campbell
said afterward that they wouldn’t comment.  Short-Term Investments  A futures commission merchant, Northbrook, Illinois-based
Sentinel managed short-term investments for commodity pools,
 hedge funds , a pension fund and other customers, prosecutors
said in announcing the charges last year.  Bloom and Mosley were accused of misappropriating client
securities and using them as collateral for money borrowed from
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the U.S. said.  Those proceeds were used partly to buy millions of dollars
in high-risk and illiquid investments for a portfolio maintained
for Sentinel officers, including the defendants, prosecutors
said.  Mosley today admitted to sending at least one Sentinel
client a false daily account statement to cover up the
executives’ actions.  “Sentinel Management Group wanted its rates of return to
be above those of its competitors,” to be more attractive to
customers, Histed told the judge today.  Account Statements  Statements sent to those customers were based on interest
income rates calculated by Bloom and Mosley, not the performance
of the customers’ investment portfolios, according to Mosley’s
plea agreement.  Bloom faces 18 wire fraud counts, each punishable by as
long as 20 years in prison, and one count each of  securities
fraud  and making false statements to an employee pension plan.  A U.S. appeals court in Chicago ruled in August that BNY
Mellon must defend against a lawsuit challenging its
$312 million lien on Sentinel’s assets.  The case is U.S. v. Bloom, 12-cr-00409, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  