-- Texas Power Providers Seek Fees to Insure Generation Reserves
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-08T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/texas-power-providers-seek-fees-to-insure-generation-reserves.html
Electricity providers in  Texas  say
they should be paid by households and businesses to be sure
there’s enough generation capacity held in reserve for days when
demand is highest.  The Texas Public Utility Commission is considering rules
that would overhaul how the main state power market managed by
the Electricity Reliability Council of Texas Inc. operates.
Instead of relying solely on electricity prices for profits,
providers would also receive fixed payments from consumers to
build and maintain supply. These so-called capacity payments
would largely go to plant owners.  Executives of  Calpine Corp. (CPN) , the third-biggest power
provider in Texas; CPS Energy, the nation’s largest municipally
owned gas and electric company; and  EnerNoc Inc. (ENOC) , the largest
demand-response provider, supported the payments before the
commission today. Groups representing industrial consumers, such
as independent oil refiner  Valero Corp. (VLO) , oppose the move.  “Capacity markets don’t cost more, are far more reliable
and stable than other market designs,” Thad Hill, president of
Calpine, told the three commissioners in Austin today. “Calpine
would not invest hundreds of millions of dollars into brand new
capacity. We think that is true of other investors as well.”  Generators have been seeking a capacity market as a way to
recoup costs following a 73 percent drop in the price of natural
gas, a power-plant fuel, over the past five years, which drove
electricity prices lower. Last year, the Texas utility
commission responded by raising the cap on wholesale power
prices to $4,500 a megawatt-hour from $3,000 with the limit
rising to $9,000 in June 2015.  “We urge the commission not to think there is a crisis,
because there really isn’t,” said Phillip Oldham, a
representative of Texas Industrial Energy Consumers, a coalition
of members, including Valero, that purchase more than 1.3
billion kilowatt-hours a year. “We want reliability, but we
want it at reduced costs.”  Chris Brewster, an attorney for the Steering Committee of
Cities Served by Oncor, the state’s largest utility, said a
mandatory reserve margin “produces increased regulation and
litigation and a much less streamlined and efficient process.”
The cities oppose capacity payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  