-- Exchanges to Delay Including ‘Odd Lots’ in Volume Tally
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2013-10-08T01:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/exchanges-to-delay-including-odd-lots-in-volume-tally.html
A plan to start including U.S. stock
trades of fewer than 100 shares, known as odd lots, in the
official tally of American volume was delayed by seven weeks.  The change, which was supposed to take effect on Oct. 21,
will now start on Dec. 9, pending regulatory approval, according
to notices on the websites of New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.  and  NYSE Euronext .  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White set a mid-November deadline for market owners to devise
suggestions for preventing outages like  Nasdaq ’s three-hour halt
on Aug. 22. That shutdown was caused by an error in Nasdaq’s
securities information processor, or SIP, the same system
exchanges are updating to accommodate odd lots. The Oct. 21 date
for the odd lot transition was announced two weeks before the
Nasdaq malfunction.  “It seems prudent to wait,” Christopher Nagy, who founded
consultant Kor Trading LLC after leaving TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. in 2012, said in a phone interview today. The delay is
“probably due to the SIP error and a reluctance to do anything
different until they’re sure,” he said. “I don’t think they
want another meltdown like we saw in August.”  Rising share prices and the spread of computer strategies
have reduced the size of stock trades, making more transactions
ineligible for inclusion in the public record. The average
transaction for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies has shrunk
to fewer than 200 shares from about 800 shares a decade ago,
according to data compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Cornell University ’s Maureen O’Hara and Chen Yao and Mao Ye
of the  University of Illinois  published a  paper  in 2011 that
estimated excluding transactions of fewer than 100 shares meant
4 percent of volume wasn’t recorded. The authors said in June
that the figure had since risen to 4.9 percent.  Trading of exchange-listed U.S. stocks totaled 5 billion
shares today, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg that don’t
include odd lots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Baker in Chicago at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  