-- Extended Stay Hotel Chain Seeks Up to $500 Million in IPO
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-08T19:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/extended-stay-hotel-venture-to-raise-up-to-500-million-in-ipo.html
Extended Stay America Inc., the mid-price lodging chain owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Centerbridge
Partners LP and Paulson & Co., increased the amount it plans to
raise in an initial public offering to as much as $500 million.  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will underwrite the sale, according to a regulatory
filing today. Extended Stay, the largest owner-operator of
company-branded hotels in  North America , filed for the IPO in
July with a placeholder amount of $100 million.  The owners, which hold equal parts of the chain, are taking
it public three years after buying it out of bankruptcy.
Extended Stay, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is seeking to
take advantage of a rally in shares of lodging companies. The
Bloomberg REIT Hotel Index has increased almost 17 percent in
2013 and hovers close to a five-year high.  Blackstone, based in  New York , also owns Hilton Worldwide
Holdings Inc., which last month filed for a $1.25 billion IPO.  Extended Stay is selling paired common stock, comprising
one share of the company and one Class B share of a related
entity that seeks to be taxed as a real estate investment trust,
the filing shows. Each paired share will trade as one unit.  Extended Stay expects net proceeds from the IPO of about
$461 million, according to the filing shows. The company owns
and operates almost 700 hotels in the U.S. and  Canada , with
about 75,900 rooms. The chain is valued at about $3 billion to
$4 billion, excluding debt, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in July.  The company, led by former  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive
Officer Jim Donald, had revenue of $1 billion last year and net
income of $22.3 million, according to today’s filing. It has
changed owners three times during the past decade’s boom and
bust in real estate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  