-- Facebook Streamlines Advertising-Buying Process
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-08T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/facebook-streamlines-advertising-buying-process.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is redesigning its
advertising service with new tools that automate marketers’
campaigns goals, as the operator of the world’s
biggest social-networking service seeks to boost sales.  Instead of spending time choosing different types of
promotions, businesses can select one of eight objectives, such
as converting users into buyers or boosting the number of
“likes” on the site, David Baser, a product manager at
Facebook, said. The new system then recommends the best kind of
ads to deploy and tracks the results of the campaign.  Facebook is working to improve its products for advertisers
aiming to reach its more than 1 billion users, as Twitter Inc.
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  step up competition. Part of that is a
simplification of the ad-buying system, which has different
offerings that were introduced over the past few years. The
company said in June it would trim the number of promotions and
cut the number of steps for marketers to use the site.  “We want to make the ad-buying process simple and easy to
understand: ‘Tell us your objective. We’ll set you up for
success,’” Baser said in an interview. “We also want to make
it easy to understand your performance.”  The Menlo Park, California-based company is also adding new
features that let customers choose whether their ads appear on
mobile devices or desktop computers, he said.  Advertising makes up most of Facebook’s revenue, which
 climbed  53 percent to $1.81 billion in the second quarter from a
year earlier, topping analysts’ estimates. The company is
 scheduled  to report quarterly results Oct. 30, and  analysts are
projecting  revenue to increase 51 percent to $1.90 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  