-- Falcons Seen Losing Leading Receiver Julio Jones to Foot Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-08T19:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/falcons-seen-losing-leading-receiver-julio-jones-to-foot-injury.html
Atlanta Falcons Pro Bowl receiver
Julio Jones, who leads the  National Football League  with 41
catches, might miss the rest of the season with a foot injury.  Coach  Mike Smith  said the initial diagnosis “was not
encouraging,” while declining to give specifics of Jones’s
injury or which foot was involved. The injury could keep Jones
out for the Falcons’ remaining 11 games, according to ESPN,
which cited an unidentified person familiar with the situation.  “He’s going to be a hard guy to replace if we have to
replace him,” Smith said at a news conference. He said Jones
will get a second opinion and treatment options tomorrow in
Charlotte, North Carolina.  Jones, 24, was hurt during the Falcons’ 30-28 loss to the
 New York  Jets last night, when he caught eight passes for a
team-high 99 yards. Jones made a one-handed, 46-yard catch with
less than six minutes left to help set up a go-ahead score for
Atlanta before the Jets’ winning drive.  The sixth pick in the 2011  NFL draft , Jones had been the
most consistent offensive threat this season for the Falcons,
who are 1-4 after a 13-3 record last season. In addition to
leading the NFL in receptions, he’s second to New Orleans Saints
tight end  Jimmy Graham  with 580 receiving yards, and scored two
touchdowns.  The loss of Jones may be the most significant injury for
the Falcons, who have been without running back Steven Jackson
since Week 2 because of a hamstring injury and have had receiver
Roddy White slowed by an ankle sprain. White also strained his
hamstring last night.  The Falcons have a bye during Week 6 before their next
game, on Oct. 20 against the winless  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  