-- FDIC Urges Judge to Reject $500 Million Countrywide Deal
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-08T23:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/fdic-urges-judge-to-reject-500-million-countrywide-deal.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
urged a U.S. judge to reject a proposed $500 million class-action settlement between  Bank of America Corp. ’s Countrywide
unit and investors in devalued mortgage-backed securities.  The FDIC, as receiver for 19 failed banks that owned the
Countrywide securities, said in a filing yesterday in federal
court in Los Angeles that the proposed settlement sets aside
only $41 million for the claims of 91 percent of the investors
in the securities while the lawyers for the lead plaintiffs will
receive $85 million.  The lead plaintiffs and their lawyers can only represent a
“tiny minority” of the investors because of a series of
rulings by U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in 2011 in the
federal securities class-action. The judge said only the claims
for securities that were purchased by investors who filed the
very first lawsuits could proceed under federal securities law.  “The court’s ruling on standing disarmed the named
plaintiffs,” the FDIC said. “They could no longer use the
threat of litigation to press for a better offer, and they then
ceased to be able to fairly and adequately protect the interests
of the class.”  Too Small  The FDIC also said the $500 million amount is too small
because it represents only about 0.11 percent of the $450.7
billion face value of the securities it covers. Previous class-action settlements of residential mortgage-backed securities
cases have averaged 1.1 percent of the face value of the
securities, according to the FDIC.  Pfaelzer in August gave preliminary approval to the
settlement. A hearing on final approval is scheduled for Oct.
28.  The settlement resolves three class-action lawsuits brought
by investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. residential
mortgage-backed securities who claimed the mortgage lender lied
in the offering documents for the securities.  The settlement sets aside $267 million, after the lawyers’
share, for claims by investors in a group of 58 sections of
securities that had been originally purchased by the plaintiffs
in the initial lawsuits filed as early as 2007 in  California 
state court.  $111 Million  The settlement leaves $111 million for investors in
sections of the securities for which class-action claims were
filed too late. The remainder of the settlement goes to
investors in parts of the securities for which no plaintiff
sought to represent other investors in a class-action case.  The entire settlement covers about 430 offerings of
Countrywide mortgage-backed securities that were sold in about
9,200 segments divided by credit risk and rate of return for the
underlying residential mortgages.  The state court cases, filed on behalf of investors in all
9,200 segments, were removed to federal court last year and
Pfaelzer hasn’t yet applied the same ruling on standing as she
had in the federal class-action case. That created a
“procedural interlude” for the named plaintiffs in those cases
to settle on behalf of all investors, according to the FDIC.  ‘Vulnerable’ Rulings  “If named plaintiffs and class counsel had been objective,
they would have realized that this court’s rulings on the scope
of standing in RMBS class actions are vulnerable on appeal and
worth untold times more than the $41 million that the proposed
settlement would award to absent class members whose claims
would be revived if those rulings were reversed,” the FDIC
said.  The FDIC and other investors in Countrywide mortgage-backed
securities have filed separate lawsuits both under federal and
state law following Pfaelzer’s rulings in 2011 on the standing
issue. Pfaelzer in July instructed the lawyers who reached a
settlement to make sure that attorneys for investors in those
cases knew that the settlement could wipe out their claims.  Spencer Burkholz, a lawyer for the named plaintiffs in the
original state court lawsuits, said at an Aug. 1 hearing before
Pfaelzer that the appellate rights for the dismissed claims were
“speculative” and that investors who were unhappy with the
settlement could opt out.  Burkholz didn’t immediately return a call for comment on
the FDIC’s objections.  BofA Spokesman  The class-action settlement is separate from the $8.5
billion accord between Bank of America and 22 institutional
investors in Countrywide mortgage-backed securities filed in New
York. That settlement, which is still pending, would resolve
claims that Countrywide is contractually obliged to compensate
investors for underlying mortgages that went into default.  The settlement before Pfaelzer resolves claims by the
original purchasers of the Countrywide securities, whereas the
settlement in New York resolves claims by current holders of
them, Burkholz said at the Aug. 1 hearing.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets,
acquired Countrywide in 2008.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
FDIC’s filing.  Michele Heller, an FDIC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  