-- Fed Tapering Is Key Downside Risk for Emerging Asia, OECD Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-08T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/fed-tapering-is-key-downside-risk-for-emerging-asia-oecd-says.html
Emerging Asia’s medium-term economic
growth faces risks from the paring of monetary stimulus by the
U.S. Federal Reserve, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said.  Policy makers in the region, which includes Southeast Asia,
 China (CNGDPYOY)  and India, will continue to face the challenge of managing
international capital flows while ensuring sustainable growth,
the Paris-based OECD said in a report released in Brunei today.  The World Bank yesterday cut its growth forecasts for
developing East Asia this year and next, citing risks to the
global recovery including the Fed’s tapering of its monthly
asset purchases. Emerging-market stocks plunged after May 22,
when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said for the first time it
could withdraw stimulus, and then rebounded after the Fed
decided last month to continue its quantitative-easing program.  “One of the key imminent downside risks facing emerging
Asia is volatility in the financial markets, triggered by the
prospects of tapering of quantitative easing policy in the
U.S.,” the OECD said. There are signs of macroeconomic
weaknesses, particularly in  India  and  Indonesia , where
persistent current-account deficits are a concern, it said.  India’s economic growth is expected to slow to an average
5.9 percent per annum from 2014 to 2018 from 7.1 percent in the
period from 2000 to 2007, the OECD said. Indonesia’s expansion
will average 6 percent over the next five years, it said.  Rising Wages  Emerging Asian economies are expected to expand 6.9 percent
per year from 2014 to 2018, the OECD said, while Southeast
Asia’s real gross domestic product growth may average 5.4
percent annually in the same period, it said.  Over the next five years, slower growth, exchange-rate
fluctuations and rapidly rising wages in Southeast Asia and
 China  may curb demand from advanced economies for their
manufacturing exports, the OECD said. Economic development in
the region will probably increasingly depend on the services
sector, it said.  The largest developing nations for the first time have the
worst market opportunities as optimism for stronger growth
shifts to the U.S. and Europe, according to a Bloomberg Global
Poll last month. India fared the poorest, followed by  Brazil ,
 Russia  and China, a worldwide poll of investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed.  China’s expansion is expected to moderate to 7.7 percent a
year in the 2014-2018 period, compared with 10.5 percent from
2000 to 2007, the OECD said. The slowdown could weaken the
growth momentum of Southeast Asian economies as they become more
dependent on China as a key trading partner, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  