-- FIFA Investigators to Meet Bidders in Probe Into World Cups
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-08T13:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/fifa-investigators-to-meet-all-bidders-into-world-cup-host-award.html
Investigators from world soccer’s
governing body will meet with every country that bid for the
2018 and 2022 World Cups as part of a probe into possible
violations of FIFA’s code of ethics.  Michael Garcia , a former U.S. Attorney for  New York , is
leading the inquiry, but Cornel Borbely will take over areas
involving Russian and American bids for the events to avoid a
conflict of interest for Garcia, according to an e-mailed
statement from his  law firm , Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  “Our role, in this or any other matter, is to investigate
potential violations of the  FIFA  Code of Ethics,” the
investigatory panel said in the statement. “We will consider
any allegations and evidence indicative of such violations, and
we urge anyone with potentially relevant information to contact
us now.”  The probe into the award of the 2018 World Cup to  Russia 
and the 2022 event to Qatar will “extend at least several
months into 2014,” the panel said. Garcia was hired in 2012 as
FIFA attempted to improve its ability to investigate wrongdoing.  Mark Pieth , a Swiss law professor picked by FIFA to study
the way the organization is governed, said last year that
investigators should look at the selection of the World Cup
hosts. Only 22 out of the eligible executive board members voted
after two were suspended for allegedly offering to sell their
votes to undercover reporters posing as businessmen.  Political Influence  Only 13 of the executive board that made the World Cup host
selections remain at FIFA, with some resigning and others
expelled.  Michel Platini , the head of European soccer, said he voted
for Qatar. While former French president  Nicolas Sarkozy  invited
the ex-player to meet with the emir of Qatar, Platini said he
would have supported Qatar without Sarkozy’s backing. Last month
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said some members’ voting was
affected by political influence.  Qatar says its bid was within guidelines. The Gulf state
spent more than any other bidder to support its effort, and
hired former World Cup winner  Zinedine Zidane  and current Bayern
Munich coach Pep Guardiola to act as ambassadors.  In February 2011, Blatter said Qatar and Spain, a bidder
for the 2018 World Cup, shared “a bundle of votes.” Spain’s
FIFA member Angel Maria Villar Llona has confirmed he voted for
Qatar.  Limited Scope  The scope of Garcia’s power is limited. The American, who
led the investigation that led to  Eliot Spitzer ’s resignation as
New York governor in 2008, can only compel individuals within
soccer to speak with him. The World Cup bids also included
royalty, high-ranking government officials and businessman.  Garcia is barred from entering Russia because of his role
in prosecuting a Russian national on arms smuggling charges.  Blatter, at a press conference last week, insisted the 2022
World Cup would be held in Qatar.  FIFA’s executives are considering changing the dates of the
tournament for the first time in its 83-year history because of
concerns about high temperatures during the Qatari summer. The
investigatory committee isn’t looking at the selection of the
venues or the timing of the event, it said today.  A rescheduling of the tournament is being resisted by
broadcasters including Fox, which holds the television rights in
the U.S., and European leagues that are concerned about the
effect on their schedules.  Frank Lowy , the billionaire
businessman who led Australia’s failed bid for the 2022 World
Cup, said FIFA must compensate the bidders that lost out if the
dates are changed.  Qatar is also under pressure about labor conditions
following the deaths of migrant Nepali workers on projects
there, including some related to the World Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  