-- Founding Mothers of Ashkenazi Jews May Be Converts, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-10-08T19:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/founding-mothers-of-ashkenazi-jews-may-be-converts-study-finds.html
About 80 percent of Ashkenazi
maternal ancestry comes from Europe, not the Near East,
according to a study that suggests a mass conversion of women to
Judaism may have occurred in Europe more than 2,000 years ago.  The findings come from studying  mitochondrial DNA , which
passes from mother to offspring, in about 3,500 people, the
authors wrote  in a paper  in the journal Nature Communications.
About 80 percent of the maternal linages of Ashkenazi Jews came
from Europe, the scientists found.  The Ashkenazi are the most common  Jewish ethnic division .
Previous efforts to trace origins of Ashkenazi Jews have been
spotty and controversial, the authors wrote. The latest research
used a larger database than in previous attempts, allowing them
to unravel the entire mitochondrial genomes.  “A detailed genealogical history for every maternal
lineage in the Ashkenazim is now within reach,” wrote the
authors, led by Gil Atzmon of the Albert Einstein College of
Medicine in New York. “In fact, it should soon be possible to
reconstruct the outlines of the entire dispersal history of each
community.”  The four major female founders of the Ashkenazi show roots
in Europe 10,000 to 20,000 years ago. So do most of the minor
founders, the study found. Only 8 percent of the mitochondrial
DNA shows signs of being from the Near East.  There had been some evidence of mass conversions, 
especially of women, to Judaism throughout the Mediterranean in 
the past, the authors wrote in the study. That resulted in about 
6 million citizens, or a tenth of the Roman population, who were 
Jewish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  