-- G4S Prison Criticized in U.K. Report for Inexperienced Staff
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-08T10:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/g4s-prison-criticized-in-u-k-report-for-inexperienced-staff.html
G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s biggest security
services provider, was criticized by the U.K. prison inspector
for “very concerning” conditions at a new training jail the
company operates near Wolverhampton.  The HM Inspectorate of Prisons said many staff were
inexperienced at Oakwood, which has been managed by G4S since
its opening in April 2012, while many prisoners felt unsafe. The
report was based on an unannounced June inspection of the
facility, which can hold more than 1,600 inmates.  “There is a lot to do before Oakwood is operating anywhere
near effectively,” Nick Hardwick, chief inspector of prisons,
said in the report published on the inspectorate’s website.
“Prisoner frustration needed to be addressed. Systems that
delivered basic services had to be made to work.”  G4S, which generated about 10 percent of revenue last year
from U.K. government contracts, has suffered a series of blows
to its home-market reputation. The company replaced its chief
executive officer after it failed to provide enough guards for
last year’s  London  Olympics and was accused by the Justice
Ministry this year of overcharging for the electronic tagging of
prisoners.  G4S, based in Crawley,  England , said that the size and
scale of Oakwood makes challenges to its operations “more
acute” and that the company is rectifying the situation.  “We have already taken steps to make improvements,
appointing a dedicated task force to address problem areas, such
as the prevalence of drugs, while providing additional funding
where necessary,” Jerry Petherick, managing director of G4S
Custodial and Detention Services, said in an e-mailed comment.  Shares in G4S fell 0.7 percent to 247.50 pence in London at
10:30 a.m. local time, giving the company a market value of 3.8
billion pounds ($6.2 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  