-- Generali CIO to Boost Alternative Fixed-Income Investment
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-10-09T12:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/generali-cio-to-boost-alternative-fixed-income-investment.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Europe’s
third-biggest insurer, plans to increase its investments in
alternative fixed-income securities and real estate as it cuts
liquidity to raise profitability.  “We have had more cash than needed, so we are drawing down
that cash, seeking opportunities in fixed income, like
alternative corporate loans and infrastructure debt,” Chief
Investment Officer Nikhil Srinivasan said in an interview at
Generali’s offices in Milan. “We are very comfortable with our
sovereign debt holdings, however for new money and cash we are
looking at different assets, including corporate private
placements.”  Srinivasan, 45, who oversees about 500 billion euros ($679
billion) of assets at Generali, cut liquidity by 7.5 billion
euros in the first half and invested the funds at an average
yield of 3.5 percent. Generali joins  Axa SA (CS)  and  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
Europe’s two biggest insurers, in betting on infrastructure debt
over the next five years as low interest rates push European
insurers to seek new investments.  Generali, Italy’s biggest insurer, has about 81 percent of
its portfolio in fixed-income instruments, and is seeking higher
returns by diversifying its holdings.  “The infrastructure debt is a very good opportunity for
insurance companies because of low capital charge, increased
duration and decent yields,” said Srinivasan. “The portion of
infrastructure debt we have is insignificant, we want to build
up a portfolio in three to five years.”  Reduced Liquidity  Liquidity, which was about 4 percent to 5 percent at the
end of September, will be cut to about 2 percent by March,
Srinivasan said, adding that the insurer accelerated the
reduction in the third quarter.  The CIO, who was hired from Allianz in February by Chief
Executive Officer Mario Greco,  has been strengthening the
investment team with hiring in asset-liability management,
equities, credit research and fixed-income.  Generali also plans to expand its 30 billion-euro real
estate portfolio in the next two to three years outside
continental Europe, focusing on Asia, U.S. and U.K. markets.
“We have great properties in Europe, but if you look at the
real estate European prices today, not much is cheap,” said
Srinivasan. “We want to increase our position outside Europe.
The U.K. and  Japan  may be two interesting countries.”  Sixty percent of Generali’s property holdings are outside
Italy, including real estate in all major European capitals,
according to a slide presentation of its second-quarter results.  New Management  Generali said Aug. 1 second-quarter  profit  rose 74 percent
to 478 million euros as higher non-life earnings outweighed a
drop at its life business.  The insurer’s new management  led  by Greco is selling non-strategic assets and focusing on its main business to strengthen
finances and boost capital. Generali is more than half way to
reaching its goal of raising 4 billion euros from disposals by
2015, after selling its U.S. reinsurance unit and Mexican
businesses.  Srinivasan is reviewing its stock holdings, replacing non-performing, small assets with private or public equity with
higher returns. “We are rationalizing our equity portfolio,
selling underperforming assets -- especially on the unlisted
side -- and replacing those with performing equity assets,” he
said. “In private equity we are looking for a double-digit
internal rate of return.”  Yesterday Generali announced the sale of its 33.5 percent
stake in Agora Investimenti Srl, the biggest investor in the
Venice airport operator, for about 60 million euros as part of
its disposal strategy.  U.S. Default  On the risk of a U.S. government default, the CIO expects
that a compromise will be reached. Generali hasn’t taken any
measures to prepare for an eventual default because it has
limited holdings in the country.  A possible correction of southern European equities in the
short term is a “buying opportunity,” according to Srinivasan,
who has been bullish on those stocks since mid-year. “From an
equity point of view the best opportunities come from southern
Europe -- Spain,  Italy ,  Greece , Portugal -- on a three-year
strategy.”  European policy makers are on the right path to cutting
budgets and implementing structural reforms, he said. “I cannot
say the same for the U.S. and Asia.”  The markets focus on spreads has been misguided, he said.
“While there will be some volatility going forward driven by
local or European politics, the change in ownership of local
bonds and continually-improving policy-making in the Euro zone
suggest that we are unlikely to see the widenings we saw in the
past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  