-- German Exports Increased in August on Euro-Area Recovery
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/german-exports-increased-in-august-on-euro-area-recovery.html
German  exports (GRBTEXMM)  rose in August amid
signs the economic recovery is continuing in the euro area, the
country’s biggest trading partner.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
increased 1 percent from July, when they decreased a revised 0.8
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a gain of 1.1 percent, according to the
median of 16 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports rose
0.4 percent from July.  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area has fallen from a
record and retail sales climbed more than forecast in August.
While the currency bloc’s recovery from its longest-ever
recession is helping to support growth in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, headwinds such as the U.S. government shutdown
remain.  “ Germany  is still strong and expanding,” said Anatoli Annenkov, senior economist at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“Growth slowed in the third quarter and the political debate in
the U.S. poses some risks to Germany as an export-oriented
nation, but I don’t think the impact will be significant unless
the shutdown continues for an extended period.”  Germany’s  trade surplus  narrowed to 13.1 billion euros
($17.8 billion) in August from 16.2 billion euros in July,
today’s report showed. The surplus in the current account, a
measure of all trade including services, was 9.4 billion euros,
down from 14.2 billion euros.  Jobless Decline  The nation’s  consumer confidence  is at the highest level
since September 2007 and investor sentiment rose to a  three-year
high  in September, according to separate surveys by Nuremberg-based  GfK SE (GFK)  and the ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim. The jobless rate of 6.9 percent is near a two-decade low.  Unemployment in the euro area dropped to 12 percent in July
from a record 12.1 percent the prior month. The rate held at
that level in August and retail sales climbed 0.7 percent.  While the region’s gross domestic product  expanded 0.3
percent  in the three months through June after six quarterly
contractions, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has
warned that the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, has the
potential to derail the rebound. U.S.  House Republicans  have
failed to agree on a budget with Senate Democrats and President
 Barack Obama , shutting down the government for the first time in
17 years.  The shutdown “is clearly on our minds,” Draghi said on
Oct. 2 after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent. “If it were to be protracted, it
would certainly pose a risk for the recovery in the U.S. and the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  