-- Spanish Bonds Decline With Italian Securities as Debt Sales Loom
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-08T15:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/germany-s-bonds-decline-after-report-shows-exports-increased.html
Spanish  government bonds  fell, with
10-year debt declining for a second day, after the nation was
said to be preparing to sell a new security due in 2044 via
banks in the near future.  Italy’s bonds also dropped as the  Finance Ministry  said it
plans to sell a seven-year note through banks, depending on
market conditions.  Germany’s bunds  were little changed after a
report showed exports increased in August and as U.S. lawmakers
remained in a standoff over the budget. The European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s permanent rescue fund, started its long-term funding program with a sale of 7 billion euros ($9.51
billion) of five-year bonds.  “The Spanish sale is interesting as it shows they are
trying to lengthen the maturity of their debt,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “We’ve seen a bit of spread widening
versus bunds.”  The Spanish 10-year yield climbed eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 4.29 percent at 4:48 p.m.  London  time
after dropping to 4.10 percent on Oct. 2, the lowest level since
May 9. The 4.4 percent bond due in October 2023 fell 0.685, or
6.85 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.85.  The nation’s  30-year yield  increased five basis points to
5.08 percent after rising as much as eight basis points.  Spanish Sale  The Madrid-based Treasury mandated Barclays Plc, Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, BNP Paribas SA, Caixabank SA,
Citigroup Inc. and Banco Santander SA for the syndicated bond,
which will be sold subject to market conditions, according to a
person who asked not to be named because they’re not authorized
to speak about it.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The Italian  10-year yield  rose five basis points to 4.34
percent after falling to 4.27 percent on Oct. 7, the lowest
since Sept. 26.  The  European Stability Mechanism  sold the five-year notes
via banks in its first issuance of conventional bonds, it said
in a statement. The securities were priced to yield one basis
point less than the mid-swap rate.  ‘General Weakness’  German bunds fell in earlier trading as U.S. lawmakers
began taking the first steps on the path to raising the
government’s debt limit, damping demand for safer assets.  Senate Democrats  are planning a test vote before the end of
this week on a measure that would grant President  Barack Obama 
authority to raise the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  German exports  increased 1 percent from July when they
decreased 0.8 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said.  “There is general weakness in the fixed-income space,”
said  Michael Leister , a senior rates strategist at Commerzbank
AG in London. “There’s some caution with the U.S. debt debate
still ongoing.”  The 10-year  bund yield  was at 1.81 percent after climbing
as much as three basis points.  The Netherlands auctioned 1.78 billion euros of notes due
in January 2019 at an average yield of 1.215 percent, while
 Germany  sold 890 million euros of inflation-linked debt due in
April 2018.  Spanish bonds returned 9.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian
securities rose 5.2 percent while German bunds lost 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  