-- German Stocks Little Changed Amid U.S. Shutdown Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-08T07:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/german-stocks-little-changed-amid-u-s-shutdown-talks.html
German stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark fell to a three-week low, as investors
watched U.S. negotiations over re-opening the government and
raising the country’s borrowing limit.  Bayer AG rose 0.8 percent after saying it will accelerate
the clinical development of five new drug candidates.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  dropped 1.3 percent after Boersen-Zeitung cited
board member Markus Beumer as saying that the lender’s corporate
banking results in 2013 won’t be as good as in 2012.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 0.1 percent to 8,600.8 at 9:36 a.m.
in  Frankfurt . The equity benchmark slipped for a second week
last week as a standoff between U.S. lawmakers led to the first
government shutdown in 17 years. The broader HDAX Index also
rose 0.1 percent today.  “Democrats and Republicans haven’t shown any sign of a
potential agreement on the government shutdown or the debt
ceiling,” Christoph Hock, an equity sales trader at Alpha
Wertpapierhandels GmbH in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail.
“Investors are caught between missing the big medium-term move
on the upside and getting burned in the very short-term on the
downside. That’s reflected in the recent spike of volatility.”  The VStoxx Index, which gauges the cost of protecting
against swings on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, slipped 0.2 percent
to 20.11. The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed
companies was 19 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Barack Obama  reiterated that he won’t negotiate
with Republicans over policy conditions tied to the  federal
budget  and to raising the $16.7 trillion  debt ceiling . Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid yesterday called for a vote on a
clean funding plan to open the government without preconditions.  Exhaust Measures  The Treasury has said that it will exhaust measures to
avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on Oct. 17. If that happens,
the government would run out of cash to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Amid delayed U.S. economic reports, investors await
financial results as an earnings release from Alcoa Inc. after
the close of European trading today marks the unofficial start
of the U.S. quarterly reporting season. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
 Wells Fargo & Co . will also post results this week.  Exports (GRBTEXMM)  in  Germany , adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, increased 1 percent in August from July, when they fell
a revised 0.8 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a gain of 1.1 percent,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Imports rose 0.4 percent from July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  