-- Getinge Falls After Warning on Profit: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   E k   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-10-08T14:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/getinge-declines-after-warning-on-pretax-profit-stockholm-mover.html
Getinge AB (GETIB)  fell the most in almost
nine months in Stockholm trading after the Swedish maker of
sterilization systems said its estimated third-quarter profit
“materially deviates” from analyst expectations.  The shares dropped as much as 9.7 percent to 199 kronor,
their steepest decline since Jan. 11 and lowest price since June
3. They fell 8.4 percent to 201.80 kronor as of 9:46 a.m. local
time, with trading volume at 276 percent of the daily average in
the past three months. Getinge was the biggest decliner among
all the 278 stocks on the Stockholm All-Share Index.  Getinge will probably report a consolidated profit before
tax of 560 million kronor ($87.3 million) to 570 million kronor
when reporting third-quarter earnings on Oct. 15, the Getinge,
Sweden-based company said in a statement today. The  average
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts is for pretax
profit of 765 million kronor. Getinge sees full-year pretax
profit, including restructuring charges and one-time costs, at 3
billion kronor to 3.2 billion kronor.  The profit warning is mainly attributable to an
“unfavorable product mix” within Getinge’s critical-care
division, a delay in cost savings related to the company’s
acquisition of Kinetic Concepts Inc.’s TSS division, negative
exchange rate effects and the U.S. medical-device tax, it said.  “Getinge is in a period where they are working to improve
efficiency, cutting costs, integrating the TSS acquisition and
changing their organization,” Johan Unnerus, an analyst at
Swedbank AB in  Stockholm , said in a telephone interview. “The
company has also been relatively clear with the fact that the
year will be tilted and tail-heavy toward the fourth quarter.”  Getinge is estimated to report a pretax profit of 1.81
billion kronor for the fourth quarter of 2013, according to the
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Unnerus has a neutral rating on Getinge, after cutting his
recommendation from buy in July. Of the total of 20 analysts
that cover Getinge and share their ratings with Bloomberg, eight
advise clients to  buy the shares , six have hold recommendations
and six advise clients to sell the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Ek in Stockholm at 
 vek@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  