-- Ghana Pension Savings Seen Rising Fivefold Driving Sales
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-10-08T15:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/ghana-pension-savings-seen-rising-fivefold-driving-sales.html
The end of a monopoly by Ghana’s
state-owned pension fund is poised to boost savings fivefold by
2017, helping revive the nation’s corporate bond market and end
a drought in initial public offerings.  The retirement industry, with assets of 1.06 billion cedis
($484 million) in 2012, may jump to 5.5 billion cedis over the
next four years, Ekow Fynn-Aikins, regulations officer at the
National Pensions Regulatory Authority in Accra, said in an
interview. While the Ghana Stock Exchange’s  Composite Index (GGSECI)  has
climbed 68 percent this year, the best performance in  Africa ,
the bourse’s last IPO was more than two years ago. No company
has sold bonds on the domestic market since 2008.  “There’s a perceived demand out there for new issues,”
Sam Mensah, chairman of the Ghana Stock Exchange and an adviser
at the Finance Ministry, said in an interview. “It’s still
early days and we’ll have to wait for the pension industry to
grow to know exactly what their impact can be.”  Since Ghana implemented a 2010 law in December compelling
employers to commit more toward workers’ pensions and set aside
contributions for private money managers for the first time,
 volumes  on the bourse surged 75 percent as of June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of pension managers
increased to 45 from zero when the authority began registering
last year. An Accra-based home-mortgage lender, the
International Finance Corp. and a state-owned power utility said
they will consider selling debt.  Yields Drop  “We’re likely to see a very active bond market with
pension-fund managers competing,” said Elvis Darku, the head of
fixed-income trading at the Accra-based unit of  Access Bank Plc. (ACCESS) 
“Their entry may encourage issuance of corporate bonds to tap
the funds.”  Managers can invest as much as 30 percent of their funds in
company debt, 75 percent in government securities and 10 percent
in equities, according to the regulator. Yields on benchmark 91-day Treasury bills retreated 250 basis points, or 2.5 percentage
points, from this year’s high of 23.12 percent on Feb. 22 to
20.6 percent on Oct. 4, the lowest since June 2012.  Of the 35 stocks on Ghana’s bourse, 20 rallied this year
and three declined. The gains were led by a 400 percent increase
in the  local unit  of  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC)  and a 285 percent climb in
Accra-based insurance company Enterprise Group Ltd. The
regulator doesn’t keep track of how much money is put in
different types of assets, Fynn-Aikins said.  “Every fund manager is keen on grabbing the best stocks,”
John Ofosu Awuku, a portfolio manager at NDK Asset Management
Ltd. in Accra, who put about 8 percent of his 12 million cedis
under management into equities, said by phone on Oct. 3. “From
next year we suspect that there will be share sales from
companies motivated by the pension funds.”  Trading Volume  The limited places for investment is curbing the stock
market’s growth potential, according to Ecobank Development
Corp., the Accra brokerage unit of Lome-based  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI)  Average daily  trading volume  on the Ghanaian
bourse was 763,000 over the past six months, compared with 30
million on the FTSE NSE Kenya 25 Index and 211 million on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange’s all-share measure, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Ghanaian bourse has a price-to-earnings ratio of 22,
while Nigeria is at 13 and South Africa’s measure is at 20. The
MSCI Frontier Markets Index is at 12. Ghana’s composite index
added 1.3 percent to 2,045.29 by the close in Accra.  “All of us are chasing the same 10 stocks that actually
trade,” Sarah Arhin, head of asset management at EDC, said by
phone. “We expect a lot more profit taking to set in moving
closer to the end of the year.”  State Fund  The last IPO in Ghana was the local unit of  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ,
which operates the country’s Jubilee oil field, in July 2011.
The government plans to list part of its shares in alcohol-drinks maker Gihoc Distilleries Ltd., state-owned Ghana News
Agency reported in March. Gihoc, technology company Rlg
Communications Ltd. and  Kosmos Energy Ltd. (KOS) , which has a stake in
Jubilee, are also being pursued by the bourse to list, Managing
Director Kofi Yamoah said in April. Yamoah couldn’t immediately
comment yesterday as he was going into a meeting.  “Pension funds are looking for shares to buy so those who
want to sell are able to trade more quickly,” Mohammed Kamara,
general manager at Accra-based Prudential Securities Ltd. who
manages more than 4 million cedis of clients’ pension funds,
said by phone on Sept. 16.  The new retirement savings plan boosts the contribution
amount to 18.5 percent from 17.5 percent and cuts the share of
the state’s Social Security and National Insurance Trust fund to
13.5 percent. Employees can also opt to increase their
contribution. Fund managers can also put as much as 5 percent of
investments in mutual funds and 35 percent in money markets.  Bond Sales  Stephen Yeboah, chief actuary with the state-owned pension-fund manager, said he couldn’t immediately comment when reached
by phone Oct. 4. He didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile
phone yesterday.  The Electricity Co. of  Ghana  is planning to hold talks with
the Finance Ministry about selling its first corporate bonds to
“fill in the gap” between increases in power rates, which are
set by the government, Finance Director Joseph Krause said by
phone yesterday. The term and amount hasn’t been decided, he
said.  The Volta River Authority, another state-owned power
utility, is being urged along with the ECG to sell bonds, Adu
Anane Antwi, director general of the Accra-based Securities and
Exchange Commission, said in an interview. VRA Chief Executive
Officer Kweku Awotwi wasn’t immediately available to comment
yesterday, according to a person who answered a call made to his
mobile phone and didn’t give her name.  The IFC obtained approval to sell debt in cedis, it said
Aug. 20. Whichever company sells bonds, it will be the lone
corporate issue in the country and the first since the mortgage
lender HFC Bank Ghana Ltd. sold four-year debt in 2008. Ghana
Home Loans is planning to sell the country’s first mortgage-backed bond next year, Chief Operating Officer Kojo Addo-Kufuor
said in an interview on July 24.  “We’re talking to real-estate developers to issue bonds
and fund managers to set up mutual funds that mobilize funds for
investment in real estate,” the SEC’s Antwi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  