-- Glaxo Malaria Shot Protects for 18 Months in Africa Study
-- B y   L e n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-08T04:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/glaxo-malaria-shot-protects-for-18-months-in-africa-study.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s experimental
malaria vaccine cut infections over 18 months in a late-stage
study, moving researchers a step closer to making the first
protective shot against the disease available as early as 2015.  The  RTS,S  candidate reduced infections by 46 percent in
infants ages 5 months to 17 months, and by 27 percent for 6-to-12-week-old babies in the follow-up period after the first
vaccination, the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative, which is
developing the protection with Glaxo,  said  in a statement today.
The trial involved more than 15,000 children in  Africa .  The vaccine would help cut the fatalities from a disease
that afflicts 216 million people annually and kills  more than
600,000 , mostly children under 5 years old in sub-Saharan
Africa, according to the  World Health Organization . Glaxo plans
to submit the vaccine to the European Medicines Agency for
approval next year, and the WHO has said it may in 2015
 recommend  RTS,S for use if safety and efficacy are satisfactory.  “The sheer number of children affected by malaria means
that the number of cases of the disease the vaccine can help
prevent is impressive,”  Andrew Witty , chief executive officer
of London-based Glaxo, said in the statement. “These data
support our decision to submit a regulatory application for the
vaccine candidate.”  RTS,S was more effective in the older group of children.
Severe malaria cases were cut by 36 percent and hospitalizations
by 42 percent among older infants, the study showed. Reductions
for babies weren’t statistically significant.  While the vaccine was less effective compared with results
after a one-year follow-up, it remained safe for the study
participants, the trial showed.  More Data  RTS,S was given in three doses a month apart in this phase
III trial. Further data from a 32-month follow-up and the impact
of a fourth booster dose given 18 months after the first three
shots are expected to be ready next year, according to the
statement.  Glaxo has spent more than $350 million on the development
of the vaccine so far and expects to invest more than $260
million through completion, the statement showed.  The nonprofit  PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative  aims to
accelerate development of vaccines against the disease and their
availability in endemic countries, and has received more than
$200 million from the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lena Lee in Singapore at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  