-- MGM Resorts CEO Sees Las Vegas Bookings Rising in 2014
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-10-08T16:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/mgm-resorts-ceo-sees-las-vegas-bookings-rising-in-2014.html
Las Vegas convention bookings will
rebound to peak 2007 levels in the first quarter of next year,
as audience attendance increases,  MGM Resorts International (MGM) 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Murren forecast today.  Room bookings at MGM Resorts, the largest casino operator
on the  Las Vegas Strip , suggest a “tremendous” January through
March for all Strip hotels, Murren said in an interview in  New
York . The rise comes from stronger attendance at events
including the  Consumer Electronics Show , in January, and the
return of Conexpo-Con/Agg, the construction industry convention
and exhibition held every three years in March, he said.  “The first quarter will be the best we’ve seen since 2007
for the convention business,” Murren said. “In general, 2014
is going to be a stronger year citywide” than 2013. Still,
booking windows remain short, meaning attendees are reserving
rooms closer to the event, Murren said.  While  Las Vegas  casinos have struggled to return to pre-recession growth as  consumer spending  has remained weak, MGM
Resorts reported gains in its operations there during the second
quarter. Strip earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 15 percent, as casino revenue climbed 7
percent, and hotel sales added 5 percent, MGM said in August.
Investment in hotel room remodeling, restaurants and
entertainment has attracted more leisure travelers to the city,
Murren said at the time.  Business as Usual  The federal government shutdown and the debt-ceiling crisis
haven’t had an impact on the company yet, Murren said.  “It’s business as usual so far” in Las Vegas despite the
government shutdown, Murren said on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop with  Betty Liu .” It would be “devastating” if there
was a prolonged federal stalemate, shaking consumer and business
confidence, he said.  “People just can’t believe the government can be as
immature as they seem to be acting right now,” Murren said.
“We’re just hoping that adults get into the room and get
something done.”  MGM shares fell 3.1 percent to $19.74 today at 12:04 p.m.
in New York. The stock was up 75 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  