-- GM Says Escalade Name May Be Used for Other Cadillacs
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-10-08T20:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/gm-says-cadillac-escalade-name-may-be-applied-to-other-models.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , revealing a
redesigned Cadillac Escalade, said it may apply the name to
other luxury vehicles within the Cadillac brand.  “There’s a lot of equity in Escalade and I’d like to
explore the notion of other vehicles that would carry that brand
name,” Bob Ferguson, head of Cadillac, said yesterday in New
York following the unveiling of the 2015 version of the large,
luxury sport-utility vehicle. It was an evening that included an
appearance by Donald Trump.  The Escalade is one of 10 new or redesigned Cadillacs that
GM is bringing out in the U.S. by the end of 2015. The product
push includes the ATS, a compact sedan, which helped increase
Cadillac’s U.S. sales by 29 percent this year through September.
U.S. sales of all versions of the Escalade peaked in 2004 at
62,250 and fell to 23,340 last year, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  The Escalade faces twin threats from smaller, car-based
SUVs that get better gas mileage and more competition from high-end offerings in coming years.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati plans
production of the Levante SUV in 2015, while  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Bentley has said it will start selling the world’s most
expensive SUV at about 180,000 euros ($244,000) in three years.
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd., the ultra-luxury-car maker owned by
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , also has said it’s considering an
SUV.  GM fell 2.8 percent to $34.21 at the close in New York.
The shares have increased 19 percent this year, outpacing the 16
percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sleeker Design  The redesigned 2015 Cadillac Escalade includes a sleeker
exterior and a wood-trim interior, among the changes Detroit-based GM has made to boost sales of the large SUV and make it
more luxurious. The redesigned version should increase U.S.
sales at least 10 percent next year, Ferguson said.  “We can increase the volume that we’re doing now,”
Ferguson said. “Escalade puts an exclamation point on the end
of the brand.”  Ferguson gave no timetable for a decision on spreading the
Escalade name to other vehicles, in effect creating a sub-brand
within Cadillac.  While the Escalade is built on essentially the same
platform as GM’s pickups, the company is studying another
Escalade that would use a car-like SUV frame, Ferguson told
reporters.  “There are a number of individuals who just love this
vehicle, but there are others who would say, ‘I would like
something that would give me a different ride and a different
experience.’”  ‘Big Threat’  The current Escalade starts at  $63,745 , with a fully loaded
version costing about $90,000, according to GM. The price of the
2015 model, which starts production in next year’s second
quarter, hasn’t been released.  “If people are spending that much money, they may opt for
a more exotic-sounding nameplate,” said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst with Edmunds.com, a website that tracks auto sales.
“That’s a big threat.”  The success of the Escalade, first introduced in October
1998, helped keep Cadillac culturally relevant as it attempted
to reignite interest in the luxury brand over the past 15 years.  Tony Soprano, the mob boss played by James Gandolfini,
drove a Cadillac Escalade in  HBO ’s “The Sopranos.” Jennifer Lopez crowed about it. Ludacris even included it in his rap song
“What’s Your Fantasy?”  ‘A Statement’  “Anybody with power and who wanted to be noticed or make a
statement without having to say anything, that’s what they
drove,” Dave Sullivan, an analyst at AutoPacific Inc., said in
a phone interview. The model “brought people in and got people
to buy other Cadillacs even if they couldn’t afford an
Escalade.”  The Escalade, last redesigned in 2006, also faces
competition from smaller, entry-level luxury SUVs, which are
more fuel-efficient, Caldwell said. At Escalade’s 2004 sales
peak, gasoline averaged $1.81 a gallon in the U.S., compared
with $3.55 last year, according to Edmunds.  “It’s people being honest with themselves and downsizing
and not really needing the space that the Escalade has,”
Caldwell said. “The Escalade is great for an executive, Town
Car-like vehicle. But for a family it is a lot of space and
fairly large to maintain and keep around.”  While the large SUV market has fallen, the models remain
profitable for the automaker. The SUVs are one of its strengths
even as it has pushed to create some of its best sedans in
generations, including the Chevrolet Impala, which Consumer
Reports ranked best among all sedans.  Profit Margins  GM’s margins on the Escalade are probably 20 percent to 30
percent while a mid-size sedan such as the Malibu might be 4
percent to 6 percent, Sullivan said. “It’s like a printing
press” for money, he said.  The jumbo-size Escalade ESV’s average transaction price, or
what a customer paid after incentives, rose to $76,126 this year
through September from $57,117 in 2003, according to Edmunds.
The average transaction price in the luxury large SUV segment
rose to $80,981 this year, with Land Rover’s Range Rover leading
the pack at $105,505.  Escalade shares engineering with Chevrolet and GMC large
SUVs, which are all built on the automaker’s truck platform that
was redesigned in 2013. GM dominates the large non-luxury SUV
segment. The combined segment market share of Chevy and GMC
large SUVs in the U.S. rose to 61 percent this year through
July, compared with 58 percent in 2004, according to Edmunds.
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s large SUV market share fell to 11 percent this
year, compared with 18 percent during all of 2004.  Richer Buyers  The Suburban-size Escalade ESV attracts a richer buyer than
the Chevrolet Suburban, according to GM figures. The median
household income of an Escalade ESV owner is $259,060, compared
with $135,000 for the Suburban. The median income for buyers of
the smaller Escalade is $178,222, which is higher than the
$120,429 of the Cadillac brand, according to GM.  The regular Escalade is the size of a Chevrolet Tahoe.  The new Escalade’s interior is quieter and has seats
engineered to be more comfortable and look more sculpted, GM
said. The front seats have more than 1.5 inches (3.8
centimeters) of additional headroom and more than 4 inches of
additional legroom than the outgoing model.  As Ferguson talked to reporters, he was interrupted by
Trump, the real-estate developer and reality-TV star.  “It’s beautiful,” Trump told reporters. “I want to buy
one immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  