-- Goldman Sachs Sees Japan Stocks Extending Rally on Wages
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-10-09T06:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/goldman-sachs-sees-japan-stocks-extending-rally-on-higher-wages.html
Japanese stocks will extend a world-beating rally as surging corporate earnings result in higher
wages, supporting shares that benefit from domestic spending,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The Topix index will climb to 1,250 in three months, a 7.1
percent gain from today’s close, said Kathy Matsui, chief Japan
strategist at the New York-based bank. She expects the  gauge  to
reach 1,300 in six months and 1,400 in a year -- a level unseen
since June 2008 -- as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies spur
inflation, putting pressure on companies to boost dividends and
salaries.  “The next big catalyst for reflation is when profit growth
translates into higher incomes,” Matsui said in an interview in
Tokyo on Oct. 7. “We have to wait a little while as wages won’t
rise overnight. But at the end of the day, one of the key
transmission mechanisms of reflation to households is via higher
incomes.”  Abe’s efforts to reignite growth through monetary easing
and fiscal stimulus have mostly benefited investors and large
manufacturers as the yen weakened, boosting overseas profits and
driving the biggest stock-market rally in four decades. Getting
businesses to start distributing their swelling earnings and
near-record cash through higher wages will be key to sustaining
a rebound in the world’s third-largest economy.  Regular salaries excluding overtime and bonuses fell 0.4
percent in August from a year earlier, a 15th straight drop,
government data showed on Oct. 1.  Stock Gains  The Topix surged 36 percent this year, handing investors
the largest gain among 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. It climbed 1.5 percent to 1,166.90 today, the
strongest daily advance since Sept. 19. The gauge gained 62
percent in the four quarters through September, the steepest
rally since the period ended March 1973.  Earnings per share  at Topix member firms will increase 35
percent in the next year, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies in domestic-oriented industries such as real
estate, infrastructure and housing are likely to boost full-year
profit forecasts after reporting first-half  results , giving them
more scope to increase wages, Matsui said, declining to name
specific businesses. The mid-year earnings season for many
companies on the Topix is scheduled to start later this month.  “I think it will be a pretty decent set of results, but
more important than the results themselves is how they will
impact companies’ guidance for the full year,” Matsui said.
“We have been more overweight domestic reflation sectors than
exporters.”  Inflation Target  The Bank of Japan is seeking to spur inflation by targeting
an annual 60 trillion ($616 billion) to 70 trillion yen
expansion in the monetary base.  Japanese businesses kept some 220 trillion yen in cash on
their balance sheets as of the end of June, according to data
compiled by the central bank. Price gains in the nation
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008 in August on higher
energy costs, data showed Sept. 27.  “While BOJ policies are important, from here on, in my
view it’s less about what the BOJ does next,” Goldman’s Matsui
said. “It’s more about what private companies will do to share
the fruits of reflation with the rest of society through wages
and investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at   smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  