-- Goldman’s Currie Says Gold Is ‘Slam Dunk’ Sell After Shutdown
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-08T10:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/goldman-s-currie-says-gold-is-slam-dunk-sell-after-shutdown.html
Gold, set for its first annual loss
in 13 years, is a “slam dunk” sell for next year because the
 U.S. economy  will extend its recovery after lawmakers resolve
stalemates over the nation’s budget and debt ceiling, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s  Jeffrey Currie  said.  The bank has a target for gold prices next year at $1,050
an ounce, Currie, Goldman Sachs’s head of commodities research,
said today on a panel in London. The precious metal has tumbled
21 percent this year to $1,322.28 an ounce on speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  would reduce its $85 billion monthly bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing, as the economy
recovers. Lawmakers probably will reach an agreement on raising
the debt ceiling before the Oct. 17 deadline, Currie said.  “Once we get past this stalemate in Washington, precious
metals are a slam dunk sell at that point,” Currie said. “You
have to argue that with significant recovery in the U.S.,
tapering of QE should put downward pressure on  gold prices .”  Currie and Ric Deverell, the head of commodities research
at Credit Suisse AG, both said on a panel at the Commodities
Week conference in London today that selling gold is their top
recommendation for trading in raw materials in the next year.
Gold is heading for its first annual loss since 2000, and is the
third-worst performing commodity in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 raw materials this year, after corn and silver.  Senate Democrats  are planning a test vote before the end of
this week on a measure that would grant President  Barack Obama 
authority to raise the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling. The U.S.
will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and will have
about $30 billion in cash after that. The country would be
unable to pay all of its bills, including benefits, salaries and
interest, some time between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office .  “The downside of driving the bus off the cliff is so
significant that we will come to a resolution,” Currie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  