-- Grimstone Warns Britain Must Stay in EU or Risk London’s Status
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-10-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/grimstone-warns-britain-must-stay-in-eu-or-risk-london-s-status.html
Britain needs to stay in the European
Union or London risks losing its position as the region’s main
financial hub, according to the chairman of TheCityUK, a lobby
group for U.K. financial-services firms.  “I do not believe the city’s pre-eminent position will
survive if we lose our role as Europe’s financial capital,”
Gerry Grimstone, chairman of the London-based group, said in
remarks prepared for the group’s annual dinner tonight. “I
don’t believe we can maintain that position if we are not part
of the single market.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said today a referendum on
the U.K.’s membership of the EU “will happen” and urged
supporters of staying in the bloc to speak up. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservatives have pledged a public vote by
2017. Clegg asked business leaders who oppose leaving the EU to
make their position plain.  The City, as London’s main financial district is known,
must play a role in determining whether the country will stay in
the EU, said Grimstone, who is also chairman of Standard Life
Plc, Scotland’s largest insurer. A stable  euro zone  is seen as
“vital” by executives in the finance industry, he said, citing
research by the group.  Bischoff Warning  “It makes no sense to leave one of our key trade and
investment relationships, the one that anchors us in Europe,”
 Win Bischoff , chairman of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and a member
of the lobby group’s advisory council, said in separate prepared
remarks.  “In the same way that New York’s status as a global
financial center is in large part determined by its location in
the U.S., so London -- a truly global financial center together
with the centers outside the City -- benefits from being
Europe’s financial center,” Bischoff said.  Almost eighty percent of U.K. business leaders say Britain
should remain a member of the EU, a survey by the  Confederation
of British Industry  found last month. Only 10 percent said it
was in Britain’s interests to leave the bloc, according to the
U.K.’s biggest business lobby group.  -- Editors: Edward Evans, Simone Meier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  