-- Idenix Shares Fall as J&J Buys Rival Hepatitis C Therapy
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-10-08T20:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/idenix-shares-fall-as-j-j-buys-rival-hepatitis-c-therapy.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , a maker
of experimental hepatitis C therapies, fell the most in almost
four months after partner  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  bought a rival
drugmaker’s treatment for the viral disease.  Idenix declined 16 percent to $3.99 at the close in New
York. It was the stock’s biggest one-day slide since June, when
U.S. regulators requested more safety data for one of its
hepatitis C drugs. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company
has fallen 18 percent so far this year.  Idenix, J&J,  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  are among
drugmakers vying to develop pills for hepatitis C, a disease
that attacks the liver and affects an estimated 170 million
people worldwide. The new oral treatments, which combine
different drugs, are easier to use with fewer side effects than
the current therapies. Analysts estimate the market for the new
treatments may reach $20 billion a year.  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
bought rights to a compound from London-based GlaxoSmithKline
Plc in a class of drugs called non-structural 5A protein
inhibitors. That suggests J&J may be close to ending a
partnership with Idenix on its hepatitis C therapies including
the NS5a drug samatasvir,  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with Wells
Fargo & Co., said today in a note to clients.  The deal shows “Hep C battle lines being drawn,” Abrahams
said. Idenix’s drug “will need a new partner.”  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, didn’t release
terms of its deal with Glaxo in today’s statement announcing the
purchase. Idenix in February ended development of two other
medicines for hepatitis C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  