-- High Liner Trawling for More Acquisitions:
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-10-08T20:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/high-liner-foods-trawling-for-more-acquisitions.html
High Liner Foods Inc. (HLF) , Canada’s
largest seafood producer by market value, is hunting for more
acquisitions as part of a plan to boost profit by two thirds
over the next two years.  High Liner, which bought American Pride Seafoods LLC for
$34.5 million last week, wants to be North America’s largest
frozen seafood company, said Chief Executive Officer Henry Demone, 59. The company plans to boost earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to $150 million by 2015, he
said. The company had adjusted EBITDA of  $91.7 million  in 2012.  “We’re very focused -- North America, frozen seafood,
brand equity, reasonable profitability, we’re looking for those
kinds of businesses,” Demone said in a telephone interview Oct.
2 from Lunenburg, Nova Scotia, where the 114-year-old company is
based.  High Liner’s purchase of New Bedford, Massachusetts-based
American Pride, a frozen seafood and scallop-processing
business, was the company’s fourth acquisition in six years. The
company turned to producing frozen seafood for restaurants,
caterers and supermarkets after giving up on fishing in 1999, a
decade after the collapse of the North American cod industry.  High Liner purchased C$143 million ($139 million) of
manufacturing plants and marketing assets from St. John’s
Newfoundland-based Fishery Products International Ltd in 2007,
bought Viking Seafoods Inc. in 2010 and took over ISF USA LLC
from Reykjavik-based Icelandic Group HF in 2011.  ‘Requires Scale’  The company’s shares have surged 160 percent in the past
two years, the second-best performer among 15 North American
food manufacturing stocks tracked by Bloomberg.  Pilgrim’s Pride
Corp. (PPC) , a chicken processor, was first with a 309 percent gain.
High Liner closed little changed at C$38.25 in Toronto today for
a market value of C$648.5 million.  High Liner needs to do another acquisition to reach its
earnings goal, said Michael Mills, a Halifax-based analyst with
Beacon Securities Ltd.  “It’s really a business that requires scale so that you
can have a leaner supply chain,” Mills said in an Oct. 3 phone
interview. “They have much better buying power now with their
suppliers.”  Demone declined to discuss possible acquisition targets.  “Typically when we do these deals we get a lot of
synergies,” he said. Consolidating the businesses can mean
savings of 60 percent to 80 percent of the company’s earnings
before interest and taxes at the time of the purchase, he said.  Strategic Purchases  High Liner will finance the deal with existing credit
facilities, according to the company’s statement.  “The business generates substantial free cash flow and I
expect the debt is going to be repaid fairly quickly,” Mills
said. High Liner should be able to finance another deal the same
way by the middle of 2014, he said.  High Liner’s acquisitions have enabled the company to
increase efficiency, said Andrey Omelchak, a Montreal-based
portfolio manager at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. Montrusco
Bolton owns a 10.8 percent stake of High Liner worth $62.9
million at yesterday’s close.  “They don’t make acquisitions for the sake of growing the
company,” Omelchak said. “They only make strategic
acquisitions that allow them to leverage an existing network.
It’s a top management team.”  Cod Collapse  Demone has led that team since 1989. Three years after he
took over,  Canada  stopped all northern cod fishing after stocks
of the bottom-feeder collapsed. The fishing grounds of the Grand
Banks and Flemish Cap had been depleted by decades of sonar-aided trawling.  The company -- then known as National Sea Products Inc. --
closed plants and fired workers as the moratorium cut the fish
it could harvest by 95 percent, Demone said.  “Imagine a paper company if 95 percent of the forest
disappeared,” he said. In 1988 the company employed 7,000
people and ran nine plants. Six years later it was down to 1,500
employees and three plants.  “By the end of the ’90s, the fish hadn’t come back,” he
said. So in 1999 Demone, whose father and grandfather were both
fishermen, stopped fishing and switched the company’s focus to
value-added frozen seafood.  High Liner has risen 256 percent since the beginning of
1999, compared with a 97 percent advance with the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. The stock has three buys, one sell
and two of the four analysts estimate it will rise 1.2 percent
in 12 months to $38.75, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Health Food  High Liner reported second-quarter earnings of $9.2
million, adjusted for certain items, or 59 cents a share,
compared with $5.5 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier,
according to a June 29 earnings  report . Revenue dropped to
$204.9 million from $216.8 million a year earlier amid lower
U.S. food service and retail private label sales in Canada and
the U.S.  High Liner is still a small player in the U.S., but its
influence is growing in the eastern part of the country, said
Omelchak. Monstrusco is comfortable with the company’s
direction, he said.  High Liner hopes rising demand for seafood among health-conscious U.S. consumers will translate into more sales, Demone
said. The company is also targeting higher-income consumers with
products like citrus peppercorn haddock and lime chili tilapia.  “Demographics are on our side,” Demone said. “I think
the health trend is on our side and the older you are, probably
the more concerned you are with your health.”  Restaurant Sales  What will really impact sales though, is new growth in the
dormant U.S. restaurant industry, where the company makes 70
percent of its sales, Demone said.  “Once we get a stable or growing restaurant market then
seafood consumption will start to increase again,” he said.  U.S. restaurant sales are projected to total $660.5 billion
in 2013, compared with $636.4 billion in 2012, according to the
National Restaurant Association. Adjusted for inflation, sales
will rise 0.8 percent in 2013, while sales increased 1.3 percent
in 2012 and 1.6 percent in 2011, the National Restaurant
Association said in its 2013 forecast report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  