-- IMF Cuts Latin America Outlook as Brazil, Mexico Falter
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-10-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/imf-cuts-latin-america-outlook-as-brazil-mexico-falter.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
reduced its growth forecast for Latin America and the Caribbean
as weaker commodity prices threaten to further sap strength from
the region’s two biggest economies.  The Washington-based lender cut its 2013 gross domestic
product expansion forecast for the region to 2.7 percent from 3
percent in July, which would be its worst performance since the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008.
 Mexico ’s growth will ease this year from last while  Brazil ’s GDP
in 2014 will climb slower than previously forecast, the IMF said
in a report today.  The change in outlook comes as the IMF forecasts the U.S.
and Chinese economies will moderate this year, which would
reduce demand for raw materials and manufactured exports from
 Latin America . Policy makers must balance their economies by
protecting social and public investment programs while ensuring
fiscal expenditures don’t fan inflation, the IMF said.  “Downside risks dominate the outlook,” according to the
lender’s World Economic Report. “Strengthening competitiveness,
raising productivity, and increasing saving and investment rates
remain critical medium-term challenges.”  The IMF cut its 2013 Mexican growth forecast to 1.2 percent
from 2.9 percent in the previous report after lower  government
spending , a decline in construction and sluggish U.S. demand
caused GDP growth to slow in the first half of this year. That’s
below the central bank’s outlook for 2 percent to 3 percent
growth for 2013. Growth will accelerate to 3 percent next year,
the IMF forecast.  ‘Appropriate’  The fund kept unchanged its 2.5 percent growth forecast for
Brazil this year while reducing its 2014 estimate to 2.5 percent
from 3.2 percent. Inflation pressures persist in Latin America’s
largest economy and threatens to damp consumption, making
interest rate increases “appropriate,” according to the
report.  Brazil’s central bank has boosted the benchmark  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate
175 basis points, or 1.75 percentage points, this year after
inflation twice exceeded its 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target
range. Policy makers will increase the Selic another 50 basis
points to 9.5 percent in their meeting today and tomorrow,
according to the median estimate of 46 analysts polled by
Bloomberg.  Policy makers in the region also need to protect financial
stability as the prospect of tighter monetary conditions in the
U.S. may lure capital to more developed markets, the IMF said.  “Prudential oversight of the financial system needs to be
stepped up, with the goal of identifying and addressing
potential vulnerabilities,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  