-- IMF Says South Africa Vulnerable to Capital Outflow Risk
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-10-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/imf-says-south-africa-vulnerable-to-capital-outflow-risk.html
South Africa  is vulnerable to
escalating labor tension and capital outflows that may be
triggered by a global repricing of risk or domestic shocks,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  South Africa’s economic growth slowed this year because of
labor strikes, low private investment, and weak consumer
spending and confidence, the Washington-based lender said in its
World Economic Outlook today.  “South Africa needs decisive progress in implementing
structural reforms to strengthen education and the effectiveness
of government services, ease infrastructure bottlenecks, and
increase product market competition and labor market
flexibility,” the IMF said.  The threat of further strikes after work stoppages this
year in the carmaking, building and mining industries and the
risk of capital outflows are among the dangers for South  Africa ,
according to the World Bank Africa’s Pulse report released
yesterday. Speculation about when the U.S. Federal Reserve will
start tapering its $85 billion-a-month monetary stimulus program
has helped weaken the rand by 15 percent against the dollar in
2013, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  South Africa needs short-term capital inflows to help
finance the deficit on its  current account , which widened to 6.5
percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter.  The IMF kept its July forecast of 2 percent  economic
growth  this year and 2.9 percent in 2014 unchanged. Expansion
will probably not meet the government’s 2.7 percent forecast
made in February, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in a
Bloomberg TV interview yesterday.  “In South Africa, growth is forecast to improve gradually
in 2014 and beyond as global growth improves and infrastructure
bottlenecks are alleviated,” the IMF said.  GDP in sub-Saharan Africa is projected to expand 5 percent
this year, less than the July projection of 5.1 percent, before
growth accelerates to 6 percent in 2014, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  