-- IMF Sees Possible Oil-Price Shock From Middle East Unrest
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-10-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/imf-sees-possible-oil-price-shock-from-middle-east-unrest.html
A potential surge in  oil prices 
caused by unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa may cut
global growth by as much as 0.5 percentage point next year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its World Economic Outlook.  In the worst case, a disruption in the Middle East would
push oil to $150 a barrel, the Washington-based lending agency
said in its October World Economic Outlook, leading to “adverse
effects on confidence, with capital retreating to safe havens
and a persistent decline in equity prices.”  The IMF forecast that world gross domestic product will
increase by 3.6 percent in 2014, up from 2.9 percent this year,
mainly driven by an improving U.S. economy. Average global oil
prices will decline slightly to an average of $101.40 a barrel
as emerging market demand slows.  A chemical attack in  Syria  on Aug. 21 caused Brent crude
prices to jump 6.2 percent to a high of $116.61 a barrel on Aug.
28 as the U.S. and its allies threatened to respond with missile
attacks against the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Syria’s agreement to dispose of its chemical weapons
stockpiles helped ease tension and the rising Brent price, which
settled at $109.68 a barrel yesterday.  The IMF forecast three oil-surge scenarios. In the first, a
short-lived disruption would cause oil to jump as much as 20
percent for a few weeks, with only a small effect on growth.  “A larger production disruption assumes that the Syria
conflict spills over, for example by halting Iraqi oil
exports,” the IMF said. Syria borders  Iraq , which produced 3.1
million barrels of oil a day in June, according to U.S. Energy
Information Administration data.  Global Growth  In that case oil could rise to $150 for two quarters, but
the effect on global growth would only be as much as 0.13
percentage point, assuming “that the global oil market still
functions efficiently via higher prices.”  The worst-case scenario of a 0.5 percentage point hit to
growth would occur if an increase to $150 prompts investors to
move their money away from riskier assets such as commodities
and equities.  The IMF also estimated that the boom in U.S. energy
production would have a “modest impact” on the nation’s
growth, with real GDP rising by about 1.2 percent at the end of
13 years. Growth will rise as lower energy costs prompt
companies to increase  capital expenditures  and hiring.  “The share of energy in the economy remains quite small
even after factoring in the additional production,” the IMF
said in its report.  The IMF based its U.S. projections on the Energy
Information Adminstration’s forecast for tight oil production,
which shows output increasing until 2020 before falling off
during the next two decades.  U.S. oil  production  reached a 23-year high of 7.83 million
barrels a day in the week of Sept. 13. Exploitation of shale
basins using hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling
techniques helped the U.S. meet 87 percent of its energy needs
in the first six months of 2013, according to EIA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  