-- Indian Point Nuclear Plant Should Be Shut, Jaczko Says
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   P e t e r   W a r d
-- 2013-10-08T19:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/indian-point-nuclear-plant-should-be-shut-jaczko-says.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  should shut the  Indian
Point  nuclear power plant near  New York City  instead of
continuing to fight local officials who oppose the facility, the
former chairman of the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  said.  “The best solution is to sit down with all the interested
stakeholders and think about a way to shut down the plant on a
reasonable time frame,” Greg Jaczko said at a panel discussion
in  New York  today on the lessons of  Japan ’s Fukushima meltdown.
“When you have this much local opposition and opposition from
state government, what I’ve seen over time is that it’s very
difficult to operate plants.”  Entergy is seeking permission from the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission to extend the operating life of Indian Point, a two-unit nuclear plant located about 24 miles (39 kilometers) north
of the most populated U.S. city. The plant generates about 25
percent of the power used in New York City and Westchester
County, according to New Orleans-based Entergy.  State officials and environmental groups are fighting the
20-year license renewal. New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has said
Indian Point should be closed because it isn’t feasible to
evacuate about 20 million residents of the metropolitan area in
the event of an accident.  “Indian Point is a safe plant that gets excellent safety
ratings from the NRC, including while under the former
chairman,” Entergy said today in an e-mailed statement. “The
plant is regularly examined to identify enhancements to make it
even safer, including using lessons learned from Fukushima, and
many have either been completed or are under way.”  Low Prices  The company announced in August it would shut its Vermont
Yankee reactor, which has faced years of opposition from state
officials, because of low power prices.  “The best option is to work out and negotiate a settlement
and come to some sort of agreement to shut it down rather than
this very expensive and very contentious and acrimonious
process,” Jaczko said in an interview after his speech. “That
is never a good way to resolve these issues.”  Supporters of the plant say it provides safe power without
producing  greenhouse gases .  “Nearly $1 billion has been invested in Indian Point over
the past decade, making it a world-class facility,” Jerry Kremer, chairman of the New York  Affordable Reliable Electricity
Alliance , said in a statement today. “Indian Point makes the
region a cleaner, safer place to live.”  The alliance’s board includes an Entergy executive, union
representatives and members of local business councils,
according to its website.  Safe Evacuation  Jaczko said in a December 2011 interview with  Bloomberg
News  that a Fukushima-like disaster at Indian Point would still
allow for the safe evacuation of the New York City area because
a crisis would unfold slowly.  Jaczko, 42, resigned from the commission in 2012, leaving
his position almost a year before his term expired after being
faulted by other commissioners and the agency inspector general
for what they called a bullying management style.  Today’s event included former Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and political activist  Ralph Nader  and was moderated by the
president of Riverkeeper Inc., a group that opposes Indian
Point.  Kan, who served as Japan’s prime minister from 2010 to
2011, said at the event that the world should close all nuclear
power reactors and use renewable sources to meet its energy
needs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Ward in New York at 
 pward41@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  