-- Indonesia Holds Key Rate After Tightening Most Since 2005
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-10-08T08:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/indonesia-holds-rate-after-most-aggressive-tightening-since-2005.html
Indonesia’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged after its most aggressive tightening
cycle in almost eight years as inflation pressure eased.  Governor Agus Martowardojo and his board held the  reference
rate  at 7.25 percent, Bank Indonesia said in Jakarta today. The
decision was predicted by 17 of 18 economists  surveyed  by
 Bloomberg News , with one expecting a 25 basis-point increase. It
also kept the deposit facility rate unchanged at 5.5 percent.  Consumer-price gains slowed to a three-month low in
September, providing policy makers room to assess the impact of
1.5 percentage points of rate increases since early June. The
 World Bank  said last week downside risks to Indonesia’s economic
outlook are sizeable, as higher borrowing costs and inflation
may have a greater-than-expected effect on domestic demand.  “Inflation has started to stabilize and we think there
is only a small risk that it will hit double-digits in the
coming months,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “BI is likely to maintain its wait-and-see approach,” he said, adding that the key rate will be
held “for the foreseeable future.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 11,538 per dollar as of 3:21
p.m. in Jakarta, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks
showed. It weakened 14 percent last quarter in the worst
performance since 2008. The benchmark Jakarta Composite Index
gained 1.2 percent, while the yield on the government’s 5.625
percent bonds due May 2023 declined three basis points to 8.08
percent, the lowest level since Sept. 25.  Trade Surplus  Inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy accelerated
to a three-year high in August after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s administration raised the price of subsidized fuel
in June and food costs climbed. Price gains eased to 8.4 percent
last month from a year earlier.  Inflation this year is seen at 9 percent to 9.8 percent,
Martowardojo told reporters today. The current-account deficit
may be 3.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, he said.  Indonesia posted a current-account deficit of $9.8 billion
in the second quarter, or about 4.4 percent of GDP, the biggest
in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989. The shortfall
in the third quarter is seen at 3 percent to 4 percent of GDP,
Perry Warjiyo, deputy governor at  Bank Indonesia , said last week.  The country’s trade balance returned to  surplus  for the
first time in five months in August, following a record deficit
in July, data last week showed. The partial shutdown of the U.S.
government will affect Indonesia’s exports, Warjiyo said today.  A new “macro-prudential” policy will be unveiled tomorrow,
Martowardojo said, without providing details. The measures will
aim to deepen the financial markets, Warjiyo said.  Lending Slows  Bank Indonesia cut its 2013 economic  growth  forecast last
month to between 5.5 percent and 5.9 percent, from as much as
6.2 percent earlier, citing surveys that showed slowing
household consumption. Indonesian banks’ lending growth is
slowing, with the gain in August at 22.2 percent from a year
earlier, Martowardojo said today.  The economy probably expanded 5.6 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, and full-year GDP growth in 2014
may be 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent, Martowardojo said.  The central bank did a $820 million foreign-exchange swap
on Oct. 7, part of a series of measures to deepen liquidity and
improve hedging tools. Its foreign-exchange reserves rose to
$95.7 billion in September, the second monthly gain, data showed.
They have fallen from $112.8 billion at the end of last year as
the monetary authority intervened to support the currency.  “The increase of official reserves largely reflects Bank
 Indonesia  measures to strengthen policy mix to maintain the
exchange rate stability and policy coordination with the
government to curb the current account deficit,” Bank Indonesia
said in a statement on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  