-- Insurers Getting Faulty Data From U.S. Health Exchanges
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-10-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/insurers-getting-faulty-data-from-u-s-health-exchanges.html
Insurers are getting faulty and
incomplete data from the new U.S.-run health exchange, which may
mean some Americans won’t be covered even after they sign up for
an insurance plan.  While it’s not clear how widespread the problem is, the
reports from industry consultants are the first hint that the
technical troubles faced by consumers trying to enroll in health
plans under the Affordable Care Act may also be hitting the
insurers. The companies are receiving electronic files that
can’t open or have so much missing information on new enrollees
they’re unusable, the consultants said.  Some insurers have been forced to fix entries by hand, said
Bob Laszewski, an insurance-industry consultant based in
Arlington, Virginia.  “If we don’t see substantial improvement by the end of
this week, then I would throw up the yellow flag,” said Dan Schuyler, a consultant advising states and insurers on the
exchanges. “If we don’t see it in the next two to three weeks,
it’s time for red flags. The concern is some people could get to
Jan. 1, and not have coverage.”  Since the exchanges opened on Oct. 1, consumers have
struggled to access the online marketplaces, which have been
overwhelmed by millions of visitors.  While capacity was added this past weekend to a system
meant to serve people in 36 states, the federal website
continued yesterday to deliver error messages to potential
customers trying to create accounts and shop for health plans.  State Exchanges  At the same time, most of the 14 state exchanges yesterday
reported performing with fewer troubles.  Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health
and Human Services, which is running the U.S. exchange, didn’t
provide a comment on the difficulties for the insurers described
by the consultants.  The Obama administration hasn’t said how many Americans
have enrolled through healthcare.gov, a central component of the
Affordable Care Act. The 2010 law seeks to provide health
coverage for some of the 48 million uninsured Americans. About 7
million people are expected to use federal subsidies to buy
health plans through the U.S. and state websites.  States running their own systems, such as Connecticut and
 Kentucky , have reported initial enrollments in the hundreds or
thousands in the first week of operation.  File by File  While the numbers of people signing up through the U.S.
website have been small enough that insurers can fix bad data
file by file, that may not be possible later, Laszewski said.
Enrollment is expected to pick up as Jan. 1 approaches and
coverage actually begins, he said.  “If you’ve only got a dozen bad enrollments, that’s OK,
but what are you going to do when you have 200,000 bad
enrollments?” Laszewski said. “What we’re seeing in public is
the web portal, which is a mess. It is just as bad behind the
wizard’s curtain.”  If insurers can’t sign people up for coverage, customers
may become frustrated and give up, said Joel Ario, a consultant
with Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP and a former top official
with the government agency running the markets.  Eight state-based and national insurers contacted for
comment declined to speak about the computer issues or didn’t
return telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment. Blue Cross
Blue Shield of  Oklahoma  has had some of the problems with the
exchange, said Lauren Perlstein, a spokeswoman for the insurer.  Rollout Glitches  “With any program of this magnitude, it’s not unexpected
to have glitches during the initial rollout,” she said in an e-mail.  Each night,  healthcare.gov  is supposed to send a batch of
new enrollments to the insurers. Called “834 files,” the data
have long been an industry standard in the private sector.  The information is a new responsibility for the federal
exchanges, though, according to Schuyler, a director at Leavitt
Partners, a Salt Lake City-based health-care consultant. With
the government site, some of the electronic files are being
transfered with missing data or are corrupted to the point where
they can’t be opened, Laszewski and Schuyler said in telephone
interviews.  To fix the files, insurers have to go through them by hand.
When thousands of people sign up, as the U.S. is hoping will
happen before mid-December, it may create a large backup, the
two consultants said.  The U.S. is still operating a parallel testing website that
was meant to help iron out problems before the Oct. 1 opening.  “They’re doing testing this week because they haven’t got
the bugs out. They still aren’t sending clean files,” said
Laszewski. “The insurance industry is scared to death.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  