-- Intel Introduces New Chips Aimed at Web-Connected Devices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-08T20:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/intel-introduces-new-chips-aimed-at-web-connected-devices.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , seeking to expand into
new areas as its main personal-computer business shrinks,
introduced products aimed at connecting everything from
industrial equipment to household appliances.  The world’s largest chipmaker is rolling out versions of
its Atom processors that will work in a broader range of
temperatures and provide integrated security, Ton Steenman, an
Intel vice president, said at a company briefing in San
Francisco today. Intel is also providing new software via its
Wind River and McAfee units and will offer chips from its low-power Quark range, he said.  Intel is trying to find new outlets for its technology to
reduce its dependence on a PC market that is on course to
decline for the second straight year in 2013. Like other chip
companies, Intel is aiming to cash in on a rush to bring
Internet connectivity, remote monitoring and control to
everything from  power plants  to household-utility meters.  Intel’s new offerings will enable the company to get its
chips into “billions of devices that we’ve never been in
before,” Steenman said.  While the chip industry is competing for a spot in new
devices that are coming to market, it’s equally important to add
technology into machinery that’s already in use and won’t be
replaced any time soon, Steenman said. Intel’s ability to
produce chips that support everything from the most powerful
server computers down to handheld devices gives it a unique
ability to do this, he said.  Intel, based in  Santa Clara , California, declined 1.5
percent to $22.48 at the close in  New York , leaving the shares
up 9 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  