-- Iran’s Zarif Checks Into Hospital Claiming Newspaper ‘Misquotes’
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-10-08T22:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/iran-s-zarif-checks-into-hospital-claiming-newspaper-misquotes-.html
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad
Javad Zarif said he canceled most of his appointments and
checked into a hospital suffering from back pain and muscle
spasms.  Zarif’s hospitalization in Tehran came as he complained
that the Kayhan newspaper “misquoted” the diplomat as
criticizing new Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s nascent
detente with the U.S. Kayhan is seen as being close to Supreme
Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  Six days before the next round of scheduled talks on  Iran’s
nuclear program  with the U.S. and five other world powers, Zarif
disclosed his ailments on his Facebook page.  Kayhan reported today that Zarif told lawmakers that last
month’s telephone conversation between Rouhani and President
 Barack Obama  was a mistake. Kayhan also quoted Zarif as saying
that his own meeting with Secretary of State  John Kerry  had been
over-long.  In his Facebook entry, Zarif denied the veracity of the
Kayhan report and accused the paper of being more conservative
than the Supreme Leader. His attack highlights the split within
the Iranian establishment over how to deal with the U.S.  “It is interesting that those who claim loyalty to the
Supreme Leader are moving ahead of the leadership,” Zarif
wrote. “Doesn’t it occur to them that if he wanted, he would
have made his position more clear?”  Khamenei on Oct. 5 expressed qualified support for the
diplomatic approach adopted by Rouhani’s team during their
meetings at the  United Nations General Assembly  in  New York . He
also voiced criticisms.  “Some of the things that happened during the New York trip
were not appropriate,” Khamenei wrote on his website. “Because
we believe the U.S. government is untrustworthy, arrogant and
irrational, and one that reneges on its promises.”  Iran and world powers are scheduled to resume talks on the
Islamic republic’s nuclear program in Geneva next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  