-- Italy Said to Seek State Funds to Ease Alitalia-Air France Deal
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-08T10:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/italy-said-to-seek-state-funds-to-ease-alitalia-air-france-deal.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
is pushing for a state-controlled company to invest in Alitalia
SpA and ease a combination with  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group or another
airline, according to four people with knowledge of the plan.  The premier is meeting for a second day in  Rome  with
Alitalia management, its investors and its bankers, said the
people, who asked not to be named because discussions are
private. Alitalia’s board is meeting later today at its
headquarters to discuss the situation.  The government is also working to persuade existing
shareholders to increase Alitalia’s capital to avoid a liquidity
crunch and make the company more appealing to a partner, said
the people. Air France-KLM, which has held a 25 percent stake in
Alitalia since 2009, would end up with a stake of about 49
percent after a capital increase, two people said.  “I’m sure that  Alitalia  can’t go it alone,” Letta said
Oct. 6 in an interview televised on SkyTG24. “Italy doesn’t
have the size for a global flagship. We have to integrate with
others.”  The Italian carrier is seeking an injection of at least 100
million euros ($136 million) after the first-half net loss
swelled and cash dwindled. Alitalia’s priority is to resolve its
cash issue with new financing and a capital increase before
combining with an international player, the people said.  A spokeswoman for Letta and an Alitalia representative
declined to comment. Jean-Charles Trehan, a spokesman at Air
France, had no comment.  Letta had already met with senior management of Alitalia
last week to discuss how to avert a collapse of the airline, two
people familiar with the gathering said at the time.  Air France is under pressure itself to cut costs, and its
French subsidiary plans to eliminate 1,826 ground staff jobs
through voluntary employee departures to address weaker demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  