-- Mizuho’s Ex-Banking Unit Chief Knew of Loans to Crime Groups
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-10-08T11:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/mizuho-says-ex-banking-unit-chief-knew-of-loans-to-crime-groups.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s loan
scandal deepened after the Japanese bank said a former top
executive knew it was lending money to crime groups.  Satoru Nishibori, who was president of Mizuho Bank Ltd. at
the time, knew of the loans to “antisocial” groups, President
 Yasuhiro Sato  said at a news briefing in  Tokyo  today. The
company issued a statement saying top management were aware,
contrary to earlier comments and findings by Japan’s financial
regulator that only the “executive in charge” had knowledge.  The scandal underscores the ties between yakuza gangs and
the Japanese financial industry six years after the Financial
Services Agency punished  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  for
doing business with the groups for decades. Sato apologized
today, saying he bears responsibility even though he was only
made aware of the loans in March during the FSA’s probe.  “The bank’s reputation risk just got bigger with this
report correction,” said Shinichi Ina, an analyst at UBS AG in
Tokyo. “This problem may harm the good reputation that Sato
created” since he became president in 2011.  The FSA said it’s “extremely regrettable” that Mizuho
gave incorrect information. It will take appropriate action
after the bank and an independent panel complete investigations,
the agency said in a faxed statement today.  Auto Loans  The regulator ordered Mizuho to improve compliance on Sept.
27, saying the Tokyo-based lender failed to take steps to end
loans to crime groups for more than two years after becoming
aware of them. The bank made 230 loans, mostly for automobiles,
valued at about 200 million yen ($2 million), through its  Orient
Corp. (8585)  consumer credit affiliate.  Sato, 61, said he was in a position where he could have
found out about the loans in July 2011, when reports mentioning
the transactions were distributed at a board meeting.  Nishibori, 60, who was president of Mizuho Bank for about
two years until June 2011, is now an adviser to the financial
group. Mizuho declined to make him available for comment.  The revelation that Nishibori was aware of the transactions
is at odds with earlier statements by the bank. Deputy President
Toshitsugu Okabe told reporters on Oct. 4 that four senior
executives responsible for compliance at the time knew about the
loans and didn’t inform superiors.  Nakagome Panel  Mizuho has set up an internal committee and a panel of
three outside experts to improve compliance. Hideki Nakagome, a
former High Court chief justice, will lead the external probe,
according to today’s statement. Nakagome previously investigated
accounting fraud at  Olympus Corp. (7733)  and information leaks by
Nomura Holdings Inc. employees to insider traders.  The bank must submit a report to the FSA by Oct. 28 showing
how it plans to improve operations. It last received a business
improvement order in 2011 after a computer glitch delayed
transactions following the nation’s record earthquake.  Shares of Mizuho closed 0.5 percent higher at 206 yen
before the briefing. They have gained 31 percent this year,
compared with the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) ’s 34 percent advance.  Japanese authorities have stepped up efforts to combat
yakuza gangs, whose activities range from extortion to drug
trafficking, according to the  National Police Agency . The groups
are increasingly turning to businesses such as construction,
finance, waste disposal and securities markets to supplement
their income sources, police have said.  In 2007, the FSA ordered Mitsubishi UFJ’s banking unit to
suspend some operations for a week after finding that a branch
in Hyogo prefecture, western  Japan , did business with a crime
group for more than 30 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  