-- Mizuho Draws FSA Ire Saying Official Knew of Crime Loans
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-10-09T08:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/mizuho-draws-fsa-ire-by-saying-top-official-knew-of-crime-loans.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  said a
former top executive knew it was lending to crime groups three
years ago, reversing its stance that only compliance officials
were aware and drawing further ire from the financial regulator.  Satoru Nishibori, president of Mizuho’s banking unit at the
time, knew of the loans in 2010, President  Yasuhiro Sato  said at
a news briefing in  Tokyo  yesterday. The Financial Services
Agency, which last month ordered Mizuho to improve its business,
said it was “extremely regrettable” that  Japan ’s third-largest
bank by market value bank gave incorrect information. Shares of
the bank fell as much as 3.4 percent to 199 yen in Tokyo.  The admission underscores the ties between yakuza gangs and
the Japanese financial industry six years after the Financial
Services Agency punished  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  for
doing business with the groups for decades. Sato apologized,
saying he bears responsibility even though he was only made
aware of the loans in March during the FSA’s probe.  “The bank’s reputation risk just got bigger with this
report correction,” said Shinichi Ina, an analyst at UBS AG in
Tokyo. “This problem may harm the good reputation that Sato
created” since he became president in 2011.  The FSA will take appropriate action after Mizuho and an
independent panel commissioned by the bank complete
investigations, the agency said in a faxed statement.  Shares of Mizuho closed 1 percent lower at 204 yen, paring
this year’s gain to 30 percent. That compares with the benchmark
 Topix Index (TPX) ’s 36 percent jump.  Top Management  Top management were aware of the transactions, Mizuho said
in a statement yesterday, contrary to earlier comments and
findings by the FSA that only the “executive in charge” had
knowledge. Deputy President Toshitsugu Okabe told reporters on
Oct. 4 that four senior executives responsible for compliance at
the time knew about the loans and didn’t inform superiors.  The regulator ordered Mizuho Bank Ltd. to improve
compliance on Sept. 27, saying it failed to take steps to end
loans to crime groups for more than two years after becoming
aware of them. The bank made 230 loans, mostly for automobiles,
valued at about 200 million yen ($2 million), through its  Orient
Corp. (8585)  consumer credit affiliate.  Sato, 61, said he was in a position where he could have
found out about the loans in July 2011, when reports mentioning
the transactions were distributed at a board meeting. He will
step down from a government advisory panel on industrial
competitiveness, he said.  Nishibori, 60, who was president of Mizuho Bank for about
two years until June 2011, is now an adviser to the financial
group. Mizuho declined to make him available for comment.  Independent Panel  Mizuho has set up an internal committee and a panel of
three outside experts to improve compliance. Hideki Nakagome, a
former High Court chief justice, will lead the external probe,
according to the statement. Nakagome previously investigated
accounting fraud at  Olympus Corp. (7733)  and information leaks by
Nomura Holdings Inc. employees to insider traders.  The bank must submit a report to the FSA by Oct. 28 showing
how it plans to improve operations. It last received a business
improvement order in 2011 after a computer glitch delayed
transactions following the nation’s record earthquake.  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s  said today that Mizuho’s credit rating
won’t be affected by the correction of its report to the FSA or
by the business improvement order, citing the “small” amount
of transactions with crime group members. Still, revenue may be
hurt if the regulator takes further action or the bank’s “lost
business becomes substantial,” S&P said in a statement.  Japan has stepped up efforts to combat yakuza gangs, whose
activities range from extortion to drug trafficking, according
to the  National Police Agency . Ordinances came into effect
nationwide in 2011 banning Japanese companies from doing
business with the yakuza that would result in profit for the
organizations. The rules give local authorities the power to
fine or imprison enterprises that refuse to stop relations with
the gangs.  In 2007, the FSA ordered Mitsubishi UFJ’s banking unit to
suspend some operations for a week after finding that a branch
in Hyogo prefecture, western Japan, did business with a crime
group for more than 30 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  