-- Jets Beat Falcons 30-28 as Geno Smith Gets First NFL Road Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-08T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/jets-beat-falcons-30-28-as-geno-smith-gets-first-nfl-road-win.html
The New York Jets beat the Atlanta
Falcons 30-28 on Nick Folk’s 43-yard field goal as time expired,
giving rookie quarterback Geno Smith his first career road win
in the National Football League.  Smith threw three touchdown passes, didn’t have a turnover
for the first time in five games and led the Jets to the winning
field goal in the closing minutes after the Falcons had erased a
13-point fourth-quarter deficit at the Georgia Dome.  “I made it my duty to come out here and not put the ball
on the ground, not put my team in jeopardy,” said Smith, who
had 11 turnovers in the Jets’ first four games, including seven
in his previous two road starts. “It came down to a last-second
drive against a tough Atlanta team on the road. We stood up and
that speaks volumes about this team’s character.”  Smith, 22, is the second rookie quarterback to win a game
on the road in the 44-year history of “Monday Night Football,”
according to ESPN, helping the Jets improve their record to 3-2
on the season. The Falcons entered the game with a 34-8 home
record over the past six seasons and were listed by oddsmakers
as 10-point favorites.  Smith completed 16-of-20 passes for 199 yards and connected
on all four of his pass attempts on the Jets’ final drive. New
York drove 55 yards in eight plays to set up Folk’s winning kick
after the Falcons took a 28-27 lead on Matt Ryan’s three-yard
touchdown pass to rookie tight end Levine Toilolo with just
under two minutes remaining.  Ryan completed 36 of 45 passes for 319 yards and two scores
for the Falcons, who fell to 1-4 and surpassed their loss total
from the 2012 season, when they went 13-3 and finished as the
No. 1 seed in the National Football Conference. Atlanta has lost
three straight games for the first time since Ryan was taken
with the third pick in the 2008 draft.  No Turnovers  “The biggest thing I’m proud of is we didn’t turn the ball
over,” Jets coach Rex Ryan said at a news conference. “We
weren’t reckless. We were the opposite. We were fearless.”  Smith threw first-half touchdown passes to Jeff Cumberland
and Jeremy Kerley and the Jets took a 17-7 lead into halftime as
their defense stopped the Falcons at the 1-yard line on the
final play of the second quarter.  “With that goal-line stand, I knew that was going to be a
huge series for us,” Ryan said.  After Jacquizz Rodgers scored the first of his two rushing
touchdowns to pull the Falcons within 17-14 midway through the
third quarter, Folk kicked a 36-yard field goal and Smith
floated a 1-yard touchdown pass to Kellen Winslow in the corner
of the end zone to push the Jets’ lead to 27-14.  Smith is the second rookie quarterback to throw three
touchdown passes in a Monday Night Football game and the first
since Dan Marino in 1983.  Smith’s best game as a pro comes a week after he had two
interceptions and two fumbles in a loss at the Tennessee Titans.  “It’s great to come out of here with a team victory,”
Smith said. “We bounced back from a tough one last week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  