-- Kingfisher Chief Seeks Clarity Over French Sunday Opening Laws
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-08T15:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/kingfisher-chief-seeks-clarity-over-french-sunday-opening-laws.html
  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , owner of the French
Castorama chain, is seeking “clarity and consistency” over
Sunday opening laws in  France  amid protests by stores and their
employees who want to work on the traditional day of rest.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire met yesterday with the
head of a government-appointed commission, which is seeking to
streamline the laws and has to report back by the end of
November, he said in an interview in Paris.  Kingfisher is France’s biggest home-improvement retailer
and gets more than half its  earnings  from the country. Under a
law dating back to 1906, most non-food retailers are forbidden
from opening on Sundays, though the law has been modified over
the years, leaving a mishmash of rules. Furniture and gardening
stores can remain open, while do-it-yourself outlets can’t.  “It seems extraordinary to have a furniture store down the
road from us open on a Sunday, but we clearly can’t trade,”
Cheshire said. “There is no real logic in any one place.”  France’s imposition of laws that bar many shopkeepers from
opening Sunday and after 9 p.m. has led to protests by retailers
and their employees. President  Francois Hollande  is seeking to
strike a balance between appeasing unions, which are asking that
stores remain closed on Sundays, and dealing with near-record
joblessness and sliding purchasing power, with many employees
willing to work extra hours for additional pay.  Stores affected have included the Champs Elysees branch of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA’s (MC)  Sephora cosmetic chain,
which was ordered to close no later than 9 p.m. on weekdays even
though the outlet makes 20 percent of its sales after that time.  Antiquated Rules  The new rules are antiquated, according to Jacques-Antoine Granjon, the founder of online retailer Vente-Privee.com.  “The laws sometimes have to be open to the new world, and
the new world is business that never stops,” Granjon said in a
phone interview. “Where there is a need and where you have
people who are ready to work, they should let them work.”  Kingfisher’s Cheshire reiterated that the economic outlook
in France “is still really uncertain as customers are nervous
because they don’t know what they are going to be hit with in
terms of taxation.”  By contrast, the outlook in the U.K. shows a “slow, steady
uptick.” While the business climate has improved, “people are
still less confident about their personal finances,” he said.  Kingfisher plans to open four branches of its Screwfix unit
in  Germany  by the middle of next year, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  