-- Kroes Sees Potential for Telecom Consolidation With New Rule
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-08T12:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/kroes-sees-potential-for-telecom-consolidation-with-rule-changes.html
European Commissioner  Neelie Kroes ,
who is leading a push to overhaul the European Union’s
telecommunications regulations, said her proposals may
ultimately lead to industry consolidation across the bloc.  “We have listened to industry concerns, so that pan-European deals can come onto the market, sustainably, available
for all as soon as possible,” Kroes said at an industry
conference in Brussels today.  Kroes’s regulatory framework calls for an end to roaming
charges for phone calls and Internet use, as well as policies to
make allocation of spectrum, the airwaves that carry mobile
voice and data traffic, more uniform and predictable across the
more than two dozen countries in the EU.  She’s met resistance from carriers that say eliminating
roaming revenue is unnecessary since the industry would have
eventually cut the charges anyway, and that it’s a burden for
the companies that have been battered by price wars and the
economic crisis.  “By introducing price regulation for certain competitive
services, the proposal gives a negative signal to the investors’
community, because the perception will be that further
regulation is always around the corner,” Luigi Gambardella,
chairman of the European Telecommunications Network Operators’
association, said today at the event. Kroes’s plans aren’t all
bad for companies, he added, saying “in other areas such as
spectrum policy, the proposed rules would improve the investment
climate in  Europe .”  Pacifying Naysayers  Kroes’s aim is to pacify these detractors by reducing
regulatory burdens, including taxes, and making rules across EU
markets more predictable.  “We do have to look at taxation across the wider sector,
and getting a level playing field,” Kroes said at the ETNO
conference, co-hosted with the Financial Times. “That shouldn’t
involve more regulation in the sector, but lifting regulation in
competitive markets so that EU Internet providers can offer the
services and connectivity Europe needs.”  The plan, which needs approval by EU governments and the
European Parliament, is to make Europe operate more like a
single country and to encourage mobile-data use across countries
and adoption of high-speed Internet. Kroes said she envisions a
market where big European operators do business alongside
smaller local companies, including so-called over-the-top
providers that sell services using other carriers’ networks.  “Bringing down barriers is ultimately good for the sector.
But you can’t do that without removing roaming surcharges,
without removing the arbitrary high charges for calling across
borders,” she said. “That’s why I say: you can’t pick which
bits you want from the menu. This isn’t a restaurant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Brussels at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  