-- Nabiullina Warns Narrowing Current-Account Surplus Signals Risks
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-10-08T14:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/nabiullina-warns-narrowing-current-account-surplus-signals-risks.html
Russia ’s current-account  surplus  is
sounding alarms at the central bank after dropping to the lowest
quarterly level since 1998, with Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina 
saying it shows exports won’t drive economic expansion.  The measure fell to $29.5 billion in the first nine months
of the year, half last year’s level, Nabiullina told lawmakers
today in Moscow at the Federation Council, the upper house of
parliament. The surplus was $1.1 billion in the third quarter,
compared with $5.8 billion last year.  The economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter has
ground to a halt after a record recession in the euro area and
slower growth in  China , Russia’s biggest single trading partner,
sapped demand for its exports of oil, natural gas and metals.
Gross domestic product is estimated to expand 1.8 percent in
2013, according to the Economy Ministry, which has twice cut its
growth projections this year.  The narrowing surplus “means exports won’t likely be a
driver of economic growth, as they were before the crisis and
right after it,” Nabiullina said. “Investment should
definitely become the main factor of economic growth.”  A declining current-account surplus is negative for the
ruble, making it more vulnerable to external shocks, according
to Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief Russian economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Moscow.  The ruble has appreciated about 3 percent against the
dollar in the past three months, making it the seventh-best
performer among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It traded little changed at 32.2325 per U.S. currency
as of 5:35 p.m. in Moscow.  “Growth in services imports is currently the driving force
behind the current account deterioration,” Natalia Orlova,
Dmitry Dolgin and Sergei Egiev, economists at  Alfa Bank  said in
a research note today. “If the current account comes under
additional pressure, capital account risks may increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  