-- New York Taxi-of-Tomorrow Plan Struck Down by State Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-08T21:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/new-york-taxi-of-tomorrow-plan-struck-down-by-state-court.html
New York ’s plan for a new fleet of
cabs from  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  was blocked by a judge, who ruled the
city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission overstepped its authority
by requiring medallion owners to buy a specific vehicle.  Nissan won a contract in May 2011 valued at $1 billion over
10 years to supply the minivans, which feature sliding doors,
more luggage space and airbags in the back. The commission in
September 2012 designated the Nissan NV200 as the official
“Taxi of Tomorrow” and required owners of the medallions that
confer the right to operate yellow cabs in New York to buy the
$29,700 vehicle starting this month.  Taxi fleet operators sued the city in December seeking to
block the requirement, and a judge in May halted the program,
saying it violated the administrative code because there was no
option for medallion owners to buy a hybrid vehicle. In June,
the city revised the rules to let medallion owners buy hybrids
until Nissan develops a hybrid version of the NV200.  The fleet operators sued again in July, and State Supreme
Court Justice Shlomo S. Hagler in  Manhattan  blocked the plan in
a ruling dated today, saying the commission exceeded its
authority under the city charter by requiring the purchase of a
specific vehicle.  TLC Authority  “If the TLC was vested with the authority to contract for
the medallion owners with third party vendors, the TLC may, for
instance, also have the authority to mandate the purchase of
special insurance from a particular insurance company or even to
purchase a more efficient fuel from a designated vendor at pre-determined prices,” Hagler said.  The decision is “fundamentally wrong,” because it was
within the commission’s authority to authorize the Taxi of
Tomorrow, Michael A. Cardozo, New York corporation counsel, said
in a statement. The city intends to appeal immediately, he said.  “Aside from its being by far the safest taxicab ever
designed, the NV200 has superior legroom, a panoramic roof and a
host of other comforts and amenities,” Taxi and Limousine
Commissioner David Yassky said in a statement. “We remain
committed to bringing it to the riding public.”  The Taxi of Tomorrow program is a plan by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s administration to standardize and expand the city’s
fleet of 13,237 yellow cabs with 15,237 yellow vans built by
Nissan, of which more than 2,000 would be accessible for
wheelchairs. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  $1 Billion Revenue  The Nissans, already being made, were to hit the streets
Oct. 28. The program was slated to bring in more than $1 billion
in revenue to the city.  “We are disappointed in the court’s decision, but it will
not prevent our plan to start upgrading the NYC taxi fleet with
the Nissan Taxi of Tomorrow at the end of the month,” Travis Parman, a U.S. spokesman for Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan, said
in an e-mail. “We are evaluating options for next steps
regarding the exclusivity contract.”  The other part of the program is a fleet of green cabs that
riders could hail in underserved areas of the city, including
northern Manhattan and the boroughs of  Brooklyn , Queens,  Staten
Island  and the Bronx. Those cars have been on the streets since
August. The fleet, now at 300, will increase to 18,000 over the
next three years, 20 percent of which will be accessible to the
disabled, according to Allan Fromberg, a spokesman for the Taxi
and Limousine Commission  Medallion owners and taxi drivers had different reactions
to Hagler’s decision.  Commission ‘Overreached’  “The Taxi and Limousine Commission had overreached in its
authority when it maneuvered to approve this outside of the
legal city authorization routes,” Ethan Gerber, executive
director of the Greater New York Taxi Association, the
medallion-owners group that brought the case, said in a
statement. The NV200 “was inappropriate for people in need of
accessible vehicles and those who are concerned with the
environment,” he said.  Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the New York Taxi
Workers Alliance, a union for cabbies, said the Taxi of Tomorrow
plan lets drivers use their collective purchasing power to cut
sales costs and get an “unprecedented” 150,000-mile (240,000-kilometer) warranty.  “Deep pocketed companies bitter that the TLC has finally
started enforcing against their lease overcharges against
drivers and who profit generously by charging high-interest  car
loans  to drivers filed this suit,” Desai said. “Drivers and
passengers lost today.”  The case is Greater New York Taxi Association v. New York
City Taxi and Limousine Commission, 101083/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  