-- Newcrest to Replace CEO, Chairman After Asset Writedowns
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-09T05:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/newcrest-to-replace-ceo-chairman-after-writedowns-and-inquiry.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s
largest gold producer, named Sandeep Biswas as chief executive
officer in a boardroom clean out after a A$6.2 billion ($5.9
billion) writedown triggered a regulatory probe.  Biswas, formerly CEO of Rio Tinto Group’s Pacific Aluminium
unit, will replace  Greg Robinson  in the second half of 2014. Don Mercer, chairman since October 2006, will be succeeded in
December by Peter Hay, the Melbourne-based company said today in
a statement.  Newcrest, the worst  performer  this year of Australia’s 50
biggest publicly traded companies, has lost more than A$20
billion in market value since Robinson became CEO in July 2011.
The company has struggled as gold plunged from a record and it
missed output targets.  “It’s a step in the right direction,” said Brenton
Saunders, a Sydney-based investment analyst with  BT Investment
Management Ltd. (BTT) , which manages about A$50 billion and holds
Newcrest shares. “There are so many things that need to change
in this business, it’s just one piece of the puzzle.”  Newcrest rose 0.9 percent to A$10.93 at the close in
Sydney, giving it a market value of A$8.4 billion, down from
A$28.9 billion when Robinson became CEO. The stock has lost 51
percent this year as gold declined 21 percent.  Disclosure Inquiry  The company’s June 7 announcement flagging its writedown is
the subject of a disclosure inquiry by the  Australian Securities
and Investments Commission . Credit Suisse Group AG, Citigroup
Inc. and UBS AG were among banks that cut their  ratings  on
Newcrest in the three days before its statement, prompting
concern from regulators. Newcrest said an internal review found
no evidence of any selective briefings.  “It’s a tightening up of corporate governance that we
would be seeking,” from Biswas and Hay, said Andrew Preston, a
Melbourne-based senior investment manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about A$18 billion in Australia
and holds Newcrest shares.  Biswas is a chemical engineer with experience in
commodities including zinc, nickel and copper, Newcrest said. He
will join the company from Jan. 1 as chief operating officer.  Mercer and Robinson had faced dissent from shareholders
over the A$9.7 billion  acquisition  of Lihir Gold Ltd. in 2010,
said Mathew Hodge, a Sydney-based analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
Robinson was Newcrest’s chief financial officer at the time.  ‘Downward Path’  “Newcrest has pretty much been on a downward path,
coincidence or not, ever since that acquisition,” Hodge said by
phone. “The biggest mistake all managers make is capital
allocation, and that’s been true of Newcrest.”  New leaders at Newcrest, the world’s  fifth-largest  gold
producer by market value, may need to consider selling shares,
restructuring debt or disposing of assets, BT’s Saunders said.
Investors will want Biswas to deliver on plans to raise output
at the Lihir mine in  Papua New Guinea  and Cadia Valley in
Australia, he said.  “It needs a lot of shrewd operational decision making and
implementation and hopefully someone with his background can
bring that,” said Saunders.  Production decreased to 586,573 ounces in the three months
ended Sept. 30, from 642,032 ounces in the previous three
months, Newcrest said in today’s statement. The company
reiterated a forecast of full-year gold output in fiscal 2014 of
2 million ounces to 2.3 million ounces.  “In view of volatile market conditions, the board will
continue to ensure the corporate strategy, asset portfolio,
operating strategy and balance sheet remain appropriate,
assessing all options to enhance  shareholder value ,” Hay, who
joined the board in August, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  