-- NFL to Play Three Games in London Next Season as Interest Grows
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-08T19:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/nfl-to-play-three-games-in-london-next-season-as-interest-grows.html
The National Football League will
play three regular-season games in  London  next season, with the
Jacksonville Jaguars, Atlanta Falcons and Oakland Raiders
hosting the contests at Wembley Stadium.  Two games are being played in the U.K. capital this season
for the first time and the NFL said it added a third date in
2014 in response to growing fan support in London. Regular-season games have been played at Wembley annually since 2007.  “Our fans in the U.K. have continued to demonstrate that
they love football and want more,” NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said in an e-mailed statement.  The game dates and opponents for each club will be
announced later this season.  The NFL said increasing exposure in the U.K. is an
“important step” in the league’s international development.
New England Patriots owner Bob Kraft is among those who have
said they’d like to see an NFL club based in London within the
next decade.  The Minnesota Vikings’ 34-27 victory over the Pittsburgh
Steelers on September 29 drew a crowd of 83,518 to Wembley. The
Jaguars host the San Francisco 49ers on Oct. 27 in this year’s
second game in London. Jacksonville has also committed to
playing a home game in the U.K. in 2014, 2015, and 2016.  “The Jaguars have a broader worldwide fan base today and
the anticipation for our London game later this month is shared
by our loyal fans in Jacksonville, so it’s a perfect scenario
for everyone,” Jaguars owner Shahid Khan said. “The energy and
appetite for the NFL in the U.K. is incredible.”  The NFL said the U.K. has an NFL fan base of 12 million and
participation in amateur football in the U.K. has risen
approximately 15 percent each year since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  