-- Nokia, Medtronic, Apple, Redskins: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/nokia-medtronic-apple-redskins-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finish company selling
its handset business to Microsoft Corp, told a London court that
Taiwanese phone maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  was copying its technology
designed to help transmit voice and text messages.  Nokia is suing HTC for infringement of the “024 patent,”
which covers the technology, lawyers for the Espoo, Finland-based company said in documents filed at a London court for the
trial beginning yesterday. HTC is seeking to revoke the patent,
Nokia said.  Nokia has filed 50 infringement claims against HTC in the
U.S., U.K., Germany and  Italy  since May 2012, Mark Durrant, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail. It won a U.S. ruling Sept.
23 after a judge found HTC had violated two patents for a way to
remove errors in radio signals and another for a process to deal
with different radio frequencies.  The patent claim in today’s case relates to a group of four
HTC handsets, including the Wildfire S and One SV, which contain
certain chips manufactured by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ,
Nokia’s lawyers said in court filings.  Nokia was the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones before
its 14-year streak came to an end in 2011 when Samsung
Electronics Co. overtook it. Nokia has sought to use patent
licensing to recoup some of the money it spent on phone
innovations. Those patents will stay with Nokia after it sells
its handset business and licenses its technology to Microsoft
for $7.2 billion.  Joe Dawes, an external spokesman at London-based Nelson
Bostock Group Ltd. representing HTC, declined to comment
immediately on the trial.  HTC had a 2.8 percent share of the global smartphone market
in the second quarter of 2013, compared to Nokia’s 3.1 percent,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  The case is HTC Corp. v Nokia Corp. in the U.K.  High Court 
of Justice,  Chancery Division , case no HC12F02047.  Medtronic Rejected by U.S. High Court on Edwards Valve Patent  The U.S.  Supreme Court  left intact a patent ruling that may
cost a  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  unit more than $200 million in its clash
with  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  over devices that repair aortic
valves without open-heart surgery.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal from
Medtronic’s CoreValve unit, which a jury concluded infringed an
Edwards heart-valve patent. A lower court upheld the jury’s
$74 million verdict in November.  Medtronic last year paid Edwards $84 million and recorded a
$245 million charge to cover estimated damages. The Minneapolis-based company also faces the prospect of a court order barring
U.S. manufacture or sale of its infringing devices.  Edwards sued CoreValve, then a stand-alone company, in
2008. The patent was issued in 1995, and Edwards said it’s
seeking an extension of the life of the patent to 2017.  The devices use catheters to thread replacement valves into
the body. The U.S. market could reach $2.5 billion,  Jason Mills ,
an analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in San Francisco, said last
year.  At the Supreme Court, Medtronic argued that the disputed
patent didn’t contain enough information to enable reproduction
of the invention, as required under federal law. Edwards is
based in  Irvine ,  California .  In dispute is patent 5,411,552  The case is CoreValve v. Edwards Lifesciences, 12-1325,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Backs Down in Trademark Dispute Over German Cafe’s Logo  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone and the iPod, withdrew
from a trademark dispute with a German cafe that used a red
apple superimposed with the silhouette of child’s head as its
logo,  United Press International   reported .  Apfelkind , a cafe in Bonn, initially received a cease-and-desist letter from Cupertino, California-based Apple in
September 2011, demanding that the cafe’s trademark application
be withdrawn, according to UPI.  Christin Romer, owner of the cafe, said at first she had
been flattered to have been contacted by Apple because she loves
the company and its products and has used the iPhone and her
Apple laptop to set up her business, UPI reported.  Without stating any reason, Apple withdrew its protests
last week, leaving Romer free to use her logo, UPI reported.  Nepal Looking to Trademark Registration for Coffee and Tea  Nepal’s government is planning to register a collective
trademark for coffee and tea from that country, the Himalayan
News Service  reported .  The country’s  National Tea and Coffee Development Board 
wants to follow in the footsteps of the  Nepali Pashmina
Industries Association , which registered the “Chyangra
Pashmina” trademark in 41 countries, according to Himalayan
News Service.  Nepal presently has more than 18,000 hectares (44,480
acres) of tea under cultivation and 1,760 hectares devoted to
coffee production, the news service reported.  Jib Raj Koirala of Nepal’s  Ministry of Commerce and Supply 
told Himalayan News Service that international registration for
the nation’s coffee and tea is needed to insure that inferior
products don’t reach the international market purporting to be
the real thing.  Design Company Seeks Entries for Crowd-Sourced NFL Team Logo  99Designs , a  San Francisco  company that crowd-sources
graphic designs, is  running a contest  to design a new logo for
Washington’s National Football League team.  The  Redskins ’ name is presently the subject of cancellation
proceedings at the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office . Although
some American Indian groups have said the team name is racist
and offensive and are seeking cancellation of the trademark,
team owner  Daniel Snyder  has said he will never change the name.  The San Francisco company said it is challenging designers
to create logos for three hypothetical names to replace the
Redskins’ name. The chosen names -- Washington Warriors,
Washington Griffins, Washington Renegades -- were based on
suggestions from journalists who had covered the trademark
controversy.  The top designs will be shared with Snyder “to give him a
little food for thought,” the company said. 99designs said
there are three  options for the logo : the organization’s name in
a stylized type font that becomes the logo; letters or initials
from the name that could be used as the logo; or a character or
mascot to represent the team.  The design company says it’s looking for logos that are
simple, classic and clean and consistent in style with logos for
other National Football League teams.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Former Flow Traders Employees Indicted for Software Theft  Three men accused of stealing software from Dutch trading
house Flow Traders were indicted on related charges by a grand
jury in New York,  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
said.  Jason Vuu, 26, of San Jose, California, Glen Cressman, 26,
of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and Simon Lu, 25, of Pittsburgh
were indicted on charges of unlawful duplication of computer-related material and unlawful use of secret scientific material,
Vance’s office said today in statement.  Vuu and Cressman worked as traders at the Amsterdam-based
Flow Traders’ Manhattan office before resigning in March,
according to the statement. Vuu is accused of e-mailing himself
trading strategies for several of the company’s trading desks
and computer code for its proprietary trading platform from
August 2011 to August 2012, Vance’s office said.  Vuu then worked with Lu, a friend from college, to create a
trading platform for a company they planned to form, Vance said.
Cressman e-mailed himself proprietary trading strategies on two
occasions in December 2012, Vance’s office said.  In yesterday’s announcement, Vance called on the state
Legislature to adopt recommendations of a  task force  on white-collar crime and “protect  intellectual property  as rigorously
as physical property.”  “When an employee takes software to create his own
company, anybody would classify that as ‘stealing’ or ‘theft,’”
he said. “Under existing state law, however, stealing valuable
printer toner out of an office supply closet is a more serious
offense than stealing valuable computer source code.”  Vuu and Lu were arraigned yesterday before Justice Laura A.
Ward in Manhattan, pleaded not guilty and were released on bail,
according to Vance’s office. Cressman is scheduled to be
arraigned before Ward on Oct. 15. They face as long as four
years in prison on each count if convicted.  Vance’s office announced charges against the three men in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  