-- South Korea Confirms North Has Restarted Main Nuclear Site
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-10-09T01:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/north-korea-ready-to-confront-u-s-south-korea-over-naval-drills.html
North Korea  restarted its Yongbyon
nuclear reactor, a South Korean lawmaker said, as the North put
its troops on high alert and said it’s “ready to confront” the
U.S. and the South over naval drills set for this week.  The  National Intelligence Service  informed lawmakers of the
restart, ruling New Frontier Party lawmaker Cho Won Jin said by
phone yesterday. Lawmakers were also told that North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un told his cabinet he plans to seek
reunification with the South by force in three years, Cho said.  The North Korean government accused South Korean President
Park Geun Hye of slandering the country and said Park and her
government were escalating the confrontation to “an intolerable
phase,” according to a report today on the official Korean
Central News Agency that cited the policy department of the
National Defence Commission.  Running the reactor at Yongbyon would mean the North is
making good on promises made in April to restart the facility as
part of efforts to produce energy and improve its nuclear armed
force. The  United Nations Security Council  has imposed strict
sanctions on the North in a bid for it to return to negotiations
and abandon its nuclear ambitions.  Satellite Images  The finding backed up satellite-imagery analysis this month
that indicated the North resumed nuclear activity there. The
imagery from last month showed water being released into the
Kuryong River from the reactor facility at North Korea’s main
nuclear complex, according to the  38 North website , run by the
U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University’s School of
Advanced International Studies in  Washington .  A spokeswoman at the intelligence service who asked not to
be identified declined to comment on Cho’s remarks. The reactor
was mothballed under a six-nation disarmament deal in 2007.  Tensions on the peninsula have heightened since February,
when North Korea tested its third nuclear device and then
threatened first strikes against the U.S. and  South Korea  over
UN sanctions imposed after the Feb. 12 blast.  In a statement carried on KCNA  yesterday, the North warned
of possible “tragic situations” that may result from the
military drills set for this week. The maneuvers, which will
include forces from  Japan , aim to better coordinate disaster
response.  U.S. Accountable  “The U.S. will be entirely accountable for tragic
situations to be brought by the nuclear-armed invaders from the
U.S.,” an unidentified official with the Korean People’s Army
said in the statement. “The U.S. should know that our army is
ready to confidently confront whatever turbulences and perilous
provocations with powerful military forces.”  A typhoon moving through the region led the U.S. and South
Korea to suspended the drills yesterday and today, South Korean
Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said at a briefing in
 Seoul . South Korea’s military is closely monitoring the North’s
troop movements, Kim said.  The USS  George Washington  Strike Group has arrived in South
Korea from its base in Yokosuka, Japan to participate in the
exercises. The nuclear-powered George Washington carries as many
as 75 planes, according to the U.S. Navy.  North and South Korea remain divided along one of the
world’s most fortified borders 60 years after the  Korean War 
ended in a stalemate. North Korea regularly threatens the South,
though actual combat between the two sides has been rare since
the end of the war.  The exercises come a week after the U.S. and South Korea
signed a new joint-defense strategy that would allow for first
strikes against North Korea to counter any possible threat of
nuclear attack. The agreement affirmed a U.S. commitment to use
“the full range of military capabilities” to deter any North
Korean attack, the two governments said in a joint communique
after the Oct. 2 signing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  