-- North Carolina Pension Adds Lagging Private-Equity Bets
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-10-08T21:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/north-carolina-increases-losing-hedge-fund-bets-for-pension.html
In one of the few things Republicans
and Democrats can agree on in North Carolina, the state is
adding to its lagging bets on private equity and real estate to
pump up its $80 billion public-worker pension fund.  Governor Pat McCrory, a Republican, signed a  bill  in August
raising limits on investments in alternatives to stocks and
bonds. The Tar Heel state’s $3.4 billion private-equity
portfolio has returned about 7 percent over 10 years, almost 4
percentage points below the pension’s benchmark. Real estate
investments returned 2.6 percentage points below target.  “We’re behaving like a losing gambler right now,” said
Ardis Watkins, legislative-affairs director for North Carolina’s
State Employees Association, the state’s second-biggest public-worker union. “We’re chasing money.”  North Carolina is joining public-worker pensions from
neighboring South Carolina to  Texas  piling into riskier
investments as they face an $800 billion funding gap for
promises to retirees amid slow growth and record-low interest
rates. The state’s experience shows that the private investment
pools, which charge higher fees than stock or bond funds, aren’t
a magic bullet for hitting targeted annual returns of 7 percent
to 8 percent.  Moral Mondays  Investments in alternative assets, which are harder to
value and sell, have more than doubled to 24 percent of public
pension portfolios between 2006 and 2012, according to
 Cliffwater LLC , a Marina del Rey, California-based firm that
advises institutional investors.  That share will probably grow. Two-thirds of executives at
109 U.S. public funds  surveyed  last year by Smithfield, Rhode
Island-based Pyramis Global Advisors viewed alternatives as the
primary asset class they would use to boost returns.  The law McCrory signed, which was backed by Democratic
Treasurer Janet Cowell, passed the Senate 48 to 1. It was a rare
display of bipartisanship in a state wracked by protests
targeting its first Republican-led government since
Reconstruction.  More than 600 people have been arrested on “Moral Monday”
demonstrations over tax cuts, reductions in education spending
and poll restrictions that opponents say are designed to keep
blacks from voting.  Lagging Behind  Currently, about 20 percent of the pension’s assets are
invested in alternatives, including private-equity funds, which
use borrowed money to buy companies, improve their profitability
and resell them. On average, those funds outperformed the
Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index by about 18 percent over the
life of the fund, according to a  study  co-authored by David
Robinson, professor of finance at Duke University’s Fuqua School
of Business. Robinson analyzed a portfolio of 450 buyout funds.  More recently, private equity has lagged behind the stock
market. It returned 1.33 percentage points less than the S&P 500
for the year ending March 31, according to the  Cambridge
Associates Private Equity Fund index .  Hedge funds also underperformed U.S. equities. The S&P 500
returned an average annual 5.8 percent in the five years ended
March 31, compared with 0.4 percent a year loss for hedge funds,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Winding Down  North Carolina is winding down its investments in funds
that farm out money to hedge funds because of high costs and
weak performance, said Schorr Johnson, a spokesman for Cowell.  The state’s $260 million in “funds of funds” lost 0.48
percent annually for the five years ending June 30.  Credit-oriented funds, which invest in distressed debt and
junk bonds, now make up 90 percent of North Carolina’s hedge-fund investments. They have helped push overall hedge-fund
returns 8.7 percentage points above their benchmark in the last
fiscal year, according to Johnson.  Cowell, the sole trustee of the pension for North
Carolina’s 875,000 active and retired public employees, is
leading the charge to shift the AAA-rated state into riskier
assets. She’s doing so even though the state’s retirement system
is the third-best funded in the U.S.,  according  to S&P.  The real risk to the eighth-biggest U.S. public pension by
assets is that 35 percent of its portfolio is in bonds, Cowell
says. She forecasts that bonds will return 2 percent to 4
percent annually over the next five years.  No Guarantee  “While achieving greater investment flexibility does not
guarantee that we will meet the target rate of return, the
current allocation structure almost ensures that we will not,”
Cowell wrote in a June 17 letter to lawmakers urging them to
raise investment limits on junk bonds, hedge funds, private
equity and assets like commodities that protect against
inflation.  North Carolina’s pension  returned  6.57 percent annually
over 10 years ending June 30, placing it among the bottom 25
percent of government retirement funds with more than $10
billion in assets, according to  data  from Wilshire Associates, a
Santa Monica, California-based consultant.  Higher fees charged by hedge funds, private-equity firms
and real estate managers have eroded returns. North Carolina’s
pension paid $318 million in  investment fees  in fiscal 2012, a
37 percent increase from three years before, records show.  In neighboring South Carolina, which had 56 percent of its
$27 billion invested in alternatives in fiscal 2012,  fees rose 
to $296 million from $122 million after it started investing in
the loosely regulated pools in 2008.  Muted Debate  The relative health of North Carolina’s pension fund has
muted debate over its investment strategy, Francis X. De Luca,
president of the Raleigh-based  Civitas Institute , wrote in an e-mail.  Both Civitas, whose mission is to implement “conservative
policy solutions,” and the public-employees’ association warned
that putting more money into alternatives could expose taxpayers
to more risk.  North Carolina’s pension had 95 cents to cover every $1 in
liabilities in 2011, a funding level behind only  Wisconsin  and
South Dakota, according to a July  report  by S&P.  “People have talked about North Carolina potentially
facing problems, but they take comfort in that our system seems
to be healthy,” De Luca wrote. Civitas advocates moving North
Carolina public employees to 401(k)-style plans, which don’t
promise fixed benefits.  The investment bill signed by McCrory raised limits on the
percentage of pension assets that can be allocated to
alternative assets to 35 percent from 34 percent and lifted the
cap on limits placed on categories such as private equity and
hedge funds.  One boon to the North Carolina pension has been the
“credit” category, which includes junk, or speculative-grade,
bonds and direct loans to companies. That group returned 17.45
percent in fiscal 2013, compared with a 3.34 percent benchmark.  ‘Bad Things’  Robinson, the Duke University professor, said Cowell’s move
was reasonable given low bond yields and the historical
performance of buyout funds. Private-equity investments aren’t
much riskier than stocks, he said. The Federal Reserve has said
it will keep its benchmark interest rate near zero through at
least mid-2015.  “Of course, the devil’s in the details,” Robinson said in
telephone interview. “If you just go and try to throw money at
the asset class, bad things can happen.”  With public pensions allocating billions of dollars more to
private equity, future returns may be lower, said Robinson and
Richard Warr, a professor of finance at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh.  “Now, everyone and their grandmother in is private
equity,” Warr said in a telephone interview “Philosophically,
I just don’t believe that there are that many good private-equity deals around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  