-- Novatek Advances as Net Seen Doubling: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-09T02:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/novatek-advances-as-net-seen-doubling-russia-overnight.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK) , Russia’s biggest non-state natural gas producer, climbed to an 18-month high in
London after the investment banking arm of OAO Sberbank said net
income is poised to double in three years.  Global depositary receipts of Novatek added 1.6 percent
yesterday to trade at the widest premium since June to their
Moscow-listed shares. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. snapped a two-day
advance as  Yandex NV (YNDX)  posted the biggest decline in six months.
OAO  Gazprom (OGZPY)  rallied in  New York , almost wiping out its discount
to the stock in Moscow. RTS stock index  futures  expiring in
December dropped 0.9 percent to 145,710 in U.S. hours.  Novatek, controlled by billionaires  Gennady Timchenko  and
Leonid Mikhelson, will benefit from earnings at its crude oil
business and dividends from joint ventures, Sberbank CIB’s
analysts wrote in a note yesterday. They raised the price
estimate for its GDRs to $188, implying a 37 percent surge from
yesterday’s close. President  Vladimir Putin  on Oct. 7 fueled
wagers a monopoly on liquefied natural gas exports may soon be
lifted, prompting a rally in Novatek’s shares.  “The growth outlook is strong,” Rob West, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, said by phone yesterday.
He has the equivalent of a buy rating for the stock. “The
stock’s had a very good run, but it remains a name that we like
at this level.”  Novatek holds 25.5 percent in SeverEnergia, in a joint
venture with OAO Gazprom Neft,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Enel SpA (ENEL) , to produce
natural gas and gas condensate, which is similar to crude oil.
Novatek also has a 49 percent stake in Nortgas, which is
producing gas and crude oil at the North-Urengoyskoye field.  SeverEnergia, Nortgas  SeverEnergia and Nortgas should begin paying dividends to
shareholders in 2015 and 2016, respectively, according to
Sberbank. In addition, Novatek plans to start its  Yarudeyskoe 
crude oil field in 2015.  “The uptick in financials for Novatek has just started,”
 Oleg Maximov , a senior oil and gas analyst at Sberbank CIB in
Moscow, wrote in a note yesterday. He has a buy rating for the
shares. “If you think you have seen everything with this
company, then think again.”  Novatek reported on Aug. 9 a 20 percent jump in second-quarter  profit  as sales volumes increased and prices gained. Net
income rose to 11.6 billion rubles ($358 million) from 9.66
billion rubles a year earlier, exceeding the 11.3 billion-ruble
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue
advanced 29 percent to 58 billion rubles.  Export Laws  Putin in June called for export law changes to encourage
companies to produce LNG and take advantage of a “window of
opportunity” in the Asia-Pacific market. Russia will move to
liberalize LNG exports in the “nearest future,” Putin said at
a summit in Bali,  Indonesia  earlier this week.  Sixteen out of 21 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
buying Novatek’s London stock. The GDRs rallied to $137.10
yesterday, the highest level since April 2012, to trade at a 13
percent  premium  to the Moscow-listed shares.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge dropped 0.4 percent to 99.22
yesterday. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 1.7 percent to 1,505.14 in
Moscow, the highest level since Feb. 20, as rising crude boosted
appetite for oil and gas producers’ shares.  Yandex joined a slump in Internet companies traded in the
U.S. Russia’s largest search engine sank 5.1 percent to $35.54,
extending a three-day decline to 7.4 percent.  American depositary receipts of Gazprom rallied 2.5 percent
to $9.33, the highest level since March 15.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S. exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.3 percent to
$28.78 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, added 3.2 percent to 25.62
in U.S. hours.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer, lost
0.4 percent to HK$2.36 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:30 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  