-- NSA Center for Spy Data Suffers Electrical Failures
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-08T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/nsa-center-for-spy-data-suffers-electrical-failures.html
A $1.2 billion  data center  being
built in Utah for the National Security Agency to house U.S.
intelligence secrets has been plagued by electrical failures,
according to an agency official.  The electrical failures at the facility located in the
suburbs of  Salt Lake City  have been mitigated and the center is
completing acceptance testing, the official, who asked not to be
identified, said in an e-mail. The problems were reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  The center -- one of the Defense Department’s biggest
construction projects in the U.S. -- is intended to be “a
state-of-the-art facility designed to support the intelligence
community’s efforts to further strengthen and protect the
nation’s cyber security,” according to a  January 2011 NSA
statement .  “During the testing and commissioning of the Utah Data
Center, problems were discovered with certain parts of the
electrical system,” according to a statement by the  Army Corps 
of Engineers passed on by the NSA  last night. “Issues such as
these can arise in any project, and are the reason the Corps
tests and reviews every aspect of any project prior to releasing
it to the customer.”  The NSA’s spying programs include storing the phone records
of millions of Americans as well as the e-mail and Internet
activity of suspected foreign terrorists who may communicate
with U.S. citizens, according to documents exposed in June by
former government contractor Edward Snowden.  10 Meltdowns  The causes of the center’s problems, which include 10
electrical meltdowns in the past 13 months, have destroyed
hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of machinery and delayed
the its opening by a year, according to the  Wall Street Journal .  The  Utah  facility sits on about 247 acres and includes 1.2-milion-square-feet of enclosed space and will host the power,
space, cooling and communications needed for specialized
computing, said the NSA official, who requested anonymity
because of not being authorized to publicly discuss the
project’s problems.  “In an era when our nation and its allies are increasingly
dependent on the integrity of information and systems supported,
transmitted, or stored in cyberspace, it is essential that that
space is as resilient and secure as possible,” John Inglis, NSA
deputy director, said in the January 2011 statement on the need
for the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  