-- Nuance Names Icahn Investors to Board, Averting Proxy Fight
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-10-08T20:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/nuance-board-names-icahn-enterprises-investors-as-directors.html
Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , the maker
of speech-recognition software, named two directors from the
firm of activist investor Carl Icahn, warding off a proxy fight
for control of the company’s board.  Brett Icahn and David Schechter, who co-manage the Sargon
portfolio for  Icahn Enterprises  LP, will become Nuance
directors, bringing the size of the board from nine to 11,
according to a statement today. As part of a pact with Nuance,
the investment firm agreed to a standstill provision, which
prevents a hostile takeover by limiting the amount of voting
stock it can acquire to 20 percent.  Icahn Enterprises, based in New York, typically uses
holdings to seek change in companies deemed undervalued or ill-managed. The firm is the largest investor in Nuance, which has
posted three straight quarters of losses. Icahn’s next steps
could include pushing for a new chief executive officer, a
breakup of the company or an outright sale of Nuance, according
to  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in New York.  “Given the fundamental weakness at Nuance over the past
few quarters, we believe Icahn has many potential scenarios,”
Ives said in a report. He has the equivalent of a hold rating on
shares of the Burlington, Massachusetts-based company.  Nuance fell 2 percent to $18.13 at the close in New York.
 The stock has declined  19 percent this year.  Growth Opportunities  “We see numerous, promising growth opportunities for the
company,” Schechter and Brett Icahn, who is Carl’s son, said in
the statement. “We will work with the board and management team
to continue enhancing stockholder value.”  Carl Icahn, 77, said in a Twitter post that he was
optimistic about the potential to boost Nuance’s stock. He cited
a similar agreement with Hain Celestial Group in 2010. Shares of
Hain, a maker of natural beverages and snacks, climbed from
$20.20 to $79.56 in the three years that Schechter and his son
sat on the board, he said.  Last year,  Carl Icahn  agreed to allocate as much as $3
billion to the Sargon portfolio, expanding the role of his son
and Schechter in running the billionaire’s investments. Under
the agreement, the duo can invest in companies with stock market
values between $750 million and $10 billion.  Icahn’s firm and its affiliates own about 16.7 percent of
Nuance’s outstanding shares. As part of today’s accord, Icahn
will support the current slate of directors and not lobby to
make further board changes. Investors could get a better sense
of the new strategy at Nuance’s annual meeting or analyst day in
the coming months, Ives said.  “We are pleased to welcome Brett and David to our board of
directors and look forward to their contributions,” Nuance CEO
Paul Ricci said in the statement. “Over the past few quarters,
we have made significant progress in our efforts to deliver
enhanced stockholder value, and we remain enthusiastic about
Nuance’s long-term prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  