-- Obama Warns Debt Fight to Weaken U.S. Standing in World
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-08T21:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/obama-warns-debt-fight-to-weaken-u-s-standing-in-world.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
partial government shutdown and threat of default is hurting
U.S. credibility around the world, undercutting work on a trade
pact with Asia-Pacific nations and emboldening China in areas in
which it disagrees with the U.S.  “Already this week, I had to miss critical meetings in
 Asia  to promote American jobs and businesses,” Obama said today
at a White House news conference as he urged Congress to fund
federal operations and raise the nation’s $16.7 trillion  debt 
ceiling before Oct. 17 so the government can pay its bills.  “I’m sure the Chinese don’t mind that I’m not there right
now in the sense that, you know, there are areas where we have
differences and they can present their point of view and not get
as much of a push back,” he said.  China  and  Japan , which together hold more than $2.4
trillion in U.S. Treasuries and whose leaders attended the Asian
economic summit that Obama missed, are raising pressure on the
U.S. to resolve the impasse on the debt limit.  A U.S. default would be a blow to the global economy and
cause China and Japan, the second and third largest economies
after the U.S., to take losses on their foreign reserves.  “Obviously, my message to the world is, the  United States 
always has paid its bills, and it will do so again,” Obama
said. “But, I think, they’re not just looking at what I say,
they’re looking at what Congress does.”  Being forced to cancel his four-nation trip this week
because of the budget standoff with congressional Republicans is
akin to “not showing up to my own party,” Obama said, and
“makes it look like we don’t have our act together.”  Trade Deal  Obama planned to use the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in Bali,  Indonesia , yesterday and today to help resolve
outstanding issues on a proposed 12-nation Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade accord, which the U.S. was striving to
conclude by year’s end.  Rintaro Tamaki, deputy secretary general at the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said in
an interview in  Brunei  yesterday that Obama’s absence from the
APEC meeting may slow progress on the trade deal.  “This may lose momentum to reach agreement by the end of
the year,” said Tamaki, a former top currency official at
Japan’s Ministry of Finance.  “It didn’t help that I wasn’t there to make sure that we
went ahead and closed a trade deal that would open up markets
and create jobs for the United States,” Obama said. “I should
have been there.”  Obama’s Proxy  Secretary of State  John Kerry  stood in for Obama at the
meeting, which also was attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping
and Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Obama also is missing an Association of Southeast Asian
Nations summit in Brunei, where China’s territorial disputes in
the region may dominate talks.  Attendance at both summits were part of Obama’s strategy to
bolster U.S. influence in a region that represents more than
half of the global economy.  Kerry told reporters in Bali that Congress should think
carefully about the message it is sending to other nations with
the shutdown.  “If it were prolonged, or it were repeated,” he said, the
world would begin “to question the willingness of the United
States to stay the course -- or its ability” to do so.  Obama said such meetings are how business gets done.  “In the same way that a CEO of a company, if they want to
close a deal, aren’t gonna do it by phone,” he said. “They
want to show up and look at somebody eye-to-eye and tell ’em why
it’s important and shake hands on a deal. The same thing is true
with respect to world leaders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  