-- Obama Tells Congress Threat of Default Weighing on U.S. Economy
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-08T18:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/obama-tells-congress-threat-of-default-weighing-on-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  said the risk
of a U.S. default is real and blamed “a few irresponsible
members of Congress” for creating a threat that puts the
economic recovery at risk.  Obama declined to say whether the government would set
priorities to pay holders of U.S. government notes first over
paying Social Security recipients or members of the military if
Congress refused to raise the federal debt ceiling.  “I’m going to continue to be very hopeful that Congress
does not put us in that position,” Obama said today at a White
House news conference. “We are exploring all contingencies.”  He repeated that he is willing to negotiate with
Republicans only if they agree to reopen the government and
raise the nation’s debt ceiling without conditions.  “We can’t afford these manufactured crises every few
months,” he said. “We can’t make extortion routine as part of
our democracy.”  Obama earlier today called House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , to again urge him to allow up-or-down votes on
funding the government and raising the $16.7 trillion federal
debt limit, without other issues attached.  In Congress, lawmakers are taking tentative steps toward
resolving the standoff. Both sides are exploring actions that
needed to end the week-old shutdown and raise the debt limit
before U.S. borrowing authority lapses Oct. 17.  Senate Democrats  will introduce a bill today that would
raise the debt ceiling for a year, with a test vote planned for
before the end of this week. The measure would need support from
at least six Republicans to advance.  Market Signals  There are signals that market concern is building as the
stalemate drags on. While the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (SPX)  has yet to move more than 1 percent on any day since
reaching a record on Sept. 18, it’s down 3.74 percent since
then. The index slipped 0.8 percent to 1,662.77 at 1:36 p.m. in
 New York .  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, jumped 4.6
percent today to 20.32 after a 16 percent surge yesterday.  The Treasury sold $30 billion of one-month bills today at a
rate of 0.35 percent, the highest since 2008 and more than
double the rate on comparable one-month securities yesterday.  Separately, officials in China and Japan, America’s largest
foreign creditors with combined holdings of more than $2.4
trillion in Treasuries, sought to raise pressure on the U.S. to
resolve the impasse on the debt ceiling. A shift in asset
allocation by China, Japan or other major holders of Treasuries
could push up U.S. interest rates and cause swings in global
 currency markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  