-- OGX Liquidation Signaled as Oil Reserves Plummet: Brazil Credit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-10-08T16:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/ogx-liquidation-signaled-as-oil-reserves-plummet-brazil-credit.html
Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA is trading in the  bond market  as if it will be
liquidated after an audit showed reserves at the company’s main
oil field are 62 percent less than it had estimated.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of notes due 2018 have sunk 8.9 cents
to a record 6 cents on the dollar after reserves-auditing firm
DeGolyer & MacNaughton said Oct. 3 the Brazilian company’s
Tubarao Martelo field may hold up to 108.5 million barrels of
crude, compared with an OGX estimate of 285 million last year.
The notes have plunged 93 percent in 2013, the most in  emerging
markets . OGX is considering filing for  bankruptcy protection 
this month after missing a $45 million interest payment on its
2022 bonds Oct. 1, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The bond prices indicate creditors expect OGX will be
liquidated in bankruptcy, increasing the risk investors
including Pacific Investment Management Co. will fail to recover
any money, according to Western Asset Management Co. and SW
Asset Management LLC. JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote Oct. 3 that the
lower reserves estimate and the need for “significant upfront”
cash to develop Tubarao Martelo may prompt Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. to drop its bid to buy a 40 percent stake in the field, and
that bondholders have to value OGX assuming a liquidation.  “This reserve report just blew the lid off,” Robert Abad,
who helps oversee $51 billion of emerging-market assets at
 Pasadena , California-based Western Asset, said in a telephone
interview. “You have OGX in free fall. You can see the domino
effect of that reserve report coming out and putting into clear
light how bad the situation has always been. We just didn’t
know.”  Petronas Purchase  The bankruptcy filing would be done in  Rio de Janeiro ,
where OGX is based, said the people, asking not to be identified
as discussions are private. While Batista is negotiating with
creditors to avoid the same process for shipbuilder  OSX Brasil
SA (OSXB3) , the most likely outcome is that both companies will seek
legal protection, they said. The proceedings would put $3.6
billion of OGX dollar bonds into default in  Latin America ’s
largest corporate debt debacle.  OGX declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions. Azeman Said, a spokesman for Petronas, declined to
comment on the deal in an e-mail.  Pimco spokesman Michael Reid didn’t respond to telephone
and e-mail requests seeking comment. A group of OGX creditors,
led by Pimco, have hired Rothschild Inc. as financial advisers
and law firm  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  to represent
them.  Deal Threatened  Petronas  agreed  in May to pay $850 million for the 40
percent stake. Based on the Oct. 3 reserve report, that’s
actually the value of the full field, valuing Petronas’s stake
at $438 million, Morgan Stanley wrote in an Oct. 3 note to
clients.  OGX and Petronas have contradicted each other over the
deal’s conditions. Shamsul Azhar Abbas, Petronas’s chief
executive officer, said Aug. 26 the agreement hinges on OGX
restructuring debt. OGX said two days later that the Malaysian
company had no right to delay the deal. Petronas’s first $250
million payment is due once the deal receives regulatory
approval and a second, $500 million payment is due when
production starts, which OGX said will happen before year-end.  If Petronas walks away from the purchases because of last
week’s reserves report, “it is unclear if another party would
provide capital to develop Martelo,” JPMorgan analysts led by
Gregg Brody wrote last week.  JPMorgan View  OGX bonds could become worthless if a solution isn’t found,
according to the JPMorgan analyst. OGX in July said that its
only producing oil field, Tubarao Azul, will be shut down next
year and canceled plans to develop three others because they
aren’t economically viable.  OGX has 30 oil and natural gas concessions in  Brazil  that
may be revoked if it files for bankruptcy protection, according
to contracts it signed with the oil regulator. ANP said it will
adhere to the concession contract in an e-mailed response to
questions last month, without elaborating.  The company has been looking for existing creditors to
provide as much as $500 million of new  cash  along with debt
relief so it can operate long enough to start pumping oil from
Martelo. OGX, which burned through about $7.2 million in cash a
day in the 12 months through June 30, was set to run out of
funds last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Critical’ Position  “Cash position is critical and the company is likely to
request court protection to restructure its debt,” Morgan
Stanley analysts Bruno Montanari and Guilherme Bellinetti wrote
last week.  Filing for bankruptcy protection would allow OGX to sell
some of its assets and negotiate labor debts while being
shielded from creditors, Leonardo Theon de Moraes, a bankruptcy
lawyer at Sao Paulo-based Mussi, Sandri & Pimenta Advogados,
said by telephone.  “The advantage of bankruptcy protection is that it has
mechanisms to guarantee the company gets some breathing space,”
Theon de Moraes said. “If OGX has the capacity to survive the
crisis, bankruptcy protection works very well.”  Once a judge accepts a filing, the company would have 60
days to present a restructuring plan.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 233 basis points at
11:54 a.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan index data.  Brazil’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
were little changed at 165 basis points. The real appreciated
0.1 percent to 2.2028 per dollar.  Batista, whose fortune has plunged 99.9 percent from its
high last year, took OGX public in 2008 and sold bonds overseas
twice in the following three years by promising production of
730,000 barrels per day by 2015. Instead, Tubarao Martelo is
likely to be OGX’s only producing oil field next year. The
DeGolyer report said that none of the 108.5 million barrels at
Martelo are proven reserves.  “The news flow has been horrible,” Ray Zucaro, a  money
manager  at SW Asset Management, which oversees $375 million of
emerging-market debt, said in a telephone interview. “I do
think JPMorgan was right in saying this is a zero.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  