-- Honda Fit Designed as Prius Killer in Challenge to Toyota
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-10-08T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/honda-fit-designed-as-prius-killer-in-challenge-to-toyota.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  wants to remind the
world that hybrid means more than Prius.  Japan’s third-largest carmaker last month started selling a
new version of its Fit compact at home, including a hybrid
designed to take on  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s global dominance in
sales of fuel-efficient cars. Honda says the Fit hybrid gives
better mileage and costs less than the Toyota Aqua, a smaller
take on the Prius that’s known as the Prius c in the U.S. In the
first four weeks, sales and advance orders reached 62,000 units
-- four times Honda’s forecast, with about 70 percent of them
hybrids.  “The Fit hybrid may be an Aqua-killer,” said Yoshiaki Kawano, an analyst at IHS Automotive in Tokyo. “It’s possible
Honda will come very close or even overtake Aqua in sales.”  It has some way to go.  Toyota (7201)  sold 182,135 Aquas in the
first eight months of this year, more than double shipments of
the Fit, Japan Automobile Dealers Association data show; the
older Fit was for sale most of that time. Cutting Toyota’s lead
in Japan would not only burnish the image of Honda’s new
technology in the only major market where hybrids outsell
gasoline cars, it would add momentum to Honda as it challenges
Toyota’s Camry for the No. 1 slot in the U.S.  Since introducing its first hybrid in 1999, two years after
Toyota’s Prius went on sale in Japan, Tokyo-based Honda has
struggled to catch up. While Honda was first to the U.S. with
its Insight hybrid, Toyota’s second-generation Prius became the
car that captured Americans’ imagination.  Simpler, Smaller  Honda sold 231,440 hybrids worldwide last year, compared
with Toyota’s 1.2 million. Toyota’s Prius and Aqua are  Japan ’s
two best-selling models, followed by Fit.  Honda lost out because it stuck to a simpler, smaller
system to drive its cars that used a combination of electric and
gasoline power at all times, according to Clive Wiggins, a
Tokyo-based analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. Toyota developed
hybrid technology that let cars alternate between battery power
and a gasoline-burning engine, which increased fuel efficiency.  A change of tack means Honda’s new models have adapted and
can compete head-to-head. The hybrid Honda Accord, set to reach
U.S. showrooms this month, is rated by the Environmental
Protection Agency to get 47 miles (76 kilometers) per gallon of
gasoline in combined city and highway driving. That ties  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion for the highest among mid-size sedans.  The Camry hybrid gets a 41 mpg combined rating, while Prius
and Prius c are rated at 50 mpg.  Fit’s Prospects  Challenging Toyota with hybrids in the U.S. would put Honda
a step closer to a long-sought comeback. The Accord last topped
the Camry in U.S. sales more than a decade ago. It has narrowed
the gap in 2013, selling 282,102 units through September,
against the Camry’s 318,990.  In Japan, the revamped Fit will probably log about 200,000
deliveries in its first full year on sale, around the same as
the Aqua, says Koichi Sugimoto, an auto analyst at BNP Paribas
in  Tokyo . The last time Honda’s small car topped Japan’s monthly
charts was in May 2011, before the Aqua was introduced, JADA
data show.  “It’s a long-awaited release, and the first global model
targeting emerging countries as well,” said Kota Yuzawa, an
auto analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo. “It’s a very
important model for Honda’s stock price.”  The shares may rise 27 percent in the coming year, based on
an average forecast of analysts tracked by Bloomberg. Only 1 in
23 recommend investors sell Honda’s stock.  New Tactics  Honda has shown such gains can be fleeting: The company’s
Insight made history in April 2009 when it became the first
hybrid to outsell all gasoline-only models in Japan. The Honda
Fit was No. 2. Toyota’s Prius lagged behind at 21.  By May, the Prius topped the chart, where it jostled for
leadership with the Fit until the late 2011 introduction of Aqua
relegated the Honda to a distant third place.  The new Fit shows Honda has switched tactics, sacrificing
some profitability to ensure the car is priced competitively,
said Goldman’s Yuzawa. The least-expensive hybrid costs 1.63
million yen ($16,800) in Japan, 3 percent less than the Aqua’s
base price, even with a fuel efficient semi-automatic
transmission and a lithium-ion battery.  “They are ready to fight against Toyota in terms of
technology,” Yuzawa said. “They really want to be No. 1.”  Honda’s Toyota City-based rival will probably fight back by
improving Aqua’s fuel economy or cutting prices, Yuzawa said.
Toyota always seeks gains in efficiency, said  Shiori Hashimoto ,
a spokeswoman. She declined to comment on specific plans.  “They will certainly come up with better fuel economy in
the next Aqua and then we will have to make ours even better,”
Takashi Imai, Fit’s Japan sales chief, said in an interview.
“This war is never going to end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  