-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Drops as U.S. Comes Closer to Default
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-10-08T00:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/top-oil-market-news-wti-drops-as-u-s-comes-closer-to-default.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Crude Drops as Debt-Limit Deadlock Pushes U.S. Closer to Default  West Texas Intermediate crude dropped as the U.S. neared a
breach of the debt ceiling and production from the Gulf of
 Mexico  resumed after a tropical storm.  Gasoline Futures Rise as Obama Presses Boehner for Budget Vote  Gasoline futures rose as President Barack Obama called on
House Republican leadership to allow a vote on a funding bill
that has already won Senate approval.  Ethanol Falls Versus Gasoline as Harvest Signals Higher Output  Ethanol fell against gasoline on speculation the corn
harvest that’s under way will help companies boost production of
the biofuel.  San Francisco Diesel Gains as Tesoro Performs Hydrocracker Work  Diesel in San Francisco advanced to the highest level in
two weeks as Tesoro Corp. performed repairs on the hydrocracker
at its Golden Eagle refinery in Northern California.  U.S. Gulf Gasoline Falls on Limited Tropical Storm Karen Impact  U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline weakened for a second day after
Tropical Storm Karen passed the region with limited impact on
refinery operations.  Gulf Crudes Strengthen After Storm Shuts in Some Offshore Output  Light Louisiana Sweet crude strengthened to the highest
level in a month after Tropical Storm Karen shut in more than
2.9 million barrels of Gulf of Mexico crude production over the
past four days.  OPEC Sees U.S. Oil Shale Production Starting to Decline in 2018  U.S. is forecast to produce 4.7m b/d of tight oil by 2018,
according to OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri, speaking
at the  Kuwait  Oil & Gas Show and Conference in Kuwait today.  OPEC’s El-Badri Says World Oil Market is Balanced; Enough Supply  Balanced oil market will continue for rest of 2013 and
hopefully 2014 as well, OPEC Secretary General Abdalla El-Badri
says in speech at the Kuwait Oil & Gas Show and Conference in
Kuwait.  Obama Climate Change Adviser Zichal to Leave Administration  Heather Zichal , the top White House adviser on energy and
climate change, is leaving the administration of President
Barack Obama after five years.  Vitol to Match Glencore Debt Costs on $7 Billion of Credit Lines  Vitol SA, the world’s largest independent oil trader, will
raise $7 billion of loans this week at the same interest rate as
its largest competitor, Glencore Xstrata Plc, according to three
people with knowledge of the transaction.  OPEC  North Africa Is World’s Next Big Shale Prospect, Repsol Says (1)  North Africa may be “the next big opportunity” after
North America for oil and gas production from shale if drilling
costs can be reduced, said Repsol SA Geological Studies Director
Eduardo Negri.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Crude Supplies Increase for Third Week in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies probably increased for a third week as
refineries reduced operations, cutting demand for oil, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Phillips 66 Sweeny Reports Sulfur Recovery Unit Shut Down  Co. said sulfur recovery unit 28.2 at plant south of
Houston shut down after the unit’s had a “total flame out,”
according to a filing with the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality.  Shell Increasing Rates at Norco, Mobile Plants  Refining rates at Motiva Norco, La., Shell Mobile, Ala.,
plants were cut last week due to delays in oil shipments because
of Tropical Storm Karen, Co.’s website shows.  Suncor Completes Fort McMurray Upgrader Maintenance  Co. completed planned maintenance on vacuum unit at one of
its two upgraders in  Alberta , according to statement on Co.
website.  Phillips 66 Conducts Planned Maintenance at Wood River Refinery  Phillips 66 Wood River, Ill., refinery is carrying out
planned maintenance, according to Rich Johnson, Co. spokesman  Petrobras Has Completed Maintenance at Regap Refinery: Cosenza  Co. will complete maintenance at Revap refinery in about 2
weeks, Jose Cosenza, the head of downstream, said in an
interview.  MORE: Valero Expects No Production Impact at Port Arthur Plant  Co. said there is flaring related to a wet gas compressor
outage, but no material impact to production is expected,
according to Co. spokesman Bill Day.  Valero Port Arthur Reports Compressor Issues Yesterday  Flaring of wet gas reported due to surging issues with
K-2300 wet gas compressor yesterday, according to emissions
notice with Texas regulator.  Marathon Garyville Said to Start Crude, Coker Repairs Oct. 15  Marathon Petroleum Corp.’s Garyville refinery, the biggest
in Louisiana, will shut a crude unit and coker for planned
repairs around Oct. 15, a person familiar with the schedule
said.  BP Restarting Oil and Gas Production at Gulf Platforms  Co. said it’s in the process of restarting oil and natural
gas production at its four Co.- operated platforms in Gulf,
according to statement on website  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Fuel Oil Supply to Asia Rises to 3.7 Million Tons in November  Fuel oil supplies scheduled to arrive in Asia next month
from Western countries rose 37 percent from last week, shipping
data show.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 2.2 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  rose 2.2 percent to 9.71 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Crude Drops as Debt-Limit Deadlock Pushes U.S. Closer to Default  West Texas Intermediate crude dropped as the U.S. neared a
breach of the debt ceiling and production from the Gulf of
Mexico resumed after a tropical storm.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Gas Flows to Mexico Seen Doubling Overshadow LNG: Energy Markets  For all the investment in new projects to liquefy and ship
U.S. natural gas overseas, the country is already benefiting
from soaring exports of the fuel in its raw form via traditional
pipelines to Mexico.  Solvay to Buy Chemlogics for $1.3 Billion for Oil Chemicals (2)  Solvay SA agreed to buy U.S. producer Chemlogics for $1.3
billion in cash to expand its offering of chemicals for the oil
and gas industry.  WTI Crude Declines as Gulf of Mexico Output Resumes After Storm  West Texas Intermediate declined as oil production in the
Gulf of Mexico resumed after Tropical Storm Karen weakened and
the U.S. came closer to breaching its debt ceiling.  CLP Billionaire’s Wind Farms Plan Bond Debut:  India  Credit  India’s top wind utility is planning its debut debt sale,
offering investors a chance to fund an industry that’s forecast
to grow faster than the U.S. this year.  Abengoa Bioethanol Arm Raided in EU Manipulation Probe (2)  Abengoa SA, owner of continental Europe’s biggest
bioethanol plant, said that it’s being investigated as part of
the European Union’s antitrust probe into possible manipulation
of oil and biofuel prices.  Carl Icahn Buys 5.97% of Talisman, May Seek Talks With Company  Activist investor  Carl Icahn  said he has taken a 5.97
percent stake in Talisman Energy Inc., the oil and natural gas
producer focused on the Americas and Southeast Asia, and may
seek talks with the company.  Ethane’s Tumble Seen Boosting Profits at Dow to Westlake: Energy  If you want to make a chemical company boss smile these
days, here’s the word to use: ethane.  BP Oil Well Dumped 4.2 Million Barrels Into Gulf, U.S. Says (2)  BP Plc’s doomed Macondo well dumped 4.2 million barrels of
oil into the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, a lawyer for the U.S. told
a judge who is assessing the size of the spill and how well the
company reacted to the disaster.  Natural Gas Rises Most Since July on Outlook for Warmer Weather  Natural gas futures capped the biggest daily gain in more
than 11 weeks on forecasts for warmer weather that would stoke
power demand, and as some Gulf of Mexico production remained
shut after Tropical Storm Karen.  Gulf of Mexico Workers Return to Platforms After Karen Weakens  Gulf of Mexico oil producers including BP Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd. returned workers to offshore platforms after the
passing of Tropical Storm Karen.  OTHER MARKETS  Dollar Holds Yen Drop as Australia Index Futures Fall; Gas Gains  The dollar traded near a two-month low versus the yen and
Australian index futures fell as U.S. President  Barack Obama 
reiterated that he won’t negotiate with Republicans over the
debt limit and government shutdown. Futures on copper and
natural gas rose as oil held declines.  Dollar Slides Versus Yen as U.S. Debt Limit Looms; Rupee Weakens  The dollar sank to its lowest level in eight weeks against
the yen amid concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach an
agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling and keep the nation
from defaulting.  Reserve Managers Add Loonies to Aussies Amid Decline: Currencies  The biggest declines in the Canadian and Australian dollars
since at least 2011 are only making the currencies more
attractive to global reserve managers.  U.S. Stocks Drop on Default Concern Amid Debt-Limit Deadlock  U.S. stocks fell, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropping to the lowest level in a month, as lawmakers remained
deadlocked over extending the nation’s debt limit to avoid a
default.  Worst Stocks to Reverse With Commodity Profits Rising 18% (3)  Commodity stocks, lagging behind the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index by the most in 15 years, are poised to rally as analysts
estimate profits will rise almost twice as fast as the rest of
U.S. industry in 2014.  Gold Befuddles Bernanke as Central Banks’ Losses at $545 Billion  Ben S. Bernanke, the world’s most- powerful central banker,
says he doesn’t understand gold prices. If his peers had paid
attention, they might have stopped expanding reserves that lost
$545 billion in value since bullion peaked in 2011.  Aluminum Costs Seen Dropping as LME Unclogs Depots: Commodities  The London Metal Exchange’s plan to ease congestion at
warehouses storing near-record amounts of aluminum will
accelerate deliveries and reduce premiums paid for supply, at a
time when prices are already near a four-year low.  A U.S. Default Seen as Catastrophe Dwarfing Lehman’s Demise (2)  Anyone who remembers the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. little more than five years ago knows what a
global financial disaster is. A U.S. government default, just
weeks away if Congress fails to raise the debt ceiling as it now
threatens to do, will be an economic calamity like none the
world has ever seen.  Obama Says No Negotiations Until Debt Ceiling, Funding Settled  President Barack Obama challenged congressional Republicans
to raise the U.S. debt limit by next week and said he’s willing
to negotiate on fiscal terms once that is done and government
funding is restored.  SPORTS  Manchester United May Offer Januzaj $80,000 a Week: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Debt Dwarfing Manchester United Shows Soccer Rot: Turkey Credit  Turkish soccer champion Galatasaray’s $57 million of debt
due in the next 12 months, racked up by hiring coach Roberto
Mancini and players including former Chelsea star Didier Drogba,
is drawing whistles from investors.  Tiger Woods Gets Winning Point as U.S. Defends Presidents Cup  Tiger Woods shook off a back injury to win the point that
helped his U.S. team clinch a fifth straight victory in golf’s
Presidents Cup.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      103.15  +0.12  +0.1  Nymex     Nov.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    109.68  +0.22  +0.2    Ice     Nov.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         926.00  +4.50  +0.5    Ice     Nov.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       263.04  +0.43  +0.2  Nymex     Nov.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.64  +0.01  +0.3  Nymex     Nov.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.83  +0.32  +0.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            300.93     --    --  Nymex     Nov.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.94  -0.2
Gold ($/Oz)          1,325.10  +1.2
MSCI World Index     1,536.40  -0.7
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  