-- Oracle Shareholders Urged to Vote Against CEO Pay Package
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/oracle-shareholders-urged-to-vote-against-ceo-pay-package.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  shareholders should vote
against pay packages for executives and withhold support for
directors on the board’s compensation committee, CtW Investment
Group said.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  and other top
managers are overcompensated relative to peers, given Oracle’s
inferior returns, CtW wrote in a letter addressed to
 shareholders  today.  CtW, part of labor-group Change to Win, has been pushing
for the world’s largest database-software maker to adopt
industry benchmarks for compensation. While Ellison took a pay
cut of 18 percent in the latest fiscal year after Oracle missed
some of its profit targets, the company said that his package is
“appropriate” and rejected CtW’s arguments in a letter
addressed to the group and filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission last week.  “While the company insists that Ellison’s high pay is
justified by his founder-CEO status, we note the stark contrast
to other technology founder-CEOs,” CtW said in its latest
letter to Oracle’s board, citing compensation practices at
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   CtW, which says it holds 6 million Oracle shares, is also
urging shareholders to vote against the re-election of Bruce Chizen, George Conrades and Naomi Seligman, who are on the
software maker’s compensation committee. Oracle plans to hold
its annual shareholder meeting Oct. 31. CtW sent a letter to
Chizen, the committee’s chairman, on Sept. 25 outlining its
argument against Oracle’s pay practices.  Pay Package  Ellison’s compensation package shrank to $78.4 million for
the fiscal year ending in May, from $96.2 in the previous
period,  after he gave up an annual bonus and the company missed
some of its profit targets. He’s an “extremely valuable
asset,” Dorian Daley, Oracle’s general counsel, wrote in the
letter to the SEC last week. There was also no record of CtW
owning a stake in Oracle, Daley wrote.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to
comment on CtW’s latest note to shareholders.  Shares of Redwood City, California-based Oracle declined 
1.1 percent to $32.84 at the close in New York, leaving the 
stock down 1.4 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent 
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  