-- Redbox Owner Pits Jana Against Skeptical Shorts: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-10-08T14:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/outerwall-pits-jana-against-skeptical-shorts-real-m-a.html
Activist investor Jana Partners LLC
is betting it can spin one of America’s most shorted stocks into
gold.  Jana last week disclosed a 13.5 percent stake in  Outerwall (OUTR) 
Inc., the owner of the Redbox DVD kiosks that has a higher level
of short interest than 99 percent of the Russell 2000 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jana, now the $1.7
billion company’s biggest  shareholder , is defying skeptics who
expect the main DVD business to become obsolete as viewers move
to digital content.  Outerwall has been trying to build Redbox into a stronger
competitor to Netflix Inc. while also investing in coffee-vending machines and kiosks for trading in mobile phones, new
ventures that B. Riley & Co. says are masking the company’s
attractive  cash flow . Wedbush Inc. values Outerwall at $78 a
shares, 31 percent more than yesterday, and said it could sell
the Coinstar money-counting business and buy back stock.
Outerwall may even lure private-equity bids, Gabelli & Co. said.  “They have to explore all of their options and see which
one makes the most sense for shareholders,” Larry Berlin, a
Chicago-based analyst at First Analysis Securities Corp., said
in a phone interview. “Jana’s very good at doing that and will
help Outerwall to do something. The outcome is still open to be
decided, but I think there’s upside to the stock.”  Bearish Bets  About 30 percent of Outerwall’s shares outstanding were
sold short as of Oct. 3, while the index’s average short
interest was just 3.9 percent, according to the latest data
compiled by Markit. In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock
on the assumption the price will decline, allowing them to make
money by buying it back at a lower price.  Marci Maule, a spokeswoman for Bellevue, Washington-based
Outerwall, said by phone that the company’s recently increased
share buyback program  “underscores our confidence in Outerwall
and the upside we expect as a result of the actions we’re taking
to improve Redbox, control costs and direct capital toward their
highest return opportunities.” She declined to comment on
additional moves the company might make.  Jana said in a regulatory filing Oct. 4 that Outerwall is
undervalued and that it intends to hold discussions with the
company’s board and management about ways to boost value.  Meeting Management  Executives of Jana met last week with Outerwall management
to discuss options including a breakup, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named because
the talks are private. Cost cuts and buybacks were also
discussed, the person said.  Charles Penner, a partner at Jana, declined to comment
beyond the filing.  Today, TPG-Axon Management LP, the hedge-fund manager
founded in partnership with private-equity firm TPG Capital,
reported a 5.1 percent stake in Outerwall.  For $1.20 a day, customers can rent a movie from a Redbox
kiosk, found inside grocery stores and other retailers, and
return the DVD to any location. Redbox accounted for almost 87
percent of Outerwall’s $2.2 billion of  revenue  in the 12 months
through June, while Coinstar made up 13 percent and new ventures
generated less than 1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  New ventures, the side that’s trying to create new kiosk
ideas, had an operating loss of about $35 million over that
span, the data show. Redbox and Coinstar were profitable.  In July, Outerwall announced its $350 million acquisition
of EcoATM, a kiosk business that lets consumers trade in
smartphones, tablets and MP3 players for cash. The electronics
are then sold to other companies for refurbishment or recycling.  Value Estimates  Analysts have wide-ranging estimates for Outerwall’s value.
 Andy Hargreaves , a Portland, Oregon-based analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities, doesn’t see any upside, with his sum-of-the-parts analysis yielding about $32 a share, 46 percent lower than
the stock’s closing price yesterday of $59.36.  Outerwall shares climbed 4 percent today to $61.76 at 10:04
a.m. New York time.  “I don’t believe there is significant value to be unlocked
in Outerwall through a breakup or sale,” Hargreaves wrote in an
e-mail yesterday. “Redbox has a demand and leverage problem,
not a  capital allocation  or value-recognition problem.”  On the other hand,  Eric Wold , a San Francisco-based analyst
at B. Riley, yesterday raised his share-price estimate to $95
from $75. He said the new ventures are draining Outerwall’s  cash
flow .  Jana is likely to ask Outerwall to shutter that unit and
instead use the cash to buy back shares, according to Brett Harriss, a Rye, New York-based analyst at Gabelli.  Cash Generator  “We can argue about how long it’s going to take the DVD
business to decline, but the company generates a ton of cash
now,” Harriss said in a phone interview. “Rather than taking
that cash and wasting it by trying to create new ventures, they
can give it back to shareholders.”  Outerwall may appeal to private-equity buyers because
Redbox and Coinstar don’t require much capital and throw off a
lot of cash, Harriss said. Suitors also could include movie
studios and other types of content providers, Berlin of First
Analysis said.  Next year, Outerwall may generate about $225 million of
 free cash flow , or cash from operations after deducting capital
expenses, according to analysts’  projections  compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be up from $140 million in the past 12
months.  There’s room to cut costs and Outerwall could sell Coinstar
for a “significant sum,” Wedbush’s  Michael Pachter  wrote in an
Oct. 6 report. The Los Angeles-based analyst sees the stock
climbing 31 percent to $78 in the next 12 months.  Value Opportunity  Shares of Outerwall have  gained  more than 18 percent since
Jana announced its plans Oct. 4. Up until that day, the stock
returned just 0.3 percent this year.  “It’s a company where there’s opportunity to make some
strategic changes to unlock more  shareholder value ,”  Michael Olson , a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., said
in a phone interview. “The stock would suggest that investors
have been hoping for something like this to transpire, and now
that it has, there’s certainly a lot of optimism around what the
outcome could be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  