-- Tower Tumbles on Insurer’s Reserve Shortfall, Impairment
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-08T20:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/tower-tumbles-on-insurer-s-reserve-shortfall-impairment.html
Tower Group International Ltd. (TWGP)  fell
the most since its 2004 initial public offering after the
insurer determined it had to add to reserves and recorded an
impairment of goodwill.  The shares plunged 41 percent to $4.39 in New York trading.
The Bermuda-based company had  dropped  53 percent this year
before today. Volume was about 22 million shares, compared with
an average of less than 800,000 over the past year.  Tower is increasing reserves for lines including workers’
compensation and commercial auto coverage by $365 million,
following a review of how much it set aside to cover losses from
2009 to 2011, the insurer said yesterday in a statement after
the close of regular trading. The company will also take a
goodwill impairment charge of $215 million, tied to its
commercial and specialty and reinsurance segments.  “The charge is at the high end of investor expectations
and reduces statutory capital,”  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets, said today in a research note. He cut his price
target to $7 from $17.  Tower said yesterday that it’s reviewing a “range of
strategic options” and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is its lead
financial adviser. The “strategic options” phrase is Wall
Street shorthand for deals that could include a capital
injection, the divestiture of assets or the sale of an entire
company.  Fitch Ratings yesterday cut Tower’s rating six steps to B
from BBB, citing “a material weakening in the insurer’s
financial profile.” Tower said yesterday’s announcement
reflected a review of finances through June 30, and full second-quarter results will be disclosed when an evaluation is
complete.  “Since 2010, Tower has been shifting its business mix,
significantly de-emphasizing the lines that contributed to the
reserve strengthening and modifying its book of commercial lines
business,” the insurer said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  