-- Packed China Tourist Sites May Spur Paid-Leave Reform, CCTV Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-08T09:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/packed-china-tourist-sites-may-spur-paid-leave-reform-cctv-says.html
China ’s overcrowded trains, roads and
tourist sites during the week-long National Day holiday may spur
the country of more than 1.3 billion people to speed up reforms
that ensure paid leave for workers, state television reported.  Chinese companies rarely grant requests for vacation time,
which combined with growing tourism demand in the world’s
second-largest economy, has led to surges in travel during the
so-called “Golden Week” holiday Oct. 1-7,  China Central
Television  reported. That’s added impetus to more quickly
implement rules that guarantee paid leave, the broadcaster
reported yesterday, citing “experts” it didn’t identify.  Authorities in February introduced a plan to “basically”
implement a paid annual leave system by 2020, without laying out
specific steps. Chinese law already affords workers the right to
paid leave, CCTV reported. What China doesn’t currently have is
a mechanism for punishing companies that don’t allow employees
to take that leave, the state broadcaster said.  An estimated 430 million people traveled during the holiday
that ended yesterday, according to the China Tourism Academy.
The number of visitors to China’s top 125 tourist attractions
during this year’s seven-day break rose 6.8 percent from a year
ago to 31.2 million, the China National Tourism Administration
said on its website yesterday.  ‘People Sea’  A common Chinese refrain for those that plan to visit
scenic sites during national holidays is that they will only be
able to see “people mountain, people sea.”  The holiday travel surge left more than 4,000 visitors to
Jiuzhaigou valley, a World Heritage site in the southwestern
province of Sichuan famous for its colorful water pools,
stranded until 10 p.m. on Oct. 2 because buses out of the park
couldn’t cope with the influx of people, the official Xinhua
 News Agency  reported Oct. 3.  The number of visitors to Beijing’s Forbidden City during
the holiday was more than double the maximum estimate by the
site’s administrators, CCTV reported yesterday.  More than 70 million passengers rode the nation’s rail
network during the holiday, setting a record, Xinhua reported
yesterday, citing statistics from the China Railway Corporation.
Travel on roads and waterways rose 6 percent from a year earlier
to about 615 million journeys, the news agency reported, citing
the Ministry of Transport.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  