-- Pandora Gains as JPMorgan Sees Cash Returns: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-08T08:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/pandora-gains-as-jpmorgan-sees-cash-returns-copenhagen-mover.html
Pandora A/S (PNDORA)  rose the most among
Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks today after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said the Nordic region’s biggest jewelry maker may increase cash
returns to shareholders.  Pandora rose as much as 2.3 percent to 241.20 kroner,
making the stock the  biggest winner  in the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen
20 index. (KFX)  The shares traded 2 percent higher at 10:04 a.m. in
the Danish capital, with volume at 28 percent of the three-month
daily average.  Pandora on July 30 raised its 2013 revenue and profit
forecasts and two weeks later reported second-quarter net income
that  beat  analyst estimates as sales of its charms soared.
JPMorgan said today that third-quarter earnings, due Nov. 12,
could be a “further catalyst to the stock” and repeated its
overweight recommendation on the shares.  Pandora’s earnings report will confirm “the strong top-line momentum and solid profitability profile,”  Chiara Battistini, a JPMorgan analyst, said in a note. “In addition,
in light of the robust cash flow generation and capital
structure policy in place, we deem the potential cash returns
particularly compelling.”  Pandora, based in Glostrup,  Denmark , may report third-quarter net income of 417 million kroner ($75.9 million),
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five
analysts. That compares with net income of 380 million kroner a
year earlier. The company has beat analyst net income estimates
in 10 of the last 11 quarters, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investor concern that Pandora’s biggest owners, including
private-equity company Axcel, may sell a large stake could
pressure the share “in coming weeks,” Battistini said. “We
would see any stock weakness and/or pull-back post placement as
an attractive entry point,” the analyst said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  