-- Pentagon Withholds Pratt & Whitney Funds Over Management
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-08T18:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/pentagon-to-withhold-pratt-whitney-funds-over-system-correct-.html
The Pentagon’s contract management
agency will withhold 5 percent of billings on the next four F-35
jet engine contracts from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney unit, according to a Defense Department spokesman.  The money will be held back by the Defense Contract
Management Agency until the company fixes flaws with an internal
business system used to track cost and schedule performance, the
spokesman, Joe DellaVedova, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Pratt & Whitney had four deficiencies out of 32 guidelines
under the Pentagon-required “earned value management system”
that provides metrics to assess a company’s progress in meeting
cost and schedule goals, DellaVedova said. The 5 percent is the
maximum that can be withheld over flawed business systems.  The Pentagon’s F-35 program office “will continue to work
closely with” the  Defense Contract Management Agency  “to
ensure Pratt & Whitney corrects the four deficiencies,”
DellaVedova said.  “Pratt & Whitney is committed to having the best earned
value management system possible, and to consistently and
accurately track performance and execution to our contracts,”
company spokesman Matthew Bates said in an e-mailed statement.  “We have submitted corrective action plans to the DCMA and
are working closely” with the agency, Bates said.  Management System  Through August, the Pentagon has withheld $195 million in
payments to  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the prime contractor on the
F-35, because of flaws in its earned value management system for
contracts on the fighter, the management agency said last month.  Kenneth Ross, a spokesman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, said in an e-mailed statement that the company was
recently informed by the agency that the amount withheld has
been reduced to 2 percent of billings from 5 percent because the
contractor “is making significant progress” on its corrective
action plan.  The money withheld from  Pratt & Whitney  was reported
earlier today by the magazine Aviation Week & Space Technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net  