-- Philex Mining Surges After Scrapping Share Sale: Manila Mover
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-10-08T05:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/philex-mining-surges-after-scrapping-share-sale-manila-mover.html
Philex Mining Corp. (PX)  rose the most in
three months in Manila trading after the company said it’s
scrapping a plan to sell shares at a discount.  Philex surged 5.2 percent to 8.77 pesos at 1:41 p.m. local
time, poised for its largest gain since July 4. The stock is the
biggest percentage gainer in the benchmark Philippine Stock
Index, which fell 0.1 percent. It sank to the lowest level in
almost four years on Sept. 12 after the sale was announced.  Manila-based Philex said in an exchange filing today that
it’s canceled a proposed 13.8 billion-peso ($320 million) rights
offer because of unfavorable market conditions. The shares would
have been priced at no more than 5 pesos each, it said. That
would have been at least 11 percent less than initially planned.  “Investor appetite may not be conducive at the moment, not
only for Philex but for other issues as well, given the
volatility in the market,” Astro del Castillo, managing
director at First Grade Finance Inc., said today.  The Philippine Stock Exchange may miss its 200 billion-peso
share-sale target this year as companies opt to scale down their
initial public offerings, bourse President Hans Sicat said on
Sept. 28. Travellers International Hotel Group Inc., a venture
of Genting Hong Kong Ltd. and Alliance Global Group Inc., said
on Oct. 4 that it cut by almost half the maximum price of its
IPO.  Silangan Mine  Philex had planned to sell 2.47 billion shares at 5.60
pesos each at a ratio of one offer share for every two shares
owned, according to a  prospectus  posted on the company’s website
in September. The company said today that the sale would have
diluted the stake of existing shareholders by a third and the
price would have been “substantially lower than the underlying
value” of the company.  “The major concern with a stock rights offer is its
dilutive effect,” George Ching, an analyst at  COL Financial
Group Inc. (COL) , said by phone today. “For new investors, that
threat is now gone.”  Philex also said it has approved the granting of a
subscription right to shareholder  First Pacific Group Ltd. (142)  for
an equity interest of up to $150 million in its Silangan gold
and copper project. The mine in the southern  Philippines  may
have deposits worth $19.4 billion, Philex said in 2010.  First Pacific provided a $150 million credit facility to
Philex in March, which was supposed to be repaid from proceeds
of the rights offer.  Philex said it will re-examine its fundraising options by
the end of 2014, when the feasibility study for the Silangan
mine will be close to completion.  “Without Silangan, there’s not much value left in
Philex,” Ching said. Philex has extended the life of its Padcal
mine to 2020 even as the pace of production has started to
decline, he said. Padcal, located in northern Philippines, has
been operating since 1958, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net  