-- Pieno Zvaigzdes Slumps on Russian Dairy-Trade Ban: Vilnius Mover
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-08T13:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/pieno-zvaigzdes-slumps-on-russian-dairy-trade-ban-vilnius-mover.html
AB Pieno Zvaigzdes,  Lithuania ’s
biggest dairy company, fell for a sixth day as Russia made good
on threats to ban dairy imports from the Baltic nation.  The shares fell 3.5 percent in Vilnius to 1.96 euros, the
lowest since June 11, valuing the company at 97 million euros
($132 million). AB Vilkyskiu Pienine and AB Rokiskio Suris, two
of the country’s other dairy producers, fell 3.3 percent and 1.9
percent, respectively, on the Nasdaq OMX Vilnius exchange.  Russia, after several days of threats, yesterday decided to
ban imports of Lithuanian dairy products due to what it called
safety concerns and today began stopping shipments. Lithuania
seeks European Union help to oppose what it considers a
political decision by  Russia , the biggest and most profitable
export destination for producers in the Baltic nation, Prime
Minister Algirdas Butkevicius said today on public radio.  “Pieno Zvaigzdes gets more than 35 percent of its group
revenue from sales to Russia,” Finasta investment bank analyst
Tadas Povilauskas said by phone in Vilnius. “The Russian share
of sales for Lithuania’s other dairy exporters is between 20
percent and a third,” he said.  Bad-News Buyers  AB Zemaitijos Pienas, which Povilauskas said has the
smallest exposure to Russia among Lithuanian dairy companies,
closed up 1.3 percent in Vilnius at 0.78 euro after falling as
much as 1.4 percent in early trading. The shares, which fell 2.8
percent yesterday, remain close to an Oct. 3 eight-year high.  Zemaitijos Pienas is attractive for investors because a
relatively low price-earnings ratio makes it seem cheap,
according to Swedbank broker Agne Anzeliene.  “I think some market participants decided to take
advantage of this week’s bad news and price dip to buy the
shares for less,” Anzeliene said today by e-mail.  The EU last month urged Russia to stop targeting Lithuania,
which currently holds the bloc’s rotating presidency, with
“punitive” trade restrictions.  Lithuania’s leaders, including Butkevicius, say the curbs
are probably Russia’s way of protesting plans to strengthen EU
trade ties with Ukraine and other ex-Soviet countries at a
November summit in the Lithuanian capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  