-- Pimco Says RBA May Cut Rates Again
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-10-09T01:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/pimco-says-rba-may-cut-rates-again-as-mining-investment-tapers.html
Australia ’s central bank will
probably have to cut  interest rates  again as a record resources-investment boom fades, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest  bond fund .  With mining now detracting from growth, the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia probably will need to provide monetary stimulus for an
extended period to let other parts of the economy pick up the
slack, Sydney-based money managers Adam Bowe and  Robert Mead 
wrote in an article published today on Pimco’s website.  “Until we see some meaningful signs of a growth handoff
from the mining sector to a new balance sheet that has the
capacity to expand, our base case calls for sub-trend growth
outcomes in Australia,” according to Bowe and Mead. “In this
environment, we expect that the RBA will have to keep interest
rates low for an extended period, and likely lower them further,
supporting bond prices over the cyclical horizon.”  The RBA reduced its benchmark by 2.25 percentage points
over the past two years to an unprecedented 2.5 percent as the
country’s economic  expansion  slowed and the jobless rate climbed
to the highest level since 2009. Governor  Glenn Stevens  left
rates unchanged this month following an uptick in business
sentiment and investors see a less than 50 percent chance he
will cut again by May, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Australian  business confidence  surged in September to the
highest level in 3 1/2 years as majority government and lower
interest rates encouraged companies, according to a National
Australia Bank Ltd. survey published yesterday.  Possible Scenarios  Pimco remains “skeptical” the recent improvement in
business sentiment signals stronger investment intentions by
non-mining companies, Mead and Bowe wrote. While a smooth
transition to growth led by non-resources industries is the
RBA’s preferred scenario, signs of this happening are not yet
apparent, they said.  It is possible that record-low  interest rates  could lead
households to take on more debt, rather than spurring business
investment, Pimco said. This would pose a difficult policy
dilemma for the RBA, by providing a temporary fillip to growth
while creating longer-term risks, the  fund manager  said.  A survey of  consumer  confidence released today by Westpac
Banking Corp. showed sentiment dropped 2.1 percent this month
from the more than 2 1/2-year high reached in September.  Consumer Confidence  “Today’s survey shows a high outright level of overall
 consumer confidence  although respondents remain cautious about
their own finances,” Westpac’s Chief Economist  Bill Evans  said
in a statement. “There is also some early evidence that the
gloss may be coming off the housing market as rising prices
start to impact on affordability and confidence.”  Data released this month showed  home prices  in Australia’s
capital cities surged to a record, with the RP Data-Rismark
index jumping 5.5 percent in September from a year earlier.  The other potential scenario for the Australian economy is
that demand will slow as both businesses and households fail to
fill the growth gap created by the tapering of mining
investment, Pimco said. The  Newport Beach , California-based fund
manager identifies the performance of the economy in the first
half of 2013, which has prompted the RBA to lower its key rate
by 50 basis points so far this year, as belonging to this
category.  The Australian government’s benchmark  10-year bond  yielded
4.07 percent as of 12:52 p.m. in Sydney, having risen from 3.81
percent at the end of last month. The local currency bought
94.18 U.S. cents, up 1.1 percent since Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  