-- Polish State Rail Seeks Up to $518 Million From Cargo IPO
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-10-08T13:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/polish-state-railway-starts-cargo-unit-s-ipo-to-reduce-debt.html
Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA, the
Polish state railway, seeks to raise as much as 1.6 billion
zloty ($518 million) from the sale of its cargo unit in central
 Europe ’s biggest initial public offering in almost a year.  The railway is selling as many as 21.7 million shares of
PKP Cargo SA, the European Union’s largest rail freight company
after Deutsche Bahn AG. The maximum IPO price was set at 74
zloty a share and bookbuilding will end on Oct. 22, according to
a prospectus published today. Cargo will start trading on the
 Warsaw Stock Exchange  on Oct. 31, becoming the EU’s first listed
rail freight company.  “The sale should attract solid demand as the company is a
good proxy for an economic revival in  Poland  and there are no
companies of this kind listed on the bourse,” Dawid Czopek, who
helps manage the equivalent of $2.1 billion at Warsaw-based BRE
Wealth Management SA said by phone today. “PKP Cargo is also a
restructuring story with an upside potential.”  PKP has sped up asset sales in past years to cut 4 billion
zloty of debt. Cargo’s IPO is the largest in Poland since Alior
Bank SA’s 2.1 billion-zloty sale in December and comes at a time
when Warsaw’s all-share WIG Index trades near the highest level
in almost six years. Meridian Properties NV is ending
bookbuilding in a $230 million IPO today and Poland will offer a
stake in power utility Energa SA later this year.  Price Range  The  price range  for institutional investors was set at 59
zloty to 74 zloty a share, according to three people familiar
with the plans who asked not to be named because information
isn’t public. Piotr Rusiecki at PKO Bank Polski SA, which helps
manage the offering, declined to comment on the range at a press
conference in Warsaw today.  Cargo may see its costs fall next year after Polish
railroad operator, PKP PLK SA, proposed cutting access fees by
20 percent. Cargo pays PLK about 1 billion zloty annually.  “Even though the IPO pricing isn’t too high, especially
that lower access fees will boost profit, I’d expect the final
price to be near the lower end of the range,” Andrzej Blachut,
head of emerging-market equities at Zurich-based Swiss & Global
Asset Management said by phone. “The company is overgrown,
you’re buying a lumbering giant, while its market share is
shrinking as new motorways draw traffic away from rail.”  First-half net income at Cargo, which cut its workforce by
39 percent from 2008 to 26,493, slumped 44 percent to 76.8
million zloty as revenue fell 9.2 percent to 2.29 billion zloty
amid the country’s economic slowdown, it said in the prospectus.  Keeping Control  PKP will keep at least 50 percent of Cargo and may cut the
IPO size to 20.9 million shares to issue stock to employees as
part of a deal with unions, according to the prospectus. The
railway won’t sell further shares for 180 days after the unit’s
bourse listing and may later offer an additional stake or allow
Cargo to raise capital while keeping control of the unit, PKP
Chief Executive Officer Jakub Karnowski said.  Cargo had a 60.3 percent share in the local market in 2012
and controlled 8.5 percent of rail freight in the EU, it said in
the statement. That compares with DB Schenker’s 28 percent and
5.4 percent shares in the EU and Poland, respectively. Hard coal
shipping accounted for 43 percent and building materials for 14
percent of its total freight.  The Warsaw-based company, which holds licenses to provide
services in Slovakia, the  Czech Republic ,  Germany ,  Austria ,
Belgium and  Hungary , will continue expansion abroad and may
consider takeovers of foreign competitors to quicken growth.  Cargo management will propose spending 35 percent to 50
percent of consolidated profits on dividends, according to the
prospectus. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
will buy a stake of at least 5 percent in the IPO.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and PKO are joint
global coordinators and joint bookrunners in the IPO. Ipopema
Securities SA, Raiffeisen Centrobank AG and UniCredit SpA are
joint bookrunners, while Dom Inwestycyjny Investors SA and
Mercurius Dom Maklerski SA are domestic co-bookrunners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  