-- Pratt & Whitney to Deliver Engines for Mitsubishi Jets in April
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-10-08T09:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/pratt-whitney-to-deliver-engines-for-mitsubishi-jets-in-april.html
  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt &
Whitney  unit, which is building a new engine for  Mitsubishi
Aircraft Corp. ’s regional jet, said it will deliver the  geared
turbofan  powerplant in April.  “We’re getting ready to build the first two engines for
their first flight test aircraft,” Andrew Tanner, a vice
president responsible for the MRJ engines at  East Hartford ,
Connecticut-based Pratt & Whitney, said in an interview in  Tokyo 
today. Pratt & Whitney will deliver the engines “very soon. I’d
say April.”  The engine maker will also boost the size of its MRJ
support team in Japan by at least three times from about four
people by the time of the first flight, scheduled for 2015, he
said. Mitsubishi Aircraft in August said it was delaying
delivery of its first jet by more than a year.  “As we get more into the program and get further closer to
flight testing, we’ll have to increase the size of that team,”
Tanner said. “We’re targeting the end of next year to certify”
the engine.  The Japanese aircraft manufacturer, a unit of  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , has won 325 orders, including options,
for its 78- and 92-seater versions of the jet. The Nagoya,
Japan-based company is competing against  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  in the small jet market.  Pratt & Whitney is also making variants of the turbofan
engine for Airbus SAS, Bombardier, Embraer, and Russia’s  Irkut
Corp. (IRKT) , and has secured about 4,700 firm orders and options,
Tanner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  