-- Protesters Interrupt FIFA Brazil World Cup Soccer Stadium Visit
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-09T03:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/protesters-take-field-to-interrupt-fifa-s-brazil-world-cup-visit.html
About 50 protesters stormed a stadium
in  Brazil  during a visit by world soccer governing body FIFA’s
General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  in advance of next year’s  World
Cup .  The group, made up mostly of striking teachers and postal
workers, entered the field at the $230 million Arena Pantanal in
Cuiaba, one of 12 stadiums being built or refurbished for the
World Cup. Protesters held banners that criticized FIFA and the
use of public money for the World Cup.  “Everybody has the right to demonstrate, but they should
respect the rights of other people like the construction workers
in the stadium,” Valcke told reporters yesterday in Cuiaba,
according to  FIFA . Valcke led a delegation that included former
World Cup-winning Brazilian soccer players Bebeto and Ronaldo
and Brazil Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo on an inspection visit of
the arena.  The protest came a day after police used tear gas, rubber
bullets and percussion grenades in clashes with protesters in
Rio de Janeiro and  Sao Paulo , venues for the opening and final
games of the World Cup. Thousands took to the streets in both
cities to join striking teachers.  Brazil has been the scene of protests since demonstrators
took to the streets in record numbers in June when the country
hosted the Confederations Cup, a test event for the World Cup.
Protesters’ anger has focused on issues including poor public
health and education, political corruption and spending on
sporting events.  Two years after Brazil hosts the World Cup, Rio will be the
stage for  South America ’s first Olympic Games. The bill for both
events is projected to be more than $30 billion.  The stadium in Cuiaba is one of four arenas that a group of
public prosecutors, in charge of overseeing World Cup spending,
has said risk becoming useless after the tournament. The city
doesn’t have a top-division soccer team, and is unlikely to
require a stadium that will have a capacity of about 43,500 when
it’s complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  