-- Rajan Signals Better India Outlook as Exports Extend Climb
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-10-09T09:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/rajan-signals-better-india-outlook-on-exports-reviving-projects.html
Reserve Bank of  India  Governor
Raghuram Rajan signaled he expects an improvement in the
nation’s economic performance as exports and major investment
projects revive, provided risks from the U.S. diminish.  “We have two or three positives,” Rajan said yesterday in
a Mint newspaper interview aired on Bloomberg TV India. “One is
stronger agricultural production. Second, the projects that have
slowed or stalled coming on stream. Third is exports.”  The U.S. budget impasse that led to a partial government
shutdown there poses a threat to the outlook, according to the
50 year-old former International Monetary Fund chief economist.
Damping  inflation  is the key concern, he said, while adding
he’ll take into account economic conditions after growth slowed.
Data today showed  exports (INMTEXUY)  rose a third month in September.  Rajan, governor since last month, on Oct. 7 further eased
emergency liquidity curbs imposed on the banking system in July
to support the rupee as his efforts to attract dollar inflows
boost the currency. He began the relaxation in his first policy
review on Sept. 20, when he also raised the benchmark  repurchase
rate  to tackle consumer-price inflation of more than 9 percent.  The rupee erased losses, trading at 61.785 a dollar as of
2:54 p.m. in Mumbai after earlier declining as much as 0.8
percent. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  of stocks rose 1.3 percent.
The yield on the 10-year government bond maturing in May 2023
slid to 8.46 percent from 8.50 percent yesterday.  Rupee Recovery  The currency has climbed about 11 percent since reaching a
record low on Aug. 28, paring its drop over the past year to 15
percent, after Rajan offered concessional swaps for banks’
foreign-currency deposits and borrowings to encourage them to
raise dollars.  “Markets have stabilized somewhat and remained stable even
after the monetary-policy announcement, which gave us the
confidence to do a little more” on Oct. 7, Rajan said.  The swaps windows have attracted $5.6 billion so far, Rajan
said Oct. 4. The steps will boost RBI reserves by $10 billion,
helping to recoup the currency holdings needed for rupee
stability, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The Reserve Bank in August began selling dollars to the
biggest state-run importers of crude oil to take demand for
foreign exchange off the spot market.  “We have to reintroduce the oil demand back into the
market,” Rajan said, adding that will be the “true” test of
the currency’s stability.  Trade Deficit  Exports have climbed since July, snapping a three-month
stretch of declines as the weaker rupee helped competitiveness.  Overseas shipments rose 11 percent in September, imports
dropped 18 percent and the trade deficit shrank to $6.76
billion, the narrowest shortfall since March 2011, according to
today’s release and previously reported data.  The RBI cut the  marginal standing facility rate  to 9
percent from 9.5 percent on Oct. 7, easing liquidity with the
second reduction in that borrowing cost in less than a month.  Rajan has previously said he plans a measured roll back of
the cash squeeze imposed by his predecessor  Duvvuri Subbarao .  The new governor raised the repurchase rate to 7.5 percent
on Sept. 20 from 7.25 percent, pledging to cool price pressures.
More policy tightening may be needed, the IMF said yesterday.  The best way to bolster the rupee “is to reassure people
about inflation in the medium term,” Rajan said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s second term in office has
been marred by graft scandals, the risk of a credit-rating
downgrade and slowing economic expansion.  His government, facing a general election by May next year,
began policy changes last September to spur investment.  The steps included setting up a panel to speed up stalled
infrastructure projects. Projects worth 3.84 trillion rupees
($62 billion) have been  cleared  by the panel up to Aug. 27,
according to the government.  The economy will  expand  5 percent to 5.5 percent in the 12
months ending March 2014, the Finance Ministry estimates. HSBC
Holdings Plc predicts slower growth of 4 percent, which would be
the weakest pace in more than a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  