-- RBS Said to Pass Currency Trader Chats to FCA Amid Probe
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-10-09T13:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/rbs-said-to-pass-currency-trader-chats-to-fca-amid-probe.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  has
handed over records of instant messages to U.K. regulators after
concluding a former currency trader’s communications with
counterparts at other firms may have been inappropriate,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The messages related to the dealer’s trading positions,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The trader had left the
Edinburgh-based bank before the investigation, and his departure
was unrelated to the probe, the people said. Stewart Todd, a
spokesman for the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority, declined
to comment on the communications.  RBS, Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, uncovered the
chats after opening an internal probe following a  Bloomberg News 
report in June that traders at some of the world’s biggest banks
may have sought to manipulate benchmark rates in the $5.3
trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market. The FCA said in June it
was reviewing the allegations.  European Union antitrust regulators said on Oct. 7 they
were examining the possible manipulation of currency rates by
the financial industry, while  Switzerland ’s Financial Market
Supervisory Authority, Finma, and the country’s competition
commission said last week they were probing similar potential
wrongdoing. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has
also been reviewing potential violations of the law with regards
to currency markets, said a separate person with knowledge of
the matter.  Manipulation Committed  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said at a
briefing in Bern today that while it’s a “fact that currency
manipulations have been committed,” the extent and what
institutions are affected “can’t be said conclusively at this
stage.” The ministry in Bern later said she had meant to say
the investigation was a fact.  The U.K. regulator sent requests for information to four
banks including Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , a person with knowledge of the matter who
asked not to be identified said in June.  RBS, Deutsche Bank and Citigroup are among firms reviewing
e-mails, instant messages and phone records of their foreign-exchange employees for evidence of potential manipulation,
according to three people with knowledge of those probes.
Spokesmen at all the firms declined to comment.  Germany ’s financial regulator sees no reason for a special
audit of any of the country’s banks for potential currency
manipulation, Bafin spokesman  Ben Fischer  said today.  Trader Survey  Bloomberg News reported in June that some dealers at banks
may have pooled information through instant messages and also
used client orders to move key currency rates such as the
WM/Reuters benchmarks, which are used to determine the value of
trillions of dollars of investments. In September, Bloomberg
News reported that recurring spikes in trading around the
periods in which the rates are calculated suggested that dealers
may have been trying to influence the benchmarks.  Authorities around the world are investigating the alleged
abuse of financial benchmarks by the firms that play a central
role in setting them. RBS and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest
bank, were among four firms fined about $2.6 billion for rigging
the London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than
$300 trillion of securities worldwide.  Commodities traders and analysts say benchmark prices for
everything from oil to iron ore to gasoline don’t represent true
market levels as often as 27 percent of the time, according to a
Bloomberg News survey conducted during the past eight weeks.  Multiple Banks  Finma said last week it was “coordinating closely with
authorities in other countries as multiple banks around the
world are potentially implicated” in its investigation of
 currency markets . Separately, the competition commission said it
had opened a preliminary probe on Sept. 30 after receiving
allegations of collusion among banks to manipulate some foreign-exchange rates.  Neither Swiss agency identified which banks they were
looking at or the specific focus of their investigations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  