-- H&R Block’s Bank Exit Stalls as Republic Calls Off Deal
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-10-09T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/republic-bancorp-withdraws-from-deal-to-acquire-h-r-block-s-bank.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ’s plan to sell its
bank and exit Federal Reserve oversight stalled as Republic
Bancorp Inc. said it rescinded a plan to buy the unit.  The decision to abandon the deal, which had been pending
before the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, was
disclosed yesterday in a regulatory filing by Louisville,
Kentucky-based Republic. H&R Block said in a statement that it
would hold a conference call today to discuss the matter.  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer, said last year it
was seeking strategic alternatives for the bank unit to avoid
being subjected to the Fed’s capital requirements. The  Kansas
City , Missouri-based company probably will wait six months to
find another buyer to avoid disrupting sales of bank products
during the 2014 tax season, according to  Gil Luria , an analyst
at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .  “H&R Block is going to move on and probably approach
suitors No. 2 and 3 for the bank,” Luria said in a phone
interview. “I’d call it an inconvenience.”  The tax preparer’s stock fell 5.6 percent to $25.74 in
 extended trading  in  New York  yesterday. The shares had climbed
47 percent this year through the close of regular trading.  Selling the bank unit may allow H&R Block to increase its
 dividend  and repurchase more stock, Luria said.  “Dealing with regulators is a cumbersome process,” he
said. “Because they’re regulated by a bank regulator, they’re
very much constrained.”  H&R Block said in a Sept. 3 statement that the deal would
be delayed after Republic told the tax preparer that the bank
wasn’t expecting a decision from the OCC before the end of that
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  