-- Trial of Ex-Madoff Employees Starts With Jury Selection
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-08T14:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/trial-of-ex-madoff-employees-starts-with-jury-selection.html
Jury selection started in the trial
of five ex-employees of  Bernard Madoff , including his former
personal secretary and two computer programmers accused of
helping carry out the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan, who
said the criminal trial could last five months, today is
questioning a group of about 300 potential jurors who completed
questionnaires last week.  The trial, slated to start yesterday, was delayed a day by
Swain without explanation, according to the case’s online court
docket. When the jurors are selected, prosecutors will begin
opening arguments.  The former employees, all of whom have pleaded not guilty,
are Annette Bongiorno, who worked with Madoff for 40 years and
helped recruit investors; Joann Crupi, a back-office worker who
managed large accounts; ex-operations chief Daniel Bonventre and
computer programmers Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez .  The proceeding will offer the fullest public accounting yet
of how Madoff carried out the fraud, which cost thousands of
investors $17 billion in lost principal and billions more in
imaginary profit. Earlier guilty pleas by Madoff, 75, and some
of his top aides averted a trial until now.  Madoff was arrested Dec. 11, 2008, after telling federal
agents that his company was a sham. Four months later, he
pleaded guilty to 11 charges including  securities fraud  and  wire
fraud  and was sentenced to 150 years in prison. While he
confessed to swindling his clients, he refused to admit to a
conspiracy charge that would have required him to implicate
others, people familiar with the case said at the time.  In August 2009, the U.S. won a guilty plea from  Frank DiPascali , Madoff’s finance chief, who agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors and explain how he and others helped Madoff defraud
investors. David Friehling, an accountant for Madoff, also
pleaded guilty to helping him prepare phony tax returns and is
cooperating with prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  