-- Rostelecom May Lose Control of Mobile Business Upon Tele2 Merger
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-10-08T09:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/rostelecom-may-lose-control-of-mobile-business-upon-tele2-merger.html
OAO Rostelecom,  Russia ’s state-run
telecommunications operator, may cede control of its mobile
business after a tie-up with  VTB Group’s (VTBR)  Tele2 Russia Holding
AB, according to the bank’s chairman.  “As far as I remember, Tele2 Russia assets are valued
higher” than Rostelecom’s mobile assets, VTB Chairman Andrey
Kostin said in an interview in Bali. “I can’t tell whether
Rostelecom will get 40 percent or 49 percent,” he said, adding
that an independent appraisal is needed.  VTB, which acquired Tele2 Russia in April for $2.4 billion,
is weighing a joint venture with Rostelecom’s mobile assets to
form a nationwide operator,  Vedomosti  reported earlier this
month. Tele2 Russia may consider “M&A activities” by the end
of this year, VTB Deputy Chairman Yuri Soloviev said last week,
without elaborating.  While Tele2 Russia has 23 million users in Russia versus
Rostelecom’s almost 14 million, the state-run company holds
wireless licenses for Moscow, the most lucrative region, and a
nationwide permit for faster mobile networks. VTB valued Tele2
Russia at 126 billion rubles ($3.9 billion) in its first-half
financial  report .  A merger between Tele2 Russia and Rostelecom’s wireless
unit may form the fourth-largest countrywide mobile operator in
Russia, challenging billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s  OAO MegaFon (MFON) ,
billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  and
billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   “The mobile business requires very high capital
spending,” Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie
Capital, said by phone. “That’s why Rostelecom is relying on
partners to develop it and focuses on fixed-line broadband
instead.”  Rostelecom picked a new strategy to focus on fixed-line
broadband and may rely on partners to help develop its mobile
business, Kira Kiryukhina, a spokeswoman, said by phone
yesterday, declining to elaborate further before the plan is
approved by Dec. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  