-- Royal Mail Hopefuls Said to Miss Out With IPO Pricing at Top
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-08T12:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/royal-mail-hopefuls-said-to-miss-out-with-ipo-pricing-at-top-2-.html
Royal Mail  Group Ltd.’s initial
public offering is significantly oversubscribed and many
institutional investors that applied to take part will get no
allotment, two people familiar with the sale process said.  Share orders priced below the maximum 330 pence risk
missing out, according to the people, who asked not to be named
while the IPO is under way. The stock, set to raise 1.7 billion
pounds ($2.7 billion) for the government, may gain 20 percent
once trading starts, according to so-called  gray market prices .  Royal Mail’s privatization will be the biggest in the U.K.
since British Rail was broken up in the 1990s. The IPO of the
360-year-old company, which has refocused on package-delivery
markets spurred by a trend toward web-based purchasing, opened
Sept. 27 and was fully subscribed within hours. The sale closes
at 5 p.m. today and conditional trading commences on Oct. 11.  The level of demand has led Britain’s opposition  Labour
Party , which wants Royal Mail kept in state hands, to question
the government’s handling of the IPO, with business spokesman
Chuka Umunna saying taxpayers are getting “massively short-changed” in a “bonanza” for speculators and hedge funds.  Panmure View  Speaking on BBC Radio 4, Umunna called on the government to
halt the sale “and think again,” citing Panmure Gordon
research valuing Royal Mail at as much as 1.4 billion pounds
above the market value implied by the top-end sale price.  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable has written to Umunna
defending the sale strategy and saying Labour risks giving small
investors the idea that Royal Mail stock is bound to rise,
according to a copy of the letter released by his department.  The IPO’s original price range of 260 pence to 330 pence a
share was later adjusted to no less than 300 pence, people have
said previously. A sale at 330 pence would indicate receipts for
the state of 1.72 billion pounds, based on 522 million shares
sold, and an overall market value of 3.3 billion pounds.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government, which
decided in 2011 to privatize Royal Mail, will keep as little as
37.8 percent of the shares, assuming no over-allotment options.
Some 15 percent of stock may be available beyond the base offer.  ‘Transformation’  The gray-market value for Royal Mail is indicated at 398
pence a share, based on the midpoint of “buy” and “sell”
prices supplied by London-based IG, a spread-betting firm that
offers a way of placing wagers on stocks without owning them.
The notional price is up 1.02 percent today, according to IG.  One of the country’s largest employers with more than
150,000 staff, Royal Mail has shifted away from letters to more
lucrative parcel handling, competing with  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  of the
Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express.  “Royal Mail has been undergoing a major transformation
program focused on enabling the company to deliver letters and
parcels more efficiently,” Panmure Gordon analyst Gert Zonneveld said in an Oct. 3 note to investors, adding that it
has “passed the peak of the transformation investment.”  Based on other publicly traded postal services, Royal
Mail’s valuation is “compelling” and should be in the range of
3.7 billion pounds to 4.5 billion pounds, Panmure said, so that
the sale price represents “an exceptionally good entry level.”  Bookrunners for the sale are Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS
AG, Barclays Plc and Merrill Lynch & Co., with Investec Ltd.,
Nomura Bank International Plc and RBC Europe Ltd. lead managers.
The government is being advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net  