-- Rubber Glut Shrinking as Car Sales Expand to Record: Commodities
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-10-08T15:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/rubber-glut-shrinking-as-car-sales-expand-to-record-commodities.html
Monsoon rains that drenched rubber
plantations across  India  and Malaysia are diminishing a glut of
supply for the first time in three years, just as record global
car sales are boosting demand for tires.  The surplus will narrow by at least 12 percent to 284,000
metric tons this year, according to the International Rubber
Study Group, a 36-nation body based in  Singapore . Futures that
fell as much as 62 percent since peaking in 2011 rallied into a
 bull market  in August. Prices will rise another 14 percent to
300 yen a kilogram ($3,100 a ton) by Dec. 31, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Car sales in China, which uses about a third of the world’s
rubber, jumped 13 percent in the first eight months of the year,
contributing to what LMC Automotive Ltd. said will be record
global purchases in 2013. Smaller-than-expected output combined
with rising demand prompted RCMA Commodities Asia Group, the
Singapore-based company that’s been in the rubber business for a
century, to cut its estimate for this year’s glut by 33 percent
to 351,000 tons in August.’’  “Global economic recovery is supporting demand and the
rains have hit output,” said  Tetsu Emori , a senior  fund manager 
at Astmax Asset Management Inc. in  Tokyo  who has tracked the
rubber market for 13 years. “The glut isn’t going to be as big
as everyone had expected.”  Benchmark Gauges  Rubber jumped 18 percent to 264 yen on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange since reaching a nine-month low in June, trimming this
year’s retreat to 14 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 commodities fell 0.9 percent since the start of January as
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 12 percent.
The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.4 percent.  India, the fourth-biggest grower, produced 32 percent less
in July than a year earlier as monsoon rains disrupted the
tapping of trees, said Rajiv Budhraja, a member of the
government-run Rubber Board. Annual output may contract as much
as 3 percent, he said.  “There has been a significant decline in production
because of the monsoon,” said Budhraja, who is also director
general of the Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association.
“Tapping was very, very restricted in the whole of July and a
major part of August.”  Rubber trees yield latex that is tapped by cutting into the
bark and allowing the liquid to drain into containers. The
material is then processed, dried and tied into bales.  Malaysian Output  In  Malaysia , the third-biggest producer, output fell 11
percent in the first eight months from a year earlier because of
bad weather, according to the Kuala Lumpur-based Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  Annual production will drop 14 percent in Malaysia and 6.1
percent in India, Prachaya Jumpasut, the managing director of
The Rubber Economist, said in report last month. The 22 percent
slump in prices in the first half of the year spurred farmers to
tap less rubber, Jumpasut said.  Thailand , the largest producer, amended a program to help
farmers in September by making payments based on the amount of
land planted rather than buying up surplus rubber. The change
reduces the incentive to keep tapping trees even as prices
slump. Production fell 7 percent in the first half of the year
and exports contracted 5 percent, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand.  Weather in second-ranked  Indonesia  has been more favorable
and output may rise 5.2 percent to 3.2 million tons this year,
Aziz Pane, chairman of the Jakarta-based Indonesia Rubber
Council, said in an interview Oct. 2.  Growth Risk  China ’s growth is a threat to the rising prices anticipated
in the Bloomberg News survey. The second-largest economy will
gain 7.6 percent this year and 7.4 percent in 2014, according to
the median of 57 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be the slowest expansion since 1990.  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the biggest tiremaker, expects to use
1.86 million tons of natural and synthetic rubber this year,
according to Kim Yangsuk, a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based
company. While that would be a record, it’s also lower than the
1.93 million tons the company projected in May.  The diminishing glut is spurring consumers to use more
supply from stockpiles, particularly in China, said  Abah Ofon , a
Singapore-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. Inventories
in Qingdao, the nation’s main rubber trading hub, dropped 24
percent to 283,100 tons since reaching a record in April.
Stockpiles monitored by the Tokyo Commodity Exchange were 2,831
tons on Sept. 20, near the lowest level since August 2010.  Chinese Stockpiles  Officials from China’s State Reserve Bureau met executives
from the nation’s biggest domestic suppliers in September,
seeking 150,000 tons for government stockpiles, according to two
people familiar with the matter. The bureau also wanted 50,000
tons of imported supply, they said.  Tires represent 70 percent of natural-rubber consumption in
China, the Qingdao International Rubber Exchange Market
estimates. Vehicle sales reached a record 13.95 million units in
the first eight months of the year, data from the China
Automotive Information Network show.  Global automobile sales will rise 2.9 percent to an all-time high of 83.5 million units this year and another 5.4
percent to 88 million in 2014, said Ammar Master, a senior
market analyst at the Thai unit of Oxford, England-based LMC
Automotive.  A tire for a medium or heavy commercial vehicle uses as
much as 18 kilograms (40 pounds) of natural rubber, while those
for passenger cars contain less than 1 kilogram, according to
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, a brokerage in  Hong Kong .  “Auto sales will keep setting records,” said Naohiro Niimura, a partner at Market Risk Advisory, a research company
in Tokyo. “That’s going to bolster demand for rubber.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  