-- S. African Rand Gains to Week High Versus Dollar on Bond Inflows
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-08T10:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/s-african-rand-gains-to-week-high-versus-dollar-on-bond-inflows.html
The rand gained to the strongest
level in a week as yields among the highest in emerging markets
lured foreign investors to  South Africa ’s bonds, outweighing
risk aversion sparked by the U.S government shutdown.  Foreigners  bought  a net 592 million rand ($59 million) of
South African bonds yesterday, a third day of inflows, according
to JSE Ltd. data. Foreign investors have bought 1.2 billion rand
of the nation’s debt since the partial shutdown began. South
Africa depends on portfolio inflows to plug its current-account
deficit and support the rand.  “One reason for the rand’s resilience remains the strong
portfolio inflows,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
Foreign bond and equity purchases since the start of the
shutdown are “equivalent to a monthly rate of around 10 billion
rand, which is good but not brilliant” he said.  The rand appreciated 0.4 percent to 9.9615 per dollar, the
strongest level since Oct. 1, as of 11:39 a.m. in Johannesburg.
Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 were
little changed at 8.04 percent.  South African local-currency 10-year yields are the third-highest after Greece and Turkey among emerging-market peers in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said yesterday the U.S. “cannot afford to default” and that
debt ceiling talks “will come down to the wire.” With the
country’s borrowing authority set to lapse Oct. 17, President
 Barack Obama  reiterated that he won’t negotiate with Republicans
over raising the debt ceiling or reopening the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  