-- South America’s Tallest Tower to Deepen Glut: Real Estate
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-08T17:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/santiago-office-glut-looms-as-tallest-tower-to-open-real-estate.html
Billionaire Horst Paulmann began
developing  South America ’s tallest tower in 2006, when economic
expansion fueled by copper demand pushed Santiago office rents
to a six-year high. He’s completing it as vacancies soar.  The retail magnate’s 62-floor Torre Gran Santiago in the
city’s financial hub is part of a record amount of office space
about to flood the market. Santiago developers, in an effort to
fill the new buildings, are sweetening terms for tenants with
such perks as six months of free rent, double the norm, or by
helping pay for improvements that usually are the responsibility
of occupants, according to brokerage  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   “The winners will be those that react first and offer
incentives to lock in renters,” Marc Royer, director of the
capital markets division in Santiago for CBRE, said in an
interview. “Some companies are starting to defer their
decisions to rent new offices, to see if they can negotiate
better terms.”  Office vacancies in the Chilean capital probably will climb
to 11 percent in 2014 from a projected 6.6 percent at the end of
this year as the flood of newly built space becomes available
for rent, according to CBRE. Just two years ago, the vacancy
rate was less than 2 percent following a dearth of construction.  About 850,000 square meters (9.15 million square feet) of
new space is slated to come to market in the next two years,
boosting the city’s office supply by almost a fourth, the
brokerage said.  The upscale areas of El Golf, Vitacura and Nueva Las Condes
may fare the best as purchases of top-tier, or Class A, office
buildings by insurance companies and investment funds, along
with postponed construction plans by some developers, stave off
rent declines, according to CBRE.  Falling Rents  Office landlords in Providencia and downtown Santiago may
be less lucky as tenants vacate older offices and move into new
developments. In those municipalities, where most new projects
are lower-quality Class B buildings, occupancies and rents may
fall, said Augusto Rodriguez, who manages about $1 billion of
real estate investment assets for  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  in Chile.  “The effect will be felt much harder in the B-level office
market, where vacancy rates could shoot up to 15 percent,” he
said in a telephone interview from his El Golf office. “If
there’s an adjustment in rent prices, it will be in the B level,
not in the A-level buildings.”  Office buildings that are considered A grade have, among
other features, open floor plans of at least 400 square meters
and ceilings at least 2.5 meters (8.2 feet) high, and are less
than 25 years old, according to Colliers International. Class B
buildings have open plans of at least 150 square meters and 2.3-meter ceilings, and are less than 40 years old.  ‘In Trouble’  “Those in Providencia, they are the ones in trouble,”
said Alejandro Fernandez, a broker at Santiago-based real estate
brokerage  P&G Larrain .  Fernandez is in charge of renting out the 44,822-square-meter, 22-floor Genesis office building project in the
neighboring Las Condes district. The top-tier development, which
has yet to move beyond the digging of its foundation, has
already found tenants for more than 60 percent of its space.  “I’ve noticed some more people approaching and asking
about discounts, but I’m turning them away,” Fernandez said.  This year, a record 18 new top-tier office buildings are
scheduled to come to market in Santiago, a city of 7 million,
according to  Contract Workplaces , an office-space refurbishment
and consulting firm. That’s up from 10 last year and five in
2011. Before that, the average was three annually, prior to the
surge in development driven by economic growth.  Company Migration  “At a first glance, it may seem too much,” Victor
Feingold, regional director at Contract Workplaces, said in an
interview at his Santiago office. “But in a healthy economy
like  Chile ’s, you see a migration related to the quality of the
buildings. The bigger companies fill in the space of the new
premium buildings, because of the status they gain, and the
space they leave usually gets filled up by smaller service firms
or the companies that couldn’t afford them before.”  Paulmann, the chairman of retail giant  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD) , Latin
America’s third-biggest retailer by sales, suspended
construction of his Costanera Center project for most of 2009,
after the financial crisis the previous year plunged Chile’s
economy into a 1.1 percent contraction. Construction resumed as
growth returned to more than 5.5 percent a year, propelled by
strong consumer demand and rising copper prices.  Gross domestic product expansion in  Latin America ’s
wealthiest country is likely to slow to between 4 percent and 5
percent next year, according to Chile’s central bank. Growth may
be as little as 3.5 percent, estimates Vittorio Corbo, senior
investigator at Santiago-based think-tank Centro de Estudios
Publicos and a former head of the bank.  In Stages  Aside from the 300-meter, octagonal Torre Gran Santiago
tower, Costanera Center also has a 200,000-square-meter shopping
mall and three smaller office buildings. The project is coming
online in stages -- the mall opened in June 2012 -- while
development of the 73,500-square-meter skyscraper and an
adjacent 17,000-square-meter office building continues.
Construction of two additional 32-floor buildings, which will
include a five-star hotel, is planned for future stages.  Cencosud doesn’t have a date set for the Gran Santiago
tower’s opening because the company is still working with
officials from Providencia -- the tower straddles the border of
that municipality and Las Condes, two of the city’s wealthiest
districts -- on ways to mitigate potential traffic jams once the
tower’s  office space  is occupied, Cencosud said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Marketing Phase  “We plan to begin the marketing phase by the end of this
year and will have a more precise date for the actual opening by
then,” the company said in the e-mail. While there are
preliminary agreements with “world-renowned companies,” no
leases have been signed for space in the tower, Cencosud said.  Across the avenue from Costanera, at the edge of the
Mapocho river, is Parque Titanium, a project with three 23-floor
towers that have 53,960 square meters of office space scheduled
to come to market next year. One of the buildings will become
the headquarters of  Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones SA ,
Chile’s second-largest mobile-phone operator.  The flood of new office space isn’t a concern, said
Christian Goebel, executive vice president of Munich-based asset
manager GLL Real Estate Partners, which bought one of the
buildings in the Parque Titanium project last year for an amount
he wouldn’t disclose.  ‘Best Markets’  “We have to differentiate by submarkets,” he said in a
telephone interview from Munich. “As long as we buy in the best
locations, we can reduce vacancy risks. The best markets will
always have the best rates.”  GLL, which has invested about $250 million in real estate
assets in Latin America, also bought the 21-floor Territoria El
Bosque office building in Santiago for more than $90 million in
July, according to Diario Financiero. Goebel wouldn’t comment on
the figure.  “We like Santiago because it’s a transparent market,”
Goebel said. “There’s a lot of liquidity in the local market
and Chile provides a transparent and safe legal system.”  With 2.75 million square meters, Santiago, which sits in
the shadow of the Andes mountains, has the highest amount of
rentable office space in Latin America after Mexico City and  Sao
Paulo , according to a  report  from Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. Its
vacancy rate at the end of June was among the lowest in the
region at 4.1 percent, behind Medellin,  Colombia ’s 2.8 percent
rate and  Lima ’s 2.5 percent, the brokerage said.  Class A offices in Santiago rent for $18 to $34 per square
meter, according to Jones Lang LaSalle, compared with as much as
$120 a square meter in  Rio de Janeiro , where geographic
restrictions limit construction.  Slowing Demand  In Santiago, rents in the Las Condes submarket were little
changed in the first half of 2013 at an average of $31 a square
meter. It was the first time in four years that rents failed to
rise in the area, a sign of slowing demand, according to CBRE.  Net absorption of new office space in the first half,
meaning the net difference in occupied space over the time
period, was 59,000 square meters, less than the 67,000 square
meters that was added to the market in the same six months,
Jones Lang LaSalle said.  New contracts for Class A offices in Santiago may decline
in the short term as “more available space will give renters
more room for negotiations” by tenants, who are gaining
bargaining power, Colliers said in a report on its website.  The increase in vacancies will make it harder for Cencosud
to fill the Gran Santiago tower. Doing so may take as long as
four years, said Veronica Melys, head of marketing and research
for CBRE in Chile.  “On average, a 20,000-square-meter building takes about a
year to rent completely,” she said in an interview. “The fact
that there still isn’t a definitive date for delivery of the
tower may affect potential tenants which are deciding whether to
move or not. But, then again, it’s close to El Golf, so there
should be demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  