-- Scottish Government Set to Buy Airport Where Elvis Once Stood
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-08T21:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/scottish-government-set-to-buy-prestwick-airport-to-halt-closure.html
The Scottish government is to buy
 Prestwick  airport, best known as the only place Elvis Presley
officially ever stood on British soil, to prevent the closure of
the unprofitable terminal located 30 miles southwest of Glasgow.  The government plans to complete due diligence and detailed
talks with Infratil Ltd., Prestwick’s New Zealand-based owner,
within six weeks, Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon told
lawmakers. The infrastructure company put the site on  Scotland ’s
west coast up for sale in March 2012 and failed to find a buyer.  While a sale price has yet to be finalized, Infratil
doesn’t expect “material proceeds,” Chief Financial Officer
Kevin Baker said in a telephone interview in Wellington today.
“When you fail to make a sale to any private-sector parties,
and the government agrees to take it back into public ownership,
then you’re not in a strong position to negotiate a very
favorable price,” he said.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount airline, is
the sole scheduled operator to serve Prestwick, connecting it
with 27 destinations, according to the facility’s website.
Scotland’s only rail-connected airport has struggled to attract
other carriers, which prefer to use bases closer to Glasgow and
Edinburgh, the country’s two largest cities.  Saving Jobs  Taking Prestwick into public ownership while seeking a
long-term commercial investor will help protect 3,200 jobs
directly and indirectly associated with the airport, Sturgeon
told lawmakers. It proved impossible to get a private investor
to commit to buying Prestwick in a timespan acceptable to
Infratil, she said.  Passenger numbers at Prestwick totaled  621,000  in the eight
months through August, its website says. That compares with  6.6
million  through Edinburgh airport and  4.9 million  at Glasgow.  Prestwick’s terminal can handle 3 million passengers a year
and could easily be expanded to accommodate 10 million, the
website says. In its heyday, the base served as a trans-Atlantic
gateway and staging post for U.S. aircraft during World War II.  Prestwick still has Scotland’s longest runways, and with a
lower incidence of fog than any other airport in Britain is
often used as a diversionary terminal when others are closed.  Baker said Infratil may have been forced to close the
airport without a sale to the government. The company is also
trying to sell Manston airport in the U.K., and in May 2013
announced it had written down the value of both airports to 11
million pounds ($18 million).  Presley landed at Prestwick in 1960 on his way back to the
U.S. from  Germany  after completing mandatory military service.  “There is a bar at the airport, in the departure lounge,
called the Elvis lounge,” Baker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  