-- Shanghai Cancels Storm Alert After School, Flight Disruption
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-08T06:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/shanghai-raises-rain-storm-alert-as-schools-offices-close.html
Shanghai  cancelled a rain storm alert
after two typhoons delayed flights and brought downpours that
drenched residents returning to work after a week-long holiday.  The city government lifted the warning at about 11 a.m.
after earlier raising it to red, the highest of four warning
levels. Schools and businesses were ordered closed this morning
after a forecast of 100 millimeters (3.9 inches) of rain over a
three-hour period in areas including the city center, according
to the National Meteorological Center’s  website .  The storm delayed 61 flights scheduled to depart from the
city’s Pudong International Airport before 10:30 a.m., Shanghai
Airport said on its official microblog. Some flights were
redirected to Hongqiao airport.  Typhoon Fitow made landfall early morning yesterday south
of the city in the provinces of Zhejiang and Fujian. Six people,
including one government rescuer, were killed in Zhejiang,
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the local flood control
relief headquarters. The eastern province sustained 8.37 billion
 yuan  ($1.37 billion) in damage, as the storm caused about 4,000
houses to collapse, damaged roads and suspended power in many
places, Xinhua said. Zhejiang lifted a a red alert issued this
morning around noon, the center said.  A second typhoon, Danas, was working its way north off of
Shanghai’s coast toward  Japan  and South Korea, causing flight
cancelations and discontinuing ferry service. Storm and high
wave warnings were issued in Japan as wind gusts reached 180
kilometers per hour (112 miles per hour).  Heavy rains are expected in Shanghai, Zhejiang and Jiangsu
in the next 24 hours, the China Meterological Administration
said on its  website .  The Shanghai Composite Index, the nation’s benchmark
measure, rose 1 percent at 2:30 p.m. China’s markets were shut
from Oct. 1 through yesterday for the National Day holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona Tan in Shanghai at 
 xtan38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  