-- Singh’s Easy Loans to Voters Lift Honda to TVS: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-10-09T05:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/singh-s-easy-loans-to-voters-lift-honda-to-tvs-corporate-india.html
India’s plan to pump cash into state-owned banks is brightening the prospects of two-wheeler makers
as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh woos voters with cheaper loans
in the world’s second-biggest market.  The government on Oct. 3 said it will bolster risk buffers
of its lenders to encourage lower financing costs for consumer
durables. That sent the S&P BSE India Auto Index to an eight-month high with  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) ,  TVS Motor Co. (TVSL)  and  Hero MotoCorp
Ltd. (HMCL) , the nation’s largest, rallying on the move to revive
vehicle demand after sales growth slumped to a four-year low.  The decision may cut borrowing costs for consumers by 1
percentage point, said Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based analyst
at SMC Global Securities Ltd. Singh, facing national elections
before May, is struggling to rekindle growth in an economy that
expanded at the slowest pace in a decade as the central bank
seeks to tame inflation by raising interest rates.  “They may be trying to appease a section of the voters
before the polls,” Narnolia said. “This could boost sentiment
as the government is signaling they are willing to take measures
to stimulate consumption even when the central bank is raising
policy rates.”  Interest Rates  While the Reserve Bank of  India  is fighting consumer-price
inflation at almost 10 percent, Singh’s ruling coalition headed
by his Congress party is looking for ways to ease the cost of
living in the country where the World Bank says more than 800
million people live on less than $2 a day.  The highest interest rates among Asia’s biggest emerging
economies and the slowdown have eroded demand for consumer
durables. RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan unexpectedly  raised  the
benchmark  repurchase rate  on Sept. 20 by 25 basis points to 7.5
percent and signaled more to help rein in prices.  In a meeting on Oct. 3, Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram discussed the “sluggish” credit growth in some
sectors, prompting the decision to increase capital infusion
from 140 billion rupees ($2.3 billion) allocated in February.  “We have decided to provide additional funds to banks so
that they can lend to borrowers in selected sectors like two-wheelers and consumer durables at lower rates,” Rajiv Takru,
banking secretary at India’s finance ministry, said in an
interview on Oct. 4. “This will help in keeping the demand
strong and reviving the economy.”  Consumer Loans  Two-wheeler sales in the year to March 31 grew 2.9 percent
to 13.8 million units, the smallest gain since the year ended
March 2009. They further cooled this fiscal year, with
deliveries shrinking in two of the past six months, according to
data provided by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  “Loans will get cheaper in certain segments including
consumer durables and automobiles,” said Arundhati Bhattacharya, chairman of State Bank of India, the nation’s
biggest. “We are awaiting final approval from the government.
This will boost demand during the festive season.”  Loans to buy consumer durables form less than 1 percent of
retail credit in the country and grew at 34.6 percent in the 12
months to Aug. 23,  data  compiled by the central bank show. Total
outstanding loans to buy vehicles grew by 23 percent to 1.2
trillion rupees in the period, the data showed.  Monsoon Boost  TVS Motor has  jumped  15 percent since Oct. 2 to 46.10
rupees, the highest since Jan. 15, while Bajaj Auto climbed 4.6
percent and reached a nine-month high at close on Oct. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hero advanced 1.4
percent to 2,027.1 rupees in the same period.  “This measure to offer cheaper loans is expected to
improve buying sentiments and boost sales of two wheelers,”
Y.S. Guleria, sales chief at Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India
Ltd., said in a text message on Oct. 4. “More than any
substantial savings in the monthly installments, this will have
positive impact on the market.”  Two-wheeler sales rose for the first time in the quarter
ended September, after declining in the previous two quarters as
a good monsoon boosts demand in India’s villages, according to
the SIAM.  Deliveries in the second quarter of the year that began
April 1 climbed 8 percent after the nation had its best monsoon
rains since 2007, potentially boosting harvests of everything
from rice to corn, sugar cane and cotton.  Hindu Festival  The government’s decision may not spur sales as state-owned
banks have a relatively low market share of less than 2 percent
in two-wheeler financing, said K. Srinivas, president of
motorcycles at Bajaj Auto.  The run-up to the Hindu festival of Diwali in November
typically sends consumption surging across India. More consumers
are planning to purchase automobiles in the next 6 months as
compared with the same period last year, ZyFin Research said in
a report on Oct. 1. The improvement is due to the effect of the
monsoon on agricultural output and is primarily in the rural
part of the country, according to the report.  Higher incomes in rural India may also help boost the
electoral prospects for the ruling Congress party to come back
to power in nationwide elections due next year.  The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party is set to make
gains in state polls this year in one of the final tests for the
parties before the national vote in May, according to a survey
released Sept. 18 by the Times Now television channel and C-voter, a polling firm.  “The government measures  will definitely help boost
demand for two wheelers,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with
Brics Securities in Mumbai. “That will help increase sales in
the short term although for the longer term, the economy will
need to turn around for sales to sustain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  