-- Slovenia Bailout an Option If Yields Surge, Jazbec Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-10-08T12:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/slovenia-bailout-an-option-if-yields-surge-jazbec-says.html
Slovenia requesting financial
assistance from its European partners is an option if yields on
the euro-area nation’s government bonds prove unsustainable,
central bank Governor Bostjan Jazbec said.  Results of a stress test of the country’s banks, which have
bad loans of almost 8 billion euros ($10.9 billion), are due by
the end of next month and will make the situation clearer and
give authorities an opportunity to move quickly to fix the
lenders, Jazbec told reporters in Ljubljana today.  The debate is intensifying after Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said Sept. 26 the country may consider seeking outside
aid. Bratusek today said the nation wouldn’t seek a bailout,
while Janko Medja, the chief executive of state-owned Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., the nation’s biggest lender, said such a
request wouldn’t be “a catastrophe” as it would bring “more
decisive” measures to lower  government spending .  “There is no need to speculate if Slovenia will need a
bailout,” said Jazbec, who is also a member of the Governing
Council of the  European Central Bank . “Asking for a bailout in
case of high and unsustainable yields would be cheaper, but we
are sure these troubles in our banks can be solved on our own.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 declined 2 basis points, or 0.02 percent to 6.518
percent at 1:43 p.m. in Ljubljana, compared with a record-high
7.52 percent in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Countries including Ireland and  Portugal  were forced to seek
outside aid after yields on their government notes surpassed the
7 percent mark.  Economic Contraction  Slovenia’s export-driven  economy  will shrink 2.6 percent
this year, the central bank said in a report today, revising its
previous estimate of a 1.9 percent contraction. Gross domestic
product will advance 1.4 percent in 2015 after dropping 0.8
percent next year, the bank said.  Bratusek has pledged to support state-owned banks by
raising their capital and shifting non-performing loans to a bad
bank, a move delayed by a dispute with the EU over banks’
capital needs and the value of their bad assets.  “Slovenia will move quickly to re-capitalize banks and
transfer bad loans as soon as these results are published,”
Jazbec said. The central bank will ensure the stability of the
financial system as the results are released, he said.  Slovenia has enough cash reserves to last until the end of
the year, Finance Minister Uros Cufer has said.  Debt Costs  Debt-servicing costs have jumped to 2.1 percent of economic
output this year from 1.2 percent in 2008, according to
calculations by  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Prague.  The government may have to borrow as much as 4 billion
euros by the of next year, based a 2.5 billion-euro bank
recapitalization cost, which would be higher than the 1.2
billion euros the government set aside,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
economists Gianluca Salford, Alan Bowe and David Mackie in
 London  said in an e-mailed note today.  “We do not see public debt sustainability issues, but the
amounts involved raise the risk of a liquidity crisis that might
require a bailout,” Salford wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  