-- SNB Hasn’t Had to Enforce Cap in More Than Year: Jordan
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-09T10:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/snb-hasn-t-had-to-enforce-cap-in-more-than-year-jordan.html
The  Swiss National Bank  hasn’t had to
intervene in  currency markets  to protect its franc ceiling for
more than a year, SNB President Thomas Jordan said, adding that
the measure remains in place if needed.  “Despite recent turbulence on foreign-exchange markets in
emerging economies, the Swiss franc has settled against the euro
since September 2012 at slightly above the minimum exchange rate
of 1.20” per euro, Jordan said in Washington yesterday.
“Accordingly, the SNB did not have to enforce the minimum
exchange rate for over a year now.”  While an easing of the euro-area debt crisis alleviated
some of the pressure on the franc, Jordan said the currency’s
value is “still high” and that the SNB is maintaining the cap
it introduced more than two years ago. The central bank spent
188 billion francs ($208 billion) enforcing the limit in 2012,
equivalent to almost one-third of Switzerland’s annual output.  The Zurich-based SNB implemented the cap in September 2011
after the franc came close to parity with the bloc’s currency.
The franc has depreciated about 2.1 percent versus the euro
since the  European Central Bank  announced an unprecedented bond-buying program in September 2012 to defend the euro.  The franc declined 0.3 percent to 1.2308 per euro at 12:47
p.m. in Zurich after a White House official said President
 Barack Obama  will nominate  Janet Yellen  to head the  Federal
Reserve , fueling speculation the central bank will maintain
policies to spur growth. Against the dollar it stood at 90.98
centimes.  Downside Risks  The SNB’s foreign-currency reserves, about half of which
are in euros, have held steady in the past year. They stood at
432 billion francs at the  end of last month , compared with about
430 billion francs a year earlier. They were 282 billion francs
in September 2011.  “The risks in the world economy are still to the downside
and the Swiss franc is still high,” Jordan said yesterday,
echoing the SNB’s most recent monetary-policy assessment on
Sept. 19, when it maintained the cap and left the band for the
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at zero percent to 0.25
percent.  He also said the cap is the “right tool for ensuring  price
stability  in Switzerland in the foreseeable future.”  “With short-term interest rates close to zero, the minimum
 exchange rate  can prevent an undesirable tightening of monetary
conditions in the event that upward pressure on the Swiss franc
should intensify once again,” Jordan said. “The SNB stands
ready to enforce the minimum exchange rate and take further
measures as required.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  