-- Some Senate Republicans Open to Clean Debt-Ceiling Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-08T21:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/some-senate-republicans-open-to-clean-debt-ceiling-plan.html
Seven Senate Republicans said they
are holding open the possibility of backing Democrats’ plan for
a debt-ceiling increase without conditions, raising the prospect
for sending a measure to the House before the deadline.  Democrats, who control 54 seats in the 100-member chamber,
would need the support of at least six Republicans to pass a
one-year increase in the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
that they plan to introduce today. They are planning a test vote
before the end of this week.  Some Senate Republicans, including  Susan Collins  of Maine,
 Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia,  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, and  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee, didn’t rule out backing the Democrats’
plan. They said they must first see details, which would raise
the debt limit before U.S. borrowing authority lapses Oct. 17.  “We’ve got a situation where you have a calendar running,
you have people who are frustrated and upset, and so let’s
figure it out,” Murkowski said in an interview at the Capitol
yesterday. “We shouldn’t be dismissing anything.”  That’s in contrast to House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, who has said any plan to lift the debt limit must be
paired with cuts and other ways to curb U.S. spending.  One Republican senator -- Illinois’s  Mark Kirk  -- said he
would support a so-called “clean” debt ceiling.  Senators Jeff Flake and  John McCain , both of Arizona, left
the door open to supporting Democrats’ plan.  Measure’s ‘Structure’  “It depends on the structure of it,” Flake said.  McCain said in an interview today that he wanted there to
be negotiations on a debt-ceiling increase, after saying
yesterday that his support for Democrats’ plan would depend on
“what the dynamics are.”  “If there’s real reason to sit down and negotiate this
out, then I’ll vote for anything,” he said today.  With nine days to go before borrowing authority lapses,
Democrats and Republicans are locked in a partisan standoff that
has brought a government shutdown into its second week.
President  Barack Obama  and Senate Democratic leaders have said
they won’t negotiate on a debt-ceiling increase.  If the Democratic plan were to pass the Senate with
bipartisan support, that would further pressure Boehner to pass
a debt-ceiling bill in the House and avoid default.  Six Votes  That has put the spotlight on Senate Republicans, who could
be crucial to a breakthrough in the stalemate, particularly if
the necessary half dozen or more would be willing to join with
Democrats to advance the measure.  “I will be listening today, and then I will decide what to
do,” Alexander said.  Republican  Bob Corker  of Tennessee said he wants to see
changes in Medicare and Social Security as part of a deal to
raise the debt ceiling.  “These reforms need to be a part of what we do here,” he
said.  Other Republicans, including  Rob Portman  of Ohio and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire  said they were inclined to push for a
broader deficit-reduction agreement.  “What I’m focused on is working with Republicans and
Democrats alike to come up with a way to deal with the
underlying problem of overspending,” Portman said in an
interview.  Ayotte’s Concerns  Ayotte said she had “not seen any proposals yet” so she
couldn’t comment specifically, though added that “when we deal
with the debt limit we should be dealing with the underlying
fiscal problems facing our nation.”  New Jersey Republican Jeff Chiesa and Georgia Republican
Johnny Isakson declined to comment on “hypotheticals.”  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, said today in an interview that Democrats
would soon start trying to court Republican votes.  “We’re going to introduce it today, and we’re going to
start talking to them,” said Schumer, who predicted that most,
if not all, Democrats would support an increase in the debt cap
without conditions.  Every Democratic defector would require securing additional
Republican votes.  West Virginia Democrat  Joe Manchin  told reporters today
that he may not support the Democrats’ plan, while North Dakota
Democrat Heidi Heitkamp has repeatedly refused to comment.  “I haven’t said I would support or be in favor or opposed
to anything until I see what they put on the table,” Manchin
told reporters today. “But I am looking for a bigger deal. I am
not looking for kicking the can down the road.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  