-- Sony’s Costs for Making Vaio Computers Rise After SK Hynix Fire
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-10-08T07:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/sony-s-costs-for-making-vaio-computers-rise-after-sk-hynix-fire.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  said the costs of
manufacturing its Vaio computers rose after a fire last month
curbed the production of memory chips at an SK Hynix Inc.
factory in China.  “Production costs are affected because the price went
up,” Ryosuke Akahane, a senior vice president overseeing the
company’s Vaio and mobile unit, said in an interview in  Tokyo 
today.  The Tokyo-based electronics maker has enough chips for its
desktop and laptop computers after boosting its supply from
other manufacturers, Akahane said.  Computer and smartphone makers are paying more for a key
component of their devices as the  price  of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit dynamic random-access memory chip reached $2.33 today,
compared with $1.60 on Sept. 4, the date of the fire, according
to DRAMeXchange, Asia’s largest market for the components.  SK
Hynix (000660) , the world’s second-largest producer of memory chips with
customers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , said it boosted
production in South Korea to reduce the impact of the blaze.  Park Hyun, a spokesman for Icheon, South Korea-based SK
Hynix, declined to comment today.  The fire, which occurred during the installation of
equipment at a factory in Wuxi, burned for about 90 minutes
before being extinguished. One person suffered minor injuries.  SK Hynix makes half of its chips in Wuxi. The company held
about 30 percent of the global DRAM market in the second quarter,
following Samsung Electronics Co.’s 32.7 percent, TrendForce
said in an Aug. 8 report.  Before the fire, Sony cut its fiscal year sales forecast
for personal computers to 6.2 million units from 7.5 million.
Akahane maintained that forecast, though he said sales are not
doing well in  emerging markets  including India and Russia.  “It will be hard to turn the Vaio PC business profitable
within the fiscal year,” Akahane said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  