-- Celltrion CEO Faces Share-Manipulation Probe in South Korea
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-10-09T05:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/south-korea-s-celltrion-ceo-to-be-probed-in-stocks-trading-case.html
South Korea ’s financial regulator
plans to ask prosecutors to investigate the chief executive
officer of Celltrion Inc. over alleged stock price manipulation,
the drug manufacturer said.  The Financial Services Commission is asking prosecutors to
probe the actions of Celltrion’s largest shareholder, the
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Celltrion
disagrees with the FSC’s decision and plans to cooperate with
prosecutors, the company said. Celltrion’s largest shareholder
is CEO Seo Jung Jin, spokesman Kim Joon Seok confirmed by phone.  The FSC said earlier yesterday that the CEO of a Kosdaq-listed company manipulated the company’s share price three times
since 2011 for fundraising and to prevent stock declines,
identifying the company only with the letter “C.” The probe
order comes after South Korean President Park Geun Hye
instructed her aides in March to prepare stricter measures
against stock manipulation, prompting financial regulators to
submit bills to parliament to intensify penalties and enable
quicker investigation of suspected market manipulation activity.  “Swings were big every time company chiefs made comments,
so it was about time for a crackdown on this,” Heo Pil Seok,
chief executive officer of Midas International Asset Management
Ltd. in  Seoul , said by phone. “While this may hamper investor
sentiment in the short term, I see this as a faster way to more
transparent business practices.”  Shares Surge  Shares (068270)  of Celltrion rose the most in a month in Seoul
yesterday, closing 5.6 percent higher at 46,150 won and paring
this year’s loss to 12 percent. The Kosdaq index, where
Celltrion is listed, has advanced 6.6 percent during the same
period. The FSC issued its statement after the close of trading.
South Korean markets were closed today for a holiday.  Celltrion last month issued a statement denying using
internal information to make a profit, without specifying
whether the statement referred to the company or Seo.  Incheon-based Celltrion makes and sells biosimilar products
and also manufactures medicine on a contract basis, according to
the company’s  website . The company won European backing in June
to sell a copy of Johnson & Johnson’s Remicade, a $6 billion
arthritis therapy.  Temasek Holdings Pte ,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, is the second-biggest shareholder of Celltrion with a
14.9 percent holding as of June via its Ion Investments BV unit,
according to a Celltrion regulatory filing on July 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  