-- St. Louis Municipal-Bond Underwriter Agreed to Pay-to-Play Fine
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-10-08T18:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/st-louis-municipal-bond-underwriter-agreed-to-pay-to-play-fine.html
L.J. Hart & Co., a St. Louis-based
municipal-bond underwriter, agreed to pay a $200,000 fine to
settle charges that it violated pay-to-play rules by giving
tickets to sporting events to win work from schools and
counties.  L.J. Hart gave school and county officials more than 2,000
tickets to attend games played by the Kansas City Chiefs, St.
Louis Cardinals and other teams, according to Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority documents. The tickets were valued at
$183,546.  The gifts show that securities regulators haven’t
eliminated underwriters’ practice of giving gifts to public
officials from whom they seek business in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market. This year about three-fourths of the
$233.4 billion of municipal debt sold has been through
negotiation, instead of competitive bidding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The regulators need to go further in limiting gifts,”
said Joy Howard, principal with WM Financial Strategies, a St.
Louis-based financial adviser who favors competitive sales. “If
you’re doing competitive bidding, all of this is a moot point.”  With competitive sales, governments take bids on their
bonds the way they would for construction contracts or office-supply products. With negotiated sales, the officials hire
underwriters to place the bonds with investors.  Financial Incentives  The firm agreed to a settlement in a Finra disciplinary
proceeding. L.J. Hart didn’t admit or deny allegations that it
violated Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board rules designed to
remove financial incentives in awarding underwriting business
for negotiated deals, according to a Finra order dated Sept. 24.
The Alexandria, Virginia-based MSRB makes rules for the
municipal-bond market.  The firm broke MSRB gift rules because its own officials
didn’t attend events with the clients, according to the Finra
order. If firm officials had attended, the firm wouldn’t have
violated the restrictions.  L.J. Hart, which has been giving tickets since 1994,
“never used the tickets as an inducement” to be hired,
according to a document the firm said it submitted to Finra. The
firm said it didn’t think it was necessary to accompany public
officials to the games.  “L.J. Hart uses the tickets as an expression of its
appreciation to its clients for their previous business and to
serve as a reminder advertising of L.J. Hart’s services,”
according to the document.  Past Gifts  Larry J. Hart, founder and principal, said in an interview
that the firm had provided regulators information about its
gifts in past audits and that no questions had been raised. The
firm has changed its policies to require firm officials to
attend events with clients, he said.  “We agreed to settle to proceed as a business and to avoid
extensive legal costs,” said Hart.  The ruling, which covered actions between January 1, 2009,
and March 31, 2011, was reported earlier today in the St. Louis
Post-Dispatch.  The MSRB supports “vigorous enforcement” of its gift
rules, which are “designed to preserve the integrity of the
municipal market,” said Lynnette Kelly, executive director, in
an e-mailed statement. “The public needs to have confidence
that municipal securities business is awarded based on an
underwriter’s qualifications and not its ability to provide
tickets to coveted sporting events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  