-- Stock Rules Too Complex to Official at NYSE’s Imminent Owner
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-08T20:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/stock-market-too-complex-for-official-at-nyse-s-soon-to-be-owner.html
Rules governing U.S. equities trading
should be pared back because regulations have made the market
vulnerable to breakdowns, according to a senior executive at the
company poised to buy the New York Stock Exchange.  Tom Farley, the senior vice president of financial markets
at  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , said that regulations
introduced since the late 1990s have forced “unnatural
competition and evolution” between public exchanges and among
equity venues run by broker-dealers. Atlanta-based futures
market owner ICE is acquiring New York-based NYSE Euronext,
which also runs  Europe ’s second-largest futures exchange.  To improve the U.S. stock market, “I would probably start
by getting rid of rules -- and some pretty big rules,” Farley
said today at a Baruch College  conference  in New York. He
declined to identify those he would prefer to eliminate.
“There’s been several significant rules that have been layered
on in the last 15 years that have resulted in a costly and
complex market,” he said.  Farley spoke almost seven weeks after  Nasdaq  OMX Group
Inc.,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s smaller competitor, was forced to halt
trading of the U.S. companies it lists for three hours because
of a software malfunction. In the aftermath, U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White told exchanges to
collaborate on preventing breakdowns. The disruption followed a
series of breakdowns on markets around the world that  Standard &
Poor’s  said on Sept. 19 could threaten industry credit ratings.  Island, Archipelago  The Internet and lower-cost  computer hardware  fueled the
creation in the 1990s of trading platforms such as Island ECN
Inc. and Archipelago LLC, which were ultimately purchased by the
biggest incumbent exchange owners, Nasdaq and NYSE,
respectively. Those systems helped lower investors’ costs, a
shift that was accelerated in 2001 when the SEC shrank the
minimum stock price increment to 1 cent, cutting profits for
market makers.  Then, in 2007, an SEC rule known as Regulation NMS went
into effect, requiring stocks to trade on whatever market has
the best price at any given time. That helped ingrain the
fragmentation of U.S. trading, which now takes place on more
than 50 systems, including 13 public exchanges as well as
private venues and internal platforms at brokers.  Less Competition  Futures trading is less segmented because U.S. derivatives
markets own their own clearinghouses, meaning investors have to
exit positions at the same exchange where they entered them,
such as those run by ICE or Chicago-based CME Group Inc. That
has created a high barrier to entry in futures trading and
limited competition.  “The  futures markets  aren’t perfect, but I was the
president of our U.S. futures market for seven years and I never
once had anybody complain” about liquidity, Farley said today.
“There are whole conferences dedicated to the issue in equity
markets.”  Reg NMS should be reconsidered, SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said last week. “It’s a prime candidate for a
retrospective review,” he told the Security Traders Association
market structure conference on Oct. 3.  The commissioner, one of five members of the SEC, also said
the agency should examine other rules, including the move to
quoting all U.S. stocks in 1-cent increments. He spoke a day
after White, the SEC chairman, said the exchanges’ business
models and regulatory roles should be “fully evaluated in light
of the evolving market structure and trading practices.” She
hasn’t publicly endorsed a review of Reg NMS.  ‘Simpler Markets’  The fragmented nature of the U.S. stock market contributed
to Nasdaq’s Aug. 22 malfunction, Farley said today.  “The equities markets are so complicated, you can’t help
but have the problems we’ve been seeing recently,” he said.
“At ICE, we’ve not had a major outage in years. It’s not
because we’re better technologists, but because we run simpler
markets.”  ICE’s motivation to buy NYSE Euronext may be driven more by
a desire to own NYSE Liffe, Europe’s second-largest derivatives
platform, than expanding into stocks.  ICE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher , who currently
specializes in energy commodities and guaranteeing credit-default swaps, tried and failed twice to gain interest-rate
futures through acquisitions: in 2007 with the Chicago Board of
Trade and in 2011 with Liffe. Sprecher plans to pare NYSE’s
equities business by jettisoning its European stock markets
through an initial public offering.  Farley said action should be taken to improve the structure
of American equity markets, where companies valued at about $20
trillion trade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’ve met with dozens of people in the industry in the
past year: customers, buyside, high-frequency traders and
issuers who list on Nasdaq and NYSE,” he said. “If I had to
write a memorandum, and give it a title, from those meetings, it
would be ‘Nobody Is Happy.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  