-- Sunderland Hires Gus Poyet to Replace Di Canio as Manager
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-08T09:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/sunderland-hires-poyet-as-coach-of-premier-league-s-bottom-club.html
Sunderland hired Gustavo Poyet to
replace Paolo Di Canio as coach as it seeks to climb out of last
place in English soccer’s Premier League.  The Uruguayan agreed to a two-year contract and will be
joined by his assistants Mauricio Taricco and Charlie Oatway,
Sunderland said in a statement. Poyet, who was fired for
misconduct by second-tier Brighton on June 23, is the northeast
 England  team’s sixth manager in five years.  Sunderland, which has one point from seven matches, fired
Di Canio on Sept. 22 after six months in charge. The last team
to avoid relegation after taking a single point from its opening
seven Premier League games was Newcastle in 1999-2000, according
to Opta Sports.  “We analyzed a wide range of candidates and believe that
Gus’s track record, experience, commitment and passion make him
the right man to take us forward,” Sunderland Chairman Ellis Short said in the  statement  on the team’s website.  Poyet, a former Chelsea and Tottenham midfielder, coached
Brighton for four years. He unsuccessfully appealed in July
against his dismissal, the reason for which hasn’t been revealed
by Poyet or the club.  Poyet, 45, guided Brighton to the third-tier League One
title in 2011, 17 months after taking over, and was voted
manager of the year by the division’s coaches. The Seagulls
finished fourth in the Championship last season, their highest
league finish for 30 years, and lost to Crystal Palace in the
semifinals of the playoffs for a Premier League berth.  Coaching Career  He began his coaching career in England in 2006 as
assistant manager at Swindon Town, before taking a similar role
with Leeds United. Poyet returned to former club Tottenham as
first-team coach before becoming assistant manager to Juande Ramos and then joined Brighton in 2009.  Di Canio won three of his 13 games after replacing  Martin O’Neill  as Sunderland coach in March. The day after the team
lost 3-0 at West Bromwich Albion on Sept. 21, players approached
the club’s Chief Executive Officer Margaret Byrne to complain
about Di Canio, the  BBC   reported .  He was fired the same day. Kevin Ball, the club’s senior
professional development coach, has been in temporary charge of
the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  