-- Swedish Match Gains as European Parliament Allows Flavored Snus
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-10-08T15:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/swedish-match-gains-as-european-parliament-allows-flavored-snus.html
Swedish Match AB (SWMA)  rose the most in the
most in four months after the European Parliament voted to scale
back plans for more stringent regulation of the tobacco
industry, including rejecting a proposal to ban flavored snus.  Shares in the Stockholm-based maker of smokeless tobacco
 climbed  4.2 percent to 233.80 kronor at the close at 5:30 p.m.
local time, the biggest advance since May 10. The stock has
added 7.2 percent this year, giving the company a market
capitalization of 47.2 billion kronor ($7.4 billion).  “It was very satisfying to see that the European
Parliament voted against the Commission’s proposal to ban
flavors and ingredients in Swedish snus,” Swedish Match said in
an e-mailed comment. “However, it has become even clearer that
the EU’s arbitrary discrimination against snus has solidified.”  Snus is a moist powder tobacco usually portioned in pouches
that resemble miniature versions of tea bags and that are placed
under the upper lip. The EU banned advertising and sales of snus
within the bloc in 1992 but when  Sweden  joined the EU in 1995,
it secured an exemption. The European Parliament voted to
maintain the snus ban today.  Sweden’s government has tried to convince the EU to scrap
the ban for years and allow snus to be exported in  Europe . Ewa Bjoerling, Sweden’s minister for trade, last year threatened an
“all-out war” to defend snus.  SEB raised its rating on Swedish Match to buy from hold and
said the tobacco maker may return to earnings-per-share growth
next year after a weak 2013 as its domestic snus market slowly
improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  