-- Swiss Stocks Drop as Investors Watch U.S. Shutdown Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-08T15:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/swiss-stocks-little-changed-as-investors-watch-u-s-talks.html
Swiss stocks  retreated to their
lowest level since August as investors awaited the start of the
U.S. earnings season and talks to end the government shutdown in
the world’s largest economy.  Givaudan SA (GIVN)  dropped 2.1 percent after Exane BNP Paribas
downgraded the world’s largest maker of flavorings. Novartis AG
declined 1.3 percent as a gauge of European health-care
companies slipped.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  fell 0.8 percent to 7,828.24 at the
close of trading in Zurich. The equity benchmark has retreated
2.4 percent so far this month as U.S. lawmakers failed to
approve an emergency  federal budget , partially closing the
government. The broader Swiss Performance Index decreased 0.7
percent today.  “Novartis represents 19 percent of the SMI, and so is a
large contributor to the down move,” Ion-Marc Valahu, a co-founder and fund manager at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an
e-mail. “Market participants are waiting on the markets for a
break either way.”  President  Barack Obama  yesterday reiterated that he won’t
negotiate with Republicans over conditions tied to the budget
for the new financial year, which started on Oct. 1. He also
said he will not discuss concessions to increase the Treasury’s
borrowing authority before it breaches the $16.7 trillion  debt
ceiling  in nine days. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
yesterday called for a House vote on a funding plan to reopen
the government without setting preconditions.  The Treasury has said that it will exhaust measures to
avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on Oct. 17. If that happens,
the government would run out of cash to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Earnings Season  The U.S. quarterly earnings season starts today when Alcoa
Inc. releases its financial results after the close of European
trading. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . both  report 
on Friday.  Givaudan declined 2.1 percent to 1,230 Swiss francs after
Exane lowered the flavorings business to neutral from
outperform, meaning that investors should no longer buy the
shares. The company’s like-for-like growth will slow in the
second half of this year, according to the brokerage. The
analysts, led by Heidi Vesterinen, also cited the shares’ year-to-date performance as a reason for the downgrade. Givaudan has
 rallied 28 percent  in 2013, while the SMI has risen 15 percent.  Novartis Slips  Novartis (NOVN)  dropped 1.3 percent to 67.20 francs. JPMorgan
Chase downgraded  Europe ’s largest drugmaker to neutral from
overweight. The brokerage lowered its earnings-per-share
estimates to 5 percent to 7 percent below consensus forecasts,
predicting that the company’s most recent products will grow
more slowly.  Cosmo Pharmaceuticals SpA (COPN)  climbed 5 percent to 63.50 francs
after the U.S. awarded a patent for its Methylene Blue MMX
tablets, which are designed to detect growths in the colon.  Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. increased its rating on the
shares to buy from hold, forecasting a price of 73.40 francs.  Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd. (GFMN)  advanced 2.1 percent
to 1.94 francs. The company said in a statement that it will
take an unspecified stake in Hong Kong-based Headland Strategic.  Walter Meier AG (WMN)  added 5.3 percent to 60 francs after the
manufacturer of air-conditioning and heating equipment sold its
tools business.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 10 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  