-- U.K. Agrees to Take Steps With Iran Toward Reopening Embassies
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-10-08T15:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/u-k-agrees-to-take-steps-with-iran-toward-reopening-embassies.html
Britain and Iran are taking the first
steps toward reopening embassies in each other’s capitals that
have been closed for almost two years, U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said.  Non-resident charges d’affaires will be appointed by the
governments in  London  and Tehran after talks that followed the
election of Hassan Rouhani as Iranian president in June, Hague
told lawmakers in the House of Commons in London today. He said
he’d spoken by phone yesterday to Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif, following meetings in  New York  last month.  “It is clear that the new president and ministers in Iran
are presenting themselves and their country in a much more
positive way than in the recent past,” Hague said. “There is
no doubt the tone of the meetings with them is different.”  The U.K. closed its embassy in  Iran  in November 2011 after
it was overrun by protesters and Britain accused the Iranians of
failing to protect it as required under international law.
Iranian diplomats were also expelled from London. Officials from
the U.K. and Iran, which is subject to international sanctions
over its nuclear program, will meet for talks next week in
Geneva, the foreign secretary said.  Iran is due to hold talks on its nuclear program with the
U.K., the four other permanent members of the  United Nations 
Security Council and Germany in the Swiss city on Oct. 15-16.  Rouhani took office in August pledging to improve Iran’s
world standing and an economy hurt by sanctions imposed because
of its nuclear work. He spoke by phone with U.S. President
 Barack Obama  during his trip to the United Nations last month,
in the highest-level diplomatic encounter between the two
countries since Iran’s 1979 Islamic revolution.  The rebuilding of bilateral relations will be on a “step-by-step” basis, Hague said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  