-- U.K. Stocks Decline a Second Day as Marks & Spencer Falls
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-10-08T08:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/u-k-stocks-decline-a-second-day-as-marks-spencer-falls.html
U.K. stocks  declined for a second day
as investors monitored the start of the earnings-reporting
season for American companies and negotiations over how to avoid
a default by the U.S. government.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  dropped 3.1 percent as a gauge of
retail sales grew at a slower-than-expected rate in September.
 ITV Plc (ITV)  rose for a fourth day as Exane BNP Paribas recommended
buying shares in Britain’s largest terrestrial broadcaster.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 22.59 points, or 0.4 percent,
to 6,414.69 at 9:38 a.m. in London. The equity benchmark has
decreased 3.2 percent from a Sept. 19 high as the U.S.
government shut down and  Italy ’s government faced collapse. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.1 percent.  “A lack of obvious progress regarding the U.S. budget
continues to weigh on market participants’ sentiment,” Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities in London,
wrote in an e-mail.  President  Barack Obama  yesterday reiterated that he won’t
negotiate with Republicans over conditions tied to the budget
for the new financial year, which started on Oct. 1. He also
said he will not discuss concessions to increase the country’s
borrowing authority before it breaches the $16.7 trillion  debt
ceiling  in nine days. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
yesterday called for a House vote on a funding plan to reopen
the government without setting preconditions.  The Treasury has said that it will exhaust measures to
avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on Oct. 17. If that happens,
the government would run out of cash to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Alcoa Inc. will unofficially start the quarterly  reporting
season  in the U.S. when it releases earnings after the close of
European trading today. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo &
Co. both publish their financial results on Friday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  