-- U.S. Treasury Said to Have No Puerto Rico Assistance Plan
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-08T19:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/u-s-treasury-not-planning-puerto-rico-aid-spokeswoman-says-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department isn’t
planning to provide assistance to Puerto Rico and continues to
monitor the situation after the commonwealth’s bond yields rose
to records, according to a Treasury spokeswoman who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, is struggling to
revive a shrinking economy and keep Puerto Rico’s debt above
junk. The U.S. territory and its agencies, whose bonds are tax-exempt nationwide, plan to borrow as much as $1.2 billion by
Dec. 31 to balance budgets. Officials plan to use debt backed by
sales-tax revenue, as the securities are rated three to four
levels above the island’s general obligations.  Even the sales-tax securities, which Moody’s Investors
Service cut on Oct. 3, trade with historically high yields.  “Forced selling in local island bond markets has added
stress to overall trading,” Alan Schankel, managing director at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a research
note Oct. 4. “Volatility and price pressures remain ongoing for
Puerto Rico bonds.”  Puerto Rican bonds  have fallen 18 percent in 2013,
including price change and interest payments, on pace for their
worst year since at least 2000, according to Standard & Poor’s
data. Commonwealth general-obligation bonds maturing in July
2041 traded today with a yield as high as 9.2 percent after
reaching 10.06 percent on Oct. 4, the most since Sept. 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Development  Senate President Eduardo Bhatia told municipal-bond
analysts in New York yesterday that the White House and Treasury
are “wondering how they can help Puerto Rico send a very strong
signal of stability right now,” according to the New York
Times.  “I did not say that U.S. Treasury was going to bail out
Puerto Rico,” Bhatia said in a text message today. “I did say
that there is a White House Puerto Rico task force and that
conversations about economic development ideas for Puerto Rico
have taken place between the local government and the federal
government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  