-- U.S., European Bourses Face More Merger Pressure; ASX CEO
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-10-08T06:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/u-s-european-bourses-face-more-merger-pressure-asx-ceo.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX)  faces less pressure to merge
with competitors than North American and European exchanges,
which are grappling with “hopelessly fragmented” markets, said
Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper.  ASX’s broader offering of services across different
financial products means it’s not as compelled to depend on
volume, Funke Kupper, who heads the operator of Australia’s main
stock exchange, said at an event in Melbourne today. The
Australian bourse won its battle in February to maintain a
monopoly in the clearing and settlement of equity trades for at
least the next two years.  “We do not have any pressures, nor do we have any plans”
to seek a merger, Funke Kupper told reporters after the event.
“It is not a particular ambition that we have at all.”  Australia’s Labor-led government in 2011 vetoed an A$8.3
billion ($7.8 billion) deal with  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  Since
then,  Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.  bought the London
Metal Exchange for $2.2 billion, while  Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) 
was formed from a merger of rivals in Tokyo and  Osaka . The
European Commission approved IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s bid
for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in June.  U.S. equity trading, which began on  Wall Street  more than
two centuries ago and was dominated by the  New York  Stock
Exchange for most of that period, has become dispersed among
more than 50 electronic platforms accessible around the world.  Capital Raising  ASX saw growth in its trading businesses in the first 2 1/2
months of this fiscal year, it said Sept. 25. Australian
business confidence surged in September to the highest level in
3 1/2 years as majority government and lower  interest rates 
encouraged companies.  Tony Abbott ’s coalition ousted the Labor
government on Sept. 7, ending three years of a hung parliament.  The bourse raised A$553 million this year to pay down debt
and expand the exchange’s clearing facility to meet new rules
for operators into European markets.  Funke Kupper today described the regulatory changes as
“unrelenting”. Clearers act as central counterparties in
derivatives contracts to dilute the risk of default.  Derivatives comprised 32 percent of ASX’s sales last fiscal
year, the largest component. Equity trading accounts for 5
percent of the company’s revenue, Funke Kupper said today.  The bourse’s net income for the 12 months ended June 30
rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier to A$348.2 million, the
Sydney-based company said August 22. Operating revenue climbed
1.1 percent to A$617.4 million.  Chi-X  Australia  Pty., backed by Nomura Holdings Inc., which
began trading in all companies on the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index in November 2011, competes with ASX, the former monopoly
public venue for share trading in Australia.  Less Liquidity  While the alternative venue’s market share will continue to
rise above 9 percent, the amount of annual revenue the pair
compete for in equities trading has fallen to about A$35
million, from A$50 million before Chi-X’s entry, Funke Kupper
said.  “The most efficient markets are where liquidity is
concentrated in one place,” Funke Kupper said. “When you break
up market places, you create multiple trading venues where the
liquidity is less.”  The exchange is “comfortable” with investor use of dark
pools and high-frequency trading, which both comprise about 25
percent of the market, because of regulations in the country,
Funke Kupper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  