-- UBS Sells Largest Structured Note in 13 Months as Issuance Slows
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-10-08T07:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/ubs-sells-largest-structured-note-in-13-months-as-issuance-slows.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  sold its largest structured
note in more than a year as issuance of the securities packaging
debt with derivatives slowed to the least since 1999 at
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank.  The $40.8 million of six-month notes tied to Venezuelan
sovereign debt carried a two percent coupon, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Zurich-based lender, which is
eliminating 10,000 jobs and most of its debt-trading businesses,
issued $167.9 million of structured notes this year, a 95
percent drop from the same period in 2012.  The cost of insuring UBS’s debt against losses fell 9
percent this year to 85 basis points, the lowest among  Europe ’s
10 largest banks by market capitalization, Bloomberg data show.
The pricing on the bank’s credit default swaps has affected
demand for its securities, according to Russell Catley, co-founder of London-based Catley Lakeman Securities, which advises
on structured products.  “If investors are chasing the highest coupon, they are
likely to get that from banks with wider credit spreads,” said
Catley. “UBS’s tighter spreads could be working against it, as
is often the case with the highest quality banks.”  Buyers of structured notes bear both the risk of the
underlying assets and the bank selling the securities, so notes
from riskier issuers tend to generate higher returns.  Hana Dunn, a spokeswoman for UBS in  London , declined to
comment on the structured notes tied to  Venezuela ’s debt.  UBS is among lenders shifting sales of structured notes
onto off-balance sheet issuing vehicles to meet stricter capital
rules, selling $477.9 million through the entities this year,
Bloomberg data show.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  