-- Uganda Seeks Investor to Build $2.5 Billion Oil Refinery
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-10-08T11:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/uganda-seeks-investor-to-build-2-5-billion-oil-refinery.html
Uganda  is looking for a lead investor
to develop a refinery estimated to cost $2.5 billion, two weeks
after issuing its first production license to China National
Offshore Oil Corp. as it seeks to exploit reserves.  The investor, either a company or a group of them, will be
named by April and will take an interest of as much as 60
percent in the facility, which is proposed to have capacity of
60,000 barrels a day, Robert Kasande, an assistant commissioner
in the Energy Ministry, said today by phone from Entebbe, near
the capital, Kampala.  Uganda, classified as one of the world’s poorest nations by
the  World Bank , discovered oil in 2006 and has an estimated 3.5
billion barrels of crude, according to the Energy Ministry.
London-based  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , Cnooc and France’s  Total SA (FP)  are
jointly developing the finds. The country has sub-Saharan
Africa’s fourth-biggest oil reserves.  “We need to finalize this process we have started today by
April,” he said. The cost is still “tentative” as the
accurate amount will be known after the investor conducts a
feasibility analysis, he said.  The government’s stake in the facility will account for as
much as 40 percent, and the nation has invited Kenya, Rwanda,
Burundi and Tanzania, which are partner countries in the  East
African Community , to buy an interest of as much 10 percent in
the facility from Uganda, he said.  Two Phases  The refinery may be developed in two phases, starting with
a daily capacity of 30,000 barrels, Kasande said. Construction
will commence in 2015, while production starts 2017, he said.  As many as 15 companies have expressed an interest in
participating in the project, Peter Lokeris, state minister for
mineral development, told reporters in  London  today.  The government secured 29 square kilometers (11 square
miles) of land for the refinery in the western district of Hoima
and will hand it over to the investors by April after
compensating affected residents, Kasande said.  The Energy Ministry on Sept. 25 awarded Cnooc the first
production license to develop the Kingfisher area in the
Albertine region at a cost of $2 billion over four years. The
area is estimated to hold 635 million barrels, of which 196
million barrels are recoverable. Kingfisher will pump 30,000
barrels to 40,000 barrels a day, the ministry said.  Tullow and Total will get oil-production licenses for other
areas within weeks, Lokeris said in London today.  Uganda is eyeing both local and regional markets for its
oil products, Kasande said.  Landlocked Uganda is also negotiating with  oil companies  to
build a pipeline to the Kenyan port of Lamu, according to the
Energy Ministry said. President  Yoweri Museveni  and his Kenyan
counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta agreed to develop the link in June,
saying it would also have a loop to South Sudan.  Uganda has sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest oil reserves after
Nigeria, Angola and South Sudan, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  