-- UN’s Ban Outlines Syria Chemical-Arms Destruction Process
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/un-s-ban-calls-for-special-mission-on-syria-chemical-arms.html
The  United Nations  would destroy
 Syria ’s chemical-weapons arsenal through a first-ever joint
mission involving a Hague-based group and financed by trust
funds, under a proposal from UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.  Finding, dismantling and eliminating the munitions amid the
civil war in Syria is an unprecedented operation for the world
body, Ban said in a letter yesterday to the Security Council
outlining the special mission.  Ban’s plan calls for the UN and the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, based in the Hague, to set up
the mission, led by a civilian coordinator, to ensure that
Syria’s stockpile is removed by next year. It would be the first
joint effort between the UN and the group, Ban said in the
letter, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “The environment in which the OPCW-UN joint advance team
will operate is dangerous and volatile, particularly in urban
areas such as Damascus, Homs and Aleppo,” Ban wrote.  Teams from both organizations are already in Syria to
oversee compliance with last month’s  Security Council  resolution
to rid the country of its chemical weapons by next year. On Oct.
6, the teams did their first verification of the destruction of
the munitions by Syrian personnel.  The Security Council’s Sept. 27 resolution was prompted by
a gas attack near Damascus that the U.S. said killed more than
1,400 people, including children. The accord lacked immediate
consequences if Syrian President Bashar al-Assad failed to
comply and it didn’t assign blame for the Aug. 21 attack, which
U.S., U.K. and French officials attribute to Assad’s regime.  ‘Light Footprint’  The special mission would consist of about 100 people from
the Hague group, for technical matters, and the UN, for
logistics, security and “strategic coordination” in
communicating with Assad’s government, Ban proposed. The OPCW
was set up to implement a global ban on chemical arms.  “Given the operating environment, the Joint Mission will
establish a ‘light footprint,’” Ban said. Deployments will be
limited to only what is necessary, and an operational base will
be set up in Damascus and a support facility in Cyprus, for
equipment storage and personnel training, he said.  Ban allocated $2 million to fund immediate and emergency
costs for the 35-member advance team that arrived in Damascus on
Oct. 1 to start the process, according to the letter. In it, he
cited the challenges that the special mission’s personnel would
face while operating in the middle of a civil war that has
killed more than 100,000 people and displaced millions more.  ‘Indiscriminate Shelling’  “Heavy artillery, air strikes, mortar barrages, and the
indiscriminate shelling of civilian areas are commonplace and
battle lines shift quickly,” Ban said. “Two mortars impacted
in close proximity of the hotel in Damascus where the advance
team will initially base its operations just hours before it
arrived, while vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices have
detonated in close proximity.”  The success of the mission will hinge on the Syrian
authorities’ “sustained commitment” and the “critical”
support and participation of the Security Council and UN member
states, according to the letter. So far, Ban said, the Syrian
government has “fully cooperated.”  The UN chief will brief the Security Council on Oct. 10
about his recommendations for the mission, and the suggestions
are expected to be approved by the 15-member governing panel,
according to UN diplomat Javid Nasirli of  Azerbaijan , which
holds the council’s monthly rotating presidency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  