-- Turkish Industial Output Drops for First Time in 2013
-- B y   O n u r   A n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-10-08T09:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/turkey-industrial-output-unexpectedly-drops.html
Turkey ’s industrial output
unexpectedly dropped in August, the first annual decline this
year, on falls in the clothing and refined petroleum industries.  Industrial growth  on a workday-adjusted basis fell 0.1
percent from a year ago, the first decline since December, the
statistics agency said today. Output was expected to rise 4.1
percent according to the median of eight estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Industrial production fell 4 percent from the
previous month on a workday and seasonally adjusted basis.  “The industrial output figures are surprising for us,”
Inanc Sozer, economic research manager at Odeabank AS in
Istanbul, said by phone. “Industries relying on domestic demand
seem weak.”  Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in a televised
interview with CNNTurk yesterday that the government will
probably today announce its revised economic targets for the
year and update its medium-term economic plan. Government
officials, including Simsek, have repeatedly said year-end
growth may be below the original target of 4 percent.  The lira strengthened 0.14 percent to 1.9907 per dollar at
12:01 p.m. in Istanbul, paring the year-to-date declines to 10.4
percent to become the second-worst performing major emerging
market currency in  Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East  after
 South Africa ’s rand. Yields on benchmark two-year notes were
down 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, to 7.94 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eid Holiday  Eid holiday, which marks the end of the holy month of
Ramadan, explains some of the fall in industrial activity in
August, according to an e-mailed note by Burgan Securities
economists Haluk Burumcekci and Asli Savranoglu Seren in
Istanbul. While adjustments for working days are meant to
eliminate the impact, they fail to “fully capture the length of
the holiday,” the economists said in the note.  Other economic data including PMI, which rose to 54 in
September from 50.9 in August, suggest activity may have
rebounded last month, according to Burgan Securities. Exports
rose 11.1 percent from a year ago to $12.5 billion in September
on the back of recovering demand in major trade partners,
according to Turkish Exporters Assembly.  “PMI, confidence indexes and exports indicate strong
performance in September, driven by the acceleration in external
demand, particularly in the euro area,” Burumcekci and Seren
said. “We maintain our gross domestic product growth forecast
at 3.5 percent for 2013, with no major downside risk on the
horizon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  