-- USDA Buyers Stuck in Limbo as Shutdown Hurts Housing
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-10-08T17:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/usda-buyers-stuck-in-limbo-as-shutdown-hurts-housing.html
Jacob Smith, a 25-year-old  Florida 
firefighter, wasn’t paying much attention to the U.S. government
shutdown until it threw his move to a new three-bedroom home
near Daytona Beach into limbo.  Smith was ready to complete the purchase Oct. 1, the day
the closure began. Now he has to wait until the Department of
Agriculture reopens its mortgage business. For now, Smith’s
landlord is allowing him to stay in his one-bedroom rental,
crammed with boxes and furniture meant for the larger property.
His builder, Adams Homes of Gulf Breeze, Florida, said it has
about 10 other customers on the east coast of the state with
purchases also on hold.  “It’s pretty ridiculous,” Smith said. “It seems rare
that what you see on the news is directly affecting you.
Hopefully it will end soon.”  USDA loans account for about 132,000 mortgages a year in
areas designated by the agency as rural, according to the
Mortgage Bankers Association. While they make up just 1.4
percent of the U.S. mortgage market, the product is one of the
few available that allow zero-down payment loans and are an
early warning of how the government’s first partial closing in
17 years could put a drag on the wider housing market.  “This is going to be devastating for people in the middle
of getting USDA loans and for the communities that rely on the
loans to support their housing markets,” said  Camden Fine ,
president and chief executive officer of the  Independent
Community Bankers of America . “Everything has ground to a halt
until the agency opens for business again.”  Budget Stalemate  The shutdown resulted in hundreds of thousands of federal
workers being furloughed, the closure of national parks and
Internal Revenue Service call centers, suspension of clinical
research trials at the  National Institutes of Health  and a halt
to grants that fund Head Start, which offers educational
programs and health care for 967,000 children whose parents live
below the poverty line.  The budget stalemate centers on opposition by some  House
Republicans  to President Obama’s healthcare law. Other
consequences include lenders being blocked from verifying Social
Security numbers and accessing Internal Revenue Service tax
transcripts to confirm the validity of documents borrowers
provide. The process also may lengthen the wait for borrowers
seeking approval for mortgages backed by the  Federal Housing
Administration  because its fulltime staff is now less than one-tenth of its normal size.  Soft Recovery  “The last thing we need is anything that shakes the
confidence in a softly recovering housing market,”  David Stevens , chief executive officer of the Mortgage Bankers
Association and former head of the FHA, said in a telephone
interview last week.  Home prices, which have climbed 21 percent nationally since
hitting a post-recession low in March 2012, are still 21 percent
below their June 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities.  The damage to housing and financial firms will grow more
severe the longer the shutdown lasts,  Jaret Seiberg , a senior
policy analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington
Research Group, said in a research note today. What could have
been “a minor speed bump if it only lasted for a few days is
rapidly becoming an economic threat,” he said.  An 11-company index of  homebuilder shares  fell 1.4 percent
at 1:12 p.m. in New York. The gauge has dropped for four
straight days and is down 4.8 percent this month and 26 percent
from a May peak.  Immense Impact  If the shutdown continues for more than two weeks, it will
begin to “have an immense adverse impact,” on the economies of
rural communities, according to a USDA September report
detailing contingency plans for a shutdown. Fifteen percent of
the nation’s population, or 46.2 million people, live in rural
counties that account for 72 percent of the U.S. land base,
according to a May report from the USDA.  The USDA’s Rural Housing Services that administers the
mortgages has its roots in the Great Depression in the 1930s,
when it was established to aid farming communities including
central areas devastated by drought that became known as the
Dust Bowl. After the subprime mortgage collapse of the last
decade, the program filled a void in lending products for first-time buyers.  The zero-down payment mortgages are for borrowers with
incomes of as much as 115 percent of an area’s median pay. USDA
borrowers pay an upfront fee equal to 2 percent of the borrowed
amount and an annual insurance fee of 0.4 percent.  Eligible Communities  In addition to farm states such as Iowa and Ohio, the
agency’s definition of eligible communities includes areas in
western Massachusetts, New York’s Long Island, and other places
that residents may not consider rural. The program extends to
towns and cities with populations of up to 25,000 that the
agency designates as “rural” if they are not suburbs and if
their loans are used to purchase homes that are “modest in
design, size and cost,” according to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  About 6 percent of mortgages last year were USDA loans in
Louisiana, Wyoming and  Arkansas , the states with the largest
shares, according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  The loans account for about 1 percent of the Florida
market, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Their use
is more concentrated in areas of central Florida, said Rob
Nunziata, co-Chief Executive Officer of FBC Mortgage LLC in
 Orlando .  The USDA delays will cause a  chain reaction  in rural
housing markets that reaches sellers, mortgage brokers,
Realtors, movers and builders, Nunziata said.  Rate Locks  Smith, who is buying the new house in Port Orange, Florida
for $162,000, said his original purchase date at the end of
September was delayed because the USDA was already backed up.
Now the 4.1 percent rate he locked in 90 days ago has expired
and it will cost him to lock it in for another 30 days. The rate
offered by his bank is now about 3/8 of a percentage point
higher.  “It has taken longer than it was supposed to already,”
Smith said. “Everything is in boxes and I’m ready to go.”  His builder, Adams Homes, which also works in  Alabama ,
 Mississippi ,  Georgia ,  Tennessee ,  South Carolina  and  North
Carolina , has cash tied up in these transactions that could be
deployed in other projects, said Keith Clarkson, regional
manager for the Florida east coast division of Adams Homes. The
agency normally takes 15 to 20 days to provide letters of
commitment, which are necessary for purchases to close, and the
delays will likely be much longer when the agency begins issuing
them again, he said.  Tied Up  “The whole company has a ton of USDA-eligible areas,”
Clarkson said. “We take out construction loans or sometimes we
build out of our own cash. Either way, we’re going to have a
home tied up and won’t be able to get this house turned over to
the new buyer.”  The immediate effect of the government shutdown won’t be
felt beyond the disruption to home-sale transactions currently
in the works, Seiberg said in a telephone interview. Longer
term, the value of real estate in rural communities will decline
without USDA mortgages, he said.  “Over time, you’re going to have a backlog of buyers and
borrowers who are hoping to get the loans, and in those rural
markets that’s going to matter,” Seiberg said. “It’s going to
put downward pressure on  home prices  in those rural areas and
it’s going to bring the market to a standstill.”  Many states with economies dominated by agriculture escaped
the housing crash, registering small gains as prices were
plunging in much of the rest of the country. Since the crash,
prices in Iowa and Nebraska have gained about 5 percent,
reaching records in the second quarter.  Closed Website  The USDA closed down its website and telephone calls to its
headquarters in Washington and its mortgage servicing center in
St. Louis,  Missouri , aren’t being answered. For now, a skeleton
staff is working to process mortgage payments, administer escrow
accounts and preserve foreclosed properties.  “USDA is the be-all and end-all for some of these
communities,” said Fine, of the community bankers group.
“People in most rural areas are culturally very comfortable
dealing with the USDA, so it’s natural they would rely on it for
mortgages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  