-- Mustier Sees Banks Heading Back to 80s on Capital Needs
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-10-08T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/mustier-sees-banks-heading-back-to-80s-amid-rising-capital-needs.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Jean Pierre Mustier,
a 26-year veteran of European  investment banking , sees lenders
reworking their business models on 1980s lines as regulatory
demands for higher capital levels force retrenchment.  “ Capital requirements  will probably keep increasing,
specifically for markets,” said Mustier, who runs the
corporate- and investment-banking unit of Italy’s biggest lender
by assets. “This will push banks to simplify further their
activities, going back to a business model from the 1980s
focusing mostly on lending, transaction banking and some
intermediation.”  As regulators shift their focus to leverage to prevent a
repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank rescues of 2008, universal
banks, which combine investment, commercial and retail banking,
are likely to farm out more of their activities, Mustier said in
an interview. Mustier, who joined Milan-based UniCredit in 2011
after working at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , has exited most European
stockbroking and is concentrating on debt markets.  An industry transformation “isn’t going to happen
overnight -- it’s a five-to-10-year scenario,” the 52-year-old
Mustier said.  His vision of a banking world from times past shows the
challenges lenders face as they grapple with rules that keep
getting tougher. Mustier, who ran the first equity derivatives
trading business at Paris-based  Societe Generale  after he joined
in 1987, sees banks abandoning activities that soak up capital,
in particular derivatives that don’t clear through central
counterparties.  Critical Mass  “Banks going back to a more commercial banking model, like
in the 80s, can deliver the full range of credit offerings to
their clients, from loans to bonds, as credit markets are
fundamentally local,” said Mustier. “You don’t have to be
global in everything. It is a competitive advantage in M&A,
partially in equities, but not true in European debt markets,
where the investors are European.”  Some businesses in investment banking require critical mass
to generate sufficient returns, said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA who’s worked in the
financial industry since 1979. Universal banks could abandon
businesses such as equities trading, merger advice, servicing
 hedge funds  and activities which require them to retain some of
the risk, such as securitizations, he said.  “If you do that you could get a higher  credit rating , your
cost of funding goes down, your loan-to-deposit ratio falls and
you can run off less equity,” said Wheeler. “Investors would
be willing to pay more for your stock even if you’re smaller and
the ability to get higher-margin business is gone.”  Ermotti Reversal  The 1980s began with U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ’s crusade to stamp out inflation, with  interest rates 
that peaked at 20 percent in 1980. After U.S. recessions that
year and in 1982, economic growth rebounded, reaching 8.5
percent in the first quarter of 1984 on an inflation-adjusted
basis and averaging 3.1 percent during the decade. The  S&P 500
Index  more than tripled over the course of the 1980s, even after
dropping more than 20 percent on Oct. 19, 1987, known as Black
Monday.  Mustier’s predecessor at UniCredit,  Sergio Ermotti , had
tried to compete with the world’s top securities firms as
mergers soared and capital-markets activity flourished before
the U.S. subprime crisis erupted in 2007 and spread globally.
Ermotti, now chief executive officer of  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s
biggest bank, subsequently reversed that course, scaling back
the Italian lender’s investment-banking ambitions before leaving
in 2010.  Syndicated Loans  UniCredit, valued at about 30.7 billion euros ($41.7
billion) has lagged behind European financial stocks in the past
two years, weighed down by a $9.9 billion capital raising and
its exposure to Italian  government bonds  as the sovereign-debt
crisis deepened. The stock is down 6.3 percent in the period,
compared with a 36 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Europe 500
Banks and Financial Services Index  and a 20 percent increase in
the FTSE Italia All-Share Financials Index.  UniCredit ranks fifth among arrangers of syndicated loans
in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  this year, and seventh among
underwriters of bonds in euros and pounds with a 4.2 percent
market share, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deeper Market  Any bank trying to recreate the financial model of 30 years
ago would be tested by the depth and breadth of the bond market
that has developed since then, said Chris Whitman, who began his
career at Merrill Lynch & Co. in 1989 and is now global head of
risk syndicate at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  The face value of the bonds issued in Europe to tap savings
in dollars outside of the U.S. increased from about $49 billion
at the end of 1982 to $264 billion at the end of the 1980s,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Eurodollar Index.
The face value of the bonds in the index is now $4.58 trillion.  Banks need to service clients globally to be competitive in
dealing with larger investing clients, Whitman said. Investors
have consolidated, creating firms such as Pacific Investment
Management Co., which manages $1.97 trillion, and
AllianceBernstein Holding LP, which oversees about $435 billion.  “As a bank, if you’re global and important to their
business around the world, you’re well positioned to have an
open line of communication with the bigger players,” said
Whitman. “If you’re a smaller player, you’re forced to come up
with niche value propositions.”  Bad Lending  No matter the business model, banks are always at risk of
losing money through ill-advised lending, said Rene Karsenti,
the president of the International Capital Markets Association.  Just as the capital markets-focused model powered by
trading in securitized bonds led to the 2008 financial crisis,
the loan-driven Latin American defaults of the 1980s showed
there is no foolproof system, said Karsenti, who did business
with the major lenders as senior manager of the  World Bank ’s
treasury from 1980 until 1989.  “There were excesses in the 1980s, too,” he said. “One
thing that’s changed is that back then the authorities could put
the heads of the big banks that had made the loans in a room and
have them work together to find a solution. With the rise of the
 bond market , that’s not an option anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  