-- Vietnam Says It Won’t Weaken Dong More Than 3 Percent in 2013
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-08T11:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/vietnam-says-it-won-t-weaken-dong-more-than-3-percent-in-2013.html
Vietnam ’s central bank said today it
won’t devalue the dong by more than 3 percent in 2013, as it
seeks to prevent the hoarding of dollars and keep the money
market stable.  The State Bank of Vietnam devalued the dong by 1 percent in
June, by reducing the currency’s daily reference rate, to
support exports and help revive an economy that grew at the
slowest pace since at least 2005 last year. The government plans
to weaken the dong as much as 2 percent by the end of 2013 with
timing “dependent on the market,” Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung said in an interview in  New York  on Sept. 27.  “Since late 2011, the  State Bank  of Vietnam has targeted
to control the dong’s exchange rate in a manner that allowed it
to weaken no more than 1 percent in the final months of every
year,” Nguyen Thi Hong, the central bank’s head of monetary
policy, said in a statement on the regulator’s website today.
The central bank is planning for the currency to drop 2 percent
to 3 percent over the whole year, according to the statement.  “The message is stability,” said Tareq Muhmood, the
Vietnam chief executive for Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Hanoi. “I don’t think they want to get back into
that rhythm of ongoing devaluation, which is where we were two,
three years ago. Having a stable  exchange rate  gives stability
to foreign and local investors.”  The dong was little changed at 21,110 per dollar as of 6:08
p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
central bank set the reference rate at 21,036, unchanged since
June 28, according to its website. The currency is allowed to
trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the fixing, which
has been lowered by 22 percent in the past five years.  Relative Stability  Vietnam’s currency has fallen 1.3 percent against the
dollar this year, trailing declines of 16 percent for
 Indonesia ’s rupiah, 4.9 percent for the Philippine peso and 4.3
percent for  Malaysia ’s ringgit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank’s dong-dollar exchange-rate policies have
“spurred bank lending and significantly reduced dollar
hoardings, helped restoring people’s confidence in the dong,”
the monetary authority said in today’s statement. The country
will have a $5 billion balance of payments surplus in 2013,
easing pressure on the dong, State Bank of Vietnam Deputy
Governor Le Minh Hung said in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  