-- Vodacom, MTN Extend Declines on Fee Cuts: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-08T09:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/vodacom-mtn-extend-declines-on-fee-cuts-johannesburg-mover.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South Africa’s
largest wireless operator, fell to the lowest in almost five
weeks after saying regulators’ plans to cut mobile-termination
rates by half will have a “profound” effect on business.  Vodacom dropped as much as 2.3 percent to 113.31 rand, the
lowest intraday price since Sept. 5, and was trading down 1.8
percent at 11:46 a.m. in Johannesburg. Volume exceeded the
three-month daily average by 29 percent. Shares of second-ranked
local competitor  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  declined 1.9 percent to 189.32
rand, a three-week low, based on closing prices.  The fee that mobile-phone companies pay each other to end a
call on another network will be cut 50 percent to 20 rand cents
in March, and by another 5 cents each in the following two
years, the Independent Communications Authority of  South Africa 
said on Oct. 4. A related policy of charging smaller companies
less than the largest operators for network access is
“effectively subsidizing our competitors,” Vodacom Chief
Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said yesterday in a statement.  “With the CEO coming out and saying it’s a disaster, it
makes those sitting on the fence think about it again,” Kate Turner-Smith, an analyst at BPI Capital Africa Pty Ltd., said by
phone. “He has to lay the platform to argue with ICASA.”  Market Share  Lower termination rates for smaller mobile-phone companies
are designed to allow them to stay in business in a local
industry dominated by Vodacom and MTN. Closely held Cell C (Pty)
Ltd. is the third-biggest mobile-phone operator in South Africa
with a 14 percent market share. The Telkom Mobile unit of fixed-line operator  Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG)  accounts for 2.2 percent of
South African wireless market, according to the company’s
website.  Telkom rose 3.4 percent to 27.40 rand, heading for the
highest closing price since February 2012, after gaining 5
percent yesterday.  The rate cut is likely have a greater adverse effect on
Johannesburg-based Vodacom than at MTN because of its larger
role in South Africa’s mobile industry, Turner-Smith said.  “In the case of Vodacom, you’re looking at high single
digit impact on earnings before interest and tax and low single
digits for MTN,” she said.  Vodacom will discuss the proposals with the regulator to
seek a more reasonable outcome, as the termination-rate
reduction “can have a profound impact on our business and those
of our suppliers, franchisees and other stakeholders,” Joosub
said in yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  