-- Vodafone Said to Weigh Buyout of Indian Unit’s Shareholders
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-08T16:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/vodafone-plans-2-billion-buy-out-of-indian-mobile-unit-ft-says.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is considering
buying out minority shareholders of its Indian unit and may
begin talks in the coming weeks, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Vodafone, which has a 64.4 percent stake in Vodafone India
Ltd., hasn’t determined how much it wants to spend or sought
approval from the foreign investment regulator for a purchase,
said the person, asking not to named as the deliberations are
private. A 2011 sale of a minority stake to Piramal Healthcare
Ltd. valued the business at more than $11 billion.  Buying out minority investors would make Vodafone the first
wholly owned foreign telecommunications company in India since
the world’s second-largest mobile market by subscribers relaxed
investment rules in July. India removed a cap on foreign stakes
in the industry that month to attract capital amid a growing
current account deficit and tumbling rupee.  Other than the 64.4 percent direct stake in Vodafone India
Ltd., Vodafone also holds 20.1 percent indirectly through
subsidiaries it doesn’t control, according to its  annual report .
The Newbury, England-based company has  call options  to purchase
holdings from companies with another 4.5 percent indirect stake.  Suresh Rangarajan, a Vodafone India spokesman, declined to
comment.  Verizon Deal  Vodafone last month agreed to sell its 45 percent stake in
the biggest U.S. wireless operator to Verizon Communications
Inc. for $130 billion, giving it a windfall to use for potential
deals.  A stake of 11 percent of Vodafone in India is held by Ajay Piramal, who said in a July interview that he plans to sell the
holding to Vodafone next year. Other shareholders include
Analjit Singh, the chairman of Vodafone’s Indian unit, the
Financial Times reported today.  Vodafone shares fell less than 1 percent to 218.45 pence in
 London . The company gets nearly 10 percent of its  $70 billion 
revenue from India, where annual sales have risen 137 percent
since fiscal 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue for Indian carriers is rising as call rates
increase and data consumption mounts after nearly two years of
fallout following a $30 billion scandal over what India’s
 Supreme Court  deemed “unbelievably low” prices for mobile-phone licenses. The court canceled 122 mobile licenses in 2012,
forcing Russia’s AFK Sistema and Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  to
reinvest in airwaves after losing about $5.8 billion in combined
investment. Bahrain Telecommunications Co. and  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  both exited the market.  Vodafone India, along with its biggest competitors  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , may spend more to renew airwaves in 2014 with
licenses for their 900 MHz airwaves set to expire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in Brussels at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  