-- Warburg Pincus Eyes Exits Post $6 Billion Neiman Marcus Sale
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-10-08T16:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/warburg-pincus-eyes-exits-post-6-billion-neiman-marcus-sale-1-.html
Warburg Pincus LLC, the private
equity firm that posted a 150 percent profit from selling
luxury-goods retailer  Neiman Marcus  Inc., plans to exit more
investments as market liquidity returns and asset prices rise.  Warburg is looking at “a number of exits” through share
sales, trade sales or merger and acquisition deals, Joseph Landy, co-president of the New York-based company, said in an
interview in  Abu Dhabi  today.  “It’s a good time to sell portfolio companies,” Landy,
52, said. “There are a lot of businesses that have reached
maturity for us to consider exits.”  Warburg and TPG Capital, led by financier  David Bonderman ,
will pocket about $2.75 billion from the $6 billion sale of
Neiman Marcus to Ares Management LLC and the Canadian Pension
Plan Investment Board, two people aware of the matter said last
month. Warburg may return $12 billion to investors this year as
“ capital markets  open up” and the firm exits investments via
share sales and sales to strategic buyers, said Landy.  “We’re seeing incredible liquidity return to the markets
and that liquidity is pushing up valuations on a number of deals
that we’re seeing,” he said. “On a global basis, everything
feels very expensive at the moment.”  The company has returned $10 billion to investors this
year, after returning about $6 billion in the last two quarters
of 2012, which was “a significant hike” on other years, Landy
said.  On Cards  “I think $12 billion is on the cards by the end of the
year but it depends on a couple of things happening before year
end,” he said.  Antero Resources Corp., the natural-gas company backed by
 Warburg Pincus , plans to raise as much as $1.26 billion in a
U.S. initial public offering, it said last month. Warburg-backed
Endurance International Group Holdings Inc., a maker of
Internet-hosting services for small- and medium-sized
businesses, is seeking $400 million in a share sale, it said
last month.  Warburg in May raised $11.2 billion for its global Private
Equity XI LP fund, one of the largest funds since the financial
crisis.  “About 20 percent of the fund has been deployed,” Landy
said. “We started investing after the first close about 16
months ago. The pace has been average, not white-hot.”  Landy said fundraising is “getting easier” and he expects
“a lot more capital” to flow into private equity next year.  Last year, the firm invested more than $2.3 billion in 28
new companies and made follow-on investments in several others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  