-- Water Shortage Seen Worsening on Climate Change in Potsdam Study
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-08T16:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/water-shortage-seen-worsening-on-climate-change-in-potsdam-study.html
Water scarcity will increase around
the world due to  climate change , with more than 500 million
people affected if mean global warming is limited to 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), based on modeling studies by
the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, or PIK.  An additional 8 percent of humankind may face new or worse
water scarcity with 2 degrees warming, the target set by
international climate negotiators, the German government-funded
 institute  wrote in a news  release  today. That could reach 13
percent in the case of a 5-degree-Celsius rise, which is
probable if climate change goes on unchecked, PIK said.  About 1.3 billion people already live in water-scarce
regions, according to the institute. The institute calculated
152 scenarios using 19 climate change models, and said the
projections for the affected population by 2100 carry a greater
than 50 percent confidence.  “Our findings support the assertion that we are
fundamentally destabilizing our natural systems,” Wolfgang
Lucht, one of the study co-authors, was cited as saying in the
statement. “We are leaving the world as we know it.”  A business-as-usual scenario modeled by the institute, with
5 degrees warming and a continued increase in the global
population, would result in more than 1 billion additional
people affected, PIK wrote.  Two degrees warming would cause “substantial” ecosystem
changes in regions that cover 1 percent of the unique habitat of
higher plant species, while at 5 degrees warming that would rise
to 74 percent, according to the research. The results suggest
the increasing impact of warming is nonlinear, the authors
wrote.  “The findings clearly demonstrate that there is a large
difference in the risk of global ecosystem change under a
scenario of no climate change mitigation compared to one of
ambitious mitigation,” Sebastian Ostberg, one of the study
authors, was cited as saying.  Regions at risk in case of unchecked global warming include
the grasslands of eastern  India , the forests of northern  Canada ,
the savannas of  Ethiopia  and  Somalia  and the Amazonian  rain
forest , according to the institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  