-- West Texas Crudes Weaken as Refinery Planned Maintenance Begins
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-08T20:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/west-texas-crudes-weaken-as-refinery-planned-maintenance-begins.html
West  Texas  Sour crude weakened to a
seven-month low relative to the U.S. benchmark as output
returned in the  Gulf of Mexico  and refinery maintenance in the
region reduced demand for crudes from the Permian Basin.  WTS, a low-density, high-sulfur crude out of the basin in
western Texas, weakened by $1.05 to a discount of $3.25 a barrel
below West Texas Intermediate at 1:56 p.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Only 91,000 barrels daily of Gulf oil production was shut
in today as a result of Tropical Storm Karen, the U.S. Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement said in a website posting.
More than 2.9 million barrels had been halted over the previous
four days.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  began maintenance at its refinery in
Three Rivers, Texas, over the weekend,  Bill Day , a San Antonio-based company spokesman, said by e-mail yesterday.  The 100,000-barrel-a-day plant uses primarily Eagle Ford
crude, which can be piped to Houston. Crude from the Permian
Basin, the largest oil field in the U.S., also moves to the
Houston area on pipelines that went into service this year from
 Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  and  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP. (SXL)   Refineries in Louisiana and Texas with a combined capacity
of 2.3 million barrels are undergoing planned maintenance during
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WTI in Midland, Texas,  weakened against the benchmark grade
in Cushing, Oklahoma, falling 45 cents to a discount of $1.75 a
barrel.  Canadian Syncrude weakened by 25 cents to a discount of $12
a barrel to WTI in Cushing after Suncor Energy Inc. completed
maintenance on an upgrader in Fort McMurray,  Alberta . Upgraders
convert heavy crude into the light synthetic.  Western Canada Select, a heavy, sour blend of Canadian
crudes, strengthened by 50 cents to a discount of $32.50 below
WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  