-- Why Can’t a Congressman Be More Like a Mayor?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-10-08T20:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/why-can-t-a-congressman-be-more-like-a-mayor-.html
I had a terrible stomachache
yesterday. I blame House Speaker  John Boehner .  Not that he would have personally inspected the shrimp I
ate. But he did close down the  Food and Drug Administration ,
which should have. Furloughs mean that about 90 percent of
imported seafood, about half of all fruit and a fifth of all
vegetables consumed in the U.S. won’t be inspected. Ditto when
it comes to blocking shipments from companies with a bad history
of producing tainted foods such as dietary supplements that
might be contaminated with mad cow disease, seafood tainted by
E. coli, filth (excrement) all around and candy laced with lead.  For the duration, we could stop eating the stuff we know
requires vigilance, or Boehner could put aside his plan for
self-preservation and try preserving my lower intestine and the
larger body politic.  I’m not counting on him, or any national politician, to
come through. I’m not despairing, however. There is still a
class of politician that deserves our admiration: the country’s
mayors, who actually run services as opposed to running their
mouths (think Senators  Ted Cruz  and  Rand Paul ).  I ate the suspect shellfish in downtown  New York  in the
shadow of the former World Trade Center, which has been rebuilt
in less time than it takes Congress not to pass an unbalanced
budget. I was in New York to attend the first  CityLab  conference
-- convened by  Bloomberg Philanthropies  (the charitable
foundation of New York Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg , principal
owner of Bloomberg LP), the  Aspen Institute  and the Atlantic --
which is a Petri dish for what’s working and what’s not working
in cities. It shows you that good government endures.  Ideological Extremes  What a wonderful world it would be if mayors ruled the
world. They confirm the suspicion that the closer you are to
having to actually do something, the less you can indulge in
ideological extremes. One speaker described the governing
philosophy of the current crop of mayors in the words of Mayor
 Teddy Kollek , who led  Jerusalem  from 1965 to 1993. Assailed from
all sides about who was entitled to what land, he calmed the
factions by telling them, “Spare me your sermons and I will fix
your sewers.”  That spirit of pragmatism makes party affiliation
secondary. With these mayors, you can’t tell whether you’re
talking to a Republican or a Democrat, except for clues such as
a pair of Earth shoes or a pocket protector. London’s mayor,
 Boris Johnson , calls himself an anarcho-Tory. I was sitting next
to Jim Gray, the mayor of Lexington,  Kentucky , who identified
himself as the first openly gay mayor of a major U.S.
metropolitan area before he allowed that he was a Democrat who’d
won in the very red state represented in the  U.S. Senate  by Paul
and  Mitch McConnell .  At the dinner opening the conference, Mayor Michael Nutter
of Philadelphia said that, unlike lawmakers in the nation’s
capital, he could never get away with closing his city’s
harbors, hospitals and schools because extremists couldn’t get
along.  But in Washington, we expect the Capitol Police --  who
aren’t being paid  -- to stop a threatening, unhinged woman, as
they did last week. Maybe they’ll get paid later, maybe they
won’t, but Boehner expects them to protect him anyway. By the
way, the speaker is getting his paycheck.  Let’s try to imagine a local equivalent of the state of
affairs in Washington. Picture Mayor Mitch Landrieu of New
Orleans (who, not having to be in Washington, seems happier than
his sister, Senator  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana, who does have to
be) saying to  Bobby Jindal , his state’s Republican governor, to
“give all your money to New Orleans or I am going to cut off
your left arm with a dull buzz saw.”  Default Threat  Jindal would be perfectly justified in refusing to
negotiate. President  Barack Obama  is, too, in holding the line
against those who have shut down government over defunding a law
passed by Congress and reaffirmed by the  Supreme Court . At the
same time, Obama has to resist talking to those holding the
threat of a U.S.  default  over his head.  Landrieu’s would-be demand is every bit as unreasonable as
Boehner’s. The difference is that Boehner has every incentive to
be as unreasonable as possible because he’s being judged by the
activist wing of his party on the basis of how little he gets
along with Obama.  Landrieu and his governor have to get along to solve
problems that affect them, including ensuring the electricity
stays on at  New Orleans  hospitals in a hurricane, keeping
schools open, and getting the garbage picked up, potholes filled
and restaurants inspected. Landrieu can’t afford a one-armed
governor who hates him, and Jindal needs his state’s marquee
city to run smoothly.  Not having to deliver anything as visible as trash pickup
is what saves Boehner from immediate consequences. When it turns
out that the shutdown of a specific part of government makes
Republicans look bad, Boehner rushes to try to open it: Let’s
keep the money flowing to Yellowstone National Park, the
National World War II Memorial, the cancer trials for children
conducted by the  National Institutes of Health  and veterans’
benefits. Meanwhile, let’s cut off nutrition programs for
pregnant women, Head Start and some FDA inspections. Democrats
aren’t cooperating with his ad hoc governing.  Just this past summer, a strain of hepatitis A  sickened
almost 200 people  in 10 states. The FDA traced the cause to a
frozen berry mix sold at Costco. The fruit was recalled and
lives were saved.  No matter how bad things get, the threshold in Washington
is that “no one died.” In this crisis, I hope Boehner comes to
his senses before a dicey piece of fish forces him to
reconsider.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 