-- Won Drops as Rise to 8-Month High Spurs Sale; Bonds Drop
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-10-08T07:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/won-drops-a-second-day-as-global-funds-sell-local-shares.html
South Korea ’s won weakened for a
second day on speculation the currency’s rise to an eight-month
high spurred selling.  Government bonds  declined.  The won touched an eight-month high yesterday as overseas
investors bought more local stocks than they sold every day
since Aug. 22. They added 77 billion won ($71 million) in net
purchases today, according to stock exchange data. The won is
rising fast and the government is closely monitoring the market,
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok told reporters on Sept. 27.  “The won entered a period of correction after a good
run,” said Kim Dong Young, a Seoul-based currency dealer at
Industrial Bank of  Korea . “We don’t expect a big sell-off as
demand for the won will emerge, given that the appreciation
trend is still in place.”  The currency fell 0.2 percent to 1,073.75 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 1,067.07 yesterday, the strongest level
since Jan. 24.  Major economic indicators including industrial output are
showing signs of recovery and property prices are rising, South
Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said at a meeting in Seoul
today. The government will boost measures to help spur growth,
he added. Canada, South Korea and Australia are among the
countries best placed to weather any volatility from the
withdrawal of U.S. monetary stimulus, according to an
International Monetary Fund report released yesterday.  The won’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, to 7.07 percent.  The yield on the 3.25 percent sovereign notes due September
2018 added three basis points to 3.09 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  