-- Xerox Says SEC Probing Accounting Practices of ACS Division
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-08T20:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/xerox-says-sec-has-probed-accounting-practices-of-acs-division.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX)  said the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is investigating the accounting
practices of Affiliated Computer Services Inc., an outsourcing
company it acquired in 2010.  The SEC is focused on whether revenue from ACS equipment
and resale transactions should have been recorded on a net
rather than gross basis, Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox said
today in a regulatory filing. The transactions weren’t material
to Xerox’s earnings and mostly occurred before ACS was acquired,
the company said. The SEC staff has advised against bringing
charges against Xerox, according to the filing.  Chief Executive Officer  Ursula Burns , who took the helm in
2009, acquired ACS in one of her first major moves as head of
the company. Xerox, coping with a slowdown in printers and
copiers, is looking to outsourcing and other services to help
revive sales, which have declined for five straight quarters.  “Xerox has cooperated, and will continue to cooperate,
fully with the SEC,” Bill McKee, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Xerox fell 2.5 percent to $10.14 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 49 percent this year.  As part of the SEC investigation, Xerox Executive Vice
President Lynn Blodgett and two other unidentified people -- a
current employee and a former one -- received a Wells notice
from the SEC, the company said. That means the commission is
considering bringing civil enforcement against them. Blodgett
joined Xerox in 2010 after serving as CEO of ACS.  Before Acquisition  More than 80 percent of the revenue related to the
transactions being probed occurred in periods before Xerox
acquired ACS, McKee said. The last transaction at issue occurred
in the fourth quarter of 2010, he said.  Blodgett was among ACS executives who participated in a
$1.7 million legal settlement in 2009 resolving claims they
enriched themselves with backdated stock-option grants. Blodgett
agreed to pay $50,000.  “Lynn is a key member of the executive management team and
it is the company’s expectation that he will continue to direct
and lead our services business,” McKee said. He declined to
name the other two people who received Wells notices.  Xerox’s services business doesn’t have enough high-level
executives with experience to take over should Blodgett leave,
said Keith Bachman, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  New
York . It’s an issue investors have raised in the past, he said.  “This raises the importance of having a deep bench in
senior management,” Bachman said in a note to investors. He
rates Xerox shares outperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  