-- Yahoo Upgrades Mail Service as Mayer Targets Google
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-10-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/yahoo-upgrades-mail-service-as-mayer-targets-google.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  unveiled new features and
a graphics-rich design to its mail website and mobile
applications as Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  steps up
competition with Google Inc.  The revamped site lets users customize their Yahoo mail
inboxes with background colors and images from the Flickr photo
service, and see conversation threads and attachments more
easily, Jeff Bonforte, senior vice president of communication
products, said in an interview. The updates also applied to
Yahoo’s mail apps for Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads, Google’s
Android phones and Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 devices.  Mayer has emphasized new products -- as well as
acquisitions and hiring -- as she attempts to revive growth at
the biggest U.S. Web portal. In particular, the CEO has
refocused the Sunnyvale, California-based company on the kind of
habit-forming content that people view on tablets and phones to
spur more revenue from mobile.  “I hope that at some point we are looking at a world where
mobile is a majority of our revenue,” she told Bloomberg
Businessweek in August.  Mayer has introduced a spate of product updates in the past
year, including new versions of Flickr, Yahoo News, sports and
the news feed on the company’s home page. Mayer has also been
buying startups, such as the $1.1 billion purchase of blogging
platform Tumblr Inc. earlier this year, which expanded Yahoo’s
audience by 50 percent to more than 1 billion monthly visitors.  Mobile Mail  The Yahoo mail changes come six months after the company
unveiled its first mail app for tablets, and apps that encourage
users to perform a “triage” of their inbox by swiping messages
into groups organized by sender. Yahoo Mail, used by more than
100 million users daily, competes with  Google (GOOG) ’s Gmail and
Microsoft’s Outlook.com.  The new design is better suited to smartphones and tablets
with higher-resolution screens and more processing power than
mobile devices of the past, Bonforte said.  “We wanted to make an inbox that felt more personalized
but we also wanted to take advantage of the fact that some of
the screens people are using are higher density,” he said.  Bonforte was put in charge of communications products after
Yahoo acquired his startup, Xobni Corp., for about $70 million
in July. Some features of Xobni, a contact management
application, may be included in future updates to Yahoo Mail, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  