-- Typhoon Hits Southern Japan as Flights, Ferry Services Canceled
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-10-08T01:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/typhoon-hits-southern-japan-as-flights-ferry-services-canceled.html
Typhoon Danas hammered southern
 Japan , wrecking a town hall and forcing refinery operations to
stop. Flights in Japan and ferry services from South Korea were
canceled.  Storm and high wave warnings were issued as wind gusts
reached 180 kilometers per hour (112 miles per hour). The winds
shattered windows and blasted through a wall at a town hall on
Yoron island in Japan’s southwest, Kyodo news reported.  Japan Air Commuter Co., a subsidiary of  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ,
canceled 107 domestic flights to and from southern Japanese
airports, Kazunori Kidosaki, a spokesman for the parent company,
said by telephone. All Nippon Airways Co. canceled eight
flights, according to spokesman Maho Ito.  Busan  Port Authority  in southern  South Korea  canceled the
only service between Busan and Jeju yesterday and today. Morning
services ran from Busan to Fukuoka and Tsushima island, although
afternoon cruises to Fukuoka, Shimonoseki and  Osaka  were
canceled.  Danas was about 220 kilometers southwest of Goto, a city of
40,500 near Nagasaki, Japan, at 9:50 a.m., local time, according
to the  Japan Meteorological Agency . It had sustained winds of
126 kilometers per hour, making it a Category 1 storm, the
weakest on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale .  Nansei Sekiyu KK halted refining and shipping operations
yesterday at its 100,000 barrel-a-day Nishihara plant in
Okinawa, the company said in a statement on its website. JX
Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. ceased marine shipments at its
Mizushima refinery, and plans to cease shipments at its Marifu
refinery later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  