-- Yum Profit Falls 68% as Same-Store Sales Slump in China
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-09T20:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/yum-profit-falls-68-as-same-store-sales-slump-in-china.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , whose KFC fast-food
chain is facing more competition in  China , said third-quarter
profit fell 68 percent and cut its 2013 earnings forecast as
same-store sales dropped in the Asian nation.  Net income  decreased to $152 million, or 33 cents a share,
from $471 million, or $1, a year earlier, the Louisville,
Kentucky-based company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding
certain items, profit was 85 cents a share. Analysts projected
92 cents, the average of 23  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. A
 tax rate  increase negatively affected per-share earnings by 10
percentage points, Yum said.  Yum, which gets about three-quarters of its  revenue  from
outside the U.S., is facing more competition from expanding
 restaurant chains , such as Dicos and Hua Lai Shi in China. It’s
also facing a backlash from consumers there after an outbreak of
avian flu scared diners away from poultry and a former chicken
supplier was investigated for selling food with too much
antibiotics. Sales at Chinese stores open at least 12 months
fell 11 percent at Yum eateries.  “It’s just taking a little longer than we expected” for
China to recover,  Jonathan Blum , a Yum spokesman, said in an
interview. While consumer trust in KFC has improved in the Asian
country, “it’s not exactly back to where it was,” he said.  The company in November will introduce a new KFC
advertising campaign in China about quality assurance, Chief
Executive Officer  David Novak  said on a conference call today.
The ads will feature store employees and suppliers such as
poultry farmers, he said.  Shares Fall  The shares fell 6.7 percent to $66.48 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest decline since Nov. 30. They have  gained  0.1
percent this year, compared with a 16 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Yum lowered its forecast for 2013 earnings, citing “lower-than-expected China sales and a higher-than-expected full-year
tax rate.” Full-year earnings excluding certain items will
decline at a “high-single to low-double-digit” percentage rate
from the prior year, the company said. Yum previously said
earnings would decline at a “mid-single-digit” rate.  The fast-food company also cut its forecast for China,
saying  fourth-quarter  same-store sales there will “unlikely”
be positive. Yum last month forecast growth in comparable-store
sales for the Asian nation.  “Sales have not yet fully recovered from the adverse
publicity surrounding the December poultry supply incident,”
the company said in yesterday’s statement.  Ad Campaign  Yum, which has more than 6,000 KFC,  Pizza Hut  and other
stores in China, has been trying to attract customers there with
an ad campaign telling people it’s safe to eat properly cooked
chicken. The company, which is targeting young families with the
advertisements, also is promoting other proteins in China such
as shrimp and mushroom rolls.  Same-store sales were unchanged in the U.S. in the third
quarter, while analysts estimated a 1.5 percent increase,
according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New
Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group. Same-store sales also were
unchanged in  India  and advanced 1 percent at other international
stores.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of
growth because they include only older, established locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  