-- Zambia to End Majority Ownership in Copper Mines Holding Company
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-08T05:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-08/zambia-to-end-majority-ownership-in-copper-mines-holding-company.html
Zambia plans to reduce its ownership
in the company that holds minority stakes in the country’s mines
as  Africa ’s biggest copper producer takes a further step back
from an era of nationalization.  The southern African nation will probably cut its 87.6
percent stake in ZCCM Investment Holdings to less than 50
percent, Mines Minister Christopher Yaluma said yesterday in an
interview by mobile phone from Kasama, 650 kilometers (404
miles) northeast of the capital, Lusaka. The cabinet will decide
on the size of the divestment, he said.  “We are not looking back, but looking forward and getting
the mining houses totally into private hands,” he said. “We
have gone past nationalization and we are not going back.”  ZCCM-IH holds minority stakes in the local units of
 Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ,  First Quantum (FM)  Minerals Ltd. and  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) , following state asset sales that began in the
1990s. Zambia’s mines lost more than $1 million a day under
government ownership, according First Quantum, the country’s
biggest copper producer. Output of the metal fell 65 percent to
263,000 metric tons in 1997 from 1973, chamber of mines figures
show, before rebounding to more than 800,000 tons last year.  Mabvuto Chipata, ZCCM-IH’s chief financial officer,
declined to comment, referring questions to Chief Executive
Officer Mukela Muyunda. Muyunda couldn’t be reached on his
mobile phone outside normal business hours.  ZCCM-IH plans to sell stock to existing shareholders to
repay debt to the government and invest in new developments, the
Lusaka-based company said last week. The state doesn’t intend to
increase its ownership through the exercise, it said.  Most minority shareholders own their stock through the NYSE
Euronext in Paris, according to ZCCM-IH, which estimates the
company’s asset value at 2 billion kwacha ($387 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  