-- AB InBev-Modelo Merger Challenged by California Lawyer
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ab-inbev-modelo-merger-challenged-by-california-lawyer.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV was sued by
the  California  lawyer who previously tried to block the merger
that created the company and now seeks to stop its purchase of
 Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  over claims the deal will drive up beer prices.  The proposed merger, which the U.S.  Justice Department  sued
to prevent on Jan. 31, would result in higher prices for the
beverage by eliminating competition between AB InBev and Modelo,
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  San
Francisco  by  Joseph Alioto  on behalf of nine individuals.  “The proposed acquisition significantly threatens consumer
welfare by the threatened increase in price, elimination of
quality, curtailment of innovation, and destruction of consumer
choice,” Alioto wrote in the complaint.  The lawsuit isn’t likely to have an impact on the merger,
according to Roxann Henry, an antitrust lawyer with Morrison Foerster in Washington, who said private challenges to mergers
are seldom successful. Alioto has sued to block other deals,
including the one that created United Continental Holdings Inc.
and the merger of Southwest Airlines Co. and AirTran Holdings
Inc.  ‘Capable Lawyer’  “Joe Alioto is a very capable lawyer who also likes to be
a thorn in the side of the Justice Department,” said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer with Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck
LLP in Washington, who isn’t involved in the case. “But federal
judges generally pay attention to the Justice Department’s
decisions and reasons. If unhappy parties could block major
mergers every time they thought Justice wasn’t tough enough,
that would invite a great deal of mischief.”  The transaction between AB InBev, the world’s largest beer
maker with almost half the U.S. market, and Modelo would marry
 Bud Light , the top-selling domestic brand, with Corona, the
biggest import, and create a combined company with estimated
revenue of about $47 billion this year.  After the Justice Department sued to block the merger, AB
InBev presented a revised proposal to sell full control of
Corona and Modelo’s other brands in the U.S., as well as a
brewery, to Victor, New York-based  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) ,
paving the way for the continuing settlement talks, people
familiar with the matter said Feb. 25.  ‘ Absolute Fraud’  “It’s an absolute fraud,” Alioto, of the Alioto Law Firm
in San Francisco, said in a phone interview, referring to the
proposed remedy. “If the government allows this cosmetic fix to
go through, they will have eliminated Modelo as being a ceiling
on prices and then the dam will break and prices will go wild.”  A federal judge put the Justice Department’s lawsuit on
hold until April 9 to allow the settlement talks to continue.  In InBev’s $52 billion takeover of Budweiser-maker Anheuser
Busch Cos. in 2008, the largest brewing deal in history, the new
entity had to sell its Labatt’s operations in the U.S. to
appease regulators.  In the previous lawsuit, filed against Anheuser-Busch in
federal court in  St. Louis , the judge threw out the complaint,
saying that the plaintiffs hadn’t supported their claim the
merger would result in higher beer prices. The plaintiffs in
that case included five of the individuals suing in the new one.  Alioto lost an appeal of the dismissal in the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in St. Louis.  Constellation Plan  The Justice Department is reviewing Constellation’s plan to
boost brewing capacity by about 70 percent at a plant in Piedras
Negras,  Mexico , that it would get from Modelo under the revised
proposal, to ensure it can keep Modelo-brand products as a
viable competitor in the U.S. beer market, people familiar with
the matter have said.  Laura Vallis, a spokeswoman for AB InBev in  New York ,
Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for  Grupo Modelo  in Mexico City,
Angie Blackwell, a spokeswoman for Constellation and Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Edstrom v.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , 13-01309,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco). The government’s case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV, 13-cv-00127, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  