-- Abdullah to Obama, Watch Out for Brother Mursi
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-03-22T17:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/abdullah-to-obama-watch-out-for-brother-mursi.html
King Abdullah II of Jordan, a
member of the dwindling band of Arab leaders who have somehow
stayed in power despite the rise of what he calls a “Muslim
Brotherhood crescent” across the Middle East, made an acute
observation to me recently about the tactical immaturity of the
Brotherhood’s leadership.  We were talking about the rise of political Islam in the
region when the king made an unflattering comparison between
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Islamist prime minister of  Turkey , and
Mohamed Mursi, the Muslim Brother who is president of Egypt.  The
Brotherhood  is an international movement, but it was founded in
Egypt, and its leader, the supreme guide, sits there today.  Abdullah made it clear that he doesn’t particularly like
either Erdogan or Mursi but that he distrusts the Turk more
because he is cannier. Both men seek absolute power, Abdullah
believes, but Erdogan is taking a slower, more deliberate
approach than Mursi. “Instead of the Turkish model, taking six
or seven years -- being an Erdogan -- Mursi wanted to do it
overnight,” he said.  The king, among other Arab leaders, is worried that the
Obama administration has an overly naive view of the Brotherhood
and of other Islamist leaders. This is one of the main subjects
he will address when he has dinner tonight with U.S. President
 Barack Obama , who is  visiting him  in Amman, the Jordanian
capital. (Another  main issue , of course, is the disintegration
of  Syria , to Jordan’s north.) The king was careful not to
criticize Obama to me, but he did lament that U.S. officials
discount warnings about the Brothers as the empty complaints of
Arab liberals or those vested in the status quo. Some
Westerners, he said, argue that “the only way you can have
democracy is through the Muslim Brotherhood.”  Disturbing Statement  He made these  comments to me  a couple of months ago. But
the truth of his argument about the Brotherhood’s extremism --
and impatience -- was borne out anew a week ago, when the Muslim
Brotherhood in  Egypt  issued an extraordinary, and
extraordinarily disturbing, rejoinder to the draft of a
 declaration  calling for an end to violence against women that
was eventually passed at the  annual session  of the United
Nations Commission on the Status of Women.  In an  official statement  responding to the draft, the
Brotherhood argued that, if approved, it would “lead to complete
disintegration of society, and would certainly be the final step
in the intellectual and cultural invasion of Muslim countries,
eliminating the moral specificity that helps preserve cohesion
of Islamic societies.”  The Brotherhood’s objections to this anodyne document were
many. Some of the criticisms could be understood within a
broader Egyptian cultural framework: The UN document calls for
equality in inheritance laws, and no political party in Egypt
has argued that daughters should have parity of inheritance with
sons.  Other criticisms seem more retrograde. Still others are
flat-out brutal. The Muslim Brothers object to the idea of
“granting girls full sexual freedom” and to raising the legal
marriage age, which in some countries is  as low as 15 . They
believe that providing contraceptives to adolescent girls is
dangerous, and that granting “equal rights to adulterous wives
and illegitimate sons resulting from adulterous relationships”
is reprehensible.  They believe, of course, that granting “equal rights to
homosexuals” and “providing protection and respect for
prostitutes” are terrible ideas. They are shocked by the
argument that wives should have the right to file legal
complaints against husbands for rape. They raised objections to
the idea that men should share in housework and child-care
responsibilities, and that men should no longer be allowed to
decide whether their wives travel, work or use contraception.  Endangered Women  In sum, the Brotherhood’s rebuttal is a remarkable document
and evidence that the movement simply cannot wait to wage war on
women. Human-rights groups in Egypt have so far  stopped 
Brotherhood activists from decriminalizing  female genital
mutilation , but women are losing on multiple fronts.  Mursi hasn’t fulfilled his pledge to appoint a woman as one
of his vice presidents. When I last interviewed him, before he
took office, I asked him if the Brotherhood could support a
woman, or a Christian, for president.  “Which Christian?” he asked. I explained that I was asking
a theoretical question. Could any Christian become president?
“There are no Christians running for president,” he said. “This
is a nonsense question.” So I asked him if he could support a
woman for president. “Which woman?”  This tragicomic dialogue went on for some time, before I
gave up.  Leaders like Jordan’s Abdullah have been warning the Obama
administration for some time not to trust the Muslim Brotherhood
and like-minded movements. They are, he said, “wolves in sheep’s
clothing.” I suppose the saving grace of the Egyptian
Brotherhood is that its leaders don’t even bother to dress like
sheep.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 