-- Macfarlane Nominated by Obama for New Term as NRC Chief
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-03-22T04:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/macfarlane-nominated-by-obama-for-new-term-as-nrc-chief.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama 
nominated  Allison Macfarlane  to a new term as chairman of the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission , less than a year after she took
over the agency following her predecessor’s resignation.  Macfarlane, whose term expires on June 30, was chosen to
serve a full five-year stint at the NRC, according to a White
House statement yesterday. Her nomination requires confirmation
by the Senate.  A geologist and environmental science professor, Macfarlane
took over the agency in July after the resignation of Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko , who had been criticized by colleagues for his
management style and for verbally abusing female employees.  Macfarlane, 49, was initially named to a one-year term. She
said on March 12 she “would be most happy” to remain in the
job if asked by Obama.  The NRC is considering a recommendation from its staff that
utilities install radiation filters at 31 U.S. reactors in
response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan. The
commission on March 19 delayed action on the proposal, which may
cost as much as $20 million per unit, and asked agency staff to
consider other approaches.  Obama yesterday also nominated  Fred Hochberg  to a four-year
term as head of the Export-Import Bank, the official export
credit agency of the U.S. The bank helps finance the export of
goods and services to international markets with working capital
guarantees, export credit insurance, loan guarantees and direct
loans to buyers.  Hochberg had been cited as a possible contender for the job
of U.S. Trade Representative, which is currently vacant. Had he
been nominated and confirmed as trade representative position,
Hochberg would have been the first openly gay man to serve in a
Cabinet-level position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  