-- Thai Baht Has Best Week in Two Months on Fund Inflows to Bonds
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-22T08:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/thai-baht-set-for-best-week-in-two-months-on-inflows-bonds-rise.html
Thailand ’s baht had its biggest
weekly gain in two months as the country’s improving economy
attracts fund inflows into the bond markets from abroad.  Cash is flowing into Thai assets as global investors shun
 Malaysia , which is close to an election, and  Indonesia  owing to
its current-account deficit, Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said on March 20, adding that special measures to
stem the inflows aren’t needed yet. The baht touched a 16-year
high this week as options contracts betting on gains became more
expensive than those used to protect against declines.  “Unlike Malaysia and Indonesia in Southeast Asia, Thailand
doesn’t have a big concern that shakes the country at this
moment,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of Rakuten Securities
Inc.’s fixed-income business unit department in  Tokyo . “With
lots of liquidity supplied by central banks in developed
nations, funds are coming to Southeast Asia, and Thailand stands
out with its economic growth and political stability.”  The baht climbed 0.8 percent this week, the most since the
five-day period ended Jan. 18, to 29.30 per dollar as of 3:19
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency declined 0.3 percent today, having touched 29.08 on
March 20, the strongest level since a devaluation sparked the
Asian financial crisis in 1997.  Global funds  purchased  $442 million more sovereign debt
than they sold this week through yesterday, taking this month’s
net purchases to $2.5 billion, Thai Bond Market Association data
show. Overseas funds poured in a net $2.7 billion in February
and $3.7 billion in January. International investors sold a net
$220 million of local equities this week through yesterday,
exchange data show.  Volatility Rises  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, climbed 23 basis
points, or 0.23 percentage point, from a week ago to 5.19
percent. The rate climbed eight basis points today. Call options
granting the right to buy the baht in a month’s time cost 0.14
percentage point more than put contracts, compared with a
discount of 0.03 percentage point on March 15.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023
dropped seven basis points this week to 3.55 percent, the lowest
level since Feb. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate
declined three basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  