-- AIK Banka 2012 Pretax Rose Below Plan, Board Member Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-22T12:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/aik-banka-2012-pretax-rose-below-plan-board-member-says.html
AIK Banka AD (AIKB) ’s 2012 pretax profit
fell 28 percent below the Serbian bank’s own target as the
Balkan nation’s recession ate into the financial industry, a
board member said before official publication of earnings.  The company, which is 20 percent-owned by  Greece ’s  Piraeus
Bank SA (TPEIR)  and accounts for a fifth of the main stock market’s
weighting, had a 4 billion-dinar ($46.4 million) pretax profit
in 2012, up from 3.3 billion dinars in 2011, board member
Djordje Djukic said in a phone interview today in Belgrade.  The earlier projection “was ambitiously set,” said
Djukic. “We have sacrificed profit for greater liquidity in a
very difficult business environment and a strong capital base
protects us from the deteriorating economic situation.”  Serb industries are struggling to emerge from a recession
partly blamed on the sovereign debt crisis in the European
Union, which  Serbia  wants to eventually join. The economy shrank
1.5 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier after a
2.5 percent drop in the previous three-month period.  AIK Banka was the eighth-biggest in the former Yugoslav
republic by assets and the fifth-biggest by profit at the end of
September, according to central bank data. It has a 20 percent
weighting in the Belgrade Stock Exchange’s BELEX 15 index.  To lessen the effect of non-performing loans, which stood
at 29 percent of total loans last year and are the industry’s
main fallout from the debt crisis, the company transferred “a
great deal of profit to reserves,” Djukic said.  Capital Adequacy  To protect itself, the bank raised its capital adequacy
ratio to 34 percent from 27 percent, increased loan-loss
provisions to 33.8 billion dinars from 30.9 billion dinars over
the past year and kept its cost-to-income ratio at 26.6 percent,
or 12 percentage points below the average for the industry,
Djukic said.  Its return on assets totaled 2.6 percent, compared with an
average of 1 percent for the industry, according to central
bank, while the return on equity rose to 7.98 percent from 6.34
percent.  Shares traded 0.43 percent lower at 1,620 dinars at 11:55
a.m. in Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
share price advance of 3.4 percent for the year so far is
lagging the gain in the entire BELEX15, which grew 9.3 percent.  AIK Banka will consider asking the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  for a  credit line  “so we can
offer cheaper loans to corporate clients,” who account for 35
percent of the total credit portfolio, and the largest public
companies, including power monopoly Elektroprivreda Srbije,
which take up another 7.5 percent of the portfolio, Djukic said.  The bank will continue with “organic growth, rather than
acquisitions, while profit may increase with a sale or lease of
collateralized assets if the dinar weakens in 2013 to reflect
the difference between inflation rates in Serbia and the euro
area, Djukic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  