-- American Residential Plans to Raise $300 Million in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-03-22T21:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/american-residential-properties-files-for-300-million-u-s-ipo.html
American Residential Properties
Inc., an owner of single-family rental homes, plans to raise
$300 million in a U.S. initial public offering, according to a
regulatory  filing  today.  The company, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , didn’t say how
many shares it will offer or at what price. The offering size is
a placeholder amount used to calculate registration fees and may
change. Founded in 2008 and led by Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Schmitz and President Laurie Hawkes, the firm has raised
$372 million since July in three private offerings.  American Residential plans to organize as a  real estate
investment trust  and apply for listing on the New York Stock
Exchange, according to the filing. As of March 20, it owned or
had rights to acquire 2,831 homes in Arizona, California,
 Florida ,  Georgia ,  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Nevada , North Carolina,
South Carolina and  Texas . The company has added more than 1,000
of those properties since Dec. 31.  “The growth of our portfolio has been significant in
recent months, as we have increased the rate at which we acquire
properties,” according to the filing. “We believe that home
prices continue to be significantly below replacement costs in
many of these markets. Additionally, we believe there will
continue to be a supply of homes at distressed values.”  Blackstone Purchases  Institutional investors have stepped up purchases of
single-family homes to lease in the past two years, seeking to
take advantage of  prices  that have fallen by a third from their
July 2006 peak. Demand has increased from renters who have lost
properties to  foreclosure , can’t qualify for mortgages or don’t
want to own.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-
equity firm, has spent $3.5 billion to buy 20,000 homes at a
$100 million-a-week pace.  Proceeds from the American Realty Properties IPO will be
used to acquire, restore, lease and manage single-family homes
as rental properties and for general purposes, according to
today’s filing.  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY)  became the first pure single-
family rental company to become a public REIT in December.
Shares of the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based firm fell 0.2 percent
to $19.02 at the close in New York. They are up 2.8 percent from
the initial price of $18.50 on Dec. 13.  Colony Capital LLC, founded by Thomas Barrack, owned 7,000
single-family rental homes as of March 6 after having raised
$2.2 billion to buy properties for lease. American Homes 4 Rent,
a Malibu, California-based single-family rental operator headed
by B. Wayne Hughes with more than 10,000 homes, said on Feb. 27
that it expects to register for a public offering within 60
days.  Single-family rental homes make up almost 10 percent of the
$17.7 trillion U.S. housing market of 133.2 million residences,
according to the American Residential Properties filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  