-- Amway Sees China 2013 Sales Growth Below 10% Amid Competition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-22T08:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/amway-sees-china-2013-sales-growth-below-10-amid-competition.html
Amway Corp., the closely held
direct seller of vitamins, air purifiers and cosmetics, expects
sales in  China , its biggest market, to grow less than 10 percent
this year, President Douglas DeVos said.  Amway, based in Ada, Michigan, had sales of about $4
billion in China last year, led by its Nutrilite line of
nutritional supplements, DeVos said in an interview today in
Beijing. The company had sales growth below 10 percent last year
after growing above that level in previous years, he said.  DeVos said growth in China -- which accounted for about a
third of the company’s 2012 global  sales  of $11.3 billion -- is
slowing amid competition from international and Chinese
companies in its product lines, including cosmetics. Amway
products such as nutrition supplements are being counterfeited
in China, he said.  “Two years ago we grew in the mid-double digits, we had
really strong growth, last year we were in the single digits,”
DeVos said. “What we’re seeing is a lot of competition.
Everyone is coming in as the market has developed.”  Amway has a sales force of about 300,000 people in China
and 9,000 company employees in the country, DeVos said. He said
counterfeiting of its products is increasing in tandem with the
company’s growth in China.  “It’s probably a problem that’s going to persist, and as
soon as we find one solution, the counterfeiters do something
different,” DeVos said. “We are particularly focused on this
because of our nutritional products, and  food safety , and
quality.”  Amway faces rising competition for its cosmetics line in
China from companies including Paris-based  L’Oreal SA (OR) ,
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Japan’s  Shiseido Co. (4911) , and
 Unilever Plc. (ULVR)   Amway relies on direct sales and 300 retail outlets across
China, DeVos said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  