-- Apple’s IPad, IPhone Distribution Faces EU Antitrust Scrutiny
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-22T14:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/apple-s-ipad-iphone-distribution-faces-eu-antitrust-scrutiny.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s distribution practices
for iPhones and iPad tablets are being examined by European
Union antitrust regulators who said they’ll act if they see any
behavior harmful to customers.  The European Commission is “currently looking at this
situation and, more generally, is actively monitoring market
developments,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the
Brussels-based authority, said in an e-mail. While regulators
were “made aware” of Apple’s distribution methods, they
haven’t received any formal complaints, he said.  “We will intervene if there are indications of
anticompetitive behavior to the detriment of consumers,”
Colombani said.  Several phone carriers sent the EU information on their
distribution contracts with Apple to check whether any terms
restricted competition, the  New York  Times reported today,
citing a person briefed on the situation. While the EU is
focusing its inquiries on French phone operators, others
elsewhere in  Europe  may also be involved, the newspaper said.  Apple, the world’s largest technology company, last year
settled an EU antitrust probe into e-books pricing after it
agreed to change agreements with four publishers. It previously
ended another antitrust case by pledging to reduce prices for
U.K. iTunes music downloads. The EU closed a probe over
restrictions on iPhone applications in 2010.  ‘Fully’ Compliant  Cupertino, California-based Apple’s contracts “fully
comply with local laws wherever we do business, including in the
EU,” said Alan Hely, a spokesman for the company in  London .  Samsung Electronics Co.’s growing market position and the
success of Google Inc.’s Android mobile-phone operating system
“are good reasons to believe that competition is strong in the
markets for smartphones and tablets,” Colombani said.  France  Telecom SA, whose Orange brand is the country’s
biggest mobile operator, and Bouygues Telecom SA, the third
largest, declined to comment on the report.  Isabelle Audap, a spokeswoman for Iliad SA, France’s fourth
mobile-network operator, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Apple separately faces pressure from European regulators
over its consumer guarantees. Italy’s competition agency fined
Apple 900,000 euros ($1.16 million) in 2011, saying the company
misled consumers by “prominently advertising” that its
products had a one-year manufacturer warranty and selling an
extension when consumers have the right to an automatic two-year
warranty. EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding last year asked
governments to check whether Apple retailers failed to advertise
buyers’ right to the two-year warranty for products such as the
iPhone and the iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  