-- Argentina Tightens Securities Regulation as Peso Slides
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-03-22T12:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/argentina-tightens-securities-regulation-as-peso-slide-deepens.html
Argentina  modified rules governing
mutual fund investments in locally traded securities of foreign
companies in a bid to increase investment in local companies and
curb capital flight.  The regulator reduced the proportion of securities known as
Cedears,  which are peso-denominated shares and bonds of foreign
companies, that mutual funds can hold to 25 percent from 75
percent, as the assets are now considered to be a foreign
investment, according to resolutions published in today’s
 official gazette .  “It’s understood that it’s appropriate to limit the
maximum rate of investment in that asset class to ensure proper
channeling of domestic savings into productive development,”
according to the resolution.  The measure is part of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s efforts to bring dollars back to the country and curb
capital flight as the peso is forecast to weaken at the fastest
rate in the world and reserves, which the country uses to pay
debt, fell 13 percent in the past 12 months to $41 billion. She
also made insurance companies repatriate foreign investments and
forces them to invest part of their portfolio in government
sponsored companies and projects.  The resolution also states that the securities that don’t
trade in the local exchanges must be valued according to the
closing price in the market where they trade using the official
currency rate published by state-controlled Banco de la Nacion
Argentina.  Valuation Changes  “Most don’t trade,” in the local exchanges, said Luis Celasco, who manages 1.7 billion pesos ($333.2 million) of
Argentine debt at RJ Delta, a unit of Raymond James Financial
Inc. in  Buenos Aires .  The change in valuation “Can cause a
loss on the portfolio and volatility.”  Each business day, investment funds will have to provide
the regulator with details of the composition and valuation of
their portfolios, the resolution says.  Any new restrictions that require mutual funds to sell some
of their Cedears could be an attempt by Fernandez to ease
pressure on a parallel  exchange rate  that weakened to a record
8.48 per dollar yesterday, according to Jorge Piedrahita, chief
executive officer of New York-based brokerage Torino Capital
LLC. Fernandez has imposed restrictions on dollar purchases
since her re-election in October 2011 to stem capital flight.  ‘Generate Losses’  “If you force a liquidation of those, you generate
dollars,” said Piedrahita. The net effect would be an increased
supply of dollars, which should ease the pressure on the
parallel rate, he said.  Telephone calls to the securities regulator’s press
department seeking comment on the resolution went unanswered.  The peso fell 0.1 percent yesterday to 5.102 per dollar in
the official market. The gap to the parallel rate surged after
the nation on March 18 raised the tax on credit and debit card
purchases abroad to 20 percent.  On March 20, Fernandez called a meeting with Vice President
 Amado Boudou , Finance Minister Hernan Lorenzino and central bank
chief Mercedes Marco del Pont to discuss the drop in the
parallel peso, according to Buenos Aires-based newspaper Clarin.  Cedears include 27 corporate bonds including debt issued by
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Coca-Cola Co., and 220 shares of
companies including Apple Inc.,  BP Plc (BP/) , Citigroup Corp., and
Pfizer Inc., according to Deutsche Bank AG, which establishes
the list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  