-- Harvard Quiz Bowl Wins Stripped After Cheating Probe
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-03-22T20:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/harvard-quiz-bowl-wins-stripped-after-cheating-probe.html
Harvard University ’s championships
in four Quiz Bowl academic competitions were revoked after an
audit showed a student cheated by looking at questions in
advance.  National Academic Quiz Tournaments LLC  stripped Harvard of
championships in 2009, 2010 and in two categories in 2011, the
company said in a  statement  March 20.  The Harvard revelations surfaced in a probe that also found
cheating by competitors from the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ,  University of Michigan  and a high school in
 Delaware . In each case, the Quiz Bowl discovered that students
had, through an Internet security gap, peeked at parts of
questions that would be posed at competitions, the company said.  “Everyone understands at Quiz Bowl that you don’t access
questions in advance,” said Robert Hentzel, president of
National Academic Quiz Tournaments, in a telephone interview.
“Even if you click on these pages once, it should be obvious
that ‘I should not be seeing this,’ and you should click away.”  About 2,500 college, high school and middle school students
annually participate in  Quiz Bowl  competitions that are
typically held in campus classrooms, Hentzel said.  The students were able to access the questions because they
also wrote questions for competitions, Hentzel said. The
security flaw allowed question writers to see the first few
words of questions being prepared for other competitions, he
said.  Anonymous Tip  The tournament company received an anonymous tip that an
MIT Quiz Bowl player, Joshua Alman, had used this security gap
to look at questions for an upcoming competition he was slated
for, said Hentzel, who is also the company’s chief technology
officer. An audit of the system linked Alman to the college
question page, Hentzel said.  MIT was stripped of wins in 2012 that Alman participated
in, NAQT said.  The discovery prompted Hentzel to see whether any other
college question contributors had breached the site’s security,
leading to the discovery about Harvard, he said.  “We have to trust our question writers,” Hentzel said.
“We wanted to give our college players a chance to write
questions, and a few took advantage of this security flaw to mar
our most prestigious championship.”  Andy Watkins, who improperly accessed the site while a
student at Harvard, told the tournament company that he
regretted the security breaches.  ‘Good Faith’  “I am gratified that NAQT acknowledges that there is
neither direct nor statistical evidence that I took advantage of
my access,” he said in a statement posted on the company’s
website. “Though I know everyone will make their own judgments,
I did compete in good faith.”  Harvard , based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , can continue to
compete in Quiz Bowl competitions, Hentzel said. The university
doesn’t have independent knowledge of the incident, said  Jeff Neal , a spokesman. The campus is on spring break.  Inside Higher Ed reported the news earlier today.  Harvard disclosed in February that more than half of about
125 students who had been implicated in a cheating scandal last
year were told to withdraw for as long as a year. The students
were under investigation for inappropriate collaboration on a
take-home final exam in a U.S. government course. Half of the
remaining students were given probation, according to the
school.  Kyle Casey  and Brandyn Curry, senior co-captains of the
basketball team, were among students who withdrew. Last night,
their team defeated the University of New Mexico 68-62 in
Harvard’s first-ever win in a National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  