-- Harvard Wins First NCAA Tournament Game After Losing Key Players
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   N a t a l i y a   N e d z h v e t s k a y a
-- 2013-03-22T07:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/harvard-upsets-new-mexico-68-62-for-first-ncaa-tournament-win.html
Harvard University  overcame the
loss of two co-captains for the season following an academic
scandal to win a game in the men’s national college basketball
tournament for the first time.  Harvard last night defeated the  University of New Mexico 
68-62 at a National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament
regional in  Salt Lake City , a result predicted by 5.6 percent of
the 8.15 million entries in ESPN.com’s Tournament Challenge.  Crimson coach Tommy Amaker -- a standout point guard for
 Duke University  in the 1980s who went on to help the Blue Devils
win the NCAA title in 1991 and 1992 as an assistant coach --
guided his team to the biggest upset of the championship so far
after rebuilding a roster that last year played in the
tournament for the first time since 1946.  “It means the world to us,” Amaker, 47, said during a
news conference. “To do it in this fashion, on this stage
against an outstanding team, I can’t say enough about how good
this team is.”  Harvard made a return trip to the tournament after losing
senior co-captains  Kyle Casey  and Brandyn Curry, both of whom
withdrew from the school in September in the wake of accusations
that there were similarities on the final exams of about 125
students. More than half of the students implicated were told to
withdraw for as long as a year, Harvard said in February.  It was a blow for a team coming off a school-record 26-win
season, as Casey was Harvard’s leading scorer in 2011-12 and
Curry was the starting point guard.  ‘Almost Hopeless’  “At the beginning of the season we felt almost hopeless
because we lost Curry and Casey,” said Harvard senior Nikita
Jambulingam, who returned from spring break early to watch last
night’s game with fellow students. “Morale for the season was
low, especially because we had been tournament contenders for
the last two years, but the team has really pulled together.”  Wesley Saunders, a sophomore from  Los Angeles , emerged to
lead the  Ivy League  in scoring at 16.5 points a game. Siyani
Chambers, a freshman point guard from Golden Valley,  Minnesota ,
was named the Ivy League Rookie of the Year after averaging 12.9
points and a conference-best 5.8 assists.  Harvard (20-9), the 14th seed in the West region and a 10
1/2-point underdog, advanced to face the  University of Arizona 
tomorrow in Salt Lake City, about 2,500 miles (4,000 kilometers)
from the school’s campus in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . New Mexico
(29-6) was seeded third in the West and was the highest-ranked
team eliminated yesterday on the first full day of tournament
play.  The biggest previous tournament surprise by an Ivy League
school was Princeton’s win against the University of California-
Los Angeles as a 13th seed in 1996.  Three Defeats  Harvard, which counts Jeremy Lin of the  National Basketball
Association ’s  Houston Rockets  among its basketball alumni, had
been 0-3 in its two previous appearances in the NCAA tournament,
losing two games in 1946 and getting ousted in its opener last
year. The Crimson lost to  Ohio State University  and  New York
University  in 1946, when there were consolation games.  Following a 4-4 start to the season, the Crimson won 15 of
their final 20 games to capture the Ivy League title.  Saunders last night scored a team-high 18 points, while
Chambers had five points and seven assists. Junior guard Laurent
Rivard added 17 points and was 5-of-9 on 3-point shots.  Harvard shot 52.4 percent as a team to 37.5 percent for  New
Mexico  and closed the game with a 16-9 scoring run after the
Lobos had taken a 53-52 lead with six minutes, 30 seconds
remaining.  Campus Celebration  The victory set off a celebration at John Harvard’s Brewery
and Ale House in Harvard Square, where tables closest to the
television screens near the front of the restaurant were packed
with crimson-clad alumni and students.  John McGrahanan, a 1991  Harvard Law School  alumnus, was
back on campus for the first time since he graduated.  “It’s huge,” McGrahanan said in an interview. “If you’re
a 14 seed and win, you can’t ask for anything more. Very few
people obviously expected Harvard to win.”  Among the doubters was President  Barack Obama , who attended
Harvard Law School and also picked New Mexico to win in the
 bracket  he filled out before the tournament.  Jack Eckalbar, 32, the assistant general manager at John
Harvard’s, said the restaurant saw a 30 percent jump in sales
last night even though the school is on spring break. He said
the atmosphere for the game topped that for the  Super Bowl .  “The whole place erupted,” he said. “I’ve never seen
that type of energy.”  With the win by the Crimson, Ivy League schools improved to
41-76 in NCAA tournament history. The Ivy League is now 3-13
since 2000, with the two previous wins coming from  Cornell
University  in 2010, when the Big Red upset Temple and  Wisconsin 
to reach the final 16.  Harvard’s win marked the second time in seven years that a
14th seed has knocked out a No. 3 seed at the NCAA tournament.
Teams with a No. 14 regional seed now have a 17-98 record
against third seeds since the tournament field expanded in 1985.  For Harvard, the win was truly historic.  “We’re still in disbelief,” said senior guard Christian
Webster, who added 11 points last night. “We wanted to put
everything in it and believed in it, but this is as good as it
gets right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Nataliya Nedzhvetskaya in Cambridge, Massachusetts at 
   nnedzhv@college.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  