-- Asian Stocks Head for Largest Weekly Drop Since August
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-22T10:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/asian-stocks-head-for-largest-weekly-drop-since-october.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the
regional benchmark index heading for its biggest weekly decline
since August, as scuffles on the streets of Nicosia underscored
concern that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, fell 1.2 percent
in Hong Kong.  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s biggest tiremaker
that gets, lost 3.2 percent in  Tokyo  after the yen strengthened,
dimming the outlook for Japanese exporters.  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG)  recouped some of yesterday’s 14 percent loss
after saying two potential bidders are still interested in the
Australian sports-wear company.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.7 percent to 134.26 as
of 6:41 p.m. in Hong Kong. The gauge is heading for a 1.8
percent decline this week as Cyprus scrambles to avoid a
collapse of its banking system and reports showed Europe’s
manufacturing decline steepening.  “It seems that the downturn could intensify” in Europe,
said Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets research in
Sydney at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25
billion. “Its leadership keeps looking at the hole in the hull
and wondering why they are waist deep in water, rather than
fixing the damage.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 13 percent from mid-
November through yesterday as investors bet that a change of
leadership in  Japan  would press its central bank to deploy more
easing. That pushed valuations on the gauge to 15 times average
 estimated earnings  compared with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kuroda Speech  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  retreated 2.4 percent,
falling from its highest level since September 2008. The yen
advanced after new Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda failed
to outline any immediate increase to stimulus in his first press
conference and as investors sought a haven from  Europe ’s crisis.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.2 percent, and South Korea’s
Kospi Index slid 0.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
declined 0.5 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai Composite gained
0.2 percent.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  added 0.2 percent.  Trading volumes in Japan, South Korea and Australia were at
least 30 percent below the 30-day average for the time of day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand Slump  Thailand ’s SET Index sank 3.3 percent, heading for the
biggest weekly slump since the global financial crisis of 2008,
on concern the bourse may increase margin requirements on equity
trading. The exchange may increase the level of collateral that
customers must maintain in their trading accounts to 20 percent
of their credit line, from 15 percent, the bourse said in a
statement late yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The S&P 500 yesterday fell 0.8 percent, with the
measure heading for its  biggest  weekly decline of 2013, after an
unexpected contraction in German manufacturing and as Cyprus’s
president worked on a new plan to obtain a European bailout.  Cypriot police yesterday clashed with protesters outside
Parliament as President Nicos Anastasiades maneuvered at home
and in  Russia  to stave off financial collapse. The European
Central Bank said it may cut off Cypriot banks from emergency
funds after March 25 as Anastasiades struggles to forge a
bailout agreement. Cyprus failed to secure financial support
from Russia, Cyprus Finance Minister Michael Sarris said.  Companies that do business in Europe fell. HSBC declined
1.2 percent to HK$83.10 in Hong Kong.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a
clothier that counts Europe as its biggest market, fell 1.4
percent to HK$9.47. Nippon Sheet Glass Co., which counts Europe
as its biggest market, slipped 2.7 percent to 109 yen in Tokyo.  ‘Risk-off Atmosphere’  “Investors’ sense of caution is increasing because of the
Cyprus problem and we’re in a risk-off atmosphere,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd.,
which manages about $163 billion. “Kuroda didn’t announce
anything concrete and the market was a little bit ahead of
itself in terms of its expectations.”  Japanese exporters slid as the yen climbed for a second
day. A strengthening currency erodes the value of overseas
earnings at Japan’s automotive companies and electronics makers
when repatriated.  Bridgestone lost 3.2 percent to 3,150 yen in Tokyo. Toyota
Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, dropped 2.2 percent
to 4,880 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions and
PlayStation game consoles, fell 1.8 percent to 1,660 yen.  Leighton, Billabong  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)  retreated 6.9 percent to A$20.20,
the most since May, in Sydney as Chairman Stephen Johns resigned
along with two non-executive directors at Australia’s largest
construction company, citing a dispute with its controlling
shareholder Hochtief AG.  Among stocks that rose, Billabong jumped 7.9 percent to 75
Australian cents, paring yesterday’s 14 percent plunge. Two
groups, consisting of Altamont Capital Partners and VF Corp. on
one side and Sycamore Partners Management and Billabong Americas
head Paul Naude on the other, have said they may offer A$1.10 a
share for firm.  China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd., nation’s second-largest
mobile-phone company, climbed 3.7 percent to HK$10.74 in Hong
Kong after posting fourth-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates.  Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. (551) , a supplier to Nike Inc.,
gained 1 percent to HK$25. Nike’s gross margin widened for the
first time in nine quarters and the the world’s largest
sporting-goods company said orders for the Nike brand in China,
excluding changes in currency exchange rates, gained after sales
there sank 10 percent last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  