-- Assad Vows to Defeat Rebels After Islamic Scholar’s Death
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-03-22T15:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/assad-vows-to-defeat-rebels-after-islamic-scholar-s-death.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said he will root out Islamist extremists after a suicide bomber
killed dozens of people, including a senior Sunni scholar who
was one of his staunchest supporters.  The explosion yesterday ripped through the Iman Mosque in
Damascus where Sheikh Mohammad Said al-Bouti was giving a
religious lesson, the state-run SANA news agency said today. The
scholar, his grandson and 47 other people were killed, SANA
said, citing the Health Ministry.  Al-Bouti remained a prominent supporter of Assad, an
Alawite, even as many of his fellow Sunnis joined the uprising
against the regime. Al-Bouti, born in in 1929, called on Syrians
fighting to overthrow Assad to “repent and make their jihad
consistent with religion,” SANA said on Jan. 11.  Assad is trying to quell the uprising that began in March
2011 and that’s killed more than 70,000 people according to
United Nations estimates. Large swaths of the country are now
under rebel control, including areas around the capital
Damascus. Assad said al-Bouti was killed for facing “the forces
of darkness and extremist” ideology in a message of condolence
carried by SANA.  “This is a promise from the Syrian people, and I am one of
them, that your blood, that of your grandson and the blood of
all today’s martyrs and all martyrs of the homeland will not go
in vain,” Assad said. “We will adhere to your thought as we
are fighting to eliminate their obscurantist thinking until we
purge our country of them.”  Opposition Response  The opposition Syrian National Coalition expressed its
condolences to the families of the dead in an e-mailed
statement.  “The Syrian National Coalition condemns without any
hesitation, with the strongest expressions, the terrorist
bombing method,” the statement said. It accused “the terrorist
Assad regime” of responsibility for the blast given the tight
security in the area of the mosque.  The mosque bombing was a “heinous act,” the United
Nations Security Council said in a statement today. Such
terrorist attacks are “criminal and unjustifiable, regardless
of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever
committed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Amman at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  