-- AT&T, Google, Isohunt, Daniels: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/at-t-google-isohunt-daniels-intellectual-property.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  was told to pay $27.5
million for infringing a Colorado company’s patents for
controlling how audio or video is streamed online.  AT&T’s U-verse TV services infringed two patents owned by
Two-Way Media LLC, a federal jury in San Antonio said March 20.
The jury rejected Dallas-based AT&T’s efforts to have the
patents deemed invalid.  The Two-Way patents cover live streaming technology as well
as ways to record detailed customer usage data, according to the
company’s lawyers at Susman Godfrey LLP. Boulder-based Two-Way
had sued  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  and  Limelight Networks Inc. (LLNW) 
over the same technology. They settled.  “This was a very hard-fought case,” Parker Folse, of
Susman’s Seattle office, said in a statement.  The trial focused on three Two-Way patents. The jury found
U-verse infringed two of them. AT&T said it would seek to have
the verdict overturned.  “While the verdict was a small fraction of what the
plaintiff sought in this case, we will challenge the amount that
was awarded,”  Marty Richter , an AT&T spokesman, said in a
statement.  The case is Two-Way Media LLC v. AT&T Inc., 09-cv-00476,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  Apple Seeks Patent for Protecting Dropped Mobile Phones  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone, applied for a patent
on a technology aimed at helping protect dropped  mobile phones .  Application  20130073095 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office yesterday, describes a
combination of a sensor, processor and what Apple calls a
“protective mechanism” all within the handheld device.  The sensor transmits a signal through the processor
alerting the protective mechanism to alter the device’s center
of mass to change the orientation of the device as it falls.  This can keep the phone from landing on its most vulnerable
parts, according to the application. Apple acknowledged in the
application that devices, even those in cases, can be damaged by
being dropped or pushed off a counter or table.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, filed the
application for the patent in September 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Rivals Ask Almunia to Send Complaint as Talks Continue  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s rivals urged European Union regulators to
send antitrust objections to the world’s largest search-engine
operator, almost two months after the company submitted
settlement concessions to end a probe.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  should issue a
statement of objections laying out antitrust concerns with the
company’s search business because a settlement might not change
Google’s conduct,  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , along with
seven other companies and two German media groups, said in a
letter yesterday.  Google is “unlikely to volunteer effective, future-proof
remedies without being formally charged with infringement,” the
companies said in the letter.  Almunia has sought a deal with Google to end the more than
two-year-old antitrust probe without imposing fines. He asked
the company last year to give him a detailed offer to address
allegations that Google promotes its own specialist search-
services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has
agreements with websites and software developers that stifle
competition in the advertising industry.  The EU’s antitrust chief said this month that regulators
prefer to use settlements to end cases in high-tech and fast-
moving markets. After he received Google’s settlement offer in
January, he said he hoped to check it with rivals and customers
“in the coming months” and finalize it later this year.  Bill Echikson, a spokesman for Google, said the company was
cooperating with regulators. Neither  Mountain View , California-
based Google nor the EU have disclosed the content of Google’s
offer.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business in January, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  In 2010, the EU began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post in 2011, citing
data from regulators.  Italian Apples from Cuneo Get ‘Mela Rosa Cuneo’ Registration  A number of apple varieties grown in Italy’s Piedmont
region are now protected as “Mela Rosa Cuneo,” according to a
March 6  publication  in the journal of the European Union.  Varieties entitled  to this designation include the Red
Delicious, Gala, Braeburn and the Fuji. They must all have
bright and shiny shades of color.  According to the  website  of the agricultural producers of
Italy’s Cuneo province, apple cultivation dates back to Roman
times, with Cluniac and Cistercian monks improving the methods
of apple growing during the Middle Ages.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Isohunt Web Tech Induced Infringement, Appeals Court Rules  Isohunt Web Technologies Inc. , a BitTorrent file-sharing
system, induces infringement, a federal appeals court ruled,
refusing to overturn an order barring searches for movie titles
through its system.  U.S. District Judge Stephen H. Wilson issued an order in
March 2010 barring Isohunt and founder Gary Fung from a wide
range of what the judge deemed infringing conduct. Earlier, he
found Fung and Isohunt liable for infringement because they
“engaged in purposeful, culpable expression and conduct aimed
at promoting infringing uses” of their websites.  Movie studios including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Paramount Pictures 
and Columbia Pictures Industries Inc. sued Fung and Isohunt for
copyright infringement in federal court in Los Angeles in
September 2006, claiming the company infringed film copyrights
and facilitated infringement by others.  Fung and Isohunt in June asked the U.S.  Court of Appeals 
in  San Francisco  to keep Wilson’s orders from taking effect
until they could appeal his rulings.  Writing for the appeals court, U.S. Circuit Judge Marsha
Berzon called the case “yet another concerning the application
of established intellectual property concepts to new
technologies.”  She said that even though what Fung was using wasn’t a
device, copyright law was still applicable.  “Unlike patents, copyrights protect expression, not
products or devices,” she said. Inducement, under copyright
law, is not limited to those who distribute a “device.”  The lists of movie titles Fung provided to subscribers
proved to be an inducement, she said.  Henry Hoberman of the  Motion Picture Association  of America
said in a  statement  the ruling demonstrates that those “who
build businesses around encouraging, enabling, and helping
others to commit copyright infringement are themselves
infringers, and will be held accountable for their illegal
actions.”  The lower-court case is Columbia Pictures Industries Inc.
v. Fung, 06-cv-05578, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles). The appeals court case is Columbia
Picture Industries v. Fung,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth
Circuit, 10-55946 (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Daniels Health Sciences Says Vascular Health Violated Order  Daniels  Health Sciences  LLC, a Texas company that created
and sells a product aimed at reducing blood clots, asked a
federal court in Texas to find its opponent in a  trade secrets 
case in contempt of court.  Daniels said in a March 11 filing that Vascular Health
Sciences LLC of American Fork, Utah, violated an order from a
federal appeals court to quit selling a product that made
unauthorized use of trade secrets.  Daniels sued in June 2012, saying that after it brought in
Vascular Health to market a compound for improving artery
health, the Utah company took  intellectual property  and
confidential information and used it to develop its own
infringing product  A federal appeals court said March 5 that the lower court
properly issued an order barring the Vascular sales and that
Daniels was likely to succeed in its claim of trade-secret
misappropriation.  According to Daniels Health’s March 11 filing, Vascular was
“still selling and marketing” the allegedly infringing product
over the Internet. Daniels said it could show by clear and
convincing evidence that despite the court order, the prohibited
conduct continued.  Daniels submitted website images it claimed established
that even after the court order, Vascular was continuing to
market the infringing product.  The Texas company also asked for attorney fees and
litigation costs in connection with its request.  When attempts were made yesterday to reach the Vascular
website -- www.vascularhealthsciences.com -- it appeared to have
been taken down.  The case is Daniels Health Sciences LLC v. Vascular Health
Sciences LLC, 12-cv-01896, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The appeal is Daniels Health
Sciences LLC v. Vascular Health Sciences LLC, 12-20599, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 