-- Aussie Dollar Trades Near 7-Week High on Pared Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-22T06:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/aussie-dollar-trades-near-7-week-high-on-pared-rate-cut-bets.html
Australia ’s dollar traded 0.3
percent from the seven-week high it reached yesterday as signs
the nation’s economy is stabilizing prompted investors to trim
bets on interest-rate cuts by the central bank.  The so-called Aussie headed for a third weekly advance as
an index of  leading economic indicators  rose. Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will speak in Sydney next week.
New Zealand’s dollar was near a two-week high after a private
report showed an gain in job advertisements. Demand for both
currencies was limited after Cyprus failed to reach an agreement
with Russia on financial support for the nation’s banks, damping
risk appetite.  “Expectations for an imminent rate cut by the RBA have
been pared back,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, a unit of  Japan ’s
largest currency margin company. “Even as risks around  Europe 
linger, the Australian dollar has been supported by positive
domestic factors. There don’t seem to be serious concerns in the
market yet that the  crisis in Cyprus  will spread to other
nations such as Italy and Spain.”  Australia’s currency dipped 0.1 percent to $1.0428 as of
5:17 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched $1.0459, the
highest since Jan. 30. For the week, it’s poised for a 0.2
percent gain against the greenback. The Aussie dropped 0.4
percent to 98.74 yen.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar gained 0.1 percent to 83.23 U.S.
cents from yesterday, when it reached 83.45, the strongest since
March 6. It has gained 0.6 percent this week. The currency
weakened 0.2 percent to 78.79 yen.  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of leading
Australian economic indicators climbed 0.2 percent to 121.9 in
January after a revised 0.2 percent decline in December,
according to a report today.  RBA Policy  RBA Assistant Governor Malcolm Edey played down the risks
in Australian financial industry, saying banks are under more
market discipline to manage risks.  “To the extent that any generalized financial overhang
exists, it is less likely to be a problem here than elsewhere,”
Edey said in a text of speech to be delivered in  Melbourne 
today. “The combination of regulatory and private sector
responses around the world seems likely to result in reduced
financial risk-taking in the foreseeable future.”  ‘Assess Developments’  “Interest-sensitive parts of the economy continued to show
signs of responding to these low rates,” according to minutes
of the central bank’s March 5 meeting released earlier this
week. “It was appropriate to hold rates steady, and to assess
further developments.”  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 18 percent chance the RBA will cut the benchmark rate at
the next meeting on April 2, compared with the 30 percent odds
priced in one month ago. Governor Stevens will speak on March
26.  Local bonds gained as regional stocks declined amid concern
Cyprus’s abortive bailout plan will worsen Europe’s debt crisis.
“I think we were not able to get the support that we wanted to
get” from  Russia , Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris said
today while leaving a Moscow hotel. “We must go back home
because things are getting serious.”  The European Central Bank said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday it will cut Cypriot banks off from emergency funds
after March 25 unless the Mediterranean island agrees on a
rescue program with the European Union and International
Monetary Fund.  Yields Decline  Yields on Australian  three-year  notes fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3 percent. The 10-year rate
slid 3 basis points to 3.56 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
of stocks declined 0.7 percent.  In New Zealand, the  number  of job advertisements in
newspapers and the Internet increased 1 percent last month from
January, according to an  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  survey released in Wellington today.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive a floating rate, rose half a basis point to 2.915
percent. Yields on 10-year New Zealand bond fell three basis
points to 3.68 percent.  Pimco Buying  Pacific Investment Management Co., the manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said it is overweight on Australian
and New Zealand government bonds. Both countries “stack up
relatively well” compared to other developed nations in terms
of debt levels and growth prospects, Scott Mather, head of
global portfolio management at Pimco, said on a conference call
from Auckland.  Expectations for price swings in the Australian dollar are
near the lowest in almost 13 years relative to major currencies
as central bank purchases of the so-called Aussie damp its
sensitivity to political turmoil at home and abroad.  Implied three-month volatility on the Australian dollar, a
measure used to price options, fell to 7.21 percent, the lowest
level this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The JPMorgan
Group of Seven Volatility Index climbed to 9.52 percent, a
three-week high. Aussie volatility was 2.43 percentage points
less than the JPMorgan gauge on March 19, the widest discount
since March 31, 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  