-- Aussie Volatility Near 13-Year Low Amid Gillard, Cyprus Turmoil
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-03-22T06:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/aussie-volatility-near-13-year-low-amid-gillard-cyprus-turmoil.html
Expectations for price swings in
the Australian dollar are near the lowest in almost 13 years
relative to major currencies, as central bank purchases of the 
so-called Aussie damp its sensitivity to political turmoil.  Implied  three-month volatility  on the Australian dollar, a
measure used to price options, fell to 7.20 percent as of 4:21
p.m. in Sydney, the lowest level this week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The JPMorgan Group of Seven Volatility Index
climbed to 9.52 percent, a three-week high. Aussie volatility
was 2.43 percentage points less than the JPMorgan gauge on March
19, the widest discount since March 31, 2000.  Central banks buying Australian dollar debt have helped
drive the currency’s record eight-month stretch above parity
with the U.S. dollar. The Aussie has climbed 0.2 percent this
week to $1.0427 and reached $1.0459 yesterday, the strongest
since January. Prime Minister Julia Gillard held on as leader of
 Australia ’s minority government, winning the second challenge in
a year, while an impasse on Cyprus curbed global risk appetite.  “The Aussie has been attracting really good demand on dips
from real money accounts and reserve managers, attracted by the
highest yields among a shrinking pool of AAA assets worldwide,”
said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Hong Kong. “There’s not enough of a policy difference
between the two sides to see the Australian dollar react to the
political shenanigans.”  Gillard Challenged  Gillard, 51, called a leadership contest yesterday after
former leader Simon Crean urged a rematch between her and Kevin
Rudd, whom she ousted in 2010 and beat again in a February 2012
party vote. Gillard fired Crean yesterday, two other cabinet
members quit, another minister resigned, and Rudd ruled out
today seeking the Labor leadership in the future.  Central banks managing as much as $7 trillion, including
those in Germany, France and  China , may be holding Australian
dollars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and documents
released by the nation’s Reserve Bank.  Australian 10-year government bond yields fell seven basis
points this week to 3.56 percent today. That offers 166 basis
points more than similar-dated Treasuries and 194 basis points
above the average for the nine other AAA sovereign markets.  Declines in the Aussie at the beginning of this week amid
renewed European turmoil may have been limited after  speculators 
trimmed bets on the currency’s gains over the past two months,
Trinh said.  The Australian dollar declined 0.4 percent over March 18
and 19 as outrage in Cyprus over plans for a levy on deposits to
raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) needed to qualify for a
bailout revived concern  Europe ’s fiscal crisis may spiral out of
control.  “The latest data shows that a lot of the staler longs have
been unwound, so there was much less impetus for a sudden move
down in a risk-off environment,” Trinh said.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared
with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was 23,266 on
March 12, down from a record-high 103,376 on Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  