-- B&O Shares Plunge as Stereo Maker Cuts Forecast a Second Time
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-22T09:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/b-o-shares-plunge-as-stereo-maker-cuts-forecast-a-second-time.html
Bang & Olufsen A/S (BO)  fell the most in
more than four years in Copenhagen trading after the maker of
luxury stereos predicted a full-year loss amid declining sales,
marking its second profit warning in 10 weeks.  B&O  declined  as much as 18 percent, the most since December
2008. The stock fell 13 percent to 53 kroner at 10:06 a.m. in
the Danish capital, with trading volume at 438 percent of the
three-month daily average.  B&O said today it will lose money in its current fiscal
year,  ending two years of profit  as plans to close under-
performing stores prove more costly than previously estimated.
The Struer, Denmark-based company is 19 months into a five-year
plan that seeks to triple revenue and return profitability to
levels from before the financial crisis started five years ago.  “The sales forecasts are lower than we’d expected, both
for the quarter and the full year,” Jesper Christensen, an
analyst at Alm. Brand A/S in Copenhagen, said by phone. “The
numbers are disappointing, especially for their core products,
but the market is also generally very tough.” Christensen said
he’s intending to cut his 60-krone 12-month price target and
will keep a sell recommendation on the stock.  The stereo maker today said it will lose as much as 200
million kroner ($35 million) before interest and tax in its
fiscal year that ends May 31. That compares with B&O’s previous
forecast of an unspecified profit. The average  estimate  in
Bloomberg survey of six analysts conducted before today was for
full-year earnings before interest and tax of 56.9 million
kroner.  Full-year revenue will be as low as 2.8 billion kroner
compared with a previous forecast of more than 3 billion kroner,
B&O said.  The company, which sells its stereos to luxury cars
including Audis and BMWs, on Jan. 9 said it will close 125
stores, mainly in  Europe , and lowered its revenue and Ebit
forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  