-- Banks' Use of CDS to Lower Capital Targeted by Basel Regulators
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-22T14:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/banks-use-of-cds-to-lower-capital-targeted-by-basel-regulators.html
Global regulators are planning to
 crack down  on banks that underestimate their capital
requirements because of the way they use credit-default swaps
and other instruments to lower the amount of risk on their
books.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said today that
it would seek to stop banks from lowering capital charges by
buying instruments such as CDS to insure themselves against
losses, while failing to recognize the large liabilities they
incur from what they pay for this protection, the group said in
a statement on its website.  “The proposed changes are intended to ensure that the
costs, and not just the benefits of purchased credit protection
are appropriately recognized in regulatory capital,” the Basel,
Switzerland-based group of international regulators said in a
statement. There exists a “potential for capital arbitrage” as
banks can book the benefits of these deals without also booking
the associated costs, the group said.  The measure is one of many developed by global regulators
to bolster banks’ solvency after the financial crisis. For
banks, such credit-protection transactions offer a way to
redeploy capital more profitably while meeting the stiffer
requirements of the latest round of Basel rules.  Critics say the practice doesn’t make the lenders any safer
and pushes the lending risk into the unregulated shadow-banking
industry.  Blackstone, Citigroup  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, last year insured  Citigroup Inc. (C)  against any initial
losses on a $1.2 billion pool of shipping loans. The regulatory
capital trade, Blackstone’s first, let Citigroup cut how much it
sets aside to cover defaults by as much as 96 percent, while
keeping the loans on its balance sheet, according to two people
with knowledge of the transaction.  The Basel committee, which brings together regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China , said it would
seek views until June. 21 on amendments to its capital rules
that would force banks to recognize the cost of the protection
they receive.  The move is in response to “continued activity in high
cost credit protection transfers,” the committee said.  “Regulatory capital arbitrage may exist where the
immediate capital relief” provided by credit protection “will
be offset by the premiums paid” over the life of the contract,
the group said.  The Basel group brings together global regulators to co-
ordinate rulemaking. Its latest overhaul of banking standards,
known as Basel III, was published in 2010 in response to the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Under Basel rules, banks are required to set aside a set
amount of capital based on the likelihood a borrower will
default. Basel III more than triples the core reserves that
lenders must hold against possible losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  