-- Barclays Africa to Meet Zimbabwe’s Indigenization Minister
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-03-22T13:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/barclays-africa-to-meet-zimbabwe-s-kasukuwere-on-black-ownership.html
Zimbabwean Indigenization Minister
 Saviour Kasukuwere  said he will meet Barclays Africa Chief
Executive Officer Kennedy Bungane about plans by the lender’s
local unit to sell a majority stake to black citizens by June.  “We will be meeting him next week Tuesday to discuss their
plans and proposal with regards to the indigenization
compliance,” Kasukuwere said in a telephone interview today
from Harare, the capital. “The meeting is already set.”  Under Zimbabwean law, foreign-owned companies must sell or
cede 51 percent of their operations to black Zimbabweans or the
government. Barclays,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and the local units
of South Africa’s Standard Bank Group Ltd. and  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED)  held talks with the National Indigenization and Economic
Empowerment Board in the last week of February.  Barclays  Zimbabwe , which is listed on the Zimbabwe Stock
Exchange, has “made all submissions required by the laws on
indigenization to the relevant authorities,” Managing Director
George Guvamatanga said in an e-mailed statement today.
Bungane’s visit to Zimbabwe is routine, Guvamatanga said. He
declined to confirm if the meeting with Kasukuwere was set.  Standard Chartered, which also operates in the southern
African nation, has yet to schedule a date, Kasukuwere said.  “We also expect representatives of Standard Chartered Bank
to come,” Kasukuwere said. “If they don’t come, we will simply
publicize through a gazette that they are not compliant and the
law will have to take its course.”  Mining companies including units of  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and Anglo American Platinum Ltd. have already
complied with the law. President  Robert Mugabe  said on March 1
that 51 percent ownership won’t be required in every case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  