-- Barclays Has 14% Ziggo Holding After Managing Stake Sale
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-03-22T17:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/barclays-has-14-ziggo-holding-after-managing-stake-sale.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is stuck holding a 697
million-euro ($900 million) stake in  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , a Dutch cable-
television operator, after failing to find enough buyers for a
20 percent share sale it managed for owners Warburg Pincus LLC
and Cinven Ltd. this week.  The bank held about 28.4 million Ziggo shares as of March
19, representing a 14 percent stake, a  filing  posted on the
Dutch markets regulator AFM’s  website  today said.  Barclays, now among Ziggo’s largest shareholders, joins
banks including HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan Stanley that were
left holding company stakes since early 2012, after failing to
find investors at the price for which shares were offered.  A spokesman for Barclays declined to comment on the outcome
of the share sale. The bank said in the filing that it held
Ziggo’s shares in Barclays Bank Plc and Barclays Capital
Securities Ltd. The 14 percent stake is valued at 697 million
euros based on the March 19 closing price of 24.5 euros a share.  This is the first share sale Barclays has managed for
Ziggo, which went public last March. Cinven, Warburg Pincus and
their co-investors will own about 17.1 percent of the company
after the sale, they said in a statement on March 19.  Ziggo shares fell 3.7 percent to 24.22 euros at the close
in Amsterdam. The  stock  has gained 11 percent in the last 12
months, giving the company a market value of 4.8 billion euros.  Barclays’s disclosure that it was left holding Ziggo shares
“increases the risk of an overhang, which could put pressure on
the share price in the near term,” Daniel Kerven, an analyst at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note to clients today.
Kerven has an “underperform” rating on the stock, citing
factors including weak operating momentum and relative
valuations.  Competitive Auction  Investment banks bid to manage share sales like Ziggo’s in
an auction process, typically competing to sell shares at the
lowest discount to market. Banks often manage sales in such a
way that the underwriter has to buy them if there is no demand
at the price offered.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was left with almost half the $982 million
in  TDC A/S (TDC)  shares it tried to sell on behalf of the Danish phone
company’s private equity owners in February 2012, people with
knowledge of the sale said then. In November, HSBC disclosed a
stake worth 400 million euros of  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  shares
after failing to find buyers for a stake in the travel
reservations company.  This month, shareholders in  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) ,  Turkey ’s
biggest group of companies, canceled a sale managed by Deutsche
Bank AG. Investment banks, like Deutsche Bank in this case,
sometimes negotiate contracts that do not require them to buy
the shares they offer if there is no investor demand.  Issuers in  Europe  have raised $21 billion from additional
share sales this year, close to 30 percent more than they sold
in the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  helped a shareholder in Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA, owner of the Cartier brand, sell about
7 million shares for 539 million Swiss francs ($569 million)
through an accelerated sale this week.  40 Million Shares  Warburg Pincus, Cinven and some co-investors cut their
stake in Utrecht, Netherlands-based Ziggo on March 19 by selling
40 million shares, about 20 percent of its share capital. “We
take note of the filing,” Martijn Jonker, a Ziggo spokesman,
said by phone today, referring to the document from Barclays.  Warburg and Cinven sold the shares at 25.05 euros apiece,
terms of the offer showed, valuing the sale at 1 billion euros.
The sale price represented a 3.1 percent discount to March 18’s
closing price of 25.85 euros.  This month, Ziggo named  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann  to be its new CEO as of January next year.  Barclays’ 14 percent stake reported today includes the
bank’s holdings in the stock before the sale, held for other
parts of the lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  