-- MLB Suit Says Florida Lab Helped Players Get Banned Drugs
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-22T19:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/baseball-chief-sues-lab-it-says-helped-players-get-drugs.html
Major League Baseball Commissioner
Bud Selig sued a now-shuttered  Florida  clinic for allegedly
helping players get banned performance-enhancing drugs and
damaging the sport’s reputation.  The commissioner filed a complaint against Biogenesis of
America LLC and people it claimed are associated with the
business in state court in Miami today, saying they induced
players to violate contractual obligations.  “Each of the defendants participated in a scheme to
solicit major league players to purchase or obtain, and/or to
sell, supply or otherwise make available to major league
players, substances that the defendants knew were prohibited
under MLB’s Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment program,”
according to the 14-page complaint.  Individual defendants named in the complaint include
Biogenesis program director Anthony Bosch, who is accused of
providing players with testosterone, human growth hormone and
human chorionic gonadotropin, which he allegedly claimed would
increase their strength and help them recover from injuries.  No players are named as defendants in the lawsuit, although
the Coral Gables-based clinic is accused specifically of
supplying a banned substance to Manny Ramirez, a former
outfielder for the Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers.
Ramirez, who received a 50-game drug suspension in 2009, no
longer plays for a Major League Baseball team.  Bosch’s lawyer, Susy Ribero-Ayala, said in a phone
interview today that she hadn’t seen the complaint and couldn’t
comment on it.  Medical Records  The  Miami New Times  in January reported that it had
obtained medical records from Biogenesis that linked banned
substances to current players including New York Yankees third
baseman Alex Rodriguez, a three-time American League Most
Valuable Player. ESPN later published a report that linked
Milwaukee Brewers outfielder Ryan Braun, the 2011 National
League MVP, to the clinic.  Rodriguez and Braun have denied the reports, and no MLB
players have been disciplined for a connection to the clinic.
The New York Times  reported today  that “several” people
associated with the clinic were cooperating with baseball’s
investigators.  “It really shows a paradigm shift,” sports law attorney
and former player agent  Gregg Clifton  said today in a telephone
interview. He is managing partner of the Phoenix office of
Jackson Lewis LLP, a New York-based employment law firm.  ‘End User’  “Traditionally all leagues have attempted to cut the use
of performance-enhancing substances at the end-user phase, by
creating penalties,” Clifton said. “This is the first step by
any professional sports league that I’m aware of where they’re
shifting the paradigm. They’re going after the source.”  After former U.S.senator George Mitchell of  Maine  in 2007
released a report outlining drug use by 89 players, MLB created
a department of investigations to better police the sport.  Lacking subpoena power, baseball and its investigators
struggled to discipline players who may have been using banned
substances absent proof such as witness testimony or a positive
test result, Clifton said.  That struggle played out in the investigations of two of
the sport’s most famous alleged drug users, Roger Clemens and
Barry Bonds. Both Clemens, named in the Mitchell Report, and
Bonds, accused in connection with a San Francisco-area lab, were
prosecuted in court after denying under oath that they used
performance-enhancing drugs.  Bonds, Clemens  A seven-time National League MVP, Bonds was indicted on
five charges of perjury and obstruction of justice, and in 2011
was convicted of just one count of obstruction of justice. His
appeal is pending.  Clemens, an 11-time All Star and seven-time Cy Young Award
winner, was indicted on six felony counts, including perjury and
obstruction of Congress. His initial proceedings ended in a
mistrial and last year he was found not guilty.  Selig’s suit represents an effort to use the legal process
to compel the production of evidence, Clifton said.  “The challenge will be whether or not they can continue
the suit and keep it going long enough,” to obtain what they
seek while avoiding a potential dismissal by the court, he said.  That proof, once obtained, could be usable in disciplinary
proceedings against players even if the case against Biogenesis
and the individual defendants is thrown out,, said Clifton.  The case is Office of the Commissioner of Baseball v.
Biogenesis of America LLC, 13-10479CA20, Circuit Court for
Miami-Dade County, Florida, 11th Judicial Circuit (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  