-- BASF Lowers Mid-Term Profit Goals on New Accounting Standards
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-22T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/basf-lowers-mid-term-profit-goals-on-new-accounting-standards.html
BASF SE (BAS)  has lowered its medium-term
profit and sales forecasts to reflect new accounting rules that
change how the company includes Libyan oil exploration
activities and the YPC Chinese joint venture in Nanjing in its
books.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in 2015 will probably be 14 billion euros ($18
billion) instead of the originally planned 15 billion euros, the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today. Sales are now
predicted to be 80 billion euros instead of 85 billion euros.
The forecast for earnings per share of 7.50 euros remains
unchanged.  BASF is adopting the new accounting rules, called IFRS 10
and 11, a year earlier than required. The Libyan exploration arm
Wintershall AG, which was fully included in the books, and
BASF’s joint venture with Sinopec in  China , which was partially
included, will now only be reported under the so-called equity
method. That means that the sales from those units won’t be
reported, while their share of net income is included in Ebit.  “The new targets are purely a result of the accounting
changes,” Manfredo Ruebens, head of BASF’s finance department
said today at a press conference. The new rules stipulate that
you can consolidate a unit if you actually control it. “It
doesn’t just go by voting rights anymore,” he said.  BASF has also changed its forecast for 2020 based on the
new rules. Ebitda will probably be 22 billion euros instead of
23 billion euros, while sales will come in at 110 billion euros
instead of 115 billion euros, the company said.  Even though the new accounting rules will be used from the
start of this year, the chemical maker has restated figures for
2012 to provide a comparison. Under the new rules, sales were
72.1 billion euros instead of 78.7 billion euros. Ebit before
one-time items were 6.65 billion euros instead of 8.88 billion
euros, the company said.  This year’s outlook for earnings and sales to increase is
unchanged, BASF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  