-- Warburg Files Initial Share Offering for Bausch & Lomb
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-03-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bausch-lomb-owner-warburg-files-ipo-for-eye-care-company.html
Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc., the
maker of eye-care products owned by Warburg Pincus LLC, is
pursuing an initial public offering after efforts to sell the
company privately were said to falter.  The company said it seeks to raise $100 million. The amount
is a placeholder that may change. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are leading the sale, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday.  Warburg, which bought Bausch & Lomb in a 2007 leveraged
buyout, is moving ahead with the IPO after private bids fell
short of its $10 billion asking price, people familiar with the
situation said earlier this year. Warburg joins private-equity
firms such as Apollo Global Management LLC and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP in using the public market this year to begin
exiting investments made during history’s biggest buyout boom.  “When the markets are good, it’s a good time to bring
IPOs,” Tim Cunningham, who helps oversee $88 billion at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve been in a really big rally, and in these
kinds of markets, you tend to see more deals. It wouldn’t
surprise me if we had a bunch more coming in the next few
weeks.”  The Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen to all-time
highs this month, bolstered by cash inflows to equity mutual
funds. That has helped Apollo-owned Norwegian Cruise Line
Holdings Ltd., THL-backed West Corp. and Madison Dearborn
Partners LLC’s Boise Cascade Co. complete IPOs since the
beginning of this year.  Warburg Ownership  Warburg, based in New York, will continue to own stock
after the offering, the filing showed, without specifying how
many shares will be offered or at what price.  Bausch & Lomb, based in Rochester, New York, makes items
such as contact lenses and eye-care solutions. The company
generated $3 billion in 2012 sales, a 6.8 percent increase from
a year earlier, with more than 40 percent of the revenue coming
from North America, filings show. The net loss during the period
shrank to $68.3 million from $123.9 million a year earlier.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the 12 months through December totaled $429.5
million, according to the filing. Excluding the effects of items
such as stock-based compensation, acquisition-related costs and
an arbitration settlement, Ebitda was $643.1 million.  Long-term debt totaled $3.3 billion at the end of 2012, up
from $2.7 billion a year earlier, the company reported in the
filing.  Warburg, which took Bausch & Lomb private in a deal valued
at $4.6 billion including debt, is disposing of the investment
as the firm seeks to raise new cash from private-equity
investors. As of September, the firm was targeting a $12 billion
fund, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  A $10 billion sale would have given Warburg a more than 200
percent gain on its $1.7 billion equity investment in the 2007
buyout, people familiar with the matter said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  