-- Bayer, J&J’s Xarelto Wins EU Backing for Expanded Use
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-03-22T12:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bayer-j-j-s-xarelto-wins-eu-backing-for-expanded-use.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won
European backing to expand marketing of their blood-thinner
Xarelto to a group of heart-disease patients that U.S.
authorities have been reluctant to clear for use of the drug.  The European Medicines Agency’s drug advisory board today
recommended Xarelto be approved to prevent heart attacks and
strokes for people with acute coronary syndrome, a common
condition that occurs when a clot blocks blood supply to the
heart and can trigger a heart attack. The drug should be
approved at 2.5 milligram dose, the panel said today in a
 statement  on its website.  The decision comes after the Food and Drug Administration
refused to back Xarelto for acute coronary syndrome patients
this month, raising questions about the drug’s usefulness in
reducing risk. Acute coronary syndrome is one of many uses Bayer
and J&J have pursued for Xarelto; the drug is also marketed to
people with irregular heartbeats and to prevent blood clots
after hip and knee surgeries, and Bayer says it will probably
eventually bring in more than 2 billion euros ($2.59 billion) a
year in sales.  The European agency’s backing is recognition that Xarelto
“can help save lives” among heart-attack patients, Kemal Malik, head of global development for Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer, said in a statement.  While rates of bleeding, a feared side effect of blood
thinners, were higher in acute coronary syndrome patients who
took Xarelto, there wasn’t an increase in deadly hemorrhages in
the brain or elsewhere in the body, Bayer said.  Acute coronary syndrome results in hospitalization for
about 1.2 million people in the U.S. each year. Existing
treatments include  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta and  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Effient.  J&J owns rights to Xarelto in the U.S., while Bayer sells
the drug in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  