-- Beer Label Maker Flies Under Radar to Top TSX: Corporate Canada
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-03-22T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/beer-label-maker-flies-under-radar-to-top-tsx-corporate-canada.html
CCL Industries Inc. (CCL/B)  has more room
to rise after the maker of Heineken beer labels and Tide
detergent bottles posted the best return among Canadian stocks
this year.  CCL, the world’s largest maker of specialty labeling, has
surged 40 percent in 2013, the  best  among 239 members in the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index as of yesterday.  “This industry is very fragmented and these guys are the
300-pound gorilla,” said Luciano Orengo, a  fund manager  with
Manulife Asset Management Ltd. in Toronto, who helps manage
about C$1.4 billion ($1.37 billion) including CCL shares.  The 62-year-old company is benefiting from acquisitions and
a strengthening balance sheet which have helped its shares
double in the last two years, said Ben Jekic, an analyst with
Industrial Alliance Securities, based in Toronto. The company’s
total debt has  decreased  in each of the past four years, to
C$329 million at the end of 2012 from C$592.5 million in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CCL agreed in January to acquire two units of  Pasadena ,
California-based Avery Dennison Corp. for $500 million in cash.
An earlier $550 million deal between Avery Dennison and 3M Co.
fell apart due to U.S. competition concerns.  “The acquisition is a transformational deal for the
company,” said Mark Neville, an analyst with Scotia Capital
Markets, in a note to clients on the day the deal was announced.
“It significantly moves the needle, potentially moving the
company’s top line past C$2 billion.”  CCL reported revenue of C$1.31 billion in 2012.  Shares of CCL will jump 13 percent to C$68 over the next 12
months, according to the average  price target  of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Office Supplies  The two units, which produce office-supply products and
labels, had combined revenue of about $910 million and adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $110 million in 2012. CCL had  ebitda  of C$254.6 million in
2012, and has a market value of C$2.05 billion.  With the acquisition, CCL will get increased access to
office-supply markets in  North America  as well as in durable
goods, which includes labels for autos and electronics, said
Stephen MacLeod, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets.  “This is a stock that has flown under people’s radar,”
MacLeod said on the phone from Toronto. “It has a strong
presence as the largest label converter globally.”  The Willowdale, Ontario-based company  produces  custom
packaging for  Procter & Gamble Co ., Unilever NV,  Heineken NV (HEIA) ,
Pfizer Inc. and L’Oreal SA in 74 facilities around the world.
Products include pressure-sensitive labels for  beer bottles ,
aluminum aerosol spray cans for hair products, as well as labels
on prescription pill bottles.  CFL Player  The company, formed in 1951 by Gordon Lang, has 6,600
employees around the world. Donald Lang, son of the founder, is
a former CEO and remains executive chairman. He and his brother,
Stuart Lang, a former player with the Edmonton Eskimos of the
Canadian Football League, control the company through ownership
of about 94 percent of CCL’s Class A voting stock, according to
Bloomberg  data .  Still, some investors say the stock may be overvalued after
the recent rally.  “This stock has gotten ahead of itself, a lot of
expectations have been priced in, so I’d avoid it,”  Barry Schwartz , fund manager with Baskin Financial Services, said from
Toronto. Schwartz helps manage about C$500 million and doesn’t
hold CCL shares. “The earnings won’t be here today, they’ll be
here in two years, so it’s hard to see it go materially higher
until the deal closes.”  High Multiple  CCL’s price to earnings ratio of 21.2 is almost  double  that
of its closest competitor, Batavia, Ohio-based  Multi-Color
Corp. (LABL) , at 13.2 times earnings.  “It’s trading at a ridiculous multiple,” Schwartz said.  The company’s fourth-quarter  adjusted earnings  of 59 cents
a share missed analysts’ estimates of 60 cents. This was due in
part to a loss of 4 cents a share because of currency
translation, Neville said. The company conducts 95 percent of
its business outside  Canada .  With the  Avery Dennison  deal, CCL holds about 4 percent of
global market share, giving the company ample room for continued
growth and consolidation, Industrial Alliance’s Jekic said.  Market Share  “Longer term, I could see that number doubling, they could
pursue further acquisitions,” although CCL will need time to
integrate the Avery units, Jekic said. “They have a very
prudent strategy and a lot of relationships with very large
multinational companies. When they decide to move into an
emerging market, CCL follows them in.”  CCL has footholds in markets including  China ,  Thailand ,
 Vietnam ,  Russia  and  Brazil . The rest of South America is an
opportunity for further expansion, BMO’s MacLeod said.  Geoffrey Martin, CCL’s chief executive officer, was
unavailable for comment because he’s traveling in  South America ,
said Sean Washchuk, the chief financial officer.  “We do still have other tuck-in acquisitions in the
pipeline,” Martin said on a conference call on Feb. 21.  Baskin’s Schwartz described CCL as a recession-proof
business, making labels for home and health-care products that
consumers need. CCL is well-positioned to consolidate the
industry in the midst of a global economic recovery.  “It’s a stock I should’ve bought a few months ago,”
Schwartz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  