-- Bersani Wins President’s Mandate With Push for Berlusconi Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bersani-wins-president-s-mandate-with-push-for-berlusconi-deal.html
Pier Luigi Bersani won a mandate to
seek backing for Italy’s next government from the nation’s
president, who urged him to compromise with rival  Silvio Berlusconi .  Bersani, leader of the biggest bloc in parliament, will
become prime minister if he overcomes a shortfall in support in
the Senate, according to the mandate given to him late yesterday
by President Giorgio Napolitano. The votes Bersani lacks in the
upper house could be provided by Berlusconi, the former premier
who leads the second-largest contingent of lawmakers.  “I have always illuminated the need for wide agreement
among opposite sides on issues of general interest,” Napolitano
said in Rome as he announced Bersani’s mandate. “I insist on
the necessity of wide agreements of that kind to complement the
process of forming a government.”  A revival of the defunct partnership between  Italy ’s two
biggest political forces would be a reversal for Bersani. The
61-year-old former industry minister has repudiated the
austerity program he enacted last year in alliance with
Berlusconi and has criticized the billionaire for his criminal
convictions.  Bersani will speak with the leaders of rival forces in
coming days and report back to Napolitano to say whether he has
the backing to survive a confidence vote in the Senate. The
consultations will give Bersani the chance to widen his sweep
after he spent three weeks unsuccessfully lobbying for support
from Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the No. 3 Senate force.  Encourages Talks  “When I head into talks with the parties I will try to go
with pretty clear ideas, with few words, but with precise
intentions on the path to reform,” Bersani said at the
presidential palace, appearing before reporters after Napolitano
spoke. “I’m going to go with my ideas, naturally.”  Napolitano is nudging Bersani toward talks with Berlusconi
to resolve the impasse created by inconclusive parliamentary
elections last month. The president is seeking to oversee the
formation of a government without resorting to a return to the
polls. The fractious parliament must also find a compromise on a
successor for Napolitano, whose term ends in May. Italian
presidents are elected by lawmakers and serve seven-year terms.  “I don’t think in Italy the idea of Bersani cutting a deal
with Berlusconi would go down very well,” said  Marc Ostwald , a
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London .  Bond Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 7 basis points to 4.52
percent in Rome yesterday. That’s 7 basis points more than the
4.45 percent yield on Feb. 22, the last trading day before the
general election left Italy with a fractured parliament.  Napolitano said he recognized “deep, historic
differences” that may impede the creation of coalition
government. Still, the head of state encouraged Bersani to seek
broad consensus on issues such as political reform, foreign
policy and “institutional balances.”  Italy is under pressure to come up with a government as the
18-month recession drags on and the  crisis in Cyprus  renews
speculation of a euro breakup. The Feb. 24-25 general election
failed to produce a clear winner as voter disgust with budget
rigor fueled Grillo’s rise. His euro-skeptic Five Star won a
quarter of the popular vote and upset the traditional balance of
power, fracturing the electorate into three blocs.  Berlusconi, a three-time premier, is seeking to reassert
his influence over Italian politics as he fights to overturn two
criminal convictions and faces judgement in a trial in which he
stands accused of paying for sex with a minor.  “Bersani has to recognize that the elections left us with
three forces of equal size and one of these has refused to give
any sort of support to a government led by him,” Berlusconi
said an interview broadcast by Italian television station TG5
after Napolitano’s announcement. “It’s clear that if they don’t
involve our side of the political spectrum it won’t be possible
to assemble a majority.”  Berlusconi, 76, is free from prison pending appeals on his
tax-fraud and wiretapping convictions. The sex-with-minor case
also carries an allegation of abuse of power. He has denied all
charges and said the cases are politically motivated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  