-- Bersani Gets President’s Mandate to Try to Form Italy Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-22T17:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bersani-gets-president-s-mandate-to-try-to-form-italy-government.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, the ex-
communist and leader of  Italy ’s biggest political party, was
given a mandate by President Giorgio Napolitano to seek lawmaker
support for a new government.  “The mandate I am giving represents the first step,”
Napolitano said today after meeting Bersani at the presidential
palace in Rome. Bersani “is objectively in the most favorable
position to search for a solution, though it may be difficult,”
he said.  Bersani lacks a clear path to the parliamentary majority
needed to install a government and implement a program of
economic stimulus to pull the country from recession. The 61-
year-old former industry minister, who controls the lower house,
has struggled to entice rivals to give him the votes required in
the Senate to secure him the premiership.  Bersani, speaking after his appointment by Napolitano, said
he will “try to build a government that can generate the change
that Italians have been waiting for and that will produce the
necessary reforms that we haven’t been able to do until now.”  Italy is under pressure to come up with an administration
as the 18-month recession drags on and the  crisis in Cyprus 
renews speculation of a euro breakup. The Feb. 24-25 general
election was inconclusive as the rise of Beppe Grillo’s euro-
skeptic party upset the traditional balance of power and
fractured the electorate into three blocks.  Monti’s Legacy  Bersani is seeking to replace Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
the former university president who was brought to power in
November 2011 with an emergency mandate to impose fiscal
austerity and shield Italy from the  European debt crisis .  Bersani has been spurned repeatedly by Grillo’s forces and
has refused to renew his alliance with former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi , leader of the second-biggest parliamentary
force. Their defunct partnership burned the two leaders in the
election as voters repudiated the budget rigor they enacted last
year under Monti’s guidance.  “I think he will fail,”  Marc Ostwald  a strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in  London , said of Bersani’s chances at
finding a parliamentary majority. “If he does fails, I think as
long as there is some hope of a government of some sort able to
do something, markets will happy to sit on the sidelines.”  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 6 basis points to 4.53
percent at 5:17 p.m. in Rome before Napolitano’s announcement.
That’s 8 basis points more than the 4.45 percent yield on Feb.
22, the last trading day before the general election left Italy
with a fractured parliament.  Debt Load  The next government inherits mounting unemployment and a
$2.6 trillion  debt load , which requires more than 30 billion
($39 billion) euros of bond sales a month to finance. The
administration will also take responsibility for a country
ranked next-to-last in the  World Bank ’s ease-of-doing-business
survey of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development’s 31 high-income countries.  Italy’s next premier will seek to spur the economy by
easing the austerity imposed by Monti, Bersani and Berlusconi.
The European Union, in a nod to Italian voters, suggested this
month that budget deficit rules could be relaxed. Cuts to
payroll, income and corporate taxes and the elimination of
property levies on primary residences were proposals pushed by
various candidates during the campaign.  After easing the fiscal burden, the government will be
called on to formulate a series of reforms to break the cycle of
chronic recession that has plagued  Europe ’s fourth-largest
economy for more than a decade. Italy needs to enact laws to
speed lawsuits through the courts and ease restrictions on
firing employees, economists have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  