-- Bidvest Targets Drugs Market With Bid for Control of Adcock
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-03-22T15:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bidvest-offers-670-million-for-control-of-drugsmaker-adcock-1-.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  offered to pay
about 6.2 billion rand ($670 million) to amass a 60 percent
stake in  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  and take a stronger
foothold in the hospital products and medicines market.  Bidvest, which operates businesses from cleaning and car
sales to coal export terminals, offered to buy out shareholders
half in cash at 65 rand a share and half in shares at a ratio of
one Bidvest share for every four Adcock shares, Johannesburg-
based Adcock said in a statement today.  That values each Adcock share at 62.14 rand, a premium of
about 10 percent on the March 20 closing price, according to
Bloomberg calculations. The 60 percent stake includes the 2.54
percent Bidvest already owns, Adcock said.  Bidvest “will turn around the business as Adcock is
struggling a bit,” Hugan Chetty, an industrial analyst at
Johannesburg-based Afrifocus Securities Pty Ltd, said in a phone
interview. “Bidvest builds brands. They have quality brands in
the stable.”  Adcock rose as much as 12 percent and was up 9.3 percent at
61.40 rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, giving it a
market value of 10.8 billion rand. About 3.6 million shares
traded, or 7.5 times the three-month daily average. Bidvest,
which is also based in Johannesburg, fell 0.9 percent to 237.13
rand.  “This is definitely good news for Adcock,” Mathew Menezes, an equity analyst at Avior Research, said by phone from
Johannesburg. “Adcock needed a shareholder of reference, it
needed this catalyst.”  Medicines Demand  Adcock, which sells Panado painkillers and Corenza cold
medicine, said in November full-year earnings fell because of
rising production costs and a weaker rand. The company, which
was a unit of  Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS)  until 2008, has been expanding
in  Africa  as the continent’s demand for medicines grows.  Bidvest said earlier this month it expected to maintain
double-digit earnings growth in the first half of 2013 as the
economy improves. It offered to buy shares in household
appliance maker Amalgamated Appliance Holdings Ltd. last year
and also struck a deal in  Chile .  Further acquisitions of about 10 billion rand are “easily
achievable,” Bidvest Chief Executive Officer Brian Joffe said
in an interview on March 4.  Bidvest, the eighteenth-biggest company in the 166-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH) , earns most of its revenue and
profit outside  South Africa , according to its earnings statement
for the fiscal first half through December.  A spokeswoman for Adcock who works for Brunswick group
declined to comment beyond the statement when contacted by
phone. Bidvest’s Joffe said it was “too early” for any further
comment in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  