-- Bidvest Bids to Take Control of South Africa’s Adcock
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-03-22T09:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bidvest-bids-to-take-control-of-south-africa-s-adcock.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  offered to pay
about 6.2 billion rand ($670 million) to amass a 60 percent
stake in  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  and take a stronger
foothold in the hospital products and medicines market.  Bidvest, which operates businesses from cleaning and car
sales to coal export terminals, offered to buy out shareholders
half in cash at 65 rand a share and half in shares at a ratio of
one Bidvest share for every four Adcock, Johannesburg-based
Adcock said in a statement today.  That values each Adcock share at 61.63 rand, a premium of
about 9 percent on the March 20 closing price, according to
Bloomberg calculations. The 60 percent stake includes the 2.54
percent Bidvest already owns, Adcock said.  Adcock rose as much as 12 percent to 63.11 rand and was up
11 percent at 62.36 rand as of 11:34 a.m. in Johannesburg,
giving the company a market value of 10.9 billion rand. About
1.65 million shares traded, or 3.4 times the three month daily
average. Bidvest, which is also based in Johannesburg, fell 2.6
percent to 233.04 rand, the biggest decline in almost a month.  “This is definitely good news for Adcock,” Mathew Menezes, an equity analyst at Avior Research, said by phone from
Johannesburg. “Adcock needed a shareholder of reference, it
needed this catalyst.”  Adcock, which sells Panado painkillers and Corenza cold
medicine, said in November full-year earnings fell because of
rising production costs and a weaker rand. Adcock, which was a
unit of  Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS)  until 2008, has been expanding in
 Africa  as the continent’s demand for medicines grows.  Bidvest said earlier this month it expected to maintain
double-digit earnings growth in the first half of 2013 as the
economy improves. It offered to buy shares in household
appliance maker Amalgamated Appliance Holdings Ltd. last year
and also struck a deal in  Chile .  A spokeswoman for Adcock who works for Brunswick group
declined to comment beyond the statement when contacted by
phone. Bidvest Chief Executive Officer Brian Joffe said it was
“too early” for any further comment in an e-mailed response to
questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  