-- Biggest Crisis Since 2008 Looms for South African Mines: Energy
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-03-22T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/biggest-crisis-since-2008-looms-for-south-african-mines-energy.html
South Africa’s mining industry,
backbone of the continent’s biggest economy, is heading for its
worst electricity shortage in five years in a threat to platinum
and gold production and to the rand currency.  State-owned Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. is straining to meet
demand from a growing economy as consumption is set to swell
when the Southern Hemisphere winter drives the need for heat.
Faults at a nuclear power plant near Cape Town are crimping
supply, while imports are reduced because of flooding in
 Mozambique .  “We do see a significant risk of power shortages,” Shaun Nel, director at the Energy Intensive User Group of Southern
Africa, whose 32 members include the local units of  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  ArcelorMittal. (MT)  “We are seeing a significant number of
factors that point to a system in distress.”  A repeat of the January 2008 blackouts that halted  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  mines for five days and paralyzed factories would
imperil South Africa’s 2013 growth forecast of 2.7 percent. The
rand dropped to a four-year low this week, partly on concern
that disruptions to mining will cut exports from the holder of
the biggest-known reserves of platinum and chrome and fifth-
largest gold producer.  Eskom, generator of about 95 percent of the nation’s power,
estimated surplus capacity over peak demand for March 18 at 1.5
percent. That’s as thin as the margin was when the power cuts
struck five years ago, pushing gold and platinum prices to
records as Anglo,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Harmony Gold
Mining Co. (HAR)  halted operations.  Unplanned Works  While Eskom later revised that March 18 margin to 3.3
percent, it’s razor-thin compared with a level of as much as 17
percent in mid-December.  An average of about 10,800 megawatts, or 25 percent of
Eskom’s total capacity including imports from Mozambique, has
been unavailable this year because of maintenance, both planned
and unforseen, according to data from the Johannesburg-based
utility.  Eskom targets spare capacity of 15 percent. Peak power
demand of about 31,000 megawatts this week compares with the
more than 36,000 megawatts consumed at the height of last
winter. One megawatt is enough to power 500 to 1,000 U.S. homes.  “This winter will be a particular challenge,” Eskom Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Dames  said in an interview on
Johannesburg-based Talk Radio 702 on March 18. “I am concerned
about the increased unreliability.” Eskom said in a status
bulletin yesterday that “the system remains tight.”  Cape Town  Power failures may weigh on metals producer stocks. On Jan.
21, 2008, as Eskom reported that the electricity shortfall had
reached 2,500 megawatts, Anglo dropped 9.2 percent in
Johannesburg. Harmony Gold fell 4.9 percent, Impala dropped  6.2
percent and  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  6.3 percent.  The power producer is spending $55 billion to replace old
equipment and expand capacity. Faults at the Koeberg nuclear
plant north of Cape Town will keep it partly shut until April,
while imports from Mozambique have been cut by 50 percent.  The Medupi project, a 4,800-megawatt, 91.2 billion-rand
($9.8 billion) plant that was due to start output in September
2011, will be the world’s fourth-biggest coal-fired station once
complete. Medupi has been beset by delays, with labor unrest
resulting in a two-month construction shutdown this year.  “We’re going to remain in a significantly strained power
system until Medupi comes online,” said Nel of the Energy
Intensive User Group.  Coal Strikes  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest power-equipment maker,
on March 18 said it had asked for more time to complete work on
the project, adding to concerns that Medupi’s first unit won’t
start by its year-end deadline. Eskom said March 20 it had
written assurances from contractors that Medupi’s target date
will be met.  Labor unrest at Eskom fuel suppliers has added to concerns
that generation may be disrupted.  Strikes have halted output at six of 11 coal mines owned by
 Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , South Africa’s second-biggest producer of
the fuel, and curbed supply to some of Eskom’s power stations.
The utility burns coal for 80 percent of its generation, and
gets one fifth of its supplies from Exxaro.  “We are concerned about the impact which a sustained
strike could have on security of supply,” Hilary Joffe, an
Eskom spokeswoman, said in an e-mail on March 20. “We have more
than 48 days of coal stocks across the system.” That’s more
than the 39-day average at the end of March 2012, Eskom said in
its annual report. In early March 2008, stockpiles at Eskom’s 12
coal-fired plants ranged between 5.4 days and more than 20 days.  Winter Repairs  Unplanned shutdowns at Eskom plants mean the utility will
have to delay some maintenance to the winter months, when demand
from South African households is highest. There’s no avoiding
the maintenance work, Eskom’s Joffe said.  “We can’t not do it,” Joffe said. “We are approaching
the users. We have existing arrangements with big users to
reduce demand during peak periods and we are trying to augment
that.” Eskom has asked all South Africans to reduce their power
usage by 10 percent.  The company spent about 1.8 billion rand from mid-December
2011 to the end of May last year buying back more than 1,000
megawatts of power from industrial customers, especially in the
ferrochrome industry. Current agreements end between March and
May, Joffe said earlier this month.  Most of the Energy Intensive Users Group’s members have
maintained cutbacks to 90 percent of demand, as they were asked
to do in 2008, Nel said. “A lot of members have even declined
from there, based on increased electricity costs and weaker
global demand.”  Bayside Smelter  Impala Platinum, the world’s second-biggest producer of the
metal, said the utility has approached it about reducing demand
for electricity.  “We’re cutting power where we can,” Bob Gilmour, a spokesman, said by phone on March 19.  BHP Billiton in January 2008 mothballed two lines at the
Bayside aluminum smelter in Richards Bay on South Africa’s
northeastern coast to help stabilize power demand, and these
remain shut, spokeswoman Lulu Letlape said this week.  Eskom’s efforts to raise funds to pay for its expansion
program were curbed when the energy regulator on Feb. 28 gave
the utility permission to raise power prices by 8 percent in
each of the next five years starting April 1, half the annual
increase the company requested.  South Africans were confronted by average power-price
increases of 25 percent in each of the past six years to help
Eskom finance its spending.  Growth Goal  Africa’s largest economy expanded 2.5 percent in 2012, the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession, after a series of mining
strikes curbed output. That’s less than half the rate the
government says is needed to meet a goal to slash a 24.9 percent
unemployment rate. Mining’s contribution to gross domestic
product is about 5 percent. The National Treasury has forecast
GDP growth of 2.7 percent for this year.  The lack of certainty over power supplies may weigh on
mining companies’ ability to contribute to that growth by adding
new production sites.  “We are in a very energy-constrained environment at the
moment and there should be a lot of consultation between the
mines and Eskom,”  Clinton Duncan , an analyst at Avior Research
(Pty) Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg on March 20. “It is
very difficult for mining companies to envisage any growth or
expansion projects when you are severely limited in terms of
energy supply into your operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  