-- Billionaire Roekke Warns Detnor Aasen Costs May Hit Sverdrup
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-03-22T12:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/billionaire-roekke-warns-detnor-aasen-costs-may-hit-sverdrup-1-.html
Billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke, who
controls half of  Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR) , warned cost
overruns and production delays may limit the company’s ability
to fund the development of Norway’s biggest oil find in decades.  “Late start-up of oil production at the Ivar Aasen field
may have significant consequences for the funding of the Johan
Sverdrup development,” Roekke said in a letter to  Aker ASA (AKER) 
shareholders today. “I’m convinced that the development of Ivar
Aasen will be more expensive than budgeted, and that production
of first oil will occur later than planned. I probably should
keep quiet, but I can’t.”  Contracts for the Ivar Aasen field have been awarded to
companies including Italy’s  Saipam SpA (SPM)  and Singapore’s SMOE, a
unit of  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)  Roekke’s Aker, which owns 49.99
percent of Det Norske, fears the contractors don’t have the
experience necessary to build a platform for use on the
Norwegian continential shelf, the billionaire said.  “My greatest concern is that the topside for the Ivar
Aasen platform is to be built in the  Far East ,” he said in a
letter published in Aker’s annual report today. “That is well
outside my comfort zone.”  Roekke would have preferred contracts to have been awarded
to the Norwegian companies Kvaerner ASA and Aker Solutions ASA,
in which Aker holds stakes, he said.  Johan Sverdrup  Det Norske, based in Trondheim, has said the development of
Ivar Aasen may cost about 24.7 billion kroner ($4.2 billion).
The field, which is estimated to hold 150 million barrels of oil
equivalent, is scheduled to start production in the fourth
quarter of 2016.  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest energy company, has a 50
percent stake in Ivar Aasen, while Det Norske has 35 percent and
Bayerngas Norge AS 15 percent.  Det Norske also holds stakes in two of the three licenses
containing the  Johan Sverdrup  discovery, which could hold as
much as 3.6 billion barrels of oil and be the biggest find off
 Norway  since 1974.  Shares in Det Norske fell as much as 1.4 percent and traded
0.4 percent lower at 90.55 kroner as of 1:15 p.m. in Oslo. Aker
rose 0.2 percent to 218.5 kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  