-- Biogen’s Tecfidera MS Drug Wins EU Agency’s Backing
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-03-22T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/biogen-multiple-sclerosis-drug-wins-eu-agency-s-backing.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  won European Union
backing for Tecfidera, one of the first therapies for multiple
sclerosis available in an easy-to-take pill that analysts say
may generate $3.25 billion in annual sales.  Current MS drugs, including Biogen’s Avonex and Tysabri,
are given by injection or intravenous infusion, and patient
anticipation for Tecfidera may drive it to capture as much as 20
percent of the market within a year, according to  Eric Schmidt 
of Cowen & Co.  Sanofi (SAN) ’s oral MS drug, Aubagio, was also
recommended for marketing authorization today in Europe.  Biogen’s drug, formerly known as BG-12, will follow
Novartis AG’s Gilenya to the market in the EU as an oral option
for the treatment of MS. Because of its safety profile and
efficacy, Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen’s Tecfidera may
generate $3.25 billion by 2017, based on the average analyst
 estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  “This will probably be the No. 1 drug in MS,” said
 Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco , in a March 19 telephone interview. He recommends
buying Biogen shares.  Biogen rose less than 1 percent to $178 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares have increased 47 percent in the past 12
months.  Multiple Sclerosis  Multiple sclerosis affects an estimated 2.1 million people
worldwide, causing symptoms ranging from limb numbness to
blindness and paralysis, according to the  National Multiple
Sclerosis Society .  Biogen should be granted marketing authorization for the
drug, the  European Medicines Agency’s  Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use said in a statement today. The European
Commission usually follows the committee’s advice.  Biogen’s stock has doubled since April 2011, when the
company first reported positive data from a late-stage trial of
Tecfidera. The results were better than analysts and investors
had expected, and they were bolstered later that year with
results from a second trial, dubbed Confirm.  The most common form of MS is relapsing-remitting,
characterized by neurological attacks followed by periods of
recovery. The studies together showed that Tecfidera reduced
patients’ annual relapse rate by 49 percent when given either
twice a day or three times a day, and cut the proportion of
patients who relapsed by 43 percent at twice-daily dosing and 47
percent at three times daily compared with placebo.  Side Effects  Overall, side effects were similar across the placebo and
treatment groups, with the most common adverse events associated
with Tecfidera being flushing and gastrointestinal effects, the
company said.  A decision on Tecfidera is due from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration by March 28. The drug was delayed by the FDA in
October for three months without asking for additional studies.
The agency said it needed more time to review the application,
Biogen said.  Gilenya generated $1.2 billion in sales last year for
Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis. U.S. and European regulators
placed new safety precautions on the drug’s use last year after
a three-month review triggered by the deaths of 15 patients.
Doctors shouldn’t prescribe Gilenya to patients with a history
of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease or who take heart-
rate lowering medication, regulators said.  Gilenya Warning  Gilenya was approved in the U.S. in 2010 as the first oral
treatment for multiple sclerosis, and cleared for sale in  Europe 
in March 2011. It’s been known since the drug was approved that
patients taking it may experience heart-rhythm disorders or a
short-lived drop in their heart rates, and warnings about those
risks were included on the label, the EMA said.  Sanofi’s Aubagio already is approved in the U.S. Though the
drug has the advantage of being a pill, its “efficacy profile
is not that impressive versus other oral compounds,” Asthika Goonewardene, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries in  London ,
said in a telephone interview.  Analysts estimate Aubagio will have 2017 sales of 736
million euros ($953 million), while Gilenya sales are forecast
at $2.8 billion, based on the average estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Biogen may be able to start selling the drug soon in
 Germany , though it may take about a year for the company to
attain reimbursement agreements in other EU countries, said
 Brian Abrahams , an analyst with  Wells Fargo. (WFC)   “We, and we believe most others, expect timely approval of
BG-12 in the U.S. later this month,” Abrahams wrote in a
research note today. The EU recommendation is “a positive,
though generally expected development.”  For Related News and Information:
Biogen to Pay Elan $3.25 Billion for Full Rights to Tysabri  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  