-- BlackRock Hires Stewart as Co-Head of Alternatives Unit
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-03-22T20:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/blackrock-hires-stewart-as-co-head-of-alternatives-unit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, hired Credit Suisse Group AG’s Andy Stewart to
co-head the unit that runs real estate, hedge fund and private
equity fund-of-funds investments along with Matthew Botein,
according to a memo sent to employees.  Stewart will lead the business management and strategic
growth of BlackRock Alternative Investors, the New York-based
firm said in today’s memo. Stewart, 38, will report to President
 Robert Kapito  and Chief Operating Officer  Charles Hallac . Botein
will take on the additional role of chief investment officer for
alternatives, a broad category that includes assets whose
returns aren’t correlated with traditional stocks and bonds.  BlackRock has expanded into private equity, real estate,
energy and hedge funds as investors seek assets that provide
protection from global market swings. It has built its
alternatives business through  acquisitions , adding private
equity with its purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment
unit in 2006 and the hedge fund-of-funds business from Quellos
Group LLC in 2007. The firm in 2010 organized its alternative
products into a single group led by Botein. The unit manages
about $110 billion of BlackRock’s $3.79 trillion in assets.  “Since establishing BAI in mid-2010 to centralize and
advance our alternative-investment efforts, our focus is paying
off, with revenues increasing 11 percent in 2012,” Kapito and
Hallac said in the memo.  Botein’s Role  BlackRock will create a new division within the unit called
the alternative-solutions group, which will develop risk
analytics for clients of BlackRock Solutions, the group that
advises financial institutions and governments on hard-to-value
assets, according to the memo. Botein, who worked at private-
equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and hedge fund Highfields
Capital Management LP before joining BlackRock in 2009, will be
the lead portfolio manager for that group, which will be led by
Nugi Jakobishvili.  BlackRock’s alternatives unit includes investments in real
estate, infrastructure, structured products such as
collateralized loan obligations and funds of funds that farm out
money to private equity and hedge-fund managers. BlackRock today
named Carl Eifler as head of its direct hedge-fund group, which
isn’t part of the alternatives unit. Eifler will report to
Quintin Price, BlackRock’s head of alpha strategies, and Ken
Kroner, head of multi-asset strategies.  Exiting Buyouts  BlackRock plans to exit the direct private-equity investing
business as it focuses on its fund-of-funds unit, a move that
will lead to the departures of Nathan Thorne, George Bitar and
Mandy Puri, said  Brian Beades , a spokesman. The firm had hired
the former Merrill Lynch team in 2011.  “We had a very strong direct private-equity team, but
given our clients are looking to us for other fund-of-fund
solutions, we are going to transition out of the direct PE
business,” Beades said in an e-mail.  BlackRock last year acquired the fund-of-funds unit from
Swiss Re Ltd., which invests client money in private-equity
partnerships. That acquisition helped BlackRock double assets in
private-equity funds-of-funds to $15 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said during a
conference call with analysts and investors on Jan. 17 that
BlackRock expects to see growth in appetite for alternative
products and funds that provide a stream of income. The firm has
also introduced hedge-fund-like products for retail investors,
he said. Such retail products have attracted $1 billion in cash
since the first of them was launched in 2011.  At Credit Suisse, Stewart was responsible for developing
and expanding the “liquid alternatives business,” which
included  hedge funds , fund-of-funds, index products, credit and
commodities. Before joining Credit Suisse in 2010, Stewart was
president and chief operating officer in the U.S. for Man
Investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  