-- Boeing Faulted by NTSB for Comments on 787 Battery Fix
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-22T02:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/boeing-faulted-by-ntsb-for-comments-on-787-battery-fix.html
U.S. officials rebuked  Boeing Co. (BA) 
for comments its executives made at a media briefing on plans to
get the grounded 787 Dreamliner flying again.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  said Boeing didn’t
inform investigators about what it planned to say in the March
15 briefing in  Tokyo , which is “inconsistent with our
expectations” from a company involved in an accident probe,
agency General Counsel David Tochen wrote in a letter yesterday.  The letter signals tension in an investigation with high
stakes for Boeing, which is trying to limit damage to the image
of its high-efficiency plane once it’s cleared to fly.  “The NTSB’s primary concern is that during their March 15
briefing in Tokyo on the modifications to the 787 battery
system, Boeing representatives provided their own analysis and
conclusions regarding an ongoing NTSB investigation,”  Kelly Nantel , an safety board spokeswoman, said in a statement.  The agency stopped short of restricting Boeing’s access to
its investigation into a Jan. 7 fire in  Boston  involving the
lithium-ion battery on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  plane.  A second incident on an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  plane, in
which a battery overheated and emitted fumes, prompted the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration to ground the 787 on Jan. 16.  “We have received the correspondence, and remain fully
committed to support the NTSB and other regulatory authorities
in their investigations into the cause of the 787 battery
incidents, and also continue our around-the-clock efforts to
return the 787 fleet to service,” said  Marc Birtel , a Boeing
spokesman.  Briefing Comments  Boeing officials at the briefing in Tokyo said their
proposed design changes to the Dreamliner’s battery systems may
allow commercial flights to restart within weeks, pending the
FAA’s approval. While the NTSB is investigating the incidents,
it doesn’t have authority over flights.  Mike Sinnett, vice president and chief project engineer for
the 787, said that the NTSB’s preliminary findings on the Jan. 7
fire in Boston indicated there hadn’t been flames within the
battery case.  “It was widely reported that there were flames, explosions
and fires,” Sinnett said. Referring to the agency’s initial
findings, he said: “In the factual report you can see that the
only report of flame was two small three-inch flames on the
front of the battery box on the connector. There were no flames
inside the battery.”  When asked about the comments the next day,  Peter Knudson ,
a safety board spokesman, said investigators hadn’t ruled out
fire within the battery case.  Short Circuits  U.S. investigators have found evidence of short circuits
inside the Boston battery. They haven’t found the reason for the
shorts.  The NTSB, which has limited staff, relies on the expertise
of the companies and labor unions affected by its
investigations. Those groups, called “parties” in the
investigation, must agree to cooperate with the agency and to
provide all information requested.  In addition, these parties sign a legal form saying they
“must refrain from providing opinions or analysis of the
accident.”  In some previous cases, the NTSB has gone so far as to
throw participants off an investigation for violating its rules.
In December 2010, the safety board removed American Airlines
Inc. from an investigation into a runway accident in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , two days earlier.  American had taken one of the plane’s two crash-proof
recorders and downloaded its contents prior to turning the
device over to the agency, according to a press  release .  In addition to working with the NTSB on the Boston case,
Boeing is also a technical adviser to the U.S. agency in the
Japan incident under a United Nations treaty governing
international investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  