-- BofA’s Montana Said to Be Among 30 Cuts in Sales, Trading
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-03-22T15:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bofa-s-montana-said-to-be-among-30-dismissals-in-sales-trading.html
Bank of America Corp .’s Matthew  Montana , who ran international equities trading from  New York ,
was among more than 30 trading and sales employees dismissed
this month, people with direct knowledge of the moves said.  Montana, a managing director, was among staff targeted as
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender sought to reduce
compensation costs, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the moves weren’t announced.  Wall Street firms are shrinking expenses amid a slump in
stock transactions. Bank of America’s revenue from equities
sales and trading declined 24 percent last year to $3 billion,
while fixed-income, currency and commodities trading sales were
almost unchanged at $8.8 billion. Co-Chief Operating Officer
Thomas K. Montag, 56, oversees the trading and investment-
banking divisions of the second-biggest U.S. lender.  “In  capital markets , that’s where technology has really
hit the equity business, and as the business gets smaller,
there’s less room for managing directors,” said Richard Lipstein, managing director of New York-based recruiting firm
Gilbert Tweed International.  The bank also eliminated a position held by Matthew Unsworth, head of Australian equities in Sydney, a person with
knowledge of that decision said earlier this month. Equities
trading, sales and risk personnel in  Australia  will now report
to managers in  Hong Kong , the person said.  Industry Cuts  Harvey Potter, a salesman on the bank’s distressed debt
desk for almost three years, also left this month, said one of
the people. Potter, who spent more than a decade in distressed
debt sales at firms including Bear Stearns Cos. and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Morgan Stanley will eliminate about 1,600  investment
banking  and support jobs, or about 6 percent of the firm’s
institutional securities group, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in January. Citigroup Inc. said in December it would
cut 11,000 jobs and exit some markets, while UBS AG said in
October that it would fire 10,000 workers and largely exit
fixed-income trading.  Bank of America Chief Executive Office  Brian T. Moynihan ,
53, has leaned more heavily on retail banking than trading for
headcount reductions as he seeks to trim $8 billion in annual
costs. The lender cut staff by 14,601 people last year and had
267,190 workers at the end of 2012.  Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America spokeswoman, and Montana
didn’t comment on the changes when reached by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  