-- Bosch Quits $2.6 Billion Solar Foray in Week of Suntech Failure
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-03-22T17:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bosch-quits-2-6-billion-solar-foray-in-week-of-suntech-failure.html
Robert Bosch GmbH, the biggest car-
parts maker, abandoned a near $2.6 billion foray into solar-
power equipment just days after the industry’s biggest corporate
collapse as a global production glut led to slumping prices.  The Stuttgart-based company will stop making solar ingots,
wafers, cells and panels early next year and try to sell assets
“as soon as possible,” Chief Executive Officer Volkmar Denner
said, as Bosch cannot see a way to restore its competitiveness.
The company’s solar division employs about 3,000 people.  The decision, in the week  Suntech Power Holdings (STP)  Co. began
bankruptcy proceedings, underscores how a flood of output backed
by Chinese state banks has eviscerated the industry’s ability to
generate returns. The collapse of Solyndra LLC in 2011 was
followed by bankruptcies of solar companies including Q-Cells
SE, previously the biggest photovoltaic cell producer.  Solar panel prices fell by half in 2011 and dropped another
24 percent last year, hurting Bosch and its peer  Solarworld AG. (SWV)   “The solar industry consolidation continues, and is far
from over,” Jenny Chase, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance solar
analyst, said by e-mail. While component prices are beginning to
pick up in early 2013, and the possibility of imposing import
tariffs may add to those gains, “it’s unlikely that this would
be enough to put Bosch’s solar production back in the black.”  The company had been reviewing its solar unit since last
year and in January posted 1.05 billion euros of charges and
losses from the operations. It plans to sell a 90.7 percent
stake in  Aleo Solar AG (AS1)  and a module plant in Venissieux, France.
It has scrapped plans to build a factory in Malaysia.  “We have considered the latest technological advances,
cost-reduction potential, and strategic alignment,” Denner said
in a  statement . “There have also been talks with potential
partners. However, none of these possibilities resulted in a
solution for the Solar Energy division that would be
economically viable over the long term.”  Bosch will for now keep developing solar thin-film
technology at Bosch Solar CISTech GmbH in Brandenburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  