-- BP to Buy Back $8 Billion of Shares With TNK-BP Sale Cash
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-03-22T16:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/bp-to-buy-back-8-billion-of-shares-after-completing-tnk-bp-sale.html
BP Plc (BP/)  will buy back $8 billion of
shares from investors after completing the sale of 50 percent of
Russian oil producer TNK-BP.  BP’s first buyback since 2008 will return the original
amount invested in the venture 10 years ago, the London-based
company said in a statement today. The sum is twice as much as
Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary signaled last year would
be enough to offset earnings per share lost from selling the
stake in  Russia ’s third-largest producer.  The deal to sell out of TNK-BP gives Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley a fresh start in Russia after a fractious 10-
year partnership with a group of billionaires. BP shares have
slumped since the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the company
faces fines after a trial in  New Orleans .  “This shows confidence for BP,” said Iain Reid, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  London . “It makes them more
shareholder-friendly, but I don’t think they’ll recover their
luster until the Macondo trial is over.”  BP rose 1.9 percent to 457.7 pence in London, the highest
since Feb. 12.  After selling its TNK-BP stake to  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , BP will
become the second-biggest investor in Russia’s largest oil
company with a 19.8 percent shareholding. Following the buyback,
which will take eight to 12 months to complete, BP will retain
$4.5 billion in cash from the deal.  Next Phase  “We have released cash equivalent to six years of BP’s
anticipated future dividends from TNK-BP,” Dudley said in the
statement. “BP is moving on to the next phase of its business
in Russia.”  TNK-BP, which accounted for about a quarter of BP’s output
and a fifth of its reserves, paid the company $19 billion in
dividends since it was formed in 2003. BP’s initial investment
in the venture was $8 billion.  Dudley said yesterday that BP and Rosneft are looking at
offshore projects in Russia to work on together.  In the U.S., there’s still a risk that BP could be found
grossly negligent for the 2010 spill, which would bring maximum
Clean Water Act fines of more than $17 billion. The trial over
liability for the disaster began Feb. 25. Judge  Carl Barbier 
will determine responsibility for the disaster and whether one
or more of the companies involved acted with willful or wanton
misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal requirement for
establishing gross negligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  