-- Brazil Ethanol Tax Cut Won’t Be Enough to End Sugar Surplus
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-03-22T17:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/brazil-ethanol-tax-cut-won-t-be-enough-to-end-sugar-oversupplies.html
An ethanol tax cut in  Brazil , the
world’s largest sugar producer, won’t be enough to avoid a
fourth annual surplus for the sweetener.  Sugar production in Brazil’s center south in 2013-14 will
be 34 million metric tons with a tax cut or 35.2 million tons
without a cut, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of six mill owners who make a third of the area’s supply.
Center south output, the world’s top producing region, was an
all-time high of 34.1 million tons last year.  Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff  plans to cut federal taxes
on ethanol to rein in consumer prices, a government official
with knowledge of the discussions said this month. Mills can
switch production from cane to sugar or ethanol. Global sugar
output will outpace demand by 3.8 million tons in the 2013-14
season that starts in April after a surplus of 7.6 million tons
this season, Brisbane, Australia-based researcher Green Pool
Commodity Specialists Pty. says.  “The tax cut is welcome, but will have limited impact on
the market,” Plinio Nastari, president of Barueri, Brazil-based
research company Datagro Ltd., told reporters in Sao Paulo on
March 19.  Sugar Slump  Raw sugar prices have dropped 6.8 percent on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York  this year, after falling 39 percent the past
two years because of surpluses. A third annual decline would be
the longest slump since 1992. Prices jumped 4.7 percent in the
week ended March 8 on speculation of ethanol tax cuts.  Brazil is preparing tax breaks on ethanol which include
lower payments and the possibility of converting the amount paid
into credit, two people with knowledge of the plan told
Bloomberg in a story March 1. The changes may be announced
before sugar cane starts getting to mills in April, one of the
people said. Tax cuts may make the biofuel more competitive,
encouraging mills to divert more cane to ethanol, according to
Patricia Luis-Manso, an analyst at Lausanne, Switzerland-based
researcher Kingsman SA, owned by The  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)   “The reduction of taxes on ethanol has the potential to
cut center south sugar production by as much as one million
tons,” Ivan Melo, a commercial director at Raizen, a joint
venture of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio, said by phone on March 19. “What will really
determine how much cane gets directed to ethanol this season
will be the price, if ethanol is above or below sugar.”  Ethanol Premium  Ethanol prices topped sugar on Feb. 7 for the first time
since April 2011, Kingsman data show. The price of hydrous
ethanol, the 100 percent biofuel used in flex fuel cars, was at
19.41 cents a pound on March 20, 5.8 percent more than raw sugar
futures that day, according to Kingsman. It was down to 18.9
cents a pound today, Kingsman said.  The biofuel tax may be
lowered to 30 reais ($14.90) a cubic meter (35 cubic feet) from
120 reais a cubic meter now, broker J. Safra Corretora in  Sao
Paulo  said in report on March 8.  Sugar cane output in Brazil’s center south will rise to a
record 587 million tons in 2013-14, up 10 percent from the
previous crop year, Datagro estimates. Global sugar supplies
will climb to 184.2 million tons in 2012-13 amid increasing
production from Brazil and  India , the world’s leading producers,
Czarnikow Group Ltd. forecast on March 20. That is up from 179
million tons in the previous 12-month period, the London-based
company said.  Tip Balance  “At this moment, it’s as attractive to produce sugar as it
is to produce ethanol,” Luiz Carlos Correa Carvalho, a director
at Alto Alegre mill, said in a telephone interview from
Piracicaba, Brazil, on March 15. “This measure could tip the
balance in favor of ethanol.”  About 46.3 percent of the cane harvested this year will be
used to make sugar, down from 49.6 percent a year earlier,
Kingsman’s Luis-Manso said. While the tax cut will probably help
boost ethanol demand at the pump, it’s still unclear how much of
it will be passed on to the consumer, she said.  Ethanol has been losing market share in Brazil over the
past three years to gasoline, more than 10 percent of which is
being imported and sold at a loss by state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , known as Petrobras, according to Salim Morsy, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Sao Paulo office.
Lower ethanol prices have squeezed millers’ margins and
investments in new ethanol projects fell from a peak of $6.4
billion in 2008 to $256 million last year, Morsy said.  A reduction in ethanol taxes would add to other steps
already taken to boost demand for the biofuel. Brazil plans to
increase the amount of anhydrous ethanol blended into gasoline
to 25 percent from 20 percent, effective in May. It also allowed
Petrobras to boost gasoline prices at refineries by 6.6 percent,
making ethanol more competitive.  “The cane allocation to sugar will be lower than last
year, given the increase in the inclusion rate in the blend,
higher gasoline prices and better returns from hydrous
ethanol,” said Peter de Klerk, a London-based analyst at
Czarnikow, which traded sugar in over 90 countries in 2011.
“Nevertheless the record cane crop could see a similar volume
of sugar production if all goes well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  