-- Brazil Gold Bar Allure Puts Beadell in Play: Real M&A
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-03-22T07:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/brazil-gold-bar-allure-puts-beadell-in-play-real-m-a.html
A remote mine in northern  Brazil  is
set to produce gold so cheaply that its Australian owner  Beadell
Resources Ltd. (BDR)  could prove irresistible to a buyer.  Three months after pouring its first gold bar at the Tucano
mine in Amapa, Beadell predicts the mine this year will become
Brazil’s third-largest producer of the metal. With the benefits
of low taxes and labor expenses, the Perth-based company plans
to churn out bullion for 32 percent less than the average cost
among peers worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The low costs are so appealing that Beadell could fetch 20
percent more than its  A$623 million  ($650 million) market value
in a sale, said Hartleys Ltd. The mine, expected to yield about
200,000 ounces of gold in 2013, may attract bids for Beadell
from  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , which both
have operations in Brazil, according to Ord Minnett Ltd.  Beadell’s production target “attracts the attention of
some very, very serious players, when you get into that kind of
territory,”  James Wilson , an analyst at RBS Morgans Ltd. in
Perth, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a very good
target.”  Beadell’s  stock surged  19 percent on March 8, and then the
Australian Financial Review reported that there was speculation
a takeover bid from  North America  was imminent. The company said
later the same day it wasn’t aware of such an offer.  The shares climbed 8.3 percent to 91 cents in Sydney today,
the most in two weeks. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2
percent.  Australian Explorer  “We haven’t had any specific approaches,” Chief Financial
Officer Gregory Barrett said March 20 in an interview in  Hong
Kong . “But we’re a pragmatic board. If companies approach us
and put an offer on the table that we think is reasonable to
take to shareholders, we’ll take it to them.”  Named after Australian explorer Leonard Beadell, the
company also owns the Tropicana East deposit in Western
 Australia , where an exploration campaign is planned for the
second quarter of this year. Beadell’s biggest asset is Tucano,
which covers 2,500 square kilometers (1,554 square miles) in a
Brazilian state mostly comprising unexplored Amazon rainforest.  In addition to gold, Tucano holds  iron ore , which Beadell
has agreed to sell to the nearby Anglo Ferrous Amapa Mineracao
Ltda. Beadell will sell iron-ore concentrate, as well as the
iron ore in the gold pit.  That will generate revenue from what would otherwise partly
be mining waste, Andrew Shearer, an analyst at PhillipCapital in
 Melbourne , said by phone.  Cash Costs  “You’re not only getting the cost benefit, you are getting
some revenue,” Shearer said. Tucano’s low costs, production
forecasts and its 5.1 million-ounce resource “would make
Beadell an attractive target,” he said.  Business conditions are also working in Beadell’s favor. In
a stock exchange filing on March 20, Beadell said it’s paying a
corporate tax rate of 15.75 percent in Brazil. That’s almost
half the company tax  rate  in Australia.  Beadell said it’s also benefiting from labor costs in
Brazil, where average personal income in January was about $906.
That compares with an average monthly wage of $6,310 in
Australia, according to the latest data from the government.
About 40 percent of the gold industry’s costs are tied to labor,
 Greg Robinson , chief executive officer of  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,
Australia’s largest gold producer, said at a March 20 briefing
in Hong Kong.  After accounting for the iron ore-related income, Beadell
expects to produce gold at Tucano for a cash cost of as little
as $450 an ounce, said CFO Barrett. That’s 32 percent lower than
the $657 average in 2012 at 17 peers including  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM) , the world’s second-biggest producer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  AngloGold, Kinross  Tucano’s scale and production costs will make Beadell
appealing to companies including AngloGold Ashanti and Toronto-
based Kinross, said  David Brennan , an analyst at Ord Minnett. He
has a stock-price target of A$1.53 a share for Beadell, valuing
it at A$1.14 billion, or 83 percent more than its market value
yesterday. Beadell shares have already gained 32 percent inthe
last year.  “It looks quite cheap if its earnings per share come out
as we think,” Brennan, who is based in Sydney, said in a phone
interview. “In that sense, it’s attractive to larger gold
producers.”  With analysts expecting Beadell to report adjusted earnings
of  A$144 million , or 19 cents a share, this year, the stock is
trading at just 4.4 times that forecast, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s cheaper than 96 percent of the world’s
precious-metals mining companies with a market value of more
than $500 million, the data show.  Acquisition Spending  AngloGold Ashanti , with  $892 million  in cash as of
December, said last year it was discussing potential
acquisitions, and smaller mines with large growth prospects held
particular interest. In Brazil, the Johannesburg-based company
 produced  388,000 ounces of gold last year at its biggest mine,
AngloGold Ashanti Mineracao, for total cash costs of $696 an
ounce.  Kinross, with $1.98 billion in cash, owns the Paracuta open
pit mine in Brazil. The company has spent $9.4 billion on 13
acquisitions in the past five years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Paracuta produced about 457,000 ounces of gold in
2012 at a cost of $881 an ounce, data on Kinross’s  website  show.  Louie Diaz, a spokesman for Kinross, declined to comment on
whether the company would be interested in acquiring Beadell.
Stewart Bailey, a spokesman for AngloGold Ashanti, didn’t
respond to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment.  Recently, gold producers have been more likely to reduce
the value of their gold assets than acquire new ones.  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer, on Feb. 14 announced a
$3 billion writedown on a Zambian mine it bought in 2011.
Kinross announced the same month a $3.09 billion writedown at
the Tasiast gold project, an African mine acquired in 2010.  Gold Bulls  Investors have become weary of operational setbacks and
soured takeovers. The  FTSE Gold Mines Index (FTMIGMI) , which tracks the
performance of 27 companies worldwide focused on gold mining,
has lost  25 percent  in the past year. Gold itself has dropped
2.2 percent, and fetched $1,615 an ounce yesterday.  Still, as central banks boost the supply of money in the
world’s largest economies, gold will resume a  bull market  that’s
run since 2001, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “Accommodative monetary policy has been a mainstay of the
gold rally, and until that policy changes, we believe the bull
market will remain intact,” HSBC analyst  James Steel  wrote in a
March 18 report. “We remain bullish.”  ‘Attractive Asset’  Gold prices will average $1,740 an ounce in 2013, $1,750
the following year and $1,600 in 2015, according to the median
of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  With the Tucano mine in Brazil, where the risk of doing
business is lower than in many African countries where gold is
also mined, Beadell may draw bids that are 20 percent higher
than its market value, Trent Barnett, a Perth-based analyst at
Hartleys, said by phone.  “At that level, the buyer, who presumably thought gold
prices would remain strong, would be getting a pretty good
deal,” he said. “It’s an attractive asset given the low
production cost, a potential mine life of 12 years, and the
potential of finding more gold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  