-- WTI Advances to Narrow Brent Discount to Eight-Month Low
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-22T12:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/brent-oil-premium-to-wti-drops-to-lowest-level-in-eight-months.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
to narrow its discount versus Brent to the lowest level in eight
months. The European benchmark was headed for a second weekly
decline.  WTI advanced as much as 0.7 percent, paring its first
weekly decline in three, as the euro strengthened against the
dollar amid speculation the banking  crisis in Cyprus  will be
contained. Cypriot lawmakers start a debate today on ways to
unlock bailout funds to avoid a financial collapse.  Libya  shut
two oil fields because of fighting, according to a report
yesterday from the state LANA news agency.  “We do not think that risk appetite has necessarily
deteriorated,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London , who forecasts that
Brent will average $114 a barrel this quarter. “Once the Cyprus
issue is resolved and ultimately it will have to be resolved,”
crude is likely to strengthen, he said.  WTI for May delivery gained as much as 63 cents to $93.08 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $92.84 at 12:38 p.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded was 53 percent below the 100-day
average. The contract slid $1.05 to close at $92.45 yesterday.
Prices are down 0.7 percent this week.  Brent for May settlement was at $107.63 a barrel, up 16
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
volume of all futures traded was 4 percent above the 100-day
average for the time of day. The grade has lost 2 percent this
week. The European benchmark’s premium to WTI fell as low as
$14.57, the narrowest since July.  Brent Bottom  “Brent is in a weak situation and, on the other side, WTI
is rangebound,” said  Ken Hasegawa , an energy-trading manager at
Newedge Group in  Tokyo . “There’s still a lot of uncertainty
over the euro-zone debt situation, so we can’t confirm a bottom
for  Brent crude . It might continue to decline next week.”  Europe’s shared currency climbed against 15 of its 16 major
peers with Cypriot lawmakers scheduled to debate legislation to
help the country obtain a bailout and stave off financial
collapse. Marios Mavrides, a lawmaker with Cyprus President
Nicos Anastasiades’s ruling Disy party, said the government must
pass the bill to protect the island nation.  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil, will cut shipments
by 0.2 percent through early April as maintenance at refineries
in Asia peaks, according to a weekly report from Oil Movements,
a tanker tracker.  Exports will fall to 23.72 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to April 6, Oil Movements said. The figures exclude
Angola and Ecuador. Middle East shipments will drop 0.2 percent
to 17.37 million barrels a day in the period, the report also
showed. That figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  Emergency Loans  Cyprus is trying to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion)
needed to trigger emergency loans from the  European Central Bank 
to avoid a financial crisis. The country became in June the
fifth euro-area nation to request a rescue. The European Union
accounted for 16 percent of the world’s oil consumption in 2011,
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy shows.  WTI will probably fall next week on concern that slower
European growth will weaken the  U.S. economy  and curb fuel
demand, a Bloomberg survey showed. Fifteen of 31 analysts, or 48
percent, forecast crude will drop through March 29. Nine
respondents, or 29 percent, predicted a gain. Seven said there
would be little change.  Brent has declined this week even as state-run LANA
reported that Libya shut oil fields in Zalaa, citing Ahmed al-
Mismari, a spokesman for  border patrol  and oil-facilities
guards. Armed clashes took place at an oil field owned by
Libya’s Waha Oil Co. this week after unidentified gunmen
attacked security forces at the facility, Egypt’s state-run
Middle East News reported March 19, citing company officials.  China ’s crude stockpiles fell 2.9 percent in February,
according to the China Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals newsletter
published by the official Xinhua News agency. Inventories slid
to 28 million tons, or 205 million barrels, the lowest level in
a year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  