-- California Lawmakers Offer Plans to Halt Fracking
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-03-22T20:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/california-lawmakers-offer-plans-to-halt-fracking.html
California  lawmakers introduced
legislation to impose a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing to
produce oil and natural gas until the state deals with public-
health and environmental concerns.  Three measures, offered in the state Assembly this week,
are the first to arrive this year that would halt fracking and
follow regulations proposed in December by the state
Conservation Department. California’s Monterey Shale formation
contains an estimated 15.4 billion barrels of recoverable oil.  “It shocks me that we pride ourselves on being a national
leader on environmental protection, yet we have allowed this
activity to occur largely unregulated,” Assemblyman Richard Bloom, a Santa Monica Democrat, said in a statement. His bill
would halt fracking until oversight rules are put in place.  Fracking, a drilling technique that forces millions of
gallons of water, sand and chemicals deep underground into rock
formations trapping oil and gas, has come under fire from
environmentalists as a threat to wells and reservoirs.
California -- the fourth-largest oil-producing state -- is
working on industry-backed standards to allow it.  New York  and
 New Jersey  have banned fracking until rules are set to protect
public health, according to a state Senate report last month.  Los Angeles-area Assembly members Adrin Nazarian, of East
San Fernando Valley, and Holly Mitchell of  Culver City , offered
legislation that would ban fracking and require state regulators
to determine by Jan. 1, 2019, whether and under what conditions
fracking can be permitted.  About 100,000 people in California worked in oil and gas
production in 2009, generating about $5.8 billion in revenue
from excise and income taxes, according to the Senate report.
Developing the Monterey Shale may mean 2.8 million more jobs and
$24.6 billion in state and local revenue by 2020, according to a
report from the University of  Southern California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 