-- Canada Stocks Erase Gains as BlackBerry Tumbles on Sales Concern
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-03-22T21:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/canada-stocks-rise-amid-oil-rally-blackberry-z10-u-s-debut.html
Canadian  stocks  erased gains as the
biggest plunge in BlackBerry shares in five weeks overshadowed
speculation that Cyprus will reach a deal to prevent a financial
collapse.  BlackBerry fell 8.1 percent after analysts raised concern
about sales of its Z10 smartphone. Walter Energy Inc. rose 2.7
percent after saying it will close two mines to cut costs. Royal
Bank of  Canada  and Bank of Nova Scotia gained at least 0.5
percent. Lululemon Athletica Inc. fell 3.7 percent after Credit
Agricole lowered its rating on shares of the yoga-clothing
maker.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 9.48 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 1,2757.35 at 4 p.m. in Toronto,
paring earlier gains of as much as 0.6 percent. The S&P/TSX fell
0.6 percent this week, a second weekly decline. Trading volume
was 20 percent lower than the 30-day average.  BlackBerry plunged 8.1 percent to C$15.19 for the biggest
decline since Feb. 13. The shares rose as much as 4.2 percent
earlier. The Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker began
selling its latest product, the Z10, in the U.S. today, two
months after its debut in other countries.  Ahead of the U.S. debut, analysts with Deutsche Bank AG
checked inventory in the U.K. and Canada. Sales have been slow
and store employees aren’t promoting the devices, the firm said
in a report.  European and Cypriot officials are negotiating a solution
to avert a financial collapse in the island nation after  Russia 
spurned a bid for a loan and German lawmakers dismissed a rescue
proposal.  Cyprus Deal  Averof Neofytou, deputy president of Cyprus’s ruling Disy
party, said he believes lawmakers will reach a deal today. The
European Central Bank will withdraw funding from Cyprus’s
lenders next week if the two sides fail to come to an agreement.  Royal Bank of Canada rose 1 percent to C$61.37, its biggest
gain in four weeks. Scotiabank climbed 0.6 percent to C$59.45,
and Toronto-Dominion added 0.4 percent to C$83.96.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty yesterday released a fiscal
plan that eliminates the country’s deficit in two years. The
proposal limits spending growth to the slowest pace since the
1990s and relies on an accelerated recovery. The world’s 11th-
largest economy is expanding at the weakest rate since emerging
from recession in 2009.  Lululemon (LLL) , the yoga retailer that recalled see-through
pants, slumped 3.7 percent to C$63.80, the lowest since August.
Huei Suen Ng, analyst with Credit Agricole Securities, cut the
stock’s rating to a sell on concerns the company is making
mistakes as it accelerates global store openings.  “Until Lululemon solves its execution problems, we do not
think it makes sense to own the stock,” Ng said in a note to
clients after the close of regular trading yesterday.  Walter Energy, a Birmingham, Alabama-based metallurgical
coal producer, advanced 2.7 percent to C$30.26 after announcing
it will close mines in  Alabama  and British Columbia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  