-- Canada Dollar Gains for Third Day as Oil Rises on Risk Appetite
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-22T21:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/canadian-dollar-declines-versus-euro-as-cyprus-debates-bailout.html
Canada ’s dollar gained for a third
day against its U.S. counterpart as commodities rose amid
speculation Cyprus is moving closer to a deal to stave off
financial collapse, improving investor appetite for risk.  The currency strengthened yesterday after Finance Minister
Jim Flaherty said he plans to eliminate the country’s deficit
before the next election in 2015. The so-called loonie was
headed for a sixth drop in seven weeks versus the greenback as
futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian dollar
will decline to the highest level since March 2007. Canada’s
 economy grew  in January after contracting the prior month, a
report is forecast to show next week.  “The commodity increases reflect investor optimism when it
comes to riskier assets,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in
 Washington  with Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU) , said by phone. “With the latest news that
suggests that Cyprus might find a resolution relatively soon,
along with the better-than-expected retail sales, the Canadian
dollar has the wind to carry it forward.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0232
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained as much as 0.6
percent yesterday, the most since March 14. One loonie buys
97.73 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, pushing
yields up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.82
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 fell
six cents to C$107.85.  Loonie Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
65,331 on March 19, compared with net shorts of 53,397 a week
earlier, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the greenback
versus the Canadian dollar touched 6.1, almost the lowest in a
month, and is down 13 percent in March. Implied volatility
signals the expected pace of currency swings and is quoted by
traders to set prices. Lower volatility correlates with a
stronger Canadian dollar versus its U.S. counterpart.  Oil Gains  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 1.5
percent in New York to $93.82 a barrel.  Canadian oil exports to the U.S. gained in 2012 even as the
world’s largest economy imported the lowest amount of crude oil
last year in any year since 1997, according to a government
report released March 20.  Imports from Canada  have gone up since
2005 compared to fewer imports from Saudi Arabia,  Mexico  and
 Venezuela , the U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  “Canada is still grabbing a larger market share of U.S.
oil market, despite the U.S. oil boom,” David Watt, chief
economist at HSBC Bank Canada in Toronto, said by phone. “That
is a very good story for Canada, at least in terms of oil
volume.”  The loonie advanced versus the dollar of  Australia , a
fellow commodity exporting nation, as Western Canada Select, the
benchmark for oil-sands bitumen, traded at a  discount  of $16.50
to U.S. West Texas Intermediate price, the lowest since Oct. 17.
The discount has fallen from $42.50 on Dec. 14.  Shared Currency  The Canadian dollar fell against the euro as Cyprus’s House
of Representatives approved the passage of legislation to allow
capital controls and to create a “solidarity” investment fund,
part of an attempt to secure financial support from the euro
area and International Monetary Fund. Legislators were debating
another seven laws, including one to reorganize the nation’s
banks.  “The correlation between the Canadian dollar and the euro
has strengthened on a short-term basis, and that signals the
importance of Cyprus for the Canadian dollar,”  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist at the Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto,
said by phone.  The loonie declined 0.5 percent to C$1.3290 versus the 17-
nation shared currency.  Canadian Finance Minister Flaherty’s budget projected
Canada will swing to a surplus of about C$800 million ($781
billion) in the fiscal year that begins April 2015, from a
C$25.9 billion deficit in the year ending this month.  Gross domestic product  in Canada expanded 0.1 percent in
January after contracting 0.2 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 18
economists before the report is released on March 28.  The loonie has fallen 2.6 percent in the past six months
against nine developed nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. Both the U.S. dollar and the euro
have gained 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  