-- Canadian Pacific Paid Ackman-Backed CEO C$49.2 Million
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-22T20:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/canadian-pacific-paid-ackman-backed-ceo-c-49-2-million-in-2012.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  paid
Hunter Harrison C$49.2 million ($48 million) last year after
recruiting him as chief executive officer following a proxy
fight by activist investor  William Ackman .  Harrison’s compensation for 2012 included about C$1 million
in salary, a pension guarantee valued at C$16 million and
C$18.6 million in “make-whole payments” to compensate for
restricted share units that Harrison, once the chief of rival
 Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , forfeited when he agreed to join
the company, Canadian Pacific said today in its proxy filing.  Harrison, 68, took over in June afterAckman’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP won a proxy fight to oust
Harrison’s predecessor. He is trying to reduce the company’s
operating ratio, an industry benchmark that compares expenses to
sales and is the worst of the large North American railroads.  The new CEO “has nearly 50 years of railroad experience
and leadership,”  Canadian Pacific  said in the filing. “CP is
now benefiting from his strong track record of service
reliability, efficient asset utilization, strategic capital
expenditure and his focus on safety and the development of
people.”  Canadian Pacific has  surged  78 percent in Toronto since
June 27, the day before Harrison took over, topping the
12 percent gain by  Canada ’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. The stock trades at more than an 80 percent
 premium  to  Canadian National , on a price-to-earnings basis.  Lost Pension  Harrison’s annual base salary has been set at C$2.1
million, an amount that includes compensation for C$1.5 million
in lost yearly Canadian National pension payments.  “Based on the mandate from CP shareholders, the board
sought and secured the best possible CEO in the industry,”  Ed Greenberg , a Canadian Pacific spokesman, said in an e-mailed
message. “Mr. Harrison is a veteran railroader who is one of
the most respected and successful leaders in the industry and
has brought with him to CP an enviable track record.”  The spokesman said Harrison “has taken this railway to new
levels of operational excellence.”  Harrison’s direct compensation amounted to about
C$4.1 million, while hiring costs made up the rest of the
C$49.2 million total, Greenberg said.  The new CEO received C$1.8 million in stock awards,
C$10 million in options awards, C$1.3 million in annual
incentives, a special housing allowance of C$46,341 and use of
company aircraft valued at C$277,200, the filing shows.  Canadian Pacific said it “prefers that the CEO use the
company aircraft for personal as well as business use.”  Fred Green , who resigned before the May 17 shareholder
meeting, had total compensation of C$8.8 million in 2012, the
filing shows. The amount includes about C$4 million in severance
pay, about C$537,000 in salary and C$3.5 million in share and
options awards.  Canadian Pacific’s next shareholder meeting will take place
May 1 in Toronto, the Calgary-based company said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  