-- Cangene Wins U.S. FDA Approval for Antidote to Botulism
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-22T22:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cangene-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-antidote-to-botulism.html
Cangene Corp. (CNJ)  won U.S. approval for
its antidote for the botulism toxin considered a bioterrorism
threat.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the antitoxin, the
agency said today in a statement. Botulism causes paralysis that
can lead to death once the airway and breathing muscles stop
moving.  Cangene, based in Winnipeg,  Canada , currently supplies the
antitoxin to the U.S. under an emergency-use exemption. The
federal government awarded Cangene a contract in 2006 that is
now valued at $476 million for late-stage development of the
antitoxin and 200,000 doses, according to the arm of the
 Department of Health  and Human Services responsible for
preparing vaccines and drugs for national emergencies.  “This product approval meets an urgent unmet medical need
for the treatment of sporadic cases of life-threatening botulism
and provides a medical countermeasure should botulinum nerve
toxins be used in a terrorism event,” Karen Midthun, director
of the FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, said
in the statement.  The botulism toxin can be used as a bioterror weapon if
deliberately released as an aerosol or in food or drink.
Naturally occurring cases can occur in food or drink as well,
often in inadequately canned foods, and contaminated wounds,
according to the Center for Biosecurity of the University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center in Baltimore,  Maryland .  Yearly Cases  An average of  110 cases  of botulism are reported each year,
according to the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration .  In a study on monkeys, 14 of 30 that received the Cangene
antitoxin survived compared with none of 30 in a placebo group
that had been infected with botulism.  “These results provided substantial evidence that the
antitoxin is reasonably likely to benefit humans with
botulism,” the FDA said in the statement. “Under the FDA’s
Animal Rule, the agency may approve a biological product when
the results of well-controlled animal studies demonstrate that
the product is reasonably likely to be effective, in addition to
establishing safety in humans. This is the first approval of a
plasma derivative using the Animal Rule.”  The drug’s safety also was tested in 40 human volunteers
and monitored in 228 patients who received it experimentally
under a program administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, the FDA said. The most common side
effects were headache, fever, chills, rash, itching and nausea.  The antidote will be maintained in the strategic national
stockpile and distributed through the Atlanta-based CDC’s drug
service, the FDA said.  Cangene reported $111 million in revenue for the fiscal
year ended in July. The company’s shares  declined  2.5 percent to
C$2.75 at the close of trading today in Toronto before the
announcement and have gained 49 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  