-- CBS Said Buying 50% of TV Guide Network for $100 Million
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cbs-said-to-buy-50-tv-guide-network-stake-for-100-million-1-.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  will buy a 50 percent
stake in TV Guide Network from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s One Equity
Partners unit, said a person with knowledge of the deal, giving
the company a new basic cable outlet for programs.  CBS, owner of the most-watched U.S. television network and
the Showtime premium cable channel, will pay more than $100
million, said the person, who asked not to be named before the
deal’s announcement, which is expected to occur next week.  The tie-in with CBS, which is already carried by the
biggest pay-TV services, would give TV Guide Network leverage to
raise fees and expand into more of the 100.4 million U.S. homes
with television subscriptions. The network, co-owned by  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , provides CBS an added outlet on cable
for new shows and older programs.  TV Guide Network, historically a guide to programs on other
channels, has added regularly scheduled shows in recent years.
The network will receive about 3 cents a subscriber per month
this year, compared with 2 cents in 2012, according to estimates
from researcher SNL Kagan.  Chris Ender , a spokesman for CBS Corp., declined to
comment, as did  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman for JP Morgan Chase &
Co. Deadline Hollywood reported the deal yesterday.  CBS, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, gained 0.2
percent to $45.98 at the close yesterday in New York. Lions
Gate, based in Vancouver and operated from Santa Monica,
California, slid 0.9 percent to $22.32.  JPMorgan and investor Allen Shapiro acquired the TV Guide
Network stake for $123 million in May 2009. Lions Gate had
purchased the channel and website three months earlier for about
$250 million.  Lions Gate produces the Emmy-winning drama “Mad Men,”
shown on the AMC network. The company’s TV unit also produces
“Weeds” and “Nurse Jackie” for Showtime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  