-- McCain Praising Obama Backs Revenue Compromise (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-03-22T17:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/mccain-praising-obama-backs-revenue-compromise-transcript-.html
Senator John McCain of  Arizona , the
2008 Republican presidential nominee, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that Republicans should compromise and
increase  tax revenue  as part of a “long-term grand bargain” on
the budget, and praised President  Barack Obama  for reaching out
to senators across the aisle.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  HANS NICHOLS , BLOOMBERG NEWS: Hello, I’m Hans Nichols, in
for  Albert R. Hunt  this week. We have Senator McCain joining us.  Senator, thanks for being with us. Just this week, it looks
like we have a continuing resolution, keep the government funded
for six months. But if Obama came to you, came to Senate
Republicans and said, $600 billion in savings, chained CPI, real
cuts, right, chained CPI, medical devices, something on Medicare
eligibility, means-testing, and said couple that with $600
billion new revenues, not rates, new revenues, is that a deal
you could take to replace the sequester?  JOHN MCCAIN : I think what we would want to have is a really
long-term grand bargain, not one of these that lurches a couple
of months to a couple of months. And at least the dialogue has
begun. Now, what the details of that is - you know, you and I
could think of a whole bunch of different scenarios.  NICHOLS: But you’re open to new revenue?  MCCAIN: I’m open - have always been open to closing
loopholes, eliminating special deals for special interests, like
ethanol subsidies, like moviemakers get particular subsidies,
like algae growers. And so if you call that, quote, “raising
revenues,” I’ve been guilty all my political career, because
the influence of special interests here is what has given us a
 tax code  that that’s high. Most of all, I’m for  tax reform .  NICHOLS: How much? How much do you think you can get out of
it?  MCCAIN: Oh, I’m not sure.  NICHOLS: $600 billion?  MCCAIN: But I think you could get - I think you could get
tens of billions, I mean, huge amounts of money by closing these
various loopholes. Look, Facebook just went public, made huge
amounts of money, and then got money back. How - how does - how
does that ever compute with the American people, who are paying
taxes that are - that are very - relatively high? Because they
don’t have the special deals that special interests give them.  NICHOLS: So no - no kickbacks for Facebook?  MCCAIN: No. And - and no deal - the movie - last time I
checked, the movie business was pretty - pretty good. Why are we
giving them a  tax exemption ? Why are we doing all these things
that only benefit the special interests who still have enormous
influence here?  The last bill that we just passed, the continuing
resolution to avoid this cliff, it had in the  Department of
Defense , if you’re a native - Hawaiian-owned corporation, the
Department of Defense is required to pay you an extra 5 percent
for a government project.  They put all kinds of stuff into it. It’s infuriating, and
Republicans have betrayed our base by allowing this kind of
pork-barrel and earmark spending to go on.  NICHOLS: If I could shift the conversation towards
immigration a little bit, Gang of Eight is moving along. How
close are you? And is the holdup going to be on the contours of
the guest-worker program? Who gets to decide where the limits
are?  MCCAIN: I think there’s a number of issues. I think we are
making progress. I think there’s an environment of corporation.
There’s a number of issues that are still out there. This is a
far more complex -  NICHOLS: The guest-worker - is that the biggest one, the -  MCCAIN: No, no, I think that there’s a number of - of
issues out there that are - that are still very important. But
every time I go into some detail, then there’s a pushback. And
so we’ve been trying to be careful about saying exactly where we
are on a number of these issues, but we do have a number of
important issues.  NICHOLS: Let me try to make a gallant attempt at one of
those details, border security. You’ve said the border needs to
be secure and then we can have the pathway. Who secures the
border? Who verifies that the border is secure, the governors,
the federal government?  MCCAIN: Well, I think that we look at parameters of
metrics. A 90 percent effective border control is really an
important criteria. There is a commitment on the part of all
members not only to spend more on the border and expand the
fences, but to use the technology that - if there’s anything
good that came out of  Iraq  and  Afghanistan , it’s this
dramatically improved surveillance capabilities we have. And I
think that will give us a great deal of advance in getting an
effective operational control.  NICHOLS: On -  MCCAIN: And that doesn’t mean that it’s sealed. We will
never seal our border. In fact, one of the least discussed
aspects of this is the drug trafficking through  Mexico  and into
the  United States .  NICHOLS: On Iraq, you just mentioned, 10th anniversary,
marked with a fair amount of blood on the streets of
battleground. How much danger is there that all the gains of the
surge are for naught? Do we need to send troops back?  MCCAIN: Well, we’ll never send troops back, whether we,
quote, “need to” or not. We never will. The American people
wouldn’t stand for it. But in the worse of General Keane, who
was the architect of the surge, we won the war and lost the
peace.  Intentionally, President Obama wanted all our troops out of
there. We knew we needed to have a robust force behind of about
20,000 to help them, and now the whole place is unraveling, and
it’s an ongoing tragedy, and the influence of  Iran  in Iraq has
dramatically increased.  NICHOLS: Well, another place where Iran has a fair amount
of influence in  Syria , you are for arming the rebels in some
way. What’s to ensure that those arms don’t get in the hands of
the mujahedeen? What safeguards would you put in?  MCCAIN: It’s hard for me to give you a short answer, but
everything that the critics of intervention said would happen if
we didn’t intervene have happened because we didn’t intervene.
Weapons have gone to the wrong people. The flow of jihadists and
Muslim extremists is - is increasing all the time. Bashar Assad
has increased his use of scud missiles, airpower, et cetera.  NICHOLS: Do you believe -  MCCAIN: The Iranians - the Iranians have stepped up their
involvement, including troops on the ground. The Russians -
despite what the Obama administration said, well, the Russians
will take Bashar Assad - for months, that was their policy.
Hasn’t happened.  And just one vignette. The refugee camp in  Jordan , about
50,000 people there. We met with the leaders. They were very
angry at us. And there’s a young woman who was a teacher, who
said, see those children? This place was - children everywhere.
He said, those children will take revenge on those who refuse to
help them. And we are now breeding another generation of
jihadists who - who hate America because we wouldn’t help them.
It’s a disgraceful chapter in American history.  NICHOLS: Reports of chemical weapons being used, Senate
intel, House intel. They’re indicating that it’s likely. What’s
your latest intel on that?  MCCAIN: Latest intel is - is conflicting reports. There are
some that say they are. Some would say they have - I find it
interesting that the Russians and Assad have said the rebels are
using chemical weapons. Well, the rebels don’t - don’t have
chemical weapons. So it means to me that it’s very possible they
are. The president said that’s a red line. By the way, Bashar
viewed that as a green light to do anything short of that. And
so we’ll find out.  NICHOLS: Is he backing away from his - his red line, the
president?  MCCAIN: I don’t know. But if I were the - I think the
president should find out whether they are using - or have used
them or not. But we know this, that there are scud missiles that
are loaded with chemical weapons.  NICHOLS: Improving relations with the White House, you were
over with  Lindsey Graham . Have relations improved?  MCCAIN: Yes. Yes. And we have a dialogue. And we always -
and I think the best way to get things done is to have that
dialogue. And I think the president has changed significantly
and is reaching out. He came to lunch with the Republican
senators the other day.  The question is, is will that translate into what I think
we’ve got to do sooner or later, and that’s a grand bargain?
Every president that I’ve seen has established a relationship
with people with dialogue and involvement with each other, and
then that’s led to agreements. That didn’t happen over the last
four years. And I am more than willing to give the president of
the United States the opportunity to sit down and work with us.
And we may have to make some concessions on our side.  NICHOLS: Senator, thank you very much. Appreciate you
taking the time.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN  MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<738796.1204164.3.4.1.0.25>#
 