-- Cheung Kong Says H.K. Property to Slow on Mortgage Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cheung-kong-says-hong-kong-property-to-slow-on-mortgage-costs.html
Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., (1)  the
developer controlled by Asia’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , said
 Hong Kong ’s  property market  may slow for a couple of months
after banks raised mortgage rates.  There was no immediate need for the government to issue
more curbs, Executive Director Justin Chiu said yesterday in an
interview in  Shanghai . The recent measures will ease gains in
 home prices , Chiu said.  “After raising  interest rates , the property market
certainly will quieten down a bit,” Chiu said. “The essential
impact on buyers is not very big, but more of a mental impact.”  HSBC Holdings Plc, Hong Kong’s biggest bank by assets,
Standard Chartered Plc and  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (2388) , the
city’s largest mortgage lenders, are among those that raised
home loan rates by 25 basis points in the past week in response
to tighter risk rules. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority on Feb.
22 told banks to maintain the risk weighting for new home loans
at a minimum of 15 percent to help protect them against a drop
in home values.  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took over in July as
head of the government, on Feb. 22 imposed his toughest yet
price-curbing measures by doubling the stamp duty on all
property transactions higher than HK$2 million ($257,700). Leung
also has pledged to boost land supply in the city.  Transactions Fall  Total home transactions may fall below 3,000 in March and
prices may drop as much as 10 percent this year, said Buggle
Lau, chief analyst at  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , the city’s biggest
publicly traded realtor.  That would be the fewest monthly deals since 2003 when Hong
Kong was nearing the end of a six-year property slump brought on
by the Asian financial crisis and the Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome epidemic.  Cheung Kong cut home prices in Hong Kong because as a big
developer the company has to take the lead to cooperate with the
government, Chiu said. The developer cut prices at its One West
Kowloon project by 11 percent on March 5.  “After we cut prices slightly, we sold quite well,” Chiu
said. “You don’t win everything every time, we want to see a
win-win situation.” Chiu declined to say if  Cheung Kong  will
cut prices further.  The government’s policies are right because they will boost
land supply, Chiu said.  Market Risks  “Yet, given the policies of flats with limited floor areas
and Hong Kong land for Hong Kong people, there’ll be a lot of
supply of smaller apartments while those of medium-size or large
apartments will be much less,” he said. “That’ll affect the
long-term development of the property market.”  Leung, in October, imposed an extra 15 percent tax on all
home purchases by companies and non-permanent residents.  “Risks in the residential property market continue to be a
major concern,” the HKMA said yesterday in its  half-yearly
report . House prices-to-income has reached a ratio of 13.4 at
the end of 2012, close to the peak of 14.6 in 1997, with gearing
ratio hitting a 12-year high of 60 percent, it said.  Should  mortgage rates  advance three percentage points, the
debt-to-income ratio could reach 80 percent, the de-facto
central bank said. HKMA said it will continue to monitor the
situation and introduce more measures if needed.  Asia’s property bubbles are created by too much liquidity
so curbs are necessary, said Chiu.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  