-- Chicago’s Plan to Close 54 Schools Stirs Protests From Teachers
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-22T16:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/chicago-s-plan-to-close-54-schools-stirs-protests-from-teachers.html
Chicago  will close 54 elementary
schools to help erase a $1 billion deficit, a move the city’s
teachers union said it will challenge.  Too many buildings are underused and stretch the district’s
ability to provide programs and equipment, according to a
district release. The system is the nation’s third-largest, with
403,000 students and 681 schools.  “What we must do is ensure that the resources some kids
get, all kids get,” said Barbara Byrd-Bennett, the district’s
chief executive officer, in a video on its website. “Those
resources include libraries, and access to technology and
science labs and art classrooms. Every child in Chicago does not
get that now.”  Other cities have made similar moves. Philadelphia
officials facing a $1.35 billion spending gap over five years
voted this month to shut 9 percent of the public schools.
 Detroit  also has shuttered buildings as the city’s population
plunged.  In Chicago, closings would affect 10 percent of elementary
schools and about 30,000 students, including those from shut
facilities and the 55 that will accept them, according to
district statements.  The move will save an estimated $990 million over 10 years.
That will allow the district to equip remaining schools with
such basics as libraries, air conditioning and technology such
as iPads for students in the third through eighth grades,
according to the district’s announcement.  Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a 53-year-old Democrat, said in a news
release that the city delayed closings for a decade “and it’s
out children and our city that have paid the price of
inaction.”  The Chicago Teachers Union said it would fight the
closures, saying most targeted schools are in black
neighborhoods. The union, in a prepared statement, said
transferring students would expose them to gang violence.  “No society that claims to care anything about its
children can sit back and allow this to happen to them,” said
union president Karen Lewis in the statement.  The union plans a rally March 27 to protest the proposed
closures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  