-- Chile Peso Volatility Falls to 1997 Low as Range Narrows
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-03-22T14:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/chile-peso-volatility-falls-to-1997-low-as-range-narrows.html
The Chilean peso has fluctuated
less in the past three months than at any time since 1997, as
the prospect of central-bank intervention capped the currency’s
appreciation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ninety-day volatility, a gauge of the magnitude of the
currency’s average daily fluctuations over the past three
months, dropped to a 15-year low today. The currency was little
changed at 472.78 per dollar as of 10:28 a.m. in Santiago.  Faster-than-forecast growth,  stable interest rates  and
foreign investment have pressured the peso to appreciate, while
traders have refrained from betting on gains past 470 per dollar
on concern the central bank may intervene. With  Chile ’s
benchmark interest rate at 5 percent, compared with close to
 zero  in the U.S., investors can profit from the so-called carry
trade by borrowing in dollars and lending in pesos.  “The forces are evenly matched,”said Eugenio Cortes, head
of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in
Santiago. “No one wants to be long pesos because the fear of
the central bank below 470 is ever greater, but the carry trade
still continues and markets are positive.”  Barclays Capital yesterday closed its recommendation that
investors bet the Chilean peso would beat the Japanese yen. The
currency reached the strongest against the yen since 2008 on
March 13. The recommendation, opened in December, returned 18
percent, strategist Sebastian Brown wrote in a note to
investors.  “While the conditions in Chile have not changed much,
today, there is even less space for the peso to rally against
the dollar,” Brown wrote in the note yesterday.  The peso has traded within a narrowing channel all year. It
has bounced between 469 and 477 per  U.S. dollar  since Jan. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  