-- China Money Rate Drops on Capital Inflows Outlook; Bonds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-22T03:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/china-money-rate-drops-on-capital-inflows-outlook-bonds-advance.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped
this week on speculation  yuan  appreciation will attract more
capital and as cash returned to the banking system after the
completion of a corporate bond offering.  The government expanded its  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors program this month, which allows
offshore yuan to be invested on the mainland. Sovereign bonds
advanced as China Minsheng Banking Corp. closed its 20 billion
yuan ($3.2 billion) sale of convertible notes this week and
returned cash from unsuccessful bids. China’s currency reached a
19-year high against the dollar on March 20.  “There’s a possibility of capital inflows and we do expect
the PBOC to continue to mop them up,” said Tommy Xie, who
covers China’s economy at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore. “Confidence in yuan appreciation is back.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 43 basis points, or 0.43
percentage point, to 2.93 percent as of 11:27 a.m. in  Shanghai 
from a week ago, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  Foreign direct investment rose 6.3 percent in February from
a year earlier, the first increase in nine months, the
government said on March 19.  The People’s Bank of China drained 47 billion yuan from the
financial system this week through repurchase operations,
bringing total net  withdrawals  to 1 trillion yuan in the past
five weeks.  China Minsheng’s bond sale locked up 450 billion yuan of
funds from bidders, according to an estimate by Guotai Junan
Securities Co. The government sold 22 billion yuan of 10-year
securities at 3.5198 percent on March 20.  The yield on the 3.52 percent sovereign notes due February
2023 dropped two basis points to 3.57 percent from a week ago,
according to the Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at
3.28 percent from March 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  