-- China Economic Growth to Accelerate to 8.5% in 2013, OECD Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-22T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/china-economic-growth-to-accelerate-to-8-5-in-2013-oecd-says.html
China ’s  growth  is likely to
accelerate this year and next as the world’s second-biggest
economy weathers a fragile global recovery, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “Recent OECD simulations suggest that China could maintain
high, though gradually easing, growth during the current
decade,” the Paris-based organization said in a report released
in Beijing today. Expansion may reach 8.5 percent this year and
8.9 percent in 2014, the OECD said.  China will benefit from increased demand for housing and a
pickup in business  investment , while export gains stay
“subdued,” the group said. Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office
this month, faces the challenge of sustaining a recovery from
the weakest growth in 13 years while reining in excessive gains
in consumer and property prices.  “The gradual pick-up in activity provides a strong
background for the ambitious reforms China needs to put in place
to continue on the road to prosperity,”  Angel Gurria , the
OECD’s secretary-general, said in a press briefing today in
Beijing. “We are encouraged by the new leadership’s policy
vision.”  The economy  expanded  7.9 percent in the final three months
of last year, the first acceleration in two years. Full-year
growth of 7.8 percent was the least since 1999.  The global economic environment “remains fragile” and
China can undertake “further cautious monetary and fiscal
stimulus” if needed, the OECD said. An “appropriate response”
for China would be to lower interest  rates  in the event of
“worse-than-expected developments” abroad, especially in the
euro area, the organization said.  Purchasing Power  China’s economy , now the world’s second-biggest, is on
course to overtake the U.S. as the largest around 2016 as
measured by purchasing power parity, which accounts for
differences in  price levels , the report said. Growth may average
8 percent in per capita terms this decade, the OECD said.  Maintaining rapid economic growth in China “will require
further large-scale urbanization,” the OECD said. The group
also called for “renewed reform momentum” on policies such as
moving toward market-determined  interest rates  and allowing
greater exchange-rate flexibility, it said.  Asked about the biggest risk to China’s economy, Gurria
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today that “they have
to continue with reforms, so the biggest risk would be that they
stop the reforms.”  Monetary policy can stay “relatively accommodative” in
the near term while guarding against inflation risks, the OECD
said.  China’s consumer  prices  rose a more-than-forecast 3.2
percent in February from a year earlier, the most in 10 months,
prompting central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  to say that the
nation should be on “high alert” over inflation.  Zhou, reappointed as central bank governor this month, said
on March 13 that  monetary policy  is no longer relaxed and is
relatively neutral now.  --Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Stephen Engle in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  