-- Xi’s First State Trip Yields ‘Breakthrough’ Oil Deals With Putin
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-03-22T21:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/china-s-xi-strikes-breakthrough-oil-deals-with-soulmate-putin.html
China agreed to double oil supplies
and supported construction of a natural  gas pipeline  from  Russia 
under “breakthrough” agreements during President Xi Jinping’s
first state trip abroad.  OAO Rosneft, the world’s biggest traded oil producer by
output, will borrow $2 billion from China Development Bank
Corp., backed by 25 years of oil supplies, under accords signed
yesterday in the Kremlin. The Russian company also offered China
National Petroleum Corp. access to Arctic resources, and OAO
Gazprom said it plans to conclude a 30-year gas-supply contract
to China by year-end.  Xi is visiting his counterpart  Vladimir Putin  in Moscow,
building stronger alliances with Russia to counter U.S.
influence in the Asia-Pacific and the  Middle East . Russia is
seeking to strengthen ties with its neighbor, the world’s
second-biggest economy, boosting crude shipments and opening a
new market for gas as demand in Europe stagnates.  “We didn’t come here and waste our time,” Xi said through
a Russian translator at the Kremlin ceremony. He told Putin he
felt their “souls are open to each other” and said the accords
represent a “breakthrough.”  Rosneft will boost oil supplies to China by 800,000 metric
tons this year, Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said after
the signing with CNPC counterpart Zhou Jiping. Annual exports
may climb to as much as 31 million tons, or more than 620,000
barrels a day, through three routes, from 15 million tons
currently, he said. Russia has a spur to China from its East
Siberia-Pacific Ocean link, and can send crude via its Kozmino
port or through  Kazakhstan .  Resource Access  China will also gain access to energy resources in Russia,
the world’s biggest producer of oil and gas. CNPC will work with
Rosneft to explore three offshore blocks in the Barents and
Pechora Seas and eight onshore areas, Sechin said. Rosneft
agreed with  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , or Sinopec, to
“optimize” work at Sakhalin-3, saying the project may be
expanded.  Sechin signed the agreement for a $2 billion credit
facility with  China  Development Bank President Zheng Zhijie.  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, signed an
memorandum with CNPC on building a pipeline along the so-called
eastern route with shipments of 38 billion cubic meters a year,
starting in 2018, CEO Alexei Miller told reporters in the
Kremlin. Gas deliveries may rise to 60 billion cubic meters.  The deal may include advance payments from China for gas,
Miller said. Gazprom and CNPC plan to set legally binding terms
for supplies in June and sign deal by the end of this year, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  