-- China Committed to North Korea Sanctions, U.S. Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-22T08:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/china-committed-to-enforcing-north-korea-sanctions-u-s-says.html
China is committed to making sure
United Nations Security Council sanctions against North Korea
have an impact, a U.S. Treasury official said after meeting with
Chinese officials in Beijing.  The U.S. believes that China sees the North’s recent
actions as a threat to its interests, David Cohen, under
secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, told
reporters today. He was referring to a nuclear test the North
conducted in February and Security Council sanctions that were
imposed in response.  “We have sensed in our meetings yesterday and expect as
well today that the Chinese government is fully committed to
implementing this resolution in a way that gives it real
effect,” Cohen said. “The Chinese government is looking at
what’s been happening in North Korea recently as threatening the
stability of the peninsula in a real way that implicates Chinese
interests.”  China and the U.S. worked together to craft a resolution
that imposing tougher sanctions on North Korea at the UN
Security Council this month after the nuclear test. China is the
North’s biggest trading partner and diplomatic ally.  An editorial in the state-run Global Times newspaper
published in February, after the test and before the sanctions,
said China must give the North a “friendly warning”  ‘Extremely Stupid’  “We must not join the camp of the U.S., Japan and South
Korea, or actively cooperate with the U.S.-led sanctions against
North Korea,” the editorial said. “To do that would be
extremely stupid strategically.”  The new sanctions target activity by North Korean
diplomats, bulk transfers of cash by North Koreans, and banks
and companies that may be funneling cash or materials to support
the country’s ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs.  The resolution calls for enhanced scrutiny of transactions
between member states, financial institutions and North Korea,
Cohen said.  “It’s no secret that there’s a fair amount of financial
relationship between China and North Korea and Chinese financial
institutions and North Korea,” he said. “We are hopeful that
the Chinese banks and Chinese regulators will take heed of the
Security Council resolution and we have every confidence frankly
that that will occur.”  The sanctions also block transfers of luxury items for the
regime’s elite, such as racing cars, yachts and jewelry
containing pearls or gems.  The intention is to “affect the behavior of the regime,”
Ambassador Dan Fried, the State Department’s sanctions-policy
coordinator, told reporters today. Fried said it was “sad”
that North Korea’s people are forced to live in poor conditions
while Kim Jong Un’s regime spends money on its nuclear-weapons
and ballistic-missile programs.  “I could use stronger language than sad,” Fried said.
“Abhorrent comes to mind.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  