-- Circassia to Sell Own Cat-Allergy Vaccine If Test Works
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-03-22T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/circassia-to-sell-own-cat-allergy-vaccine-if-test-works.html
Imperial Innovations Group Plc (IVO)  will
help Circassia Holdings Ltd., in which it holds a 20 percent
stake, commercialize a cat-allergy vaccine if it clears final-
stage trials even as would-be suitors target the company.  Closely held Circassia began a final round of tests for the
vaccine on 1,200 patients last year and expects to get the
results in 2015, Imperial Chief Executive Officer Susan Searle
said today. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the
European Medicines Agency have told the Oxford, England-based
company that a single positive Phase III trial on the vaccine is
sufficient for approval, she said.  “Circassia is being run as a business and we’re running
that business with a view to eventually taking the products to
market,” Searle said in a telephone interview. Venture capital
groups such as Imperial, which grew out of the university
 Imperial College London , usually invest in technology at an
early stage before exiting in an initial public offering or via
a takeover by a larger pharmaceutical player.  “There’s lots of interest in what Circassia is doing, lots
of interest from across the globe,” Searle said, when asked
about Imperial’s possible exit strategies.  The potential market for a cat-allergy vaccine may be worth
as much as $1 billion in the U.S., Circassia said, citing
consultancy group Kantar. The company is also doing tests on the
vaccine for allergies to grass and dust mites.  Reducing Symptoms  Previous tests on the vaccine have shown it’s more than
twice as effective at reducing symptoms in those allergic to
cats than existing pills and sprays, Circassia Chief Executive
Officer Steven Harris said in an interview last year.  Circassia is competing with allergy vaccine developers
including Biomay AG of Vienna, which is seeking a treatment for
grass pollen allergy. The vaccine may also go up against
medicines such as New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson’s (JNJ)  Zirtek, a tablet that eases swelling, itching and
sneezing, and GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s nasal steroid spray Flonase.  Circassia hired Brett Haumann, former vice president,
medicines development leader of London-based Glaxo, as its chief
medical officer in September, Searle said. The company’s
chairman is Richard Sykes, who was Glaxo’s chairman and chief
executive officer until 2002.  Circassia’s technology is based on research carried out by
Mark Larche and A. Barry Kay, who hold small stakes in the
company, at Imperial College London in the 1990s. The ToleroMune
T-cell vaccine they developed uses short sequences of amino
acids, known as epitopes and drawn from the allergic substance,
to try to build tolerance in the person’s immune system and shut
down its allergic response.  Circassia Investors  Circassia has raised 105 million pounds ($159.6 million)
since it was founded in 2006, Harris said last year. In addition
to Imperial, investors included Invesco Perpetual, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Lansdowne Partners and Fleming Family & Partners
Ltd.  Searle said the fair value of Imperial’s investment in
Circassia grew to 38.2 million pounds as of Jan. 31 from 36.7
million pounds on July 31. Circassia, battery materials maker
Nexeon, and heart disease product business Veryan Medical
accounted for more than half of Imperial’s total portfolio at
the time, she said.  Imperial invested 14 million pounds in 15 portfolio
companies during the first half ended Jan. 31 and had cash and
investments of 63 million pounds, Searle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  