-- Cisco Must Pay $70 Million in XpertUniverse Patent Case
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-22T19:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cisco-must-pay-70-million-in-xpertuniverse-case-jury-says.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, must pay patent-licenser
 XpertUniverse Inc.  $70 million in civil fraud damages in
connection with a failed partnership, a federal jury decided.  After a two-week trial, the jury of six women and two men
in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, also decided Cisco
infringed two patents for contacting experts online to answer
questions and owes more than $33,000 on those counts.  XpertUniverse, based in New York, sued  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco in 2009, contending officials strung it
along for more than six months, holding out the possibility of a
lucrative partnership, without revealing that Cisco had rejected
the deal.  Alleging “fraudulent concealment,” XpertUniverse lawyer
 Charles Cantine  told jurors Cisco’s actions “led to destruction
of the company,” when it might have pursued potentially more-
profitable alliances and survived.  Cisco’s lawyer,  Brett Schuman , told the jury that
XpertUniverse “never had a product, customers or revenue,”
that Cisco was at first interested in a partnership and backed
out after realizing the only result of the smaller company’s
research was “a demo” for a future product.  Schuman told the jury “mismanagement” and “lack of
leadership” caused XpertUniverse’s failure.  ‘Small Company’  “XpertUniverse is a small company with intellectual
property as its primary asset,” it said in court papers. The
software-development firm was founded in the 1990s by Ukrainian
immigrant Victor Friedman as Homework911 to help schoolchildren.
It changed its name as it switched to the richer corporate call-
center market, Friedman testified when the trial began March 12.  Cantine said his client was “very happy that Friedman and
the company were vindicated.”  “We are surprised and extremely disappointed with the
jury’s verdict,” Kristin Carvell, a Cisco spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident that Cisco’s
conduct was appropriate throughout our relationship with
XpertUniverse.”  Cisco fell 5 cents to $20.79 at 2:47 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares fell the most in almost
eight months yesterday after FBR & Co. lowered its rating on the
stock, citing reduced demand for the company’s switches and
routers.  “We do not believe the evidence presented at trial
supports this verdict, and as a result, there are a number of
issues for the judge to consider that will determine whether
this verdict remains intact,” Carvell said. “If necessary, we
will pursue an appeal.”  The case is XpertUniverse Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 09-
cv-00157, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 7,366,709 and 7,499,903  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  