-- Clegg Says High-Risk Migrants to U.K. Should Have to Post Bond
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/clegg-says-high-risk-migrants-to-u-k-should-have-to-post-bond.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
will say people coming to Britain from certain countries should
be made to post bond to ensure they abide by their visa
conditions and don’t become illegal immigrants.  In a speech in London today, Clegg will say immigration has
helped Britain, and argue that he’s making the case within the
coalition government that migration is good for the country and
the economy. Still, he will say, it needs to be controlled.  “The bonds would need to be well-targeted, so that they
don’t unfairly discriminate against particular groups,” Clegg
will say, according to his office. “The amounts would need to
be proportionate -- we mustn’t penalize legitimate visa
applicants who will struggle to get hold of the money.”  In a separate interview, Clegg’s Liberal Democrat
colleague, Business Secretary  Vince Cable , said today
Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s stated goal of
getting net immigration below 100,000 a year “is not government
policy and it would be unattainable.” To introduce it would do
“enormous damage,” he told The House magazine, which is
distributed to lawmakers.  Many of Cameron’s Conservatives are hostile to what they
describe as poorly controlled immigration, and Home Secretary
Theresa May has said she’s aiming to reduce net migration to
“tens of thousands” by 2015. The Liberal Democrats in
government argue for the economic benefits. In his speech, Clegg
will highlight the government’s rejection of May’s plans to
introduce a visa regime for Brazilians.  “A new visa regime would deter Brazilian tourists,
discourage Brazilian investors,” he’ll say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  