-- Colombia Surprises With Half-Point Rate Cut Citing Low CPI
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-03-22T21:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/colombia-unexpectedly-cuts-rate-to-3-25-on-six-decade-low-cpi.html
Colombia’s central bank
unexpectedly accelerated the pace of  interest rate  cuts, citing
weak growth, below-target inflation and the slow transmission of
previous stimulus.  Banco de la Republica cut its  benchmark rate  by a half
point to 3.25 percent, surprising all 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Twenty-seven analysts forecast a quarter point cut
while five expected no change. The bank cut the overnight rate
by a quarter point at each of its last four meetings.  “The Colombian economy is growing below its potential and
will probably be below potential in the coming quarters, while
inflation and inflation expectations are below the 3 percent
target,” central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said in a
statement after the decision. “This is in a context in which
interest rate cuts seem to be transmitted to the economy slower
than desired.”  Policy makers have cut borrowing costs by 2 percentage
points since June, the most among  emerging markets , as growth
cooled and inflation slowed to a six-decade low. President  Juan Manuel Santos ’s government is trying to pressure banks to cut
rates on mortgages and consumer loans, which haven’t yet fallen
in line with the policy rate.  “No one imagined this,”  Camilo Perez , head analyst at
Banco de Bogota, said in a telephone interview. “They are
trying to get a bigger adjustment in interest rates. That it was
unanimous sends a very strong signal that it’s the board as a
whole that’s seeing risks to growth.”  ‘Pushing’ Banks  Average  mortgage rates  rose 7.7 percentage points above the
government’s benchmark 10-year peso bonds last month, the most
since 2009, according to data from Titularizadora Colombiana SA,
which issues mortgage-backed bonds.  The gap has widened from 6.2 percentage points in June,
when policy makers began cutting interest rates and compares
with an average of 5.9 percentage points over the past decade.  The average annual interest rate on commercial loans fell
to 9.4 percent in January, from 10 percent in June, while the
interest rate on consumer loans rose to 19.2 percent from 19.1
percent. Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas , who chairs the
bank’s policy committee, said the government is “pushing”
banks to cut their lending rates.  Annual inflation eased to a six-decade low of 1.83 percent
last month, the slowest pace since 1955, and outside the central
bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range.  ‘Pessimistic Statement’  Colombia and  Chile  are  Latin America ’s only major economies
with below-target inflation. Uribe and Cardenas both told
reporters today they want inflation back at the 3 percent
midpoint of the target range.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, slower than growth in Chile, Peru
and  Mexico , though faster than  Brazil ’s.  Industrial production fell 1.7 percent in January from a
year earlier, the national statistics agency said today, its
third straight contraction, and lower than the median forecast
of a 0.7 percent decline in a Bloomberg survey. Retail sales
expanded 1.3 percent in January, compared to a 2.9 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank’s outlook is “very pessimistic” said
Camila Estrada, head analyst at  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB)  in Bogota. “This
shows that the outlook they see this year remains doubtful with
a lot of risks.”  Estrada forecasts that the bank will hold the rate until
the end of the year.  Coal Dispute  GDP will rise 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent this year,
according to the central bank’s forecast. Cardenas said in a 
radio interview yesterday that first quarter growth has been hit 
by a strike and a loading ban that paralyzed the country’s coal 
industry.  Workers at Cerrejon, Colombia’s biggest coal mine, ended a
32-day strike on March 11. Colombia’s second-largest coal
producer, Drummond Inc., had its loading license suspended Feb.
6 after it dumped coal into the Caribbean. Coal is  Colombia ’s
biggest export after oil.  Today’s policy meeting was the first for newly-appointed
co-directors Ana Fernanda Maiguashca and Adolfo Meisel, after
Fernando Tenjo and Juan Jose Echavarria left the bank in
January.  Yields on the government’s 10 percent peso debt due in 2024
fell 9 basis points, to 5.11 percent. The peso has weakened 3.4
percent this year as the government and central bank announced
increased dollar purchases to stem a rally that sent the peso to
a 17-month intraday high on Jan. 2.  Cardenas said yesterday that the central bank could buy as
much as $10 billion this year, from $4.8 billion in 2012. In
trading today, the currency weakened 0.5 percent to 1828.40 per
 U.S. dollar .  In Brazil, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government last year
ordered state-owned banks Caixa Economica Federal and  Banco do
Brasil  to cut loan rates to pressure private lenders to reduce
“unacceptable” spreads.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  