-- Colorado Law Allows Same-Sex Civil Unions in ‘Hate State’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-03-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/colorado-law-allows-same-sex-civil-unions-in-hate-state-.html
Governor John Hickenlooper made
same-sex civil unions legal in  Colorado , where two decades ago
voters passed a constitutional amendment banning local
ordinances to protect gay rights.  The  Colorado Civil Union Act , which the Democrat-controlled
legislature moved to Hickenlooper earlier this month, provides
gays with rights similar to those of married couples.
Applications for the licenses can be filed starting May 1.  “The gay, lesbian, transgender, bisexual community is part
of all of us,” Hickenlooper, 61, told scores of cheering same-
sex couples after he signed the bill at History Colorado, a
museum in Denver. “There’s no excuse that people shouldn’t have
the same rights,” the first-term Democrat said.  Colorado became the  15th state  to recognize either same-sex
marriage or civil unions, marking a dramatic shift in public
opinion since 1992, when it became known as the “hate state”
because of the ban that passed that year. The ballot measure
blocked municipal anti-discrimination laws to protect gays. The
U.S.  Supreme Court  overturned it as unconstitutional in 1996.  The battle over civil unions in the swing state underscored
deep divisions between more traditional southern and rural parts
of Colorado and the urban communities at the foot of the  Rocky
Mountains  -- known as the Front Range -- and Denver.  2012 Failure  A similar measure failed in 2012 after Republicans used
their majority in the  House of Representatives  to prevent debate
on the bill. The defeat led Hickenlooper, a former Denver mayor,
to call a special legislative session, yet the bill didn’t
advance. Galvanized by the defeat, gay-rights supporters played
a key role in shifting control of the House to Democrats in
elections last year.  The measure signed into law yesterday gives same-sex
partners rights similar to those of married couples, including
the ability to transfer and inherit property, make medical
decisions for each other and to be eligible for family leave and
public assistance.  Gay rights advocates nationwide closely watched the bill’s
progress this year. When it passed the House on March 12, COleg
and civilunions landed among the top trending  topics  worldwide
on Twitter.com, according to the ColoradoPeakPolitics blog.  The measure’s passage also underscored a shift in U.S.
public opinion. About 63 percent of Americans said same-sex
marriage or civil unions should be legal, according to a
Reuters/Ipsos poll from Jan. 1 through March 14.  Rapid Change  “Public opinion is changing so rapidly, so incredibly
quickly on this,” said  Jane Schacter , an expert on sexual
orientation law who teaches at  Stanford University .  “The typical course of these things is to enact civil
unions and let them percolate for a while,” she said. “The
advocates’ strategy is to let people see the sky doesn’t fall
and marriage doesn’t look that different for them -- and then
the next step can be taken.”  Civil unions for same-sex couples were allowed in  Vermont 
before lawmakers there made gay marriage legal in 2009. The
Illinois legislature is considering a similar progression.  Gay marriage isn’t possible under Colorado law -- in 2006,
voters decided to amend the state constitution to declare
marriage a contract between a man and a woman.  That reality tempered celebrations over enactment of the
civil union law, with many residents declaring that the measure
stops short of providing full equality.  ‘Jim Crow’  The schism came into view when Hickenlooper posted this
message on March 12 on his  Facebook.com  page: “CivilUnions
passes! Today, every Coloradan has equal rights.” The posting
received almost 400 replies, including one that read: “equal
rights? This is the ‘ Jim Crow ’ version of equal rights.”  Gay-rights advocates declined to comment on whether they
will push a ballot initiative to overturn the marriage
definition in the constitution. State law only lets fiscal
initiatives appear on the ballot in odd-numbered years, so such
a measure can’t qualify until 2014 at the earliest.  “We’re just concentrating on celebrating the victory,”
said Brad Clark,  executive director  at Denver-based  One
Colorado , a group representing 25,000 gays and lesbians
statewide. “In the meantime, the Supreme Court will weigh in on
marriage for gay and lesbian couples; we’re focused on watching
what happens with that.”  Court Showdown  The nation’s high court is scheduled to start hearing two
cases related to same-sex marriage on March 26 -- one on a ban
in  California  and another on a federal law that blocks the
government from recognizing such unions. A broad ruling in
either case may affect Colorado, civil-rights scholars said.  “Those two court cases may have a real influence on what
happens in Colorado,” said  Brian Powell , who teaches sociology
at  Indiana University  in Bloomington. “If the Supreme Court
moves toward a more liberal opinion, the public is likely to
become even more favorable, or more receptive, to same-sex
marriage.”  Reflecting the deep divide in Colorado over gay marriage,
state Attorney General  John Suthers , a Republican, joined 21
other  attorneys general  in urging the court to uphold the
California ban.  Opponents of same-sex civil unions in Colorado said they
fully expect advocates to push for gay marriage in the near
future.  Not Stopping  “Neither Colorado Democrats, nor the state’s LGBT
population, view the civil union bill as anything but a milepost
on the way to same-sex marriage,” said Bruce Hausknecht, a
judicial analyst for Colorado Springs-based  CitizenLink , a
Christian-oriented family advocacy group.  The nationwide elections in November marked a watershed for
gay rights, with same-sex marriage proponents winning at the
ballot box for the first time. Maine voters made same-sex
marriage legal, while in Maryland and Washington state, they
rejected repealing such laws. The victories show that the ballot
box is now an option for proponents, Powell said.  “Marriage-equality advocates would probably want change to
happen as quickly as possible,” he said. “Time is on their
side -- public opinion is moving toward recognition of same-sex
couples -- this has been recognized in every state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 