-- Colombia’s Coffee Producers Reprise Export Protectionism
-- B y   M a r c e l o   B u c h e l i   a n d   L u i s   F e l i p e   S a e n z
-- 2013-03-22T17:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/colombia-s-coffee-producers-reprise-export-protectionism.html
Over the past decade, China’s
voracious demand for commodities has generated a massive export
boom in Latin America. Although these policies have added to the
popularity of the region’s leaders -- and brought economic
benefits for their nations’ inhabitants -- the surge contains
the seeds of its own destruction.  The record inflows of foreign currency and direct
investment in Latin America -- generated by growing exports and
the expansive monetary policies pursued by the U.S. -- have
created pressures that forced most countries in the region to
revalue vis-a-vis the dollar. Such a move would hurt exporters,
who have responded with calls for policies to prevent it.  They almost certainly will get their way. Latin American
countries have a long-established economic model based on the
export of primary goods from the agricultural and mining
sectors. It began in the 1870s, when the region’s elites
embraced an international division of labor: They provided raw
materials, and advanced industrial nations engaged in
manufacturing.  The Great Depression challenged the status quo. In
Colombia, for example, the nation’s economy depended heavily on
 coffee exports , and its monetary policy followed the gold
standard, which brought stability after years of chaos during
the 19th century. As economic conditions worsened, Colombian
coffee exporters joined in a federation created in 1927 -- the
Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia -- to protect their
interests.  Immediate Devaluation  The federation called for an immediate devaluation of the
currency to compensate for the losses stemming from the global
crisis. This devaluation, however, wasn’t possible as long as
Colombia adhered to the gold standard and the FNCC pushed the
government to abandon the policy.  Although the government initially opposed the idea and
tried to maintain the gold standard through costly exchange-
control policies, the federation didn’t give up. In 1931, the
government gave in, and in 1932, it devalued the Colombian peso.  The FNCC didn’t stop there. After the devaluation, it
sought to create a symbiotic relationship with the state so that
macroeconomic policies worked in its favor. In 1931, after a
campaign led by the federation, the government established a
financial institution to provide cheap loans to the coffee
industry and subsidies for payments of existing loans.  The FNCC also achieved power in foreign policy. The
Colombian government commission that lobbied in Washington to
keep  Colombian coffee  imports tariff-free included members of
the federation.  In addition, the government created a merchant fleet to
transport coffee to foreign markets and was directly involved in
the product’s promotion abroad. These policies were accompanied
by minimal taxation for the coffee sector. After the 1930s, the
FNCC had a strong voice at the Finance Ministry and at the
central bank, and was able to exert influence on monetary and
fiscal policies.  This led to what could be described as “export
protectionism,” and what one historian described as a Catholic
indissoluble marriage between the coffee industry and the
Colombian state.  That union is alive and well. Although coffee exports are
no longer as central to the  Colombian economy  as they were 80
years ago, the rising value of the Colombian peso has prompted
coffee growers to flex their political muscle again.  In February and March, the coffee growers went on strike,
and the government capitulated: President Juan Manuel Santos
promised new subsidies to the industry. Meanwhile, the governor
of the central bank, Jose Dario Uribe, said last week that the
bank could step up dollar purchases as part of a drive to weaken
the peso.  The Latin American export sector had triumphed again.  ( Marcelo Bucheli  is a professor of international business
at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Luis Felipe Saenz is a doctoral candidate at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this post:
Marcelo Bucheli at  mbucheli@illinois.edu 
Luis Felipe Saenz at  saenz3@illinois.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  