-- Commodities Futures Driven by Price Moves, Not News, Study Finds
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-22T14:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/commodities-futures-driven-by-price-moves-not-news-study-finds.html
Commodity-future price moves rather
than news are increasingly driving trade in oil, sugar and grain
futures, which may make finding a fair price less efficient,
according to a Swiss study.  Since the middle of the 2000s, more than one out of two
price changes in a number of commodity markets followed from an
earlier price move, according to the study by Vladimir Filimonov
and Didier Sornette at ETH Zurich and David Bicchetti and
Nicolas Maystre at the Geneva-based United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development.  The researchers analyzed intraday trading of oil and sugar
in  New York  and  London  and corn, soybeans and wheat in  Chicago ,
finding “high levels” of self-generated price moves.  “Price dynamics on these commodity markets are partly
driven by self-reinforcing mechanisms,” the researchers wrote
in the study published March 20 via the Social Science Research
Network. “This evolution partly reflects the development of
algorithmic trading and of high-frequency trading in
particular.”  The European Parliament backed a proposal to limit high-
frequency trading by introducing a 500 millisecond minimum
holding period for any trade in October. A study by Bicchetti
and Maystre published last year found an increase in high-
frequency trading in commodities is boosting the short-term
correlation with the prices of stocks and other assets.  Market orders based on technical analysis, herd behavior,
margin calls on leveraged trades and stop-loss orders are among
the mechanisms that can trigger so-called endogeneity, or price
moves not generated by external information, Filimonov,
Bicchetti, Maystre and Sornette said.  Trading Activity  A cascade of self-generated trading activity makes finding
a “true price” take longer, a potential source of inefficiency
or instability in the process of price discovery, according to
the study.  “Rather than agreeing rapidly on the correct price after
the arrival of some unanticipated news, the traders trade longer
and longer,” not knowing on what price to settle, the
researchers wrote.  The  study  indicated typically 60 percent to 70 percent of
commodity price changes are driven by preceding price moves
rather than new information, with the percentage rising since
the mid-2000s through to October 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  