-- Congo Rebel Leader Ntaganda in Custody After Leaving Rwanda
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2013-03-22T16:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/congo-rebel-leader-ntaganda-in-icc-custody-after-leaving-rwanda.html
Bosco Ntaganda, a Congolese rebel
leader wanted for war crimes, is in the International Criminal
Court’s custody after he left the U.S. Embassy in  Rwanda  for
transfer to The Hague, the court said.  Ntaganda “surrendered himself voluntarily and is now in
the ICC’s custody,” the court said in an e-mailed statement
today. He’s en route to the ICC’s detention center, it said.  A founder of Congo’s M23 rebel group, Ntaganda is wanted by
the ICC for war crimes in eastern Congo in 2002 and 2003. He
left Congo’s army last year amid fears he would be arrested and
started M23. Last month, M23 split in two with a faction
controlled by Brigadier-General Sultani Makenga vowing to
capture Ntaganda.  Congo accuses neighboring Rwanda of supporting M23, a
charge the country denies. Several Western nations have cut aid
to Rwanda because of the accusations.  “The United States welcomes the removal of one of the most
notorious and brutal rebels in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Bosco Ntaganda, from Rwanda to the International Criminal
Court in The Hague,” U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said
today in an e-mailed statement. “This is an important moment
for all who believe in justice and accountability.”  An ethnic Tutsi who was born in Rwanda, Ntaganda is facing
seven counts of war crimes and three counts of crimes against
humanity, according to the ICC’s website. Prosecutor Fatou
Bensouda’s office accuses him of using child soldiers and
“murder, attacks against civilians, rape and sexual slavery,
and pillage” in Congo’s Ituri region in 2002 and 2003.  Ntaganda surrendered to the U.S. Embassy in Kigali, the
Rwandan capital, on March 18. The U.S. State Department
facilitated his request to be transfered to the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  