-- Copper Fees Climb in Shanghai as Metal Seen Moving to Malaysia
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-03-22T10:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/copper-fees-climb-in-shanghai-as-metal-seen-moving-to-malaysia.html
Copper premiums in  China  jumped to
the highest level in more than a year after companies shipped
metal to warehouses in Malaysia because of incentives offered by
operators there, according to researcher CRU.  Buyers are paying an additional fee of $60 a metric ton to
$90 a ton for metal in  Shanghai , the most since February last
year and more than $55 to $80 two weeks ago, said Wan Ling, a
Beijing-based manager for China non-ferrous metals, in an e-
mailed reply to questions. Reserves tracked by the  London  Metal
Exchange in Johor, Malaysia, are at a record high, exceeding
 Korea , previously the top  Asia  location, LME data show.  “We did hear that a few companies are shipping copper
metal to other warehouses outside China,” said Wan, who has
spent more than six years monitoring base metals for the London-
based researcher. Warehouse operators in  Malaysia  are providing
an incentive of $100 a ton, Wan said.  Stockpiles monitored by the LME in Malaysia are 117,225
tons, compared with 12,825 tons in December and represent 20
percent of global  inventories  of 562,475 tons, LME data show.
Inventories in Korea total 86,250 tons. Reserves at so-called
bonded warehouses in China fell about 100,000 tons to 755,000
tons in the past three months, Wan said.  Copper premiums in China, the largest user, are charged on
top of LME cash prices and partly cover insurance and freight
costs. Refined copper stockpiles  monitored  by the Shanghai
Futures Exchange have increased to the highest in at least a
decade, bourse data show.  Visible Inventories  “A large chunk of incremental metal at LME warehouses
should not reflect additional supply but a shift of inventories
that became visible,” said Dominic Schnider, head of commodity
research at UBS AG’s private bank unit in  Singapore . “The
underlying demand story is not great at the moment.”  China’s refined copper  exports  rose 47 percent to 38,569
tons in February from a month earlier and compared with 700 tons
a year earlier, according to customs data published yesterday.
Shipments totaled 132,023 tons in the past six months. Imports
declined 12 percent in February from a month earlier and were
down 43 percent from a year earlier, data show.  There are 22 LME-registered warehouses in Johor and most
are operated by Pacorini Metals (Asia) Pte Ltd., a unit of
Glencore International Plc, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Metro
International Trade Services Ltd., according to LME data.  Glencore spokesman Charles Watenphul in Baar,  Switzerland ,
and Sophie Bullock, a Goldman spokeswoman in London, declined to
comment. Other warehouse owners including C. Steinweg
Handelsveem BV, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Noble Group Ltd. also
declined comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  