-- Copper Narrows Weekly Drop on Signs Price Slump Spurred Buying
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-22T11:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/copper-narrows-weekly-drop-on-signs-price-slump-spurred-buying.html
Copper rose in London, narrowing
this week’s drop, on signs a price slump encouraged buyers in
leading global consumer China as demand strengthens.  Some Chinese buyers are capitalizing on gaps between prices
in Shanghai and London, Newedge Group SA said. The market is
entering a period of seasonally stronger demand, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd. Copper reached the lowest level since
August this week as Cyprus neared financial collapse, reviving
concern Europe’s debt crisis will curb growth and metals demand.  “The lower price has brought Chinese buyers to the
market,” said Andrew Silver, a broker at Triland Metals Ltd.,
which trades on the London Metal Exchange floor along with 10
other companies including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Traders were
adjusting positions before the weekend, he said by e-mail today.  Copper for delivery in three months added 0.9 percent to
$7,654 a metric ton by 11 a.m. on the LME, reducing the weekly
slide to 1.3 percent. The metal for delivery in May rose 0.8
percent to $3.4615 a pound on the Comex in New York.  Copper in Shanghai was about 700  yuan  ($112) a ton more
 expensive  than in London yesterday, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg, giving more incentive to import. That
compares with an average discount this year of about 319 yuan.  “Physical usage is picking up in China,” said Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director for Asian commodities trading at
Newedge in London. “Physical orders received by copper
fabricators in March are better than” a year ago, he said.  Manufacturing in the Asian country expanded at a faster
pace this month, a survey from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed yesterday.  Copper  stockpiles  tracked by the LME, up 76 percent this
year to the highest since October 2003, rose for a 27th session
to 562,475 tons on deliveries in Johor, Malaysia, daily exchange
figures showed. Inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange reached 239,273 tons, the highest in at least a decade.  Orders to draw copper from LME warehouses climbed 0.5
percent to 64,950 tons on bookings in Antwerp, Belgium. They
almost doubled this week.  Tin, nickel, lead, aluminum and zinc advanced in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  