-- Cuomo Plan to Curb Pension Costs Dropped Under Pressure
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-22T19:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cuomo-plan-to-curb-pension-costs-dropped-under-pressure.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
pressed by critics including Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli ,
dropped a plan meant to give pension-cost certainty to local
officials that may have left the system unable to pay benefits.  An alternative measure agreed to by Cuomo, DiNapoli and
lawmakers supplements a way that pensions can choose to defer
some payments, allowed by the comptroller since 2010. The new
method was included in an accord reached March 20 on a $136.5
billion budget. Lawmakers may begin voting on the spending plan
as soon as March 24.  “It is my job to protect the 1 million members of the
retirement system, and all New York taxpayers, from
irresponsible actions and fiscal gimmicks,” DiNapoli, a
Democrat, said yesterday in a statement. He had said that
Cuomo’s plan could have left the $150.6 billion system unable to
pay benefits because of limits on his ability to raise payment
rates should market outcomes fall short of predictions.  Local elected officials, including Syracuse Mayor Stephanie Miner, attacked fellow Democrat Cuomo, 55, after he introduced
his January budget proposal with a so-called pension smoothing
plan. It also would’ve provided lower employer costs for the
first five years. Miner said the changes would only put off
dealing with rising retiree costs confronting cities like hers.  Fiscal Relief  Municipalities from Providence,  Rhode Island , to  San Diego 
have worked to rein in escalating pension costs. The new measure
in the New York budget accord, coupled with the previously
permitted deferral mechanism, is meant to ease the effects of
increasing retirement obligations as well as a 2 percent annual
cap on property-tax increases, DiNapoli said.  “Many cities in the state are desperate to relieve some of
this pressure and it appears they have a choice of picking which
plan suits them,” Howard Cure, director of municipal-bond
research in New York at Evercore Wealth Management LLC, said by
e-mail. His firm oversees about $4.5 billion.  The added mechanism lets participants defer part of their
payments, making them over a longer time and at a different
 interest rate  than the current system allows. It would be
available to local governments outside  New York City , as well as
school districts and cooperative educational services. It also
would be open to public hospitals in Erie, Nassau and
Westchester counties.  Deferring Payments  Participants in the new program can defer part of their
annual pension contributions and pay the amount plus interest
over 12 years, according to DiNapoli’s office. The borrowing
cost would be the equivalent of the yield on 10-year U.S.
Treasury  notes  plus 1 percentage point.  “It seems that they are getting some relief by delaying
the payments and assuming a rate of return that may not
materialize,” Cure said.  The new system is notable for its addition of schools, which
pay their contributions to a separate fund than the one DiNapoli
runs, said Bob Megna, Cuomo’s budget director.  “We believe it represents what we were trying to achieve,
which was savings for local governments and school districts
with some stability while ensuring the fund is protected,”
Megna said today by telephone.  No Quitting  Once in the new program, public employers won’t be allowed
to leave, under the agreement.  “Local governments must fully weigh the long-term
consequences of this new program before electing to
participate,” DiNapoli said in the statement.  Under the existing method, deferred payments are spread
over 10 years with interest at a rate set by the comptroller,
currently 3 percent. In fiscal 2013, 137 local governments
deferred $368 million through the program, according to Eric
Sumberg, a DiNapoli spokesman, and state budget documents.  The comptroller sets the rates paid into pension funds by
local public employers in  New York . From fiscal 2010 to 2014,
the average of what they owe on every dollar that police and
fire department employees earn rose to almost 29 percent from 15
percent, and to 21 percent from 7.4 percent for other workers,
according to statements on DiNapoli’s website.  Employer payments have climbed to offset pension investment
losses during the worst financial crisis since the Depression.
The deferral programs are designed to make the payment amounts
more consistent over time and to lower costs in the short-term.
Recovering markets are expected to ease fiscal pressures,
leading to a leveling off or reduction in payment rates.  Well-Funded  The state has one of the nation’s best-funded retirement
plans, with about 94 percent of assets needed to pay projected
obligations in 2011, fourth-highest, according to Bloomberg
Rankings data.  Cuomo wanted to let cities and towns restrain growth in the
pension contributions they make for most employees for 25 years,
starting at 12 percent of wages.  The governor’s January proposal also would have let
governments cash in on savings from a pension overhaul he pushed
through last year, raising to 63 from 62 the age at which a new
employee can retire with full benefits. Yet those cost
reductions won’t show up until the next generation of public
workers are hired.  New Mechanism  With Cuomo’s proposal dropped, the new mechanism “looks
more like what they’re doing right now,” David Hitchcock, the
primary New York analyst for  Standard & Poor’s , said by
telephone. “They’re already amortizing investment losses from
during the financial crisis and this is similar.”  The new program wouldn’t be open to the state, and
localities that join it wouldn’t be allowed to take part in the
2010 system. The 2010 option requires them to choose to stay in
each year.  The new option doesn’t pass muster with Syracuse Mayor
Miner.  “We cannot solve the fiscal crisis facing the local
governments of New York by borrowing,” Miner said today by e-
mail, calling the new plan another form of getting loans to pay
current obligations.  “We need the governor to bring all parties to the table
and lead a discussion on solving the long-term fiscal health of
our municipalities and our state,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  