-- CVC-Led Group Said to Raise $1.3 Billion in Matahari Sale
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-03-22T02:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cvc-led-group-said-to-raise-1-3-billion-in-matahari-sale.html
PT Matahari Department Store (LPPF) ’s
owners including CVC Capital Partners Ltd. raised 12.7 trillion
rupiah ($1.3 billion) selling stock in the Indonesian retailer,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  CVC and Lippo Group sold 1.167 billion shares at 10,850
rupiah each, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. The shares were initially offered at
10,000 rupiah to 11,250 rupiah.  The sellers, seeking to capitalize on investor optimism
about consumer  spending  in  Indonesia , asked for as much as
double the median valuation among department stores in emerging
 Asia , price-to-earnings data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Jakarta’s stock benchmark is up 11.3 percent this year and hit a
record high earlier this month.  “We have an overweight on Indonesia, particularly in
sectors that play on domestic consumption,” said  Daphne Roth ,
Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN Amro Private
Bank. “This is exactly the space Matahari is in.
There are opportunities in the retail space as people get richer
and spend more.”  Matahari, founded in 1958, has 116 stores across Indonesia,
according to its website. The company posted a 66 percent rise
in net income to 771 billion rupiah ($80 million) in 2012,
according to a Feb. 11 filing.  CVC and Lippo planned to retain about 58 percent of the
company after the sale, a person with knowledge of the matter
said on March 8. A spokeswoman for CVC declined to comment on
the final price.  Valuation Premium  The shares were offered for as much as 28 times Matahari’s
forecast 2013 earnings, a person with knowledge of the matter
said earlier this month.  Forty-three department store operators in the emerging Asia
region trade at a median of about 14 times estimated earnings,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  PT Ramayana Lestari Sentosa, the biggest Indonesian
department store by floor space, and Parkson Retail Asia Ltd.,
with stores in  Malaysia ,  Vietnam , and Indonesia, both trade at
about 19 times estimated 2013 earnings, the data show.  Robinson
Department Store PCL (ROBINS) , Thailand’s largest department store chain,
fetches more than  31 times  estimated 2013 earnings.  About one-third of the shares were acquired by investors
including  Singapore ’s state investment fund, Temasek Holdings
Pte, Blackrock Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., people with
knowledge of the matter said on March 11. Cornerstone investors
agree not to sell their shares for a certain period of time in
exchange for a guaranteed allocation in an offering.  Soaring Stocks  At its closing level of 4802.67 yesterday the  Jakarta
Composite (JCI)  index is about 1.4 percent below a March 8 record. The
index has gained 19 percent in the past year.  Indonesia’s middle class, or those spending more than 2
million rupiah a month, is set to double to 141 million people,
equaling about half the total population, by 2020 from 74
million people last year, according to a Boston Consulting Group
 report . Just a third of the middle class frequent larger retail
stores, the report showed.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG managed
the offering, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  