-- Cyprus May Need Bank Deposit Haircut, Buiter Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-22T12:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cyprus-may-need-bank-deposit-haircut-buiter-says-tom-keene.html
Cyprus must come up with a bailout
proposal and will probably have to take money from bank
depositors to secure funding from  Europe , according to Citigroup
Inc. Chief Economist Willem Buiter.  ‘The ball is in the Cypriot court now,’’ Buiter said in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “The euro area has drawn a line in the sand. Cyprus has
to come up with 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) of unborrowed
money. They are not going to budge on that.”  Euro-area finance ministers expect a proposal from Cyprus
“as rapidly as possible” to raise the funds needed to trigger
emergency loans, according to a statement issued after a
teleconference held late yesterday. The country’s parliament
resumes debate today on legislation to unlock bailout funds and
prevent a financial collapse.  “The only place to get it in a hurry is from bank
creditors,” Buiter said. “In Cyprus, that means depositors as
there are no other meaningful creditors. So, one way or another,
depositors are going to get a haircut,” he said, referring to
uninsured deposits.  Cyprus government spokesman Christos Stylianides said today
that talks with the so-called troika of international creditors
are at a final, sensitive stage. Lawmakers will convene shortly
to take difficult decisions, he said.  Buiter, a former  Bank of England  policy maker, said Cyprus
exiting the euro would be a “disaster” for the country.  “If they do, their standard of living will be reduced to
levels not seen in 30 years,” he said. “It would wipe out the
saving and the wealth of the Cypriot saver. It would be a
financial catastrophe.”  Cyprus rejected a proposal to tax bank deposits hammered
out last weekend by euro-area finance ministers. The  European
Central Bank , which makes up the troika along with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Commission, issued
a deadline for the end of March 25 for a deal before it cuts off
emergency funding to the nation’s lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  