-- Cyprus Has Little Wiggle Room in Euro Rescue Talks, Frieden Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-22T10:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cyprus-has-little-wiggle-room-in-euro-rescue-talks-frieden-says.html
The Cypriot government has little
room for maneuver as parliament resumes debate today on
legislation to unlock bailout funds and prevent a financial
collapse, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  “I see little wiggle room, including financially, for some
European countries to make additional concessions to Cyprus,”
Frieden said on German RBB Inforadio today. Euro-area finance
chiefs discussed Cyprus on a teleconference late yesterday.  “The difficulty is that we’re not getting any details from
Cyprus,” Frieden said. “That’s why we decided last night that
we’d have to analyze the details and reconvene this weekend to
see if we can back them or not.”  Euro-area finance ministers expect a proposal from Cyprus
“as rapidly as possible” to raise the 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) needed to trigger emergency loans, according to a
 statement  issued after yesterday’s teleconference.  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
a rescue. The action came after  Greece ’s debt restructuring, the
largest in history, trashed the financial health of lenders
including  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY)  and Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the
country’s two largest.  Moscow Talks  The euro fell after Cyprus Finance Minister Michael Sarris
said he had failed to obtain the financial support he sought
from  Russia .  Sarris was still in Moscow last night and didn’t take part
in the finance ministers’ call, said Frieden. “He was
represented by a colleague. A lot is still missing to draw any
conclusions.”  Frieden said “time is slipping away” for Cyprus. “Banks
will open again in Cyprus on Tuesday and a solution is
absolutely necessary,” he said. “This isn’t just about Cyprus;
it also concerns  Germany , Luxembourg and the stability of the
euro zone.”  Russia should contribute to the bailout, Frieden said.  “Even if Cyprus is just a small island, it’s a problem for
all of  Europe  and also for those who are economically linked to
Europe,” he said. “I would welcome it if Russia would
contribute, but the solution has of course to be approved by the
17 in the Eurogroup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Henry  at   phenry8@bloomberg.net  