-- Cyprus Aims to Meet Bailout Terms Today, Deposit Tax Debated
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-03-23T17:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cyprus-approves-capital-controls-as-ministers-prepare-to-meet.html
Cyprus aims to complete a plan
today to meet the terms of a European bailout that may include
tapping bank deposits, its finance minister said, as the
Mediterranean island races to avert financial collapse.  After parliament approved capital controls and legislation
to wind down banks yesterday, Cypriot officials are working on
additional measures that could include a levy on bank deposits
above 100,000 euros ($130,000). Finance Minister Michael Sarris,
who is meeting with representatives of the so-called troika of
the European Central Bank, European Commission and International
Monetary Fund in Nicosia today, said during a break in the talks
that a deposit levy is being discussed.  Cyprus is scrambling to come up with 5.8 billion euros, a
prerequisite for a further 10 billion euros in bailout funds it
needs to prevent financial ruin and stay in the euro. Lawmakers’
rejection of an initial proposal to tax all bank deposits last
week prompted the ECB to threaten to cut off emergency funding
to Cypriot banks unless a deal is reached by March 25. Banks
have been shut all week and are due to reopen on March 26.  “We cannot fund banks that are bankrupt,” ECB council
member Erkki Liikanen told Finland’s YLE TV1 today. “There is
now a chance of drawing up a program in which the banks are
recapitalized or reorganized to reach solvency. The ball is in
Cyprus’s court.”  Progress Made  Sarris said officials made progress in their first meeting
today, though some issues require further work. He said he
expects a bill to be ready for parliament to discuss later today.  President Nicos Anastasiades will meet with political party
leaders at 8 p.m. local time tonight to brief them on the troika
talks, his office said in an e-mailed statement.  Lawmakers yesterday agreed to wind down  Cyprus Popular (CPB)  Bank
and impose losses on its depositors. The government only wants
to tap deposits at one other bank -- the biggest lender, the
Bank of Cyprus -- said Averof Neofytou, deputy president of the
ruling Disy party. State-run broadcaster CyBC reported earlier
today that a levy of 25 percent on deposits over 100,000 euros
is being discussed.  Should the troika reject that plan, a levy would be applied
at all banks, a lawmaker said on condition of anonymity because
the talks are still underway.  Eurogroup Meeting  European finance ministers will convene to discuss the
latest Cypriot proposals at 6 p.m. Brussels time tomorrow,
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs the so-called Eurogroup, said in
a posting on Twitter today.  Cyprus was thrust onto the international stage last week
after European finance ministers provoked outrage in the country
and abroad by proposing levies on all bank deposits. While the
Cypriot parliament rejected that plan, European leaders stuck to
their demand that Cyprus contribute 5.8 billion euros to a
bailout package.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell for the first week in a
month on the back of the Cypriot turmoil and the euro posted its
biggest two-day drop since July at the start of the week. Still,
the Stoxx 600 was little changed yesterday as investors
anticipated a compromise and Europe’s single currency rose 0.7
percent.  “I don’t see any major contagion issues,” Finish Prime
Minister Jyrki Katainen told reporters in Saariselkae, Finnish
Lapland, today. “I’m very confident that we can see solutions
tomorrow or Monday.”  Bills Passed  The Cypriot parliament passed nine bills late yesterday
aimed at preventing capital flight and restructuring the banking
sector. Even so, President Anastasiades may find himself short
of the money required to satisfy EU leaders.  Winding down Cyprus Popular Bank, the nation’s second-
biggest lender, would only bring the bill down to 3.5 billion
euros, Neofytou said yesterday. Cyprus Popular depositors with
more than 100,000 euros will face losses, he said.  “They will wait for many years before they see what
percentage they will get back from their savings -- 30 percent,
40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent,” Neofytou said during the
debate in parliament. “At the same time this political decision
to support this harsh law completely safeguards another 361,000
savers of a total of 371,000.”  Bad Bank  One plan pushed by European finance officials could see
Cyprus Popular and the Bank of Cyprus split to create a so-
called bad bank. Insured deposits -- below the European Union
ceiling of 100,000 euros -- would go into a so-called good bank
and not sustain any losses, while uninsured deposits would go
into the bad bank and be frozen until assets could be sold, four
euro-region officials said.  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
a rescue. The move came after Greece’s debt restructuring, the
largest in history, trashed the financial health of lenders
including  Bank of Cyprus  and Cyprus Popular.  Cyprus Popular, founded in 1901 as a small savings bank,
operates in Cyprus, Greece, the U.K., Ukraine, Russia, Romania,
Serbia, Malta and China through 439 branches, serving 1.35
million customers, according to information on its website.  The bank, which employs about 8,500 people, posted a net
loss of 1.56 billion euros for the first nine months of 2012,
after a net loss of 3.65 billion euros in 2011 following
writedowns on Greek government bond holdings, goodwill related
to its Greek business and provisions for loan losses.  Merkel Anger  Cyprus’s total bank assets swelled to 126.4 billion euros
at the end of January, seven times the size of the 18 billion-
euro economy, from 78 billion euros in 2007, data from the
European Central Bank and the EU’s statistics office show.
Russian companies and individuals have an estimated $31 billion
of wealth in Cyprus, according to Moody’s.  At 17 billion euros, Cyprus’s financial needs are almost
equivalent to the country’s entire economic output, a magnitude
of bailout that has never been awarded before, Merkel told
reporters on March 20. That means “the bank sector must
contribute to the sustainability of Cypriot debt,” she said.  Sarris, who met the same day in Moscow with Russian First
Deputy Minister Igor Shuvalov and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, said yesterday that Russia wouldn’t offer additional
support beyond restructuring a 2.5 billion-euro loan granted in
2011.  Merkel told a closed-door meeting of legislators in Berlin
yesterday that Cyprus must now act quickly, a party official
said.  Cyprus is living “in an illusion,” Michael Meister,
deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s CDU, told BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program. “They have to restructure the whole economy,
restructure the banking sector and until now I don’t see the
Cyprus people and politicians agreeing on this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Nicosia at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;  Georgios Georgiou in Nicosia at  ggeorgio5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  