-- Cyrela Rises on Higher-Than-Expected Margins, Extra Dividend
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-03-22T22:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cyrela-rises-after-higher-than-expected-margins-extra-dividends.html
Cyrela  Brazil  Realty SA, Brazil’s
biggest homebuilder by market value, rose the most in four
months after reporting profit margins that exceeded analysts’
estimates and announcing an extraordinary dividend payment.  Shares rose 3.7 percent to 16.65 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, its biggest gain since Nov. 19. It was the
best performer on the benchmark Bovespa index, which fell 0.6
percent.  Cyrela’s gross margin, a measure of profitability, expanded
for the eighth straight quarter, reaching 32.8 percent in the
three months through December, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday after the market closed. That compares with an average
estimate of 32 percent among six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  That margin was boosted by a cut in taxes by the Brazilian
government in December, which helped to push net income to 249.1
million reais ($124 million), Luiz Mauricio Garcia, Alain Nicolau and Carlos Firetti, analysts at  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s
brokerage unit, wrote in a note to clients dated today. Brazil
reduced by the end of last year taxes on certain projects to 4
percent from 6 percent.  “Results were strong,” the Bradesco analysts wrote as
they reiterated a buy recommendation on the stock. “The
company’s prospects look very healthy considering that general
and administrative expenses dropped sharply and should be flat
in nominal terms in 2013.”  Cyrela said it will ask shareholders at an April 30 meeting
to approve a plan to distribute an extra 50 million reais in
dividends.  Cyrela fell 6.9 percent this year, while the Bovespa
declined 9.4 percent during that same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  