-- Cytori Loses Bid to Overturn FDA Bar on Stem-Cell Devices
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-03-22T15:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/cytori-loses-bid-to-overturn-fda-bar-on-stem-cell-devices.html
Cytori Therapeutics Inc. (CYTX) , a
biotechnology company developing experimental burn treatment
therapies, lost a U.S. appeals court bid to overturn the Food
and Drug Administration’s initial rejection of two medical
devices that use fat as a source of stem-cell therapy.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington upheld the FDA’s
decision that two devices submitted by Cytori for approval
required more extensive testing before they could be released
safely on the market.  The devices, called Celution and StemSource, aren’t
“substantially equivalent” to currently marketed devices,
which rely on blood or marrow cells, U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  wrote today in the 12-page opinion.  “The FDA reasonably concluded and reasonably explained
that the Celution and StemSource did not meet either the
‘intended use’ requirement or the ‘technological
characteristics’ requirement for a substantial equivalence
determination,” Kavanaugh said in a ruling joined by circuit
judges  Janice Rogers Brown  and David Sentelle.  In order to win approval for new medical devices through a
more streamlined “premarket notification” process, the devices
have to be similar to others already on the market and have
similar uses, Kavanaugh said.  Cytori shares fell as much as 3 percent on the news before
recovering to $2.77 in  New York  trading, unchanged from
yesterday’s close.  Body Fat  Cytori’s experimental therapy takes adipose tissue, or body
fat, from a patient and through its device separates the adult
stem and regenerative cells. The San Diego, California-based
company last year won a $4.7 million U.S. government contract to
develop a stem cell therapy to treat burns caused by thermal or
radioactive bombs.  Testing the technology in a clinical trial and getting
approval may take five years, Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Calhoun said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television Sept. 28. The company is testing its therapy for
other soft tissue damage, as well as cardiovascular disease,
Calhoun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  