-- DBS Bid for Danamon Near Approval, Presidential Adviser Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-03-22T08:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/dbs-bid-for-danamon-nears-approval-presidential-adviser-says.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ’s bid for
PT  Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  is set to be approved as soon as this
month as Singaporean and Indonesian regulators near an agreement
over bank access, according to Chairul Tanjung, an economic
adviser to  Indonesia ’s president.  DBS’s proposal to buy Danamon for $6.77 billion has been on
hold for almost a year as Indonesia’s central bank weighed the
deal while seeking greater access for its own lenders in
Singapore. DBS has recently stepped up discussions with Bank
Indonesia over the acquisition’s structure and final ownership
levels, two people with knowledge of the matter said, asking not
to be identified because the discussions are confidential.  “We want our neighbor to become like family, if we are
kind to them, please be kind to us,” Tanjung, chairman of
Indonesia’s CT Corp., which controls  PT Bank Mega (MEGA) , said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday.  Regulatory approval would help DBS gain access to more
profitable lending opportunities, while clearing the way for
further acquisitions of Indonesian banks. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. is among banks considering a purchase of a
stake in Indonesia’s PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional, people
familiar with the matter said this month.  Stock Reaction  Danamon rose  5.8 percent  to 6,350 rupiah as of 3:16 p.m. in
Jakarta today, the stock’s biggest gain in more than nine
months. At that level the shares are still more than 9 percent
below what DBS plans to offer the lender’s shareholders, other
than Temasek Holdings Pte, reflecting investors’ doubts about
the deal. DBS rose 0.2 percent to S$15.62 a share.  “For Danamon shares, the overhang will be over when the
market gets some sense that the deal with DBS will go through,”
said Tjandra Lienandjaja, a Jakarta-based analyst at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas. “Everything’s ultimately in the government’s
hands.”  Bank Indonesia and the  Monetary Authority of Singapore  have
“finalized an understanding,” Tanjung said. Tanjung, who is
chairman of the national economic committee to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, said he has been informed of the matter by
Indonesia’s central bank.  The Indonesian regulator is targeting approval of the deal
this month, although the deadline could slip by a few weeks, he
said. A spokeswoman for Singapore’s monetary authority said the
central bank does not comment on speculation, while an official
at Bank Indonesia also declined to comment.  66 Trillion  DBS is seeking to tap rising demand for banking services in
Southeast Asia’s fastest-growing economy, which will average 6.4
percent from 2013 to 2017, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimated in November. The sixth-
largest bank in Indonesia, Danamon has more than 3,000 branches
across Indonesia with about 6 million customers.  Indonesia may approve the DBS acquisition of Danamon while
 Singapore  simultaneously announces it will provide an operating
license for Indonesian banks, Tanjung said.  DBS said on April 2 last year it would pay 66 trillion
rupiah ($6.77 billion) to acquire Danamon in two steps -- first
obtaining the 67 percent currently held by Singapore investment
company Temasek, and then making a 7,000 rupiah-a-share cash
offer for another 32 percent.  Bank Indonesia said the same month that it was seeking
equal access for Indonesian lenders to expand in Singapore,
without being more specific, and then said a review of the bid
would wait for new bank-ownership rules.  New Rules  Any lender seeking to purchase more than 40 percent of an
Indonesian bank must meet capital adequacy requirements and be
committed for a “certain period of time,” according to
regulations released last July. The acquirer also needs to show
good corporate governance for three consecutive assessment
periods over a five-year span, the bank said, without specifying
the length of each assessment period.  Karen Ngui , a Singapore-based spokeswoman for DBS,
Southeast Asia’s largest bank, declined to comment. Chief
Executive Officer Piyush Gupta said Feb. 6 that he’s positive
about the approval coming through, based on signals coming from
Bank Indonesia.  “We are not in the position to comment on the
regulators,” said Vera Eve Lim, finance director at Danamon.
“We continuously comply with BI’s regulations and policies.”  Stephen Forshaw , a spokesman for Temasek said he declined
“to comment on market speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  