-- Deutsche Bank May Consider Boardroom Salary Increase
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-22T15:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/deutsche-bank-to-consider-raising-board-pay-after-eu-bonus-rules.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the biggest bank
in continental  Europe , may consider increasing the salaries of
management board members and senior staff to remain competitive
after the European Union moved to cap bonuses.  Deutsche Bank needs to pay its most senior staff enough in
fixed renumeration to compete with firms that aren’t affected 
by EU regulations,  Juergen Hambrecht , who led an external panel 
that reviewed salaries at the lender, told reporters in 
Frankfurt today.  Paul Achleitner , chairman of Deutsche Bank’s supervisory
board, said he won’t speculate on what action the bank will take
as the bonus limits haven’t been enforced. The firm,  which cut
boardroom pay in 2012, has to take into account what rivals do
and doesn’t want to lose a competitive edge, he said.  European leaders are toughening bonus and capital rules to
help prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bailout of banks
after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Under a
draft EU deal struck last month, bankers will be banned from
receiving discretionary pay worth more than twice base salary,
with special treatment applied to parts of the bonus that are
deferred for at least five years.  “We’re having this discussion because variable pay in the
industry exploded in the last 20 years,” Achleitner said. “But
we shouldn’t forget careful business principles and force banks
into a position where their fixed costs increase.”  Pay Levels  Companies on  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX (DAX)  index pay management
board members bonuses that average six times base salary,
Hambrecht said.  “In the end, they’ll probably have to pay higher salaries
to sure-fire earners while trying to avoid that with employees
in more cyclical areas,”  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler
Capital Markets in Frankfurt who recommends investors buy the
stock, said today by phone. “Deutsche Bank will try everything
not to fall into the trap of sitting on massive salaries they
have to pay out even if the market turns for the worse.”  Co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain’s bonus of 8.6
million euros ($11.1 million) for 2011, when he was head of the
investment bank, was more than seven times his 1.15 million-euro
salary, according to company filings. Former CEO  Josef Ackermann ’s 2011 bonus of 7.7 million euros was almost five
times his 1.65 million-euro salary.  Jain and co-CEO and Juergen Fitschen were paid 4.8 million
euros each in total compensation last year, Achleitner said,
without providing a breakdown. The bonuses of the two co-CEOs
will be paid primarily in stock, according to the bank.  The management board’s total pay last year fell 34 percent
to 26.3 million euros. Net income in 2012 slumped to 237 million
euros from 4.13 billion euros after writedowns in  investment
banking  and costs associated with building capital and job cuts.  Deutsche Bank applied some of the external panel’s
recommendations in its 2012 compensation system and will
continue introducing them, said Stephan Leithner, responsible
for personnel and compliance at the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  