-- Diabetes Drugs May Cause Damage to Pancreas, Study Finds
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-03-22T20:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/diabetes-drugs-may-cause-damage-to-pancreas-study-finds.html
People taking diabetes drugs such
as  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Januvia were affected by pancreatic cell growth
and damage that may turn cancerous, a small study found.  The study, led by Alexandra Butler and Peter Butler of the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles , provides evidence of
increased pre-cancerous changes in diabetic patients using so-
called incretin mimetics,  Public Citizen , a Washington-based
public advocacy group, said in a statement today after the
research was published.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said this month it
was reviewing unpublished findings by a group of academic
researchers suggesting pre-cancerous cellular changes may be
associated with Type 2 diabetes treatments known as incretin
mimetics, which also include  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Byetta
and  Novo Nordisk A/S’s (NOVOB)  Victoza.  “These findings are in accord with the rapidly increasing
number of reports to the U.S   Food and Drug Administration  of
pancreatic cancer in patients using these drugs compared with
diabetics using other drugs,” Public Citizen said.  Doctors have been concerned that this category of diabetes
treatments may damage the pancreas since the FDA said in 2007 it
received a high number of reports of pancreatitis in patients
taking Byetta. The agency issued a similar alert for Januvia in
2009. An analysis of insurance records published last month in
the journal JAMA Internal Medicine showed such drugs may double
a user’s risk of pancreatitis. That hasn’t stopped these
medicines from becoming multibillion-dollar drugs.  Merck  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $43.90 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time. Bristol-Myers rose 1.7 percent to $40.39. Novo
Nordisk fell 1 percent to 927.50 Danish kroner.  20 Diabetics  An examination of pancreases from 20 diabetics showed a 40
percent increase in pancreatic cells as well as cell damage in
the people treated with incretin therapy, today’s study found.
Of the 20 pancreases, eight were from people taking incretin
therapy, while 12 were on other treatment, according to a study
in  Diabetes , a journal of the  American Diabetes Association .
Seven of the eight patients taking incretin therapies for a year
or more were using Merck’s Januvia while the other was using
Byetta, according to the study.  The research showed that in humans, incretin therapy
resulted in “marked” cell proliferation and damage, with a
potential for evolution into cancer, the authors wrote.  Merck disagrees with the study’s hypothesis, is confident
in the safety of its drug and hasn’t seen any causal link
between it and pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer, Kelley
Dougherty, a spokeswoman for the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-
based drugmaker, said in a statement.  No Conclusions  “We would remind you that the FDA said last week that the
FDA has not reached any new conclusions about safety risks with
these medicines, and at this time patients should continue to
take their medicine as directed until they talk to their health
care provider, and health care providers should continue to
follow the prescribing information in the drug labels,”
Dougherty said.  Januvia  generated  about $4.1 billion in 2012 worldwide
sales, Merck has reported.  Ken Dominski, a spokesman for New York-based Bristol-Myers,
declined to comment on the study’s findings.  As for Byetta, known as exenatide, “an extensive
nonclinical safety program was conducted to support the
marketing applications of exenatide twice daily and exenatide
once weekly,” Dominski said in an e-mail. “In those studies,
exenatide administration was not associated with any drug-
related pancreatic tissue damage or toxicity in any species
tested.”  Byetta and its longer-acting version, Bydureon, had $227
million in 2012  sales , Bristol-Myers reported.  Victoza, also known as liraglutide, is the  fastest-growing 
product for Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo, with sales jumping 58
percent in 2012 to 9.5 billion kroner ($1.7 billion). The
medicine mimics a hormone called GLP-1 to stimulate natural
insulin production.  A Novo spokeswoman declined to comment on the study
published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  