-- JPMorgan Claws Back $100 Million, Pays Zames More Than Dimon
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/dimon-should-remain-chairman-ceo-of-jpmorgan-bank-s-board-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  clawed back
more than $100 million in pay from managers responsible for its
record trading loss last year and awarded Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  less than three of his top lieutenants.  Mary Erdoes, Daniel Pinto and Matthew Zames each received
more in total compensation than Dimon for 2012 after the board
of directors halved the CEO’s pay for failing to supervise the
unit that generated the so-called London Whale trading loss.  At the same time, the board again backed Dimon, 57, in his
dual roles as chairman and CEO. Calls for Dimon to give up the
chairmanship have been building since the bank disclosed more
than $6.2 billion in losses on derivatives trades and failures
in risk controls last year.  “The board has determined that the most effective
leadership model for the firm currently is that Mr. Dimon serves
as both,” the panel said yesterday in a proxy filing, advising
shareholders to reject a proposal to split the roles.  A Senate investigation found last week that JPMorgan and
its CEO dodged regulators and misled investors as losses
escalated on the “monstrous” bet in  London . The bank
“mischaracterized high-risk trading as hedging,” and withheld
key information from its primary regulator, sometimes at Dimon’s
behest, investigators found.  The bank’s shares rose 0.9 percent to $48.78 yesterday in
New York and have advanced 11 percent  this year .  ‘Leadership, Management’  The board cited the debacle while cutting Dimon’s 2012
compensation to $11.5 million from $23 million the previous
year. It also credited his “leadership and management
abilities” for the  lender’s performance . The bank, the largest
in the U.S., with $2.4 trillion in assets, posted its third
straight year of record profits in 2012 with $21.3 billion in
net income.  Zames, 42, and Pinto, 50, who helped clean up the trading
mess, were the bank’s highest-paid executives, with each getting
$17 million, the proxy shows.  Zames, elevated to co-chief operating officer after
overhauling the chief investment office last year,
“demonstrated leadership and risk-management discipline,” the
board said. His pay included a cash bonus of $6.1 million and
$9.2 million of restricted stock.  Pinto, also promoted after helping unwind the faulty
trades, got a $8.1 million cash bonus and $7.1 million in
restricted stock. He is co-CEO of the corporate & investment
bank with Mike Cavanagh.  Erdoes, CEO of asset management, received $15 million in
total compensation, including a $4.9 million cash bonus and $7.4
million of restricted stock.  ‘Comprehensive Clawbacks’  Ted Dimon, the CEO’s 82-year-old father and a broker at the
firm, more than tripled his compensation in 2012 to $1.6 million
from $447,000 in 2011, the company’s proxy filings show.  Total compensation for former Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein, 52, who is now a vice chairman at the firm, fell by
about half from $9.5 million in 2011 to $5 million last year.  JPMorgan said it “invoked comprehensive clawbacks of
previously granted outstanding awards and/or repayment of
previously vested awards” from the people responsible for the
trading loss.  A group of  retirement plans , including the AFSCME Employees
pension fund, is pressing to separate Dimon’s dual roles. The
fund said last month its views reflect “mounting investor
concerns with the board’s oversight in the wake of the London
Whale losses, recent regulatory sanctions and its failure to
fully demonstrate that it can manage the size and complexity of
its balance sheet.”  The Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency censured JPMorgan in January over failures in risk
controls for the London derivatives trades as well as for lapses
in its anti-money laundering practices.  A shareholder proposal to appoint an independent chairman
failed with 40 percent of the vote last year. Glass Lewis & Co.,
a corporate governance advisory firm that backed the plan, said
an independent chairman is “better able to oversee the
executives of a company and set a pro-shareholder agenda without
the management conflicts that a CEO or other executive insiders
often face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  