-- Health-Care Stocks Lead S&P 500 for First Time in 15 Year
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-03-22T20:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/health-care-stocks-leading-s-p-500-for-first-time-in-15-years.html
Health-care (S5HLTH)  stocks are leading
gains in U.S. equities this year for the first time since 1998
as companies cut costs and investors speculate an expansion of
insurance programs will benefit hospitals and insurers.  Drugmakers, health insurers and biotechnology companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have returned 12 percent in
2013, including reinvested dividends, the  most  among the 10 main
groups. That’s the first time in 15 years that the industry has
led over the first 79 days into a year. Analysts project  profits 
will rebound from this year’s zero growth in 2014, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is certainly a re-acceleration in growth
prospects,” Timothy Hoyle, director of research and fund
manager at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Investments,
said in a telephone interview last week. His firm oversees $6
billion. “Most of the big drug companies have experienced
patent cliffs and are now repositioning themselves for growth.”  Health-care stocks are rallying as estimates from the
Congressional Budget Office show President  Barack Obama ’s health
law may extend insurance over the next decade to about 27
million people who are currently uninsured. Companies in the
industry such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker,
have cut jobs and sold off businesses to boost profits and fund
share buybacks. U.S. regulators approved 39 new drugs last year,
the most since 2000, data from Bloomberg Industries show.  Annual Advance  The last time health-care companies led the S&P 500 in the
first three months of the year, in 1998, the industry surged 42
percent in the third-biggest gain on record, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The U.S. equity benchmark posted an annual gain
of 27 percent.  The gauge of drugmakers and biotechnology shares added 0.7
percent today, leaving it 0.5 percent higher for the week. That
marked the 11th weekly gain this year.  All but five of the  53 stocks  in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  Health Care
Index have risen in 2013. Celgene Corp., a cancer-drug
developer, and Tenet Healthcare Corp., a hospital chain, led the
advance, surging 44 percent and 40 percent, respectively. That
compares with a 9.2 percent advance in the S&P 500.  Profits from  health-care companies  in the S&P 500 will
climb 8.4 percent next year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Growth stalled at 0.9 percent in 2012.  Pfizer has rallied 31 percent in the past year after the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved its arthritis and
blood thinner drugs and the company  divested  its infant
nutrition and animal health businesses.  Reduced Expenses  The New York-based company has reduced operating expenses
by 13 percent since 2010 while cutting 30,500 jobs in the past
nine years. Pfizer bought back $8.2 billion of its own stock in
2012 and announced a $10 billion repurchase program in November.  “The industry is slimming down,” Dan Popowics, a
portfolio manager for Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati, said in a March 13 phone interview. His firm
oversees $8.1 billion. “You have a lot of large companies doing
shareholder-friendly activities, and all are benefiting from new
product flows.”  Health-care shares are also catching up after trailing
during the last bull market, Popowics said. The industry is
among the three groups in the S&P 500 that didn’t make new highs
during the 2002-2007 rally.  Abbott Laboratories split off  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , a drugmaker
based largely around a rheumatoid arthritis injection, in
January, leaving the rest of the company to focus on medical
devices, diagnostics, nutrition and generic drugs. Since the
split, Abbott has gained 7.5 percent and AbbVie is up 14
percent.  Amgen Rally  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest biotechnology company,
raised its quarterly dividend by 31 percent to 47 cents a share
in December and said it would repurchase $2 billion in shares.
Shares of the Thousand Oaks, California-based company are up 12
percent this year, extending a 34 percent rally in 2012.  Gains are poised to continue as Obama is seeking to deliver
affordable health care to the nation’s 48.6 million uninsured,
according to John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at
Oppenheimer & Co.  The Affordable Care Act, which passed Congress in 2010, is
the biggest change to the U.S. health-care system since Medicare
and Medicaid began providing taxpayer-funded services for the
poor, elderly and disabled in 1965. Under the law, insurance
plans will have to compete for the new customers on state-by-
state exchanges where consumers can comparison-shop.  Hospital Stocks  The Bloomberg Industries  hospitals stock  index has rallied
86 percent over the past three years, including a 34 percent
increase in 2013. HCA Holdings Inc., the largest for-profit U.S.
hospital chain, has climbed 30 percent this year.  “It’s a recognition by investors that even though the
government intervention will likely increase, or won’t decrease
much, what many of these companies will lose on a per-unit
basis, they will likely make up in volume,” Stoltzfus said by
phone on March 13.  Tenet Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter said last month
that he expects a boost to the company’s hospital business as
more states join to expand Medicaid to the uninsured.  New Jersey and Florida are among the 25 states planning to
expand Medicaid, a health program for low-income Americans,
according to a tally by Advisory Board Co., a research and
consulting company based in Washington.  Expanding Medicaid  “In the long run the economic benefits of the states will
be such that most states will eventually expand Medicaid and
we’ll see significant growth not just in 2014 but beyond in this
space,” Richard Zoretic, who heads the Medicaid business at
WellPoint Inc., the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, said in
a Jan. 23 conference call with analysts.  Federal spending cuts and efforts to rein in medical costs
threaten sales for drugmakers and health insurers, according to
Mike Binger, who helps oversee about $300 million as senior
portfolio manager at Gradient Investments LLC in Shoreview,
Minnesota.  “It’s everyone’s mandate, whether you’re in the public
sector or in the private sector, to try and control health-care
costs,” Binger said in a phone interview on March 14. “How
that’s done over time is probably the biggest risk.”  U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan on March 12
unveiled a proposal in which $700 billion would be taken out of
Medicaid, the health-care program for low-income Americans. He
also called for an overhaul to Medicare by giving people now
under age 55 fixed sums. The program is currently open-ended.  Shares Surge  Health-care shares have more than doubled since March 2009
and in July became the third industry in the S&P 500 to hit an
all-time high. The S&P 500 is about 1 percent below its 2007
record.  The rally has boosted  valuations  for health-care shares to
the highest in five years, narrowing its discount relative to
the S&P 500. The industry trades at 15.1 times earnings,
compared with a multiple of 15.4 for the U.S. equity benchmark,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The last time that drugmakers and health insurers traded at
a premium to the S&P 500 was between 1994 and 2008, when the
valuation gap averaged 17 percent. The group had a discount as
wide as 47 percent in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Expanded insurance coverage will bolster sales and help
drive continued multiple expansions, according to Dan Teed, who
helps oversee about $125 million as president of Wedgewood
Investors Inc. in Erie, Pennsylvania.  “This is the moment of the sun for the industry,” Teed
said in a telephone interview on March 19. “We’re looking at
increasing the base of the entire industry, not just a few
companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  