-- Lebanon’s Premier Resigns After Dispute on Electoral Law
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2013-03-23T08:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/lebanon-s-government-collapses-after-dispute-on-electoral-law.html
Lebanon’s Prime Minister Najib Mikati, a Hezbollah-backed billionaire, dissolved his two-year-
old administration as spillover from  Syria ’s civil war threatens
to further destabilize the Middle Eastern nation.  “I announce the resignation of the government,” the
former telecommunications entrepreneur said in a televised
speech late yesterday. “Maybe it’s the only way for Lebanon’s
main political powers to take responsibility and unite to take
Lebanon out of the unknown.”  Gun, rocket and sniper fire erupted across Tripoli,
Mikati’s home city, as supporters rallied in Karami Square and
closed all the approach roads after the speech, the state-run
National News Agency said. President Michel Suleiman accepted
Mikati’s resignation, Al Arabiya TV reported today.  Disagreements over preparations for a June parliamentary
election has stoked tension between the Western-backed March 14
group and the Hezbollah-dominated March 8 faction. The two sides
also disagreed about the reappointment of General Ashraf Rifi as
director-general of interior security after he reached
retirement age. He was opposed by Hezbollah, considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S. and  Israel .  Former Prime Minister Fouad Siniora, who heads the
parliamentary Future bloc, part of the March 14 group, said the
Cabinet’s resignation would set the stage for a new round of
national dialogue.  “This resignation should’ve taken place a long time ago,”
Siniora told Al Arabiya late yesterday.  Iranian Aid  The Syrian civil war has led to sporadic clashes between
supporters and opponents of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
including fighting in Tripoli that killed four people and
wounded at least 10 on March 21. Three days earlier, Syrian jets
attacked suspected rebel targets in Lebanon. Mikati has tried to
maintain a policy of disengagement from the Syrian crisis.  Mikati founded Investcom, which runs phone networks in
 emerging markets , with his brother Taha in 1982.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
 Africa ’s largest mobile-phone operator, bought the company in
2006 for $5.5 billion.  Iran  provides Hezbollah with military and financial
assistance in a relationship that dates to the early days of the
Shiite Muslim-led government in Tehran. Israel says Iran has
given Hezbollah rockets.  “Hezbollah is now intervening in the war in Syria, without
the permission or agreement of the Lebanese government” Israeli
President Shimon Peres said in Brussels on March 7. A week
earlier, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said fighters had
been sent by Iran and Hezbollah to aid the Assad regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Amman at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  