-- John Thomas’s Belesis Aided Hedge-Fund Fraud, SEC Claims
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/hedge-fund-manager-said-by-sec-to-steer-bloated-fee-to-belesis.html
Anastasios “Tommy” Belesis,
founder of John Thomas Financial Inc., and Houston radio host
George Jarkesy defrauded investors in two hedge funds, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The two men, both 38, told investors the funds were
independent from the brokerage then steered excessive fees to
Belesis’s New York-based firm, the SEC said yesterday in a
 statement . The regulator said it started administrative
proceedings against Belesis, Jarkesy, who managed the funds, and
their firms. They could face punishments including disgorgement
and financial penalties, the SEC said.  Belesis worked with Jarkesy to raise two funds in 2007 and
2009, which peaked at $30 million under management, telling
investors they would invest in microcap stocks, bridge loans and
life-insurance policies, the SEC said. Jarkesy inflated the
value of investments in disclosures and hired stock promoters to
boost the price of shares, while Belesis and John Thomas
Financial “willfully aided, abetted and caused” the hedge
funds’ violations, according to the regulator.  “Jarkesy disregarded the basic standards to which all fund
managers are held,” Andrew M. Calamari, director of the SEC’s
 New York  regional office, said in the statement. “Not only did
he falsify valuations and deceive investors about the value of
their holdings, but he bent over backwards to enrich Belesis at
the funds’ expense.”  ‘Belligerent Manner’  Belesis “intends to defend himself vigorously against
these allegations,” said David Pitts of Argot Partners LLC, a
spokesman for the brokerage chief. Jason Lewis, Jarkesy’s lawyer
at Locke Lord LLP in Dallas, said his client denies the
allegations.  Bloomberg News reported on Feb. 25 that Belesis, who
founded John Thomas in 2007, has raised millions of dollars for
companies with about 200 brokers in a boiler room across the
street from the New York Stock Exchange, where trainees stand as
long as 14 hours a day barking memorized sales pitches for as
little as $300 a week. The bald, muscular executive has built a
public persona with appearances on business television,
endorsements from celebrities and a role in the movie “Wall
Street: Money Never Sleeps.”  The SEC said in a  complaint  yesterday that Belesis
repeatedly pushed Jarkesy for more fees, in a “profane and
belligerent manner,” and tried to make the funds invest in
companies his firm had interests in. On one occasion cited by
the SEC, after Belesis yelled at the fund manager, Jarkesy tried
to reassure him by saying in an e-mail: “We will always try to
get you as much as possible, Everytime without exception!”  120 Investors  The hedge funds, called John Thomas Bridge and Opportunity
Fund LP I and II, have about 120 investors, the SEC said. The
funds listed inflated valuations for their holdings on monthly
statements, which were the basis for calculating Jarkesy’s fees,
according to the regulators.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority told Belesis
last month he may face disciplinary action on a claim that he
artificially inflated the price of a stock. A former John Thomas
employee said in last month’s Bloomberg story that the
regulator’s investigators had asked him about the brokerage’s
trading in  America West Resources Inc. (AWSRQ)   Jarkesy was a director of America West until last year,
according to a May regulatory filing by the Salt Lake City-based
coal company. The Bridge and Opportunity funds lent $1.7 million
to the company in 2010, the filing says. America West filed for
bankruptcy last month.  ‘Inconsequential Work’  Jarkesy negotiated arrangements in which companies would
borrow money from the funds and divert some of the money to John
Thomas as fees, the SEC said. The companies weren’t identified
in the complaint.  From 2008 to 2010, John Thomas was paid $488,750 in fees
for four bridge loans, including two for which it did “nearly
inconsequential work,” according to the regulators. Jarkesy and
his firm also paid John Thomas $741,000 in brokerage commissions
and about $2.5 million in placement fees, the SEC said.  Jarkesy hosts a radio show that focuses on conservative
politics and airs in Houston, Dallas, Atlanta, Miami,
Minneapolis and San Francisco, said Charles Mefferd, vice
president of operations for the Salem Radio Network, which
distributes Jarkesy’s show. He broadcast last week from the
Conservative Political Action Conference, an annual gathering of
grassroots conservatives in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  