-- Leighton Chairman Quits in Dispute With Shareholder Hochtief
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-03-22T10:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/leighton-chairman-quits-in-dispute-with-shareholder-hochtief-2-.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)  Chairman
Stephen Johns resigned along with two non-executive directors at
Australia’s largest construction company, citing a dispute with
its controlling shareholder  Hochtief AG. (HOT)   The departures follow a perceived breakdown in relations
and their view that Hochtief no longer supports an independent
board, according to a Leighton statement today. The German
builder said separately that it supports the management team and
will support efforts to “solve this situation quickly.”  Leighton shares fell the most in 10 months and Standard &
Poor’s placed the company’s debt on a negative credit watch.
Johns’s appointment in August 2011, a day before the company
appointed a new chief executive officer, wasn’t driven by
Hochtief or its own controlling shareholder, Spain’s  ACS
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA (ACS) , he said at the time.  “This is pretty extreme action,” Jeremy Hook, who helps
manage about A$250 million as investment director of TMS Capital
Pty., said by phone from Sydney. “Anyone who’d be appointed
hereafter would find it very, very difficult to present a
proper, independent approach.”  Hochtief shares dropped 4 percent to 52.14 euros in
Frankfurt as of 11:08 a.m. local time.  Rating Pressure  The resignations signal “a potential breakdown in the
governance arrangements” put in place by Hochtief and endorsed
by ACS, S&P said in an opinion putting a negative outlook on its
BBB- rating.  “The weaker credit quality of the parentage is an
important factor and a constraint on our overall rating
assessment of Leighton,” the company said.  Hochtief has been a shareholder in Leighton  since 1981  and
now holds  53 percent  of the Sydney-based company’s shares,
according to its website. Leighton dropped 6.9 percent to close
at A$20.20 in Sydney.  “It is way too early to suggest that Leighton could be
subject to a degree of potential capital stripping by the
majority shareholder Hochtief/ACS,” Michael Bush, head of
credit research at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney, wrote
in a note to clients. Still, “that issue will certainly now
receive greater attention from investors,” he added.  Leighton’s net debt, at  0.42 times  its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization at the end of
December, leaves it with less than half the gearing of Hochtief,
at  0.89 times , or ACS, at  1.76 times , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Net income of A$450 million last year was more than double
the 158 million euros reported by Hochtief, while ACS lost 1.93
billion euros in the 12 months ended December.  ‘Real Shock’  Ian Macfarlane, a former governor of the Reserve Bank of
Australia, and Wayne Osborn, also stepped down from the 10-
person board. Osborn is also chairman of Leighton’s Theiss
mining services business and the head of  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s Australian
unit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The departures “should be taken as a real shock,” Simon
Fitzgerald, a Sydney-based analyst at Moelis & Co., said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Time will tell if there is
anything more behind this, but given the company’s history
investors are going to be nervous.”  Justin Grogan, a Sydney-based spokesman for the company,
didn’t immediately reply to a message and e-mail seeking
contacts for the directors who resigned.  Align Closely  “There have been a series of events in recent months which
are open to interpretation,” Leighton said in a second
statement released after the market closed in Sydney today.
“The remaining Australian directors have a different view about
how to interpret these events to the resigning directors.”  The company’s arrangements over board independence were in
place and the remaining Australian directors “are not aware of
any specific information that Hochtief no longer supports these
arrangements,” the company said.  The board will convene over the weekend to elect a new
chairman, according to the statement. Directors of Hochtief and
ACS hold three of the eight non-executive director seats on the
board.  Leighton has aligned more closely with Hochtief and ACS
over the past year. It moved its financial year end to December
and added the Spanish company’s construction head Marcelino Fernandez Verdes to its board.  Moody’s in October 2011 dropped Leighton’s credit rating to
Baa2 with a stable outlook, referencing the influence of
Leighton’s shareholder structure on its credit position.  Minority Shareholders  The interests of Hochtief, and ACS through Hochtief, are
not perfectly aligned with the interests of minority
shareholders in Leighton, the ratings company had said. The
rating would be pressured if there were signs that Leighton was
losing its operational independence, particularly around setting
dividends, Moody’s said.  Leighton’s  business in Australia  accounts for just under
half of Hochtief’s 25 billion euros in revenue, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg , and is home to about 35 percent of
its assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  