-- Emerging Stocks Decline to Three-Month Low on Cyprus Woes
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-22T22:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/emerging-stocks-decline-to-three-month-low-as-thai-stocks-tumble.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
three-month low as Russia spurned a bid for a loan to Cyprus and
 Thailand ’s bourse said it may increase margin requirements,
sparking the biggest drop in the SET Index since October 2011.  OAO TNK-BP Holding slid to a record in Moscow as  OAO
Rosneft (ROSN)  said it won’t buy minority stakes. The Thai index capped
its steepest weekly drop since 2008.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the
nation’s largest energy producer, sank to the lowest since Dec.
3 as net income fell 13 percent. Companies of billionaire  Eike
Batista , including OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, slumped.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.7 percent to
1,015.47 in New York. The gauge slipped 2.6 percent this week,
its biggest five-day retreat since May. Stocks fell this week as
Cyprus struggles to avoid a collapse of its banking system.
Lawmakers of the Mediterranean island approved capital controls
and the creation of a fund to pool state assets.  “Cyprus tells us the European Union is still working
through its own financial crisis,”  Alan Gayle , senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said in a phone
interview from Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48 billion,
including developing-nation shares. “That’s going to keep a lid
on economic growth.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has lost 3.8 percent this
year, compared with a 7 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country stocks. The measure trades at 10.7 times
 estimated  12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 14.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF added 0.4 percent to
$41.96, paring the exchange traded fund’s weekly retreat to 1.9
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 5.3 percent to 19.08.  Brazil ’s Bovespa dropped 0.6 percent as OGX slumped 9.2
percent. Shares of OSX Brasil SA, Batista’s shipbuilding and oil
services unit, plunged 17 percent to a record low.  Infraestructura Energetica Nova SAB, the Mexican unit of
U.S. natural-gas distributor Sempra Energy, jumped 17 percent in
its trading debut in Mexico City.  Russian equities fell, capping their biggest weekly retreat
since May. The Micex Index lost 1.2 percent today in Moscow,
extending its weekly slump to 3.6 percent.  Cyprus was “not able to get the support” it wanted, the
Mediterranean island’s Finance Minister Michael Sarris said
today after checking out of his hotel in downtown Moscow. Euro-
area finance ministers expect a proposal from Cyprus “as
rapidly as possible” to raise the 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) needed to trigger emergency loans, they said yesterday.  Record Low  TNK-BP Holding dropped 12 percent to a record low. Rosneft
doesn’t plan to buy TNK-BP’s minority stakes, Rosneft Chief
Executive Officer Igor Sechin said today in an interview
broadcast by national television channel Rossiya 24, after
completing the biggest takeover in Russian history yesterday.  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  fell 3.3 percent, the most among
emerging markets, on concern the bourse may increase margin
requirements on equity trading. Power producer  Glow Energy Pcl (GLOW) 
sank 5.6 percent in Bangkok and  Airports of Thailand Pcl (AOT)  slumped
3.4 percent declining for a second day.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong dropped 0.4 percent. The  Jakarta Composite
Index (JCI)  slid 1.7 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
added 0.7 percent. The S&P BSE Sensex slid 0.3 percent today,
capping its worst weekly loss since December 2011.  PetroChina lost 1.4 percent to the lowest since Dec. 3. Net
income dropped last year, the company said in a statement
yesterday, coming in below analyst estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 299, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  