-- Empire State Building IPO Deadline Pushed Past Next Week
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-03-22T21:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/empire-state-building-ipo-deadline-pushed-past-next-week.html
Voting on the plan for an  initial
public offering  of a company including  New York ’s Empire State
Building will be pushed beyond next week, extending a heated
approval process as some investors campaign against the move.  Peter and Anthony Malkin, who lead the company that
supervises the building, agreed to move the voting to at least
April 8 from a previous deadline of March 25, Stephen Meister,
the attorney representing a group of unitholders against the
deal, said last night on a conference call organized by
opponents. The extension was made to allow for New York state
Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood to rule on whether
investors who don’t approve the plan can be bought out for $100.  “There’s no pressure on anyone anymore,” Meister told
investors on the call. “I would urge everyone to wait to hear
what Justice Sherwood has to say, because I can’t imagine making
this decision and not knowing whether the $100 buyout is legal
or illegal.”  The Malkins had been urging quick approval of a plan to
form a  real estate investment trust  owning the landmark tower
and about 20 other New York-area properties, saying a longer
process would be more costly, and at greater risk of disruption.
They must win support from 80 percent of the shares held by
Empire State Building unitholders, many of whom are retirees or
second- and third-generation holders who had stakes in the
building passed down after a syndication in the 1960s.  Greater Liquidity  A group of investors opposed to the deal say disadvantages
to a REIT include the potential loss of a reliable income stream
that should rise as renovations are finished, while the Malkins
have said their proposal would provide greater liquidity, larger
and more steady distributions, and growth opportunities.  The Malkins said in a regulatory filing today that the
solicitation will be extended to the earlier of the court’s
ruling on the matter or May 2, the date of a fairness hearing on
a proposed $55 million class action settlement in the matter
that Meister’s clients oppose. The extension will “simplify
matters” and allow participants to enjoy “restful holidays”
during Passover and Easter week, they said.  Sherwood gave the parties until April 8 to file briefs on
the $100 buyout issue, Meister said on the call. The provision
allows for investors to receive just $100 per $10,000 originally
invested, should 80 percent of the other shares vote for the
plan. Participants have 10 days to change their mind once the 80
percent is achieved.  Buyout Provision  Meister, speaking before Sherwood last month, called the
provision “extremely coercive,” and illegal under state
liability law. The Malkins’ company, Malkin Holdings, said in
its offering statement that it as a “practical” way to allow
it to act on behalf of an overwhelming majority of investors
without having a small group hold up those actions.  Sherwood last month said that if he strikes the provision,
then consents obtained while it was alive “would be irrelevant
and void.”  Votes have been running 9 to 1 in favor of the REIT plan,
with about two-thirds of the unitholders accounted for, the
Malkins said last week. That still left holders of some 1,100
units out of a total 3,300 not tallied at that time.  Meister last night on the call said sentiment was running
about 60 percent in favor of the REIT, since non-votes are
equivalent to rejecting the plan.  Votes Needed  “Mr. Malkin was at double the 20 percent blocking level
days before the vote deadline,” he said, basing his comment on
Malkin Holdings’ March 14 statement.  Andrew Penson, the owner of  Manhattan ’s Grand Central
Terminal and an Empire State Building investor, also spoke
against the plan on the call, and said the Malkins have
suppressed the market for Empire State Building units for years,
making it nearly impossible for holders to sell their stakes to
anyone but them.  Hugh Burns, a Malkin spokesman with Sard Verbinnen & Co.,
said such claims are “completely untrue.”  “Interests of this type are by their nature illiquid, and
it’s truly ironic that opponents of the proposed transaction
would raise such a complaint when one of the benefits of the
transaction would be to provide them with a liquidity option,”
Burns said in an e-mailed statement.  Though it isn’t a market maker, Malkin Holdings has
provided investors who wish to sell with information to assist
in the process, he said.  Tower Unitholders  Penson is a member of a limited liability company that
holds about 10 shares of Empire State Building Associates LLC,
which holds title to the tower, he said in an affidavit last
month. Investors in the entity have 3,300 units that are valued
at $323,803 or $358,670 under the REIT plan, depending on
certain conditions, according to a prospectus for the
transaction.  Penson said on the call that the REIT would probably price
“at a significant discount” because the proposed voting
structure favors the Malkins.  “There’s a Class A, Class B voting structure here, wherein
Malkin keeps voting control for himself essentially,” said
Penson, president of real estate investment firm Argent Ventures
LLC, which once owned a stake in New York’s Chrysler Building.
“That is a structure that institutional investors, mutual funds
and the like really stay away from.”  Malkin Holdings will receive the same share-buying options
as all other unitholders, and none will have any special  voting
rights , Burns said in the statement.  ‘Misrepresentation’  “The notion that there is some sort of super-majority
voting structure at play, or that it will be a factor in
investor demand for shares, is a deliberate misrepresentation,”
he said.  The Malkins plan to own 16.5 percent of the REIT’s common
stock and tax-protected operating units, according to the
prospectus. They will have 30.4 percent of the company’s voting
power under their plan to take the maximum number of Class B
shares they are entitled. That share would fall to 20.2 percent
if investors in companies related to Malkin Holdings opt to take
all of the Class B shares they can receive. It would also
decline as more operating units are redeemed for Class A voting
shares.  There’s been “no efficient public market” for Empire
State Building units, the Malkins said on a website for their
investors, according to a March 19 regulatory filing. Sales
until now “have been conducted at significant discounts to the
true market price,” they said. Listing the REIT on the New York
Stock Exchange will solve that, they said.  Higher Distributions  Estimated distributions per Empire State Building
unitholder under a REIT structure for the year ending in
September would be $5,866, compared with $3,110 for the five
years through 2011, according to the prospectus. The building’s
net operating income, which is shared with investors under a
complicated formula, is estimated to almost double to $160.2
million by 2018, based on an analysis by  Duff & Phelps Corp. (DUF) ,
the Malkins’ valuation firm.  Future distributions “are projected to be higher than
under the status quo historical average,” Anthony Malkin said
in a investor call transcript filed with regulators on Feb. 6.
“Over the longer term, we believe that all investors will have
the greater potential for increasing distributions than they
currently have.”  REITs are required under U.S. tax law to pay 90 percent of
their taxable income as dividends.  The case is Meyers v.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) ,
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  