-- MetLife CEO Says Bernanke’s Easy Money a Tax on Savers
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-03-22T16:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/metlife-ceo-says-bernanke-s-easy-money-a-tax-on-savers.html
The Federal Reserve should pay more
attention to the harm inflicted on savers by record-low interest
rates, said Steven Kandarian, the chairman and chief executive
officer of  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer.  “A policy of artificially low interest rates is a form of
taxation on savers,” Kandarian, 61, said in his annual letter
to shareholders. “This social cost should be considered more
explicitly in debates over monetary stimulus.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has kept interest rates near
record lows and started a bond-buying program to  cut
unemployment  and boost the pace of growth after the deepest
recession since the Great Depression. Low yields contribute to
higher prices and reduced guarantees on some products offered by
New York-based MetLife, Kandarian said.  “The current environment of extremely low interest rates
is starting to have a meaningful impact on the ability of life
insurance companies to offer certain guarantees,” the CEO said.
The Fed “penalizes savers directly through low returns on bank
deposits and other fixed-income instruments, and indirectly
through lower crediting rates” on insurance products.  Bernanke has said that low returns for savers are a
necessary cost of the central bank’s efforts to lead the economy
out of the recession. Policy makers have held the main interest
rate  near zero  since December 2008 and they  estimate  that the
first increase will be appropriate in 2015.  Growth is still too weak for higher rates, and raising
borrowing costs prematurely would “throw our economy back into
recession,” further hurting savers, Bernanke told lawmakers
Feb. 26 in his semiannual monetary policy report to Congress.  ‘Only Way’  “The only way to get interest rates up for savers is to
get a strong recovery,” Bernanke told the Senate Banking
Committee. “And the only way to get a strong recovery is to
provide adequate support to the recovery.”  Insurers invest premiums from customers in bonds and other
assets to back future payouts. Yield from the instruments that
exceeds customer payments can add to profits.  MetLife’s  $517 billion portfolio  includes more than $370
billion of fixed-maturity securities, and the insurer has hedges
that have helped guard income against low bond yields. The
company had an investment income yield of 6.99 percent on
variable and universal life products in the Americas retail unit
in the three months ended Dec. 31, which was 2.45 percentage
points higher than the average crediting rate for clients. The
so-called spread for deferred annuities was 3.02 percent.  Kandarian said in the letter that MetLife has raised prices
and lowered guarantees on savings products including variable
annuities and some forms of universal life insurance. The
insurer’s new variable annuity, which lowered payout rates, may
generate higher returns on capital, Kandarian said.  Kandarian’s Bonus  MetLife boosted Kandarian’s bonus by 40 percent to $4.2
million in his first full year as CEO, the insurer said in a
separate document today. Kandarian’s total compensation rose to
$13.7 million last year from $10.6 million in 2011.  MetLife gained 0.3 percent to $38.18 at 11:51 a.m. in New
York. The shares have advanced 16 percent this year.  Insurance executives including the head of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s General Re unit and Alleghany Corp. CEO Weston Hicks have cited the risks of low rates. Hedge-fund manager
David Einhorn has said the stimulus efforts aren’t useful and
may lead to inflation.  Kandarian, who became CEO in May 2011, is focusing on
products that are less risky and have lower capital
requirements. He’s scaled back from savings products such as
variable annuities while focusing on protection offerings such
as accident and health insurance.  “In a period of prolonged low interest rates and
potentially higher capital requirements for large life insurance
companies, we must achieve the correct balance” between savings
and protection products, Kandarian said in the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  