-- EU Fund Bonus Limits, Leveraged Loans, FDIC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-22T12:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/eu-fund-bonus-limits-leveraged-loans-fdic-compliance.html
Fund managers are facing a push by
 European Parliament  to limit their bonuses, hours after Britain
failed to water down planned EU  banker -pay rules that are set to
take effect from 2015.  The assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee
voted in favor of a ban on managers of EU-regulated mutual
funds, known as UCITS, from receiving bonuses larger than their
fixed pay.  The move comes as European Parliament lawmakers and
Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
confirmed a compromise deal overhauling bank capital and
liquidity rules for the 27-nation EU. That law will ban banker
bonuses that are more than twice fixed pay, with scope for as
much as a quarter of the bonus to be valued at a discount if
payment is deferred for at least five years.  In calling for tougher fund-manager rules, lawmakers set
the stage for a vote by the full parliament before negotiations
with national diplomats can start. Funds that meet EU investor-
protection and oversight rules can be labeled as UCITS, and gain
the right to operate throughout the 27-nation bloc.  If adopted, the pay rules would also apply to employees
outside the EU, Sven Giegold, the legislator leading work on the
draft measures in the assembly, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Federation of European Employers, which represents
corporate recruiters, has said the bonus curbs would go beyond
the powers given to the European Union by the bloc’s treaties.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Banks to Be Held Liable for Biased Auto Loans Under CFPB Rules  U.S banks may be sued by the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau if they fund discriminatory vehicle loans made by auto
dealers, the agency announced yesterday.  Banks must comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act,
which bans discrimination in lending, the CFPB said in an e-
mailed  statement . The new guidance demonstrates the CFPB is
willing to sanction banks over mark-ups by auto dealers, which
were excluded from the bureau’s authority in the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Law that created the agency.  The market for auto loans is fragmented, with no lender
controlling more than 6 percent of the market in the fourth
quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by  Experian Plc. (EXPN)  The
rules take aim at a practice the agency refers to as “dealer
markup” and auto dealers call “dealer participation” or
“dealer-assisted finance.” Consumer groups charge the
structure of this market gives dealers an incentive to move
buyers into more expensive loans.  Some banks have already received notices from the consumer
bureau warning that they may face possible enforcement action.
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  announced in a March 1 regulatory filing
that CFPB was investigating certain retail financing practices.  The regulation of auto lending was one of the hardest-
fought provisions of Dodd-Frank.  For more, click here.  Regulators Caution Banks to Boost Standards on Leveraged Loans  Federal regulators issued new guidance on leveraged lending
to combat weakening standards as issuance of the debt grows at
the fastest pace since the financial crisis.  Prudent underwriting practices have deteriorated with the
inclusion of covenant-light transactions and less-than-
satisfactory risk management practices, according to a guidance
yesterday from the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  Speculative-grade borrowings such as leveraged loans have
benefited from the Fed’s attempts to galvanize the economy by
buying $85 billion in Treasury and mortgage debt, and holding
its  benchmark rate  near zero since 2008. Speculative-grade rated
borrowers obtained $113 billion in loans last month from non-
bank lenders, exceeding the pre-crisis peak of $55 billion in
April 2007, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Banks’ risk-rating standard must make realistic
assumptions, establish underwriting methods similar to those for
internal loans and perform stress testing on loans held within
its portfolio as well as those planned for distribution,
according to the  statement .  The Fed’s third round of so-called quantitative easing
began in September and was boosted in December to $85 billion in
monthly purchases. Some Fed officials are concerned the policy
may be fueling bubbles in some corners of the credit market.  Insider-Trading Tipsters to Face Prison Under Japan Proposal  Japan’s financial regulator is proposing imprisonment as
part of stiffer penalties for people who leak information used
for insider trading, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg.  Individuals who provide tips for insider traders to help
them gain profits would face up to five years in prison and 5
million yen ($53,000) in fines, the document from the Financial
Services Agency shows. Institutions would be subject to fines of
as much as 500 million yen.  Japan is clamping down on insider trading after regulators
last year found that employees of brokerages including  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  gave tips on share offerings they managed. Under
existing rules, only those who trade on nonpublic information
can be imprisoned or fined.  The proposal for imprisonment is more severe than
recommendations made by an FSA advisory committee in December.
The panel had urged that the names of brokerage employees who
leak confidential information be disclosed to the public in
egregious cases.  The agency’s proposed law change would bring Japan into
line with the U.S.  BRICS to Discuss Currency Swaps at Summit, Brazil Official Says  Leaders from Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
will discuss swaps in local currencies at a summit next week,
Brazil Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said yesterday on a
conference call.  Brazil’s talks with China over a reais-for-renminbi swap
are progressing, he said.  Separately, talks over the creation of a BRICS development
bank are advancing. The BRICS development bank won’t be a rival
to the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank. An
agreement on the exact amount of resources to be committed isn’t
likely and Russia favors capping each side’s contribution to $10
billion at first,  Mikhail Margelov , President Vladimir Putin’s
envoy to Africa, said March 15 in an interview in Moscow.  The BRICS summit will take place March 25-27 in Durban,
South Africa.  Compliance Action  FDIC Said to Plan First Sale of Home-Loan Bonds Since July 2011  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. plans to sell $221.1
million of securities backed by residential mortgages held by
failed banks, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  The agency is selling guaranteed notes backed by $276.4
million of loans, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms aren’t set. More than 70 percent of the
mortgages are from Home Savings of America, and at least six
other banks contributed 2.5 percent or more, the person said.  The FDIC began raising cash in 2010 through the bond market
for the first time since the early 1990s, offering the agency a
source of liquidity aside from assessments on healthy banks or
its emergency line of credit with the U.S. Treasury.  The Washington-based agency’s sales since then have been
tied to $7.4 billion of assets, with the FDIC placing $359.4
million of bonds backed by $449.3 million of commercial-mortgage
debt in its last offering in May 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It last sold securities tied to
residential notes in July 2011, the data show.  Jefferies Group LLC (JEF)  is managing the latest sale, in which
the underlying mortgages are 54 months old on average and carry
current loan-to-value ratios of 106 percent, the person said.  David Barr , a spokesman for the FDIC, declined to comment.  ICE, NYSE Euronext Asked EU on March 18 to Rule on Merger  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  asked European Union
antitrust regulators to take jurisdiction over its bid for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , according to a regulatory filing.  It made the request to the European Commission on March 18,
according to the filing. It said the U.K., Spain and Portugal
have 15 working days to object to the EU’s competition authority
taking control of the merger review process.  ICE said it would formally notify the deal to the EU later.  SAP Adopts European Corporation to Speed Up Decision-Making  SAP AG, the German business-management software maker,
plans to turn itself into a European corporation to enable
faster decision-making as it focuses on grabbing database
customers from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   SAP will ask shareholders to approve a change of its legal
status from an Aktiengesellschaft to a Societas Europaea, or SE,
at next year’s annual meeting, it said yesterday. One aim is to
speed up decisions on the supervisory board, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private.  The SE structure, already adopted by  companies  including
 BASF SE (BAS) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Puma SE (PUM) , was created by the European
Commission to simplify regulatory and legal requirements for
companies with subsidiaries in more than one European country.
Previously, multinationals had to follow each of the EU members’
own legal system where they had a subsidiary.  The change is of particular interest to German companies as
the SE status allows them to choose between the German two-tier
system of management board and supervisory board and the single-
tier system adopted elsewhere in Europe with only one board. The
legal form also simplifies cross-border mergers and
acquisitions.  For more, click here.  Courts  Raj Rajaratnam’s Brother Rengan Charged With Insider Trading  Rengan Rajaratnam, the younger brother of imprisoned hedge-
fund founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was indicted by a federal grand
jury on charges he took part in an insider-trading scheme tied
to Galleon Group LLC.  Rengan Rajaratnam, 42, is accused of conspiring with his
brother to trade on material nonpublic information about
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  in 2008,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday.  Prosecutors alleged that Rengan, while working as a fund
manager at Galleon, made almost $1.2 million from trades that
occurred on March 24 and March 25 of that year based on tips
provided by his brother and his Rolodex of insiders. He was
implicated during his brother’s trial, where wiretapped
conversations between the two men were played in court.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also filed a
parallel insider-trading suit against Rengan Rajaratnam,
describing a conspiracy that the agency said began in 2006 and
lasted until 2008. Rajaratnam reaped more than $3 million in
illicit gains for Galleon and Sedna, the SEC alleged. The SEC
said its investigation is continuing.  David Tobin, an attorney for Rengan Rajaratnam, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 13-cr-00211, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
civil case is SEC v. Rajaratnam, 13-cv-01894, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Goldman Employee Must Arbitrate Sex-Bias Case, Court Says  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won an appeal in a sex-
discrimination case, forcing a former managing director to
arbitrate her claim rather than sue.  The federal appeals court in New York yesterday ruled
against Lisa Parisi, one of three women who sued in 2010
claiming they faced discrimination in pay and promotion at
Goldman Sachs.  Parisi argued that she has a right to present her claim
that the firm had a pattern and practice of discrimination
against female managing directors, vice presidents and
associates that can be litigated only as a class action in
federal court. Parisi’s employment contract contained an
arbitration clause, the court said.  The court reversed a decision by a lower-court judge who
denied Goldman Sachs’s request that it order Parisi’s case to
arbitration. The appeals court said Parisi may present to the
arbitrators any evidence of discriminatory practices or policies
at Goldman Sachs that affected her employment.  The case is Parisi v. Goldman Sachs & Co., U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Two RBS Traders Sue Bank, Claiming Unfair Dismissal  A former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  trader, who was
criticized by a judge for giving dishonest testimony on behalf
of the bank in a 2010 trial, sued at a London tribunal saying he
was unfairly fired.  Sam Griffiths, a former leveraged-loan trader at RBS,
testified in a lawsuit brought by Highland Capital Management LP
accusing the lender of fraudulently terminating a
collateralized-debt obligation at the height of the 2008 credit
crunch. Judge  Michael Burton  said Griffiths tried to hide
information and gave misleading evidence about the bank’s
conduct.  At a tribunal hearing yesterday, lawyers for Griffiths
contested the use of privileged evidence ahead of the official
start of his unfair-dismissal case. No further information about
the claim was given at the hearing and Griffiths’s lawyer Raja
Nadarajan didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Separately, a second trader from RBS’s collateralized debt
obligation desk sued the bank at a London tribunal, saying he
was unfairly fired.  Wai Kin Hui was dismissed for gross misconduct in July
after an internal investigation found he had been involved in
attempts by the desk to manipulate the bank’s pricing system.
Hui told the tribunal yesterday he didn’t know of any
wrongdoing.  RBS spokeswoman Sarah Small and Hui’s lawyer Andrea Randall
declined to immediately comment on the case.  For more, click here.  While damages in unfair-dismissal cases are capped at about
70,000 pounds ($106,000), bank employees can seek to reclaim
lost or withheld bonuses if a tribunal rules they were dismissed
improperly.  Interviews/Speeches  OCC Chief Raises Question on Banks, Community Reinvestment Act  U.S. Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said one of
most important issues his agency still must address is whether
banks that do robust business beyond their geographic branch-
based network should have “increased responsibilities” under
the Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA.  “The question is whether lending alone creates a greater
CRA obligation,” Curry said in speech before the  National
Community Reinvestment Coalition  in Washington this week.  “Some banks gather deposits from areas far beyond their
brick-and-mortar offices,” Curry said.  The CRA bars “redlining,” the practice of discriminating
against borrowers in low-income, minority neighborhoods, and
encourages efforts to meet credit needs of all residents.  Levitt Says Executive Pay Is More Linked to Performance  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the non-binding votes of shareholders
have “motivated companies” to link chief executive officers’
compensation to performance.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and  Joe Brusuelas 
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 