-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Drop Since November
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-22T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-drop-since-november.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly decline in four months as a proposal to impose a levy on
 bank deposits  in Cyprus sparked concern it would set a precedent
for other euro-area economies seeking aid.  National Bank of  Greece  SA and  Banco Popular  Espanol SA
paced losses among lenders. Lanxess AG tumbled 11 percent after
predicting a drop in profit this quarter. Barratt Developments
Plc and Persimmon Plc pushed U.K. homebuilders higher after
Britain announced a new plan to support housing.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.1 percent to
294.04 this week, the biggest drop since Nov. 16. The measure
has still gained 5.1 percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a compromise budget and reports on housing and jobs
fueled optimism the world’s largest economy is recovering.  “The capacity for European stock markets to outperform
strongly during 2013 has been dealt a blow by the reminder that
European tail risks can flare up quickly and knock investor
confidence,” John Bilton, European investment strategist at
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a note.
Without “a quick resolution to the crisis and a clear statement
from policy makers that Cyprus is unique, there is likely to be
a lingering impact on confidence,” he added.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all the 18 western
European markets this week, except Ireland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
fell 1.5 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 slid 1.9 percent and  Germany ’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 1.6 percent. Greece’s ASE Index tumbled 3.1
percent, while the stock market in Cyprus was closed all week.  Unprecedented Levy  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades on March 16 agreed to
a demand by the euro area’s finance ministers to raise 5.8
billion euros ($7.5 billion) by imposing a charge on every bank
account in the country.  Cyprus’s parliament rejected the levy on March 19, setting
up a showdown with the European policy makers who insisted on a
contribution from the island nation as a condition for the
release of 10 billion euros of emergency loans.  The  European Central Bank  has said it will withdraw Cypriot
lenders’ access to liquidity after March 25 unless the
government agrees to a bailout from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Cyprus didn’t get the loans it sought from  Russia , although
the two countries will continue talking, the island nation’s
finance minister, Michael Sarris, said.  German Manufacturing  A purchasing managers’ index for German manufacturing
unexpectedly fell to 48.9 this month, a report showed on March
21. The median economist forecast had called for 50.5, according
to a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50 signals a
contraction. A separate report showed that manufacturing in
France shrank more than estimated.  A  gauge of bank shares  was the second-worst performer among
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 this week. National Bank of
Greece lost 8.1 percent. Banco Popular slipped 12 percent. Banco
de Sabadell SA also slumped 9.8 percent, while Barclays Plc slid
8.8 percent.  Lanxess plunged 11 percent after saying earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and one-time items
will drop to as low as 160 million euros in the current quarter,
from 369 million euros a year earlier. The chemical maker also
said it has budgeted for declining profit this year.  Mining Shares  Rio Tinto Group retreated 6.1 percent after the world’s
second-biggest mining company on March 19 forecast a decline in
iron-ore prices from the second half of the year.  An index of mining companies posted the  biggest drop on the
Stoxx 600 . Kazakhmys Plc plummeted 13 percent and Lonmin Plc
plunged 9.3 percent.  In the U.K., homebuilders rallied after Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  on March 20 announced a new Help-to-Buy
program to support the housing industry. He committed 3.5
billion pounds ($5.3 billion) to help first-time buyers purchase
newly built houses and offered guarantees sufficient to support
130 billion pounds of mortgages.  Persimmon surged 8 percent and Barratt Developments jumped
9.8 percent.  Taylor Wimpey Plc  climbed 6.1 percent.  Ryanair Holdings Plc advanced 6.9 percent after saying
March 19 it is buying 175 jets with a catalog value of $15.6
billion from Boeing Co. The additional flights will allow the
budget airline to boost traffic to more than 100 million
passengers by March 2019, according to a joint statement by the
two companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  