-- Euro Rises to $1.30 on Speculation Contagion Will Be Contained
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-03-22T21:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/euro-climbs-amid-speculation-cyprus-contagion-will-be-contained.html
The euro strengthened to $1.30 for
the first time in a week on optimism Cyprus is moving closer to
a deal to stave off financial collapse and prevent contagion
from infecting the rest of the region.  Europe ’s shared currency climbed versus all of its 16 major
peers as Cyprus’s House of Representatives approved measures as
part an attempt to secure financial support. The pound pared a
gain versus the dollar after  Fitch Ratings  said it may downgrade
the U.K.’s AAA rating. Asian currencies fell for a fifth week,
the longest losing streak since June, as the turmoil in Europe
reduced demand for higher-returning assets.  “The euro’s bounce was mostly a result of optimism that
we’ll see some kind of deal cobbled together by Cypress the
European Union,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview. “We’re very much
in wait-and-see mode.”  The euro climbed 0.8 percent to $1.2989 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after reaching $1.30 for the first time since March 15.
The share currency touched $1.2844 on March 19, the weakest
level since Nov. 22. It strengthened 0.3 percent to 122.73 yen,
after dropping as much as 0.8 percent. The yen rose 0.5 percent
to 94.46 per dollar.  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The  difference  in the number of  wagers 
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on an decline in the
euro compared with those on a drop -- so-called net shorts --
was 44,884 contracts on March 19, compared with net shorts of
24,787 a week earlier.  Fitch Warning  Britain came a step closer to losing its top credit grade
at Fitch after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
debt will rise more than previously forecast. The U.K. was
placed on rating watch negative, “indicating a heightened
probability of a downgrade in the near term,” Fitch said in a
statement.  The U.K. currency was 0.4 percent higher at $1.5230, after
earlier strengthening to $1.5248. Sterling weakened 0.3 percent
to 85.29 pence per euro.  Norway’s krone increased versus most of its major
counterparts after the country proposed raising  capital
requirements  at its banks to protect the economy from financial
losses. The currency gained 0.6 percent to 5.8036 per dollar.  The Brazilian real fell for a second week versus the
greenback after a report showed inflation slowed more than
economists forecast, spurring speculation that the central bank
will push back an increase in borrowing costs. The currency fell
1.3 percent on the week to 2.0094.  Emergency Proposal  European and Cypriot officials were locked in talks to find
a formula to avert the Mediterranean island’s financial
collapse, struggling to forge consensus on a bailout package
before the European Central Bank cuts funding. The Cypriot House
approved the  capital controls  and a plan to create an investment
fund. The search for a compromise comes after a week of tumult
marked by Cypriot lawmakers’ rejection of a proposal for an
unprecedented tax on  bank deposits .  Europe’s shared currency fell 0.7 percent versus the U.S.
legal tender this week and 1.5 percent against  Japan ’s currency.  “People that tried to sell the euro earlier this week on
the Cyprus news didn’t get much satisfaction,”  Marc Chandler ,
New York-based global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co., said in a telephone interview. “This
is some light position-squaring ahead of the weekend. The
resiliency of the currency this week probably means we’ll get a
bounce next week.”  ECB Repayments  Europe’s shared currency fell 1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen weakened 0.5 percent,
while the dollar rose 0.8 percent.  The 17-nation currency will now target the area from
$1.3108 to $1.3135 after appreciating past so-called resistance
at $1.2957 to $1.2976, Cilline Bain, a London-based technical
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients.
Resistance refers to an area on a chart where sell orders may be
clustered.  The  European Central Bank  said today that financial
institutions will repay 1.94 billion euros of three-year loans
on March 27, down from 6.82 billion euros the week before. That
takes the total amount of money repaid early to 237.7 billion
euros, or 23 percent of the overall lending.  ‘Short-Term Relief’  The ECB flooded financial markets with three-year loans
totaling more than 1 trillion euros a year ago after banks
stopped lending to each other because of Europe’s debt crisis.
Banks now have the option of repaying the loans, which were
offered at the average of the ECB’s benchmark rate over their
duration.  “The growth outlook remains just awful for Europe, so I
fully expect the ECB to be easing within a month or two,”
 Richard Franulovich , chief currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a Bloomberg radio interview.
“Whatever short-term relief we might see, I fully expect the
euro to be trading lower in coming days.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
10 most-active currencies in the region excluding the yen,
dropped 0.13 percent since March 15.  Traders are paying the most since January 2012 for
contracts granting them the right to buy the yen, relative to
options for selling the currency. There is a 0.39 percent
premium for yen calls, one-year 25-delta option risk reversal
rates show. The market turned bullish on the yen on March 12 for
the first time since June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  