-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Accountant Gets 3 1/2 Years in Tax Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-22T23:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ex-deutsche-bank-accountant-parse-gets-42-months-for-tax-fraud.html
David Parse, a former  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  accountant, was sentenced to three and a half years in prison
for his role in what prosecutors claim is the biggest criminal
tax-fraud prosecution in history.  Parse, 51, was convicted in 2011 of mail fraud and
obstructing the  Internal Revenue Service  as part of a scheme to
market fraudulent tax shelters that the U.S. said cost the
Treasury more than $230 million in lost taxes. He was sentenced
today by U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan.  “Parse played a central and longstanding role in the
criminal scheme,” Pauley said before announcing the sentence.  Parse was accused of being a key actor in a fraud that
created more than $7 billion in illegal tax deductions and
benefits. He made $3 million in commissions from the fraud,
according to the government.  In addition to the prison time, Pauley sentenced Parse to
three years of supervised release, $115.7 million in restitution
and $1 million forfeiture.  Prosecutors had urged Pauley to give Parse a similar
sentence to the eight-year prison term he handed former Jenkens
& Gilchrist lawyer Donna Guerin this month.  Parse’s lawyer, Paul Shechtman of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP,
told Pauley in a March 7 letter that his client “was at the
periphery of the Jenkens scheme” and shouldn’t be sentenced to
prison. Parse submitted at least 20 letters from family and
friends asking for leniency.  “He wasn’t a tax lawyer. He did not design these shelters.
He did not market them,” Shechtman told Pauley today.  Guilty Verdicts  A  Manhattan  jury in May 2011 returned guilty verdicts
against Guerin and Paul Daugerdas, both former Jenkens &
Gilchrist lawyers; Denis Field, the former chief executive
officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP; and Parse, who
worked for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s Alex. Brown unit. The
jury acquitted Parse of four of the six counts against him.  Craig Brubaker, a second former Alex. Brown accountant, was
found not guilty of all charges.  The 10-week tax-fraud trial generated 9,200 transcript
pages of testimony from 41 witnesses. Lawyers introduced 1,300
pieces of evidence.  In June, Pauley granted a new trial for Parse’s three
convicted co-defendants after a juror disclosed that she lied
about her past, including that she was an alcoholic and a
suspended attorney, to get on the jury.  Tainted Juror  The judge let Parse’s conviction stand, ruling that his
lawyers from the  New York  firm Brune & Richard LLP failed to
reveal information they had about the juror, Catherine Conrad.  Pauley ruled that Conrad’s presence on the jury deprived
Parse’s co-defendants of a fair trial, but said that Parse’s
lawyers had waived the issue. Pauley also denied Parse’s request
for a new trial on the ground that his lawyers were inadequate.
Shechtman represented Parse after the Brune & Richard lawyers.  Pauley today rejected Shechtman’s argument that a letter
sent by Conrad to one of the prosecutors in the case shows that
the jury convicted him for back-dating three transactions for
tax purposes, rather than for his participation in the wider
scheme.  “Conrad simply cannot be relied on for anything of
importance,” said Pauley, calling her “a monstrous liar.”  Pauley allowed Parse to remain free on $500,000 bond while
he appeals his conviction.  Guerin pleaded guilty in September to one count of
conspiracy and one count of  tax evasion  rather than face a
second trial.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  