-- Ex-Goldman Employee Must Arbitrate Her Claim of Sex Bias
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-22T21:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ex-goldman-employee-must-arbitrate-her-claim-of-sex-bias.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won a U.S.
appeals court decision compelling a female former managing
director who sued the firm for gender discrimination to pursue
her case through arbitration rather than in court.  The New York-based panel yesterday ruled that Lisa Parisi,
one of three women who sued the firm in 2010 claiming they were
subjected to pay and promotion discrimination, can’t maintain
her case in U.S. court. Her employment contract contained a
clause requiring disputes to be resolved through arbitration.  Parisi’s lawyers argued their client had a right under
federal law to press her claim Goldman Sachs has a pattern and
practice of discriminating against managing directors who are
women, and that such claims can only be litigated in the context
of a class action, or group, case.  A lower court judge agreed, denying Goldman Sach’s request
he order Parisi’s case to arbitration.  “Because we disagree that a substantive statutory right to
pursue a pattern-or-practice claim exists, we reverse,” U.S.
Circuit Judge Barrington Parker wrote for a unanimous three-
judge panel. Joining him were Judges Gerard Lynch and Reena Raggi.  Enforcing Agreements  Citing U.S. Supreme Court precedent, the panel said the
high court has consistently interpreted the Federal Arbitration
Act as favoring the enforcement of such agreements, “even when
the claims at issue are federal statutory claims,” absent some
contrary congressional command.  The appeals court said Parisi may present to the
arbitrators any evidence of discriminatory practices or policies
at Goldman Sachs that affected her employment.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, in an
e-mail message said the firm is pleased with the court’s
decision.  “It’s an unfortunate decision, obviously, from our
perspective,” Adam Klein, an attorney for Parisi, said today in
a phone interview. “We thought the district court got it
right.”  The net effect on the case may be limited, Klein said,
because the proposed class is primarily comprised of associates
and vice presidents, not managing directors like Parisi.  “Managing directors are going to have to file individual
arbitrations,” he said.  ‘Harder’ Win  The panel decision was a victory for employers, two
attorneys who weren’t involved in the litigation said today in
separate interviews. It also made it more difficult for Parisi
to prevail, a University of California, Los Angeles, law
professor said.  “The court’s ruling made her case harder to win,” the
UCLA law professor,  Katherine Stone , said by phone today. It is
more difficult to prove discrimination against one person than
it is to show a pattern and practice of discrimination against a
group of similar people, she said.  “That’s what was at stake here,” Stone said. Had Parisi
been allowed to pursue her claim in court as part of a class,
the burden to prove there was no such pattern would have shifted
to the investment firm, she said.  ‘Big Win’  Parisi’s lawyer, Klein, said it seems “improbable” that
an arbitrator would extend the scope of the evidence disclosure
process to include employees beyond those who are immediately
comparable to an individual plaintiff.  “I don’t think anyone knows the answer,” he said. Klein
is a partner in New York-based Outten & Golden LLP.  “It’s fair to call it a big win for employers,” said
Michael P. Roche, a partner in the Chicago-based law firm
Winston & Strawn LLP. “This decision definitely strengthens the
ability of employers to ensure that claims can be arbitrated,”
he said.  Employers prefer arbitration over courthouse litigation
because it allows them to more easily control the cost of such
conflicts, he said.  It also allows them to avoid costly class actions and fight
in a forum of their own choosing, said  Jeffrey Bernick , a
partner in the Phoenix office of the New York-based employment
law firm Jackson Lewis LLP.  The case is Parisi v. Goldman Sachs & Co., U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  