-- Mexico Inflation Exceeds 4% as Banxico Signals Rates on Hold
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-03-22T19:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/mexico-inflation-quickens-more-than-forecast-exceeds-target-1-.html
Mexican inflation unexpectedly
climbed above its target range as the central bank signaled it
doesn’t plan to further cut borrowing costs to spur growth. The
peso rallied.  Consumer Prices rose 0.52 percent in the two weeks through
March 15, the national statistics agency said today, almost
twice the 0.28 percent median forecast of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Annual inflation quickened to 4.12 percent, the
highest since the first half of November and above the upper end
of the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range.  Policy makers anticipated the inflation pickup, saying it
would be temporary before slowing toward their 3 percent target,
according to minutes of the central bank’s March 8 meeting
released today. The central bank cut its key rate by 0.5
percentage point to a record-low 4 percent this month on a four-
to-one vote, with the dissenter saying lower rates could
threaten the target, the minutes showed. The bank reiterated
that the cut wasn’t the start of an easing cycle.  “Any market hopes that the central bank could change its
view in the near-term about the one-off nature of the rate cut
will probably be weakened after today’s inflation print,”
 Alonso Cervera , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in
an e-mail. “Now it is likely inflation in March and April will
be higher than the central bank was expecting.”  The peso strengthened 0.4 percent to 12.3802 per  U.S.
dollar  at 1:30 p.m. in  Mexico  City. Yields on fixed-rate
 government bonds  due in December 2013 rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.06 percent. Yields on inflation-
linked bonds maturing in 2014 fell six basis points to 0.76
percent.  Core Inflation  Agriculture and livestock prices climbed 12.37 percent in
the first half of March from the same period a year earlier,
while energy costs increased 5.97 percent.  Core inflation, which excludes more volatile energy and
agriculture prices, rose 0.26 percent in early March, compared
with the 0.17 percent median forecast by 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, and at a 3.06 percent annual rate.  The benchmark rate cut came after the inflation had slowed
to within the central bank’s target range in December and growth
moderated. Mexican  industrial production  and retail sales fell
in December, the first declines in each indicator since Mexico
emerged from the 2009 recession. Growth, which exceeded  Brazil ’s
the past two years, will slow to 3.5 percent this year, the
least since 2009, from 3.9 percent in 2012, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Brazil is
projected to grow 3.4 percent this year.  Split Decision  The split decision is the first for  Banco de Mexico  since
it began publishing minutes from monetary policy decisions in
February 2011.  Central bank board member Manuel Sanchez said in a Feb. 27
interview that he didn’t see a case for a rate cut “at this
moment” as inflation remains above the 3 percent target.
 Monetary policy  should “remain vigilant” to risks including
food-price increases and financial weakness abroad that could
crimp investment in Mexican assets and hurt the peso, he said.
Reaching a consensus isn’t a “prerequisite” for a rate
decision, Sanchez said.  The minutes show that Finance Minister Luis Videgaray and
Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Aportela attended the central
bank’s board meeting.  A separate report from the statistics agency said today
Mexico’s unemployment rate fell to 4.85 percent in February,
below all 15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  