-- Mexico House Approves Bill to Boost Telecom Competition
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-03-22T20:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/mexico-house-approves-bill-to-boost-telecom-competition.html
Mexico ’s lower house of Congress
approved a modified proposal to increase competition in the
telecommunications and media industries, inserting changes that
benefit broadcasters  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  and TV Azteca SAB.  The bill was approved 393-98 at 4:11 a.m. local time today
to be delivered to the Senate, according to the house’s  website .
It will require the vote of two-thirds of the Senate. At least
parts of the legislation will also need constitutional changes,
which have to be approved by a majority of legislatures from 31
Mexican states and the capital.  In a measure to let foreigners own as much as 49 percent of
Mexican broadcast networks, lawmakers  added  a “reciprocity”
clause requiring outside investors to come from countries that
also allow stakes of that size in their media industries. That
could cut down on investment from companies from the U.S., which
has a  restriction  of 25 percent foreign ownership in many cases.  Televisa and Azteca, both based in Mexico City, account for
almost all of Mexico’s broadcast-television audience. The
telecommunications law calls for creating two new broadcast
networks through an airwave auction. Comcast Corp.’s Telemundo,
a U.S. Spanish-language network, had sought to air in Mexico as
recently as 2006, when it was owned by General Electric Co.  ‘Reciprocal Treatment’  In an  editorial  last year in the Wall Street Journal,
Televisa Chairman  Emilio Azcarraga  said his company wouldn’t
seek to block U.S. investment in Mexican TV networks, “as long
as we receive reciprocal treatment in the U.S.” Televisa has a
6 percent stake in Univision Communications Inc., the most-
watched Spanish-language broadcaster in the U.S., plus debt that
can be converted into a stake of as much as 30 percent.  The bill, proposed March 11 by lawmakers from Mexico’s
three biggest political parties and supported by President
Enrique Pena Nieto, seeks to reduce the dominance of Televisa
and Azteca in media and of billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America
Movil SAB in the phone industry.  Televisa rose 0.7 percent to 64.42 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. Azteca gained 0.2 percent to 8.43 pesos.  America
Movil  climbed 1.9 percent to 12.58 pesos.  The legislation calls for stronger regulatory agencies with
the power to force companies to dispose of assets if their
market share is more than 50 percent. Televisa gets 70 percent
of Mexico’s broadcast audience, and Mexico City-based America
Movil has 70 percent of its mobile-phone subscribers. The
proposal also would let foreign companies own landline
telecommunications networks for the first time.  Signals Exception  Another new clause inserted by Mexican lower-house
lawmakers today creates an exception for a requirement that
broadcasters offer their signals for free to pay-TV companies.
If a company that has been determined to be dominant benefits
from the free signals through a relationship with a third party,
regulators can revoke the company’s license.  That rule would address the partnership between America
Movil and Dish Mexico, a satellite-TV joint venture of MVS
Comunicaciones SA and  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  While Slim’s company
doesn’t have a license to offer TV service itself, it has a
marketing relationship with Dish Mexico, helping it compete
against the packages of phone, Internet and TV offered by
Televisa’s cable units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  