-- FAA to Close 149 U.S. Airport Towers After Budget Cuts
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/faa-to-close-149-u-s-airport-towers-after-budget-cuts.html
The U.S. will close 149 air-traffic
control towers run by contractors at small- and mid-sized
airports beginning on April 7 as a result of automatic budget
cuts at government agencies.  The Federal Aviation Administration spared 24 towers on its
original list of 173 subject to closing, it said in an e-mail
yesterday. All the towers being shut down are run by private
companies, not the government as at larger facilities.  The shutdowns will be phased in over four weeks. About 750
to 1,100 controllers and supervisors may lose their jobs, said
Spencer Dickerson, executive director of the Alexandria,
Virginia-based  Contract Tower Association .  “Unfortunately we are faced with a series of difficult
choices that we have to make to reach the required cuts under
sequestration,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in an
e-mailed statement.  Airports losing their towers averaged 54,000 flights in
2011, the most recent year for which FAA data are available.
Four had fewer than 20,000 landings and takeoffs, according to
agency data.  The airports losing their towers have mostly general-
aviation traffic, with smaller amounts of charter and military
flights. Of the group, 13 averaged at least one airline arrival
and departure per day in 2011, according to the FAA.  Central  Illinois  Regional Airport in Bloomington, Illinois,
had the most airline flights of those airports with 4,835,
according to the data.  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ)  operates flights
there under contract to  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Closing Impact  Florida  is set to lose 14 towers, the most of any state.
They include facilities at Naples Municipal, Boca Raton and
Ocala International airports. Texas will lose 13 and  California 
11.  Among the towers being spared are ones at airports in San
Carlos, California; Jacksonville, Florida, and Meridian,
 Mississippi . The FAA spared the 24 facilities because airport
operators convinced the agency that closing them “would have a
negative impact on the national interest,” according to the
agency statement.  Planes, including airliners, can continue to fly to
airports without functioning towers. Most of the roughly 5,000
U.S. public airports don’t have towers. Instead of being guided
by controllers, pilots radio each other to coordinate landings
and takeoffs, according to FAA procedures.  Lawmakers React  Advocates for pilots and airports said shutting the towers
will harm safety and impose economic hardship on businesses such
as flight schools that rely on controllers to guide planes.  “The White House does not understand the consequences of
these actions, or they do and they simply do not care,” Craig Fuller, president and chief executive officer of the Aircraft
Owners and Pilots Association, a Frederick, Maryland-based
advocacy group, said at a town-hall meeting March 21 at DuPage
Airport in West Chicago, Illinois. “Either way, this approach
is dangerous and should not stand.”  Some Republican lawmakers said President  Barack Obama ’s
administration was using the tower cuts for partisan gain.  “The FAA must reevaluate its decision, and the White House
must put an end to its political charade,” Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican, said in a release.  Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican who
is chairman of the House transportation committee, and Senator
John Thune of South Dakota, the top Republican on the commerce
committee, wrote to LaHood asking for more information on the
closings.  FAA’s Budget  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta told Congress Feb. 27
there wasn’t a choice on whether to shutter most private towers.
The private tower program is one of the agency’s largest
contracts, he said.  The 15,000 controllers employed by the FAA will be forced
to take one unpaid day off every two weeks starting April 21,
which will aggravate delays at some of the busiest U.S.
airports, including Chicago O’Hare and Atlanta’s Hartsfield-
Jackson, he said.  The FAA must cut $627 million out of its $16 billion budget
by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, Huerta said.  Dickerson said it was unfair for the government to shut
down more than half the 251 private towers while sparing
government-run facilities. The association represents firms that
run the towers.  “Controllers at contract towers perform a host of
important functions, including separating aircraft, issuing
safety and weather alerts, and assisting with military,
emergency response, and medical flights,” Dickerson said.  Large Carriers  Airlines for America, a Washington trade group representing
large carriers, said its members have no plans to cancel or
suspend flights because of the closures,  Jean Medina , the
group’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Airports pay a portion of the operating costs at 16 private
towers that will remain open through Sept. 30, and other local
officials can use that option to keep their towers open,
according to FAA rules.  No FAA air-traffic facilities will be shut down for at
least a year, Doug Church, spokesman for the National Air
Traffic Controllers Association union, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The FAA’s union contract requires that controllers get at
least a year’s notice before a facility is closed, Church said.
The agency Feb. 22 issued a list of 49 FAA towers that were
subject to closing in addition to the private towers.  Union President Paul Rinaldi said in an e-mail the tower
closings were a poor way to balance the budget.  “Ultimately, the partisan posturing in  Washington  that led
to sequestration is the reason for today’s decision and its
destructive effects on aviation,” Rinaldi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  