-- Fairfield Greenwich Madoff Settlement to Be Approved
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-22T22:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/fairfield-greenwich-madoff-settlement-to-be-approved.html
A U.S. judge said he will approve
an $80.3 million settlement between Fairfield Greenwich Group,
the biggest operator of “feeder funds” that channeled money
into  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, and investors who lost money
in the fraud.  U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero in Manhattan said today
he’ll grant final approval of the deal, which is to be funded by
Fairfield Greenwich founder Walter Noel and other individuals
associated with the firm. Fairfield Greenwich placed about $7
billion with Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  The settlement provides $50.3 million to the investors, who
will get an additional $30 million if that money isn’t used to
resolve other legal claims.  In 2011 a bankruptcy judge approved a $212 million
settlement between  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s defunct firm, and Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich
Sentry Partners LP, two bankrupt funds related to Fairfield
Greenwich. Marrero on March 20 ruled against an attempt by
Picard to prevent the settlement with the Fairfield investors
from going forward.  “We and our co-lead counsel are gratified by Judge
Marrero’s statement that he intends to grant final approval of
the settlement, which will begin to compensate investors in the
Fairfield funds for their substantial losses,” David Barrett, a
lawyer for the investors, said in a statement today.  The investors continue to pursue claims in the case against
Citco Group Ltd. and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, according to
Barrett.  The case is Anwar v. Fairfield Greenwich Group Ltd., 09-
cv-00118, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  