-- FDA Tightens Rules on Defibrillators as Recalls Mount
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-22T19:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/fda-tightens-rules-on-defibrillators-as-recalls-mount.html
External defibrillators, devices
that shock hearts back into normal rhythms, will face tougher
U.S. regulations under a  proposal  designed to cut down on the
number of malfunctions.  The Food and Drug Administration plans to require
manufacturers submit more rigorous studies of automated external
defibrillators to receive approval. Recalls of the devices have
shown current rules are unsuccessful, the agency said in a
proposal published today in the Federal Register.  Automated external defibrillators, made by companies such
as  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , are portable devices that can
be used in an office, shopping mall or school and are carried by
police and ambulance crews. External defibrillators were linked
to 45,000 malfunctions and adverse events and 88 recalls from
2005 to 2012,  William Maisel , chief scientist with the FDA’s
Center for Devices and Radiological Health.  “We do have confidence in the AEDs in distribution,”
Maisel said.  The devices help resuscitate people who experience  sudden
cardiac arrest , a condition when the heart stops beating that
typically causes death within minutes. There are about 300,000
sudden cardiac deaths per year, Maisel said.  Most of the automated external defibrillators already have
the clinical data needed to support a pre-market application,
the FDA said. The devices had to prove only that they were
similar to others on the market to receive FDA clearance.  No Shortages  Philips, based in Amsterdam, isn’t concerned today’s
action, once made final, will result in an interruption in the
distribution of the company’s devices, Steve Klink, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. Manufacturers will have plenty of time to
prepare their submissions and the FDA doesn’t expect shortages,
Maisel said.  The FDA said it plans to exercise enforcement discretion
for 15 months after the proposal takes effect. The requirements
will kick in by the end of 2014. Companies will have to pay
$248,000 per application for FDA’s review, Maisel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  