-- First Quantum to Keep Inmet Mines After Takeover Gets Support
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-03-22T12:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/first-quantum-to-keep-inmet-mines-after-takeover-gets-support.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  plans
to hold on to all of  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) ’s operating assets and
most of its employees after getting shareholder support for a
C$5 billion ($4.9 billion) hostile takeover.  First Quantum said today in a statement that it has support
from holders representing 86 percent of Inmet’s stock, allowing
the deal to proceed. Vancouver-based First Quantum took its
cash-and-stock bid straight to investors in January after two
earlier proposals were rejected by the Inmet board. It’s seeking
to add Inmet’s Cobre Panama copper project to help it become the
world’s fifth-largest producer of the metal.  Inmet also mines copper in  Spain  and operates two pits in
Turkey and  Finland  that produce the metal as well as zinc. They
“are all very good assets, operating at very low cost,” First
Quantum President  Clive Newall  said in a March 20 interview.  “Fortunately those assets are extremely well-run, they
have good guys operating them so we don’t have to focus on them
in the short run,” he said. “Our focus will be mainly on Cobre
Panama immediately.”  The Inmet deal is the largest bid for a mining company to
be announced since Tinkler Group Pty Ltd.’s bid for  Australia ’s
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Inmet takeover will reduce risk and increase
geographic diversification for First Quantum, Newall said.  Cobre Panama will cost about $6.2 billion to develop and
produce an average of 266,000 metric tons of copper annually,
according to Toronto-based Inmet’s website. The project is 80
percent owned by Inmet. Korea Panama Mining Corp., a venture
between LS-Nikko Copper Inc. and Korea Resources Corp., owns the
rest. First Quantum plans to lower constructions costs by using
its own staff instead of contractors.  Jobs Review  “Synergies are what we are reviewing right now,” Newall
said. “For the exact extent of savings, we need three to six
months on the ground to review the whole project.”  First Quantum is targeting annual copper output of 1.3
million tons by 2017, following the startup of Cobre Panama at
the end of 2016, Newall said. That goal doesn’t include output
from First Quantum’s Haquira project in  Peru , which will come
“a bit later,” he said.  First Quantum doesn’t have a headcount target for the
combined company and will review jobs in the first few weeks
after the takeover, Newall said.  “There will be areas we’ll have to review,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  