-- First Map of Infant Universe Shows Asymmetry, Dark Matter
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-03-22T09:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/first-map-of-infant-universe-shows-asymmetry-dark-matter.html
The first map of the universe in
its infancy showed the seeds of the stars and galaxies of today
and previously unobserved anomalies, astronomers said.  The  all-sky map  is based on the first 15.5 months of
observations with the  European Space Agency’s  Planck satellite,
capturing the oldest light in the universe, emitted when it was
only 380,000 years old, the agency and the Max Planck Institute
for Astrophysics said in a statement.  The data generated from the map generally confirm the
established view of the universe and imply that it is 13.82
billion years old. They also show some new features, such as a
greater proportion of dark matter than previously thought, with
normal matter, consisting of galaxies, stars and Earth,
contributing only about 5 percent to the total mass and energy
density, the scientists said. Another surprise was an asymmetry
in the average temperatures on opposite hemispheres of the sky,
they said.  “The extraordinary quality of Planck’s portrait of the
infant universe allows us to peel back its layers to the very
foundations, revealing that our blueprint of the cosmos is far
from complete,” said Jean-Jacques Dordain, director general of
the  European Space Agency , in the  statement .  The data also revealed that the universe is expanding at a
rate that is significantly less than previously estimated, and a
cold spot extending over a patch of sky is much larger than
expected. A possible explanation is that the universe is in fact
not the same in all directions, they said.  “We see an almost perfect fit to the standard model of
cosmology, but with intriguing features that force us to rethink
some of our basic assumptions,” said Jan Tauber, ESA’s Planck
project scientist. “This is the beginning of a new journey and
we expect that our continued analysis of Planck data will help
shed light on this conundrum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  