-- Flaherty Holds Spending to Return Canada to 2015 Balance
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-22T13:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/flaherty-holds-spending-to-return-canada-to-2015-balance.html
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
safeguarded  Canada ’s status as the only Group of Seven country
with a stable top  credit rating  after releasing a fiscal plan
that eliminates the country’s deficit in two years.  Flaherty’s  budget  presented yesterday projected Canada will
swing to a surplus of about C$800 million ($781 million) in the
fiscal year that begins April 2015, from a C$25.9 billion
deficit in the year ending this month, by limiting spending
growth to the slowest pace since the 1990s and banking on an
accelerated recovery. Moody’s said in a statement the budget is
in line with the government’s Aaa bond rating.  “The important thing to take away from this is recognizing
that Canada does stand head and shoulders over many of its
developed-market peers in ensuring that its fiscal fundamentals
are very sound,”  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at
TD Securities said in an interview in Ottawa.  The governing Conservatives are seeking to reverse a legacy
of deficits that may reach a cumulative C$170 billion amid the
 slowest expansion  since the 2009 recession that is hampering
revenue.  Spending growth is forecast to average 2.1 percent over the
next five years, after rising about 26 percent, or 4.9 percent a
year, since 2007. Revenue is projected to grow an average 4.6
percent, more than double the current year’s pace, as Flaherty
bets the country’s  expansion  will pick up steam.  “The prospect of a return to budget balance by 2015-16 and
the beginning of a decline in the debt ratios after the 2014-15
year indicate that, relative to other large Aaa-rated
sovereigns, Canada’s debt position will remain favorable,”
Moody’s said in a statement.  Top Rating  Canada is the only G7 country with a stable AAA debt rating
from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings.  “It’s credible, in that growth in revenue and expenditures
are very doable and realistic,” said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, even though the
“net risk is that revenues don’t live up to projection.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0238 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:36 a.m. One Canadian dollar buys 97.67 U.S. cents.  Flaherty has pledged not to reduce transfers to individuals
and provinces or raise taxes, other than closing loopholes, to
spare most Canadians the brunt of deficit-cutting measures.  Instead, he is zeroing in on the C$120 billion Canada’s
government spends on operating and capital expenses, which is
less than half of total program spending.  The governing Conservatives led by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  already have been working to reduce the state payroll,
pledging to fire about 12,000 workers and cut another 7,000 jobs
through attrition. Yesterday’s fiscal plans include about C$600
million worth of additional savings from government over five
years.  ‘Requires Discipline’  “It requires discipline, but that discipline is being
followed and it leads to a balanced budget,” Flaherty said. The
longest-serving finance minister in the Group of Seven, who has
said he hasn’t decided whether to run for office in the next
election, told CTV yesterday’s budget won’t be his last.  Flaherty projected direct program spending excluding
payments to individuals and provinces would drop to 5.8 percent
of GDP in 2015 from 6.7 percent in 2012. That will decline
further to 5.5 percent by 2017, near the lowest in 50 years.  Flaherty’s plan also projects spending will be less than
forecast in his last  update  in November, reflecting changes to
how the government accounts for budgeted expenses that never
occur, and other factors such as weaker-than-expected inflation
that is reducing price-indexed payments.  ‘Consistently Wrong’  Still, revenue is being hampered by a slumping global
economy, with the government reducing its growth forecast for
this year to 1.6 percent, compared with a 2 percent November
projection. Combined with lower commodity prices, that will
reduce revenue projections by C$14.8 billion between 2012 and
2017, before new measures in the fiscal plan.  “Stephen Harper and Jim Flaherty have consistently gotten
it wrong with regard to their budget predictions,”  Thomas Mulcair , leader of the opposition  New Democratic Party  told
reporters in Ottawa.  In last year’s budget, Flaherty had estimated cumulative
deficits of C$29.2 billion between 2012 and 2015. That was
raised to more than C$50 billion in yesterday’s budget.  One benefit from weakening global growth is lower borrowing
costs, reducing interest expenses by more than C$2 billion over
the next five years.  Yesterday’s plan includes revenue raising measures that
close loopholes and take steps to reduce  tax evasion , in part to
pay for new initiatives. Closing tax loopholes will generate
another C$4.4 billion in revenue over five years, while the
government expects to generate an additional C$2.4 billion from
more aggressive efforts to catch tax evaders.  Tariff List  Flaherty also announced he will remove 72 “higher-income”
countries, including  South Korea  and  China , from Canada’s
preferential tariff system, which allows goods from developing
nations lower duty rates. The change will come into effect in
2015 and raise C$333 million annually.  Measures to bolster growth will cost C$6.9 billion from
2012 to 2017, including a two-year extension on a temporary tax
break and new direct funding for manufacturers who have been
hardest hit by the global slowdown.  While total employment has increased by more than 950,000
jobs since July 2009,  manufacturing  jobs are still near the
lowest on record as factories struggle with the Canadian
dollar’s 45 percent gain over the past decade.  The higher dollar also has had a regional impact, with
manufacturing-heavy Ontario posting above national average
jobless rates in every month since June 2006. Flaherty yesterday
announced new funding for a regional development agency in
southern Ontario, and allocated C$1 billion for aerospace and
military manufacturers.  Critical Issues  “It addresses the issues that are critical for the
companies that are adding value to reboot the economic
recovery,” said Jay Myers, chief executive of Canadian
Manufacturers and Exporters.  As a sweetener for consumers, the government will also
eliminate tariffs on baby clothing, imported hockey equipment
and other sports equipment, a measure that will cost C$76
million a year, budget documents show.  Much of Canada’s expansion over the next year depends on a
shift from  consumer spending , which has led growth for years, to
business investment. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said
Feb. 25 the “rotation” of demand from the country’s indebted
households to businesses “is the fundamental challenge” for
the economy.  Record Cash  Recent evidence suggests companies are still holding back.
Canadian investment spending will increase this year at the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, according to a  Statistics
Canada  survey released Feb. 27, amid sluggish global demand and
weak commodity prices.  Non-financial companies held a record C$600 billion of
currency and deposits in the fourth quarter, up from C$434
billion in mid-2009 as the last recession ended, according to
Statistics Canada.  Calgary-based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest
energy firm, led all companies with C$4.39 billion in cash and
marketable securities according to Bloomberg calculations.
Twenty-three companies had cash and marketable securities worth
more than C$1 billion.  The country’s energy producers are being hampered by a glut
of supply that has constrained Canadian  oil prices , in part
because of a lack of transport routes.  The price of Western Canada Select, the benchmark heavy
crude exported from  Alberta  to the U.S., reached a record
 discount  below the price of U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil
last year.  Flaherty this year is reallocating existing funding to
begin financing grants of C$15,000 for job training, to be
jointly funded by provincial governments and employers.  The country’s job vacancy rates are the highest in Alberta,
Saskatchewan and Manitoba, according to Statistics Canada data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  