-- Forint Heads for Longest Slump Since 2011 as S&P Cuts Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-22T09:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/forint-heads-for-longest-slump-since-2011-as-s-p-cuts-outlook.html
The forint headed for the longest
series of weekly declines in almost 18 months and bond yields
rose as  Standard & Poor’s  cut the outlook on Hungary’s junk-
grade credit rating to negative from stable.  The currency fell for a second day after S&P said the
government’s takeover of central bank management and changes to
the constitution may harm policy makers’ credibility, according
to a statement late yesterday. The company kept the rating at
BB, two notches below investment grade. S&P’s criticism may be
replicated by other rating companies, said Luis Costa, a London-
based strategist at Citigroup Inc.  “I consider this change of outlook as the opening of one
more important dimension in Hungarian risk,” Costa wrote in an
e-mail today. “We still favor a higher euro-forint rate.”  The currency of  Hungary , the most indebted nation in the
east of the European Union, slid 0.3 percent to 307.74 per euro
by 10:44 a.m. in Budapest, extending its decline in the past
five days to 0.9 percent. The forint is set for a sixth week of
depreciation, the longest such streak since October 2011. Yields
on the government’s dollar-denominated bonds due in 2023 rose
three basis points to 5.9 percent, the highest level since the
securities were first sold on Feb. 12.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings both rate
Hungary one step below investment grade, with negative and
stable outlooks, respectively.  Policy Changes  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  used his party’s two-
thirds majority in parliament to amend the constitution last
week, overturning previous court decisions and limiting legal
interpretations by judges. The forint has also weakened since
Orban named former economy minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  as central-
bank president on March 1. Matolcsy, who in December advocated
the use of “unorthodox” monetary policies to boost growth,
started his tenure by taking away powers from two of his
deputies appointed under a previous government and rewriting the
bank’s founding document to consolidate authority in his hands.  The forint pared losses today after Magyar Hirlap reported
that the government opposes weakening the forint, citing an
interview with  Peter Szijjarto , a state secretary at the prime
minister’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  