-- Former England Striker Michael Owen Plans Soccer Talent Agency
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-22T14:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/former-england-striker-michael-owen-plans-soccer-talent-agency.html
Former  England , Liverpool and Real
Madrid striker  Michael Owen  said he plans to start a player
agency business when he retires from soccer at the end of the
season.  Owen, 33, announced three days ago he’ll quit when a one-
year contract with  Premier League  team  Stoke City  ends in June.
Injuries have hampered Owen during several of the past seasons,
including a three-year spell at  Manchester United  in which he
played just 31 league games.  “On July 1 I propose to set up Michael Owen Management
Ltd. focusing on guiding young players through their careers and
offering them advice at every juncture of what can be a career
full of pitfalls,” Owen said in a statement on his website.  The trading market for soccer players is worth more than $2
billion a year, attracting agents hoping to profit from cutting
deals. Owen said he’s entering the business after seeing “so
many horror stories” during his career and learning “plenty
from my own experiences.”  Owen rose to prominence as a 17-year-old with Liverpool,
from where he was selected to play for England’s national team a
year later in 1998. By the time he played his last international
game in 2008, he had scored 40 goals in 89 games, the fifth
highest by an England player.  Owen’s talent was recognized globally at the 1998  World
Cup . Starting the tournament as a substitute he came on to score
a goal within minutes of taking the field against  Romania  before
surging past the Argentina defense to score one of the
tournament’s iconic goals.  ‘Important Role’  “I feel genuinely excited by the opportunity of guiding
some of our best talent through their formative years and
beyond,” Owen said of his planned venture. “Having already
spoken with a number of people within the game, I get a real
sense that they too feel that I can play an important role in
helping to nurture talented youngsters into our stars of the
future both on and off the pitch.”  Owen said he also plans to focus on a media career that has
started to take shape this season with appearances on several
television soccer shows. He’ll sign to work with the British
Broadcasting Corp. on radio and TV from next season, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  “I have appeared on various channels trying out different
roles and gaining experience for a future on TV,” Owen said in
his blog. “I am currently in discussions with several
broadcasters and hoping to secure a contract for next season and
beyond.”  The striker, who also played for  Newcastle United , has used
part of his soccer wealth on building a successful career in the
horse racing industry. In 2007 he established the Manor House
Stables training yard, which accommodates more than 100 horses.
In 2011 one of his runners, Brown Panther, won a major race at
the Royal Ascot meeting.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  