-- GE Unit Loses $5 Million Verdict Over Dye Damage to Skin
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-22T21:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ge-unit-loses-5-million-verdict-over-dye-damage-to-skin.html
A  General Electric Co. (GE)  unit must
pay $5 million to an  Ohio  man who developed a skin disorder tied
to the company’s Omniscan contrast agent used in medical tests,
a jury ruled in the first verdict over the dye.  Jurors in federal court in Cleveland today found GE
Healthcare Inc. liable for Paul Decker’s injuries from the
Omniscan dye he received during 2005 tests on his heart,
 Christopher Tisi , one of Decker’s lawyers, said in a telephone
interview. The dye caused an ailment that leads to a hardening
of the skin and makes it difficult to move limbs, Tisi said.  “We alleged at trial that GE officials were aware Omniscan
could cause this debilitating condition and didn’t properly warn
patients and doctors,” Tisi said.  Decker’s case was the first over the Omniscan agent to go
to trial, the lawyer said. GE,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Tyco International
Ltd. (TYC) , which all made dyes for medical testing that have been
found to cause medical problems, have settled about 90 percent
of the cases over the products, Tisi said.  GE Healthcare plans to appeal, according to an e-mailed
statement. Jurors found the company didn’t provide proper
warnings about Omniscan’s health risks, while ruling in the
company’s favor on whether the agent was defectively designed.  ‘Not Defective’  “We are disappointed in the jury’s decision,” Aleisia
Gibson, a spokeswoman for GE Healthcare, said in the statement.
“We are pleased, however, that the jury found that Omniscan is
not defective.”  Lawyers for Decker and other plaintiffs contend dye makers
included the chemical  gadolinium  in their products. Researchers
have found that the substance can cause ailments such as
 nephrogenic systemic fibrosis  (NSF), the disease Decker
developed after receiving the Omniscan agent.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  ordered in May 2007
that U.S. makers of products containing gadolinium include a
black-box warning on labels about the dyes’ risks. Such a
warning is the agency’s strictest caution.  GE officials contend the FDA approved Omniscan as safe and
effective and haven’t demanded that company take it off the
market. The argued the contrast agent has been safely used for
more than 17 years.  “When used according to its FDA-approved labeling, the
benefits of Omniscan far exceed the risks,” Gibson said in the
statement.  ‘Handful Left’  At one time, GE and other contrast makers faced about 1,000
suits over their products in federal courts around the U.S.,
 Michelle Parfitt , one of Decker’s lawyers, said in a telephone
interview today. The cases were consolidated before U.S.
District Judge Dan A. Polster in Cleveland for pre-trial
information exchanges. “There are only a handful of cases
left” after a round of settlements, Parfitt added.  The 61-year-old Decker, a retired production worker for
 Cooper Tire & Rubber (CTB)  Co. who lives near Toledo, Ohio, said he
developed NSF after receiving one dose of Omniscan during a
heart test. The disease left him “immobile and dependent on 24-
hour care,” his lawyers said in an e-mailed statement after the
verdict was announced.  Decker’s attorneys alleged GE officials knew patients with
a history of kidney ailments were at a higher risk for
developing NSF from Gadolinium-based contrast agents.  After hearing 17 days of evidence and arguments, jurors
found GE officials “knew or should have known about a risk to
patients with impaired renal function” posed by Omniscan,
according to court filings. The company “failed to provide
reasonable and adequate” warnings about those risks, the
filings said.  The case Decker v. GE Healthcare Inc., 12-gd-50004, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Ohio ( Cleveland ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  