-- Genworth Names Ex-Senator Conrad as Director
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-22T13:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/genworth-selects-ex-senator-conrad-as-director-expanding-board.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the seller
of life insurance and mortgage guarantees, named former U.S.
Senator  Kent Conrad  to the board of directors as financial firms
seek government expertise and influence in Washington.  The addition of Conrad, 65, a Democrat from North Dakota,
increases the size of the board to 10 directors from nine, the
Richmond, Virginia-based insurer said today in a statement.
Genworth added David Moffett, the former head of government-
backed mortgage investor  Freddie Mac , to the board in December.  Insurers are adding directors and executives with
government experience as they grapple with regulations on
matters ranging from capital to home loans. MetLife Inc., the
largest U.S. life insurer, added Carlos Gutierrez, a former
commerce secretary, to its board this month. Mortgage insurer
 Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  hired a chief policy officer this week.  “Kent’s extensive budgetary and public policy experience
and perspectives will provide invaluable insights as Genworth
continues its focus on rebuilding value for shareholders,”
Genworth Chairman James Riepe said in the statement.  Congress is weighing changes to U.S. housing policy that
may increase the role of companies selling private  mortgage
insurance , including Genworth and Radian. Federal regulators are
separately considering capital rules for the largest U.S. non-
bank financial institutions, a group that may include MetLife
and American International Group Inc.  AIG, NAIC  AIG, which suspended all lobbying in 2008 after receiving a
U.S. rescue package, hired Patton Boggs LLP in December to
advocate in Washington for the firm’s interests in a deal to
sell a plane-leasing unit. Lenders including Bank of America
Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co . also added ex-government leaders to
their boards as U.S. regulation increased following the
financial crisis.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the
group of state insurance overseers, in January named ex-
Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  to be its chief executive officer.
Nelson also served as an industry executive and state regulator.  “We needed the gravitas, the phone calls returned, to go
to Capitol Hill, to tell our story, defend our turf, and beyond,
protect and promote our system around the world,” Jim Donelon,
NAIC president and Louisiana insurance commissioner, said in an
interview in January. “I think all the way up to and including
President Obama would return Senator Nelson’s phone calls.”  Conrad was a Senator from 1987 until this year. He was the
chairman of the Budget Committee at the time of his retirement.
Prior to his election to Congress, Conrad was the North Dakota
tax commissioner. He earned a bachelor’s degree in political
science from  Stanford University  and an MBA from George
Washington University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  