-- German Landlord GSW May Expand Beyond Berlin, CFO Says
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-03-22T12:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/german-landlord-gsw-open-to-expanding-beyond-berlin-cfo-says.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) ,   Germany ’s
fourth-largest landlord by market value, may expand beyond its
main market of Berlin if a suitable group of housing assets
comes up for sale.  “We’re open to going outside Berlin, but we don’t see any
opportunities at the moment,” Chief Financial Officer Andreas Segal said today in a telephone interview. “The market would
have to be similar to Berlin in terms of demographic and
economic growth.”  GSW owns about 60,000 homes, mostly in the German capital,
where the population is growing and rents are rising. The number
of households in Berlin grew 13 percent to almost 2 million in
the 10 years through 2011, according to the latest Berlin
census. Rents gained about 8 percent in 2012 and 26 percent in
the past five years, according to online broker ImmobilienScout
24.  GSW’s Berlin focus has helped the stock outperform the FTSE
EPRA NAREIT Index of German property stocks.  GSW shares  climbed
27 percent in the past 12 months, while the index gained 21
percent.  Acquisition Strategy  GSW, which added 7,000 apartments in 2012, plans to buy at
least 1,500 more this year, Segal said. The company has enough
funds to buy 2,000 units, and may raise additional capital
through a convertible bond or a share sale.  “We scan the market continuously, and there’s a pretty
good deal pipeline,” he said. “Whether we raise more money
depends on the opportunities in the market.”  In order to expand beyond Berlin, GSW would have to find a
large number of units tightly clustered in one region to
increase efficiency, Segal said.  GSW considered bidding for  Gagfah SA (GFJ) ’s Woba portfolio of
38,000 apartments in Dresden last year and decided against it,
he said. Gagfah, controlled by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,
last month abandoned a plan to sell its homes valued at about
1.8 billion euros after getting a loan to pay back debt.  GSW reported full-year earnings today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  