-- German Business Confidence May Improve as Economy Defies Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-03-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/german-business-confidence-may-improve-as-economy-defies-crisis.html
German business confidence probably
rose to the highest in almost a year in March, adding to signs
that  Europe ’s largest economy will return to growth even as
Cyprus inflames the region’s debt crisis.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will climb to 107.8 from 107.4 in
February, according to the median of 42 forecasts in a  Bloomberg
News survey . That would be the fifth straight gain and the
highest reading since April last year. Ifo releases the report
at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  With the  European Central Bank  threatening to cut off
emergency funding for Cyprus’s banks unless it agrees to the
terms of a European Union-led bailout, the tiny Mediterranean
island has re-ignited concerns about the euro and roiled
financial markets. Still, German investor confidence
unexpectedly rose to a three-year high this month and the
Bundesbank said the nation’s economic recovery remains on track.  “Confidence of German companies staged an impressive
comeback in recent months” and “there are unambiguous signs of
a strong recovery in German industry,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “We see good chances
that the latest German sentiment jump will soon be reflected in
hard data and then increasingly lift other European countries.”  Improving Outlook  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
105 from 104.6 in February, while a gauge of the current
situation may have increased to 110.5 from 110.2, the survey
shows.  Some recent indicators have pointed to economic weakness.  A gauge of activity in  Germany ’s manufacturing industry,
based on a survey of  purchasing managers , unexpectedly fell
below 50 this month, signalling contraction. Gauges of activity
in the euro-area manufacturing and service industries also
showed them shrinking at a faster pace than economists forecast.  The ECB lowered its projections earlier this month to
predict the euro-area economy will contract 0.5 percent this
year before growing 1 percent in 2014. By contrast, the
Bundesbank estimates German growth of 0.4 percent this year and
1.9 percent next year.  Sales Growth  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s largest potash maker, predicted on March
14 that earnings and sales will rise “slightly” this year.  Schaeffler AG, the industrial-bearing maker that’s the
biggest investor in car-parts producer  Continental AG (CON) , said
yesterday that demand in  North America  and  Asia  will more than
make up for a drop in Europe to allow revenue growth of about 4
percent in 2013.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX share index  is up more than 4
percent this year.  “Companies are beginning to be more positive about exports
and orders and there’s room for even more improvement,” said
Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“If the revival of the debt crisis threatens planning
certainty, it could potentially become a big risk for the
economy. But at the moment, companies have hope that there’s a
way around that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  