-- Gold Seen Extending Rebound as Cyprus Revives Bulls: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-22T20:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/gold-seen-extending-rebound-as-cyprus-revives-bulls-commodities.html
Gold traders are becoming more
bullish as concern mounts that a worsening of Europe’s debt
crisis will spur demand for a protection of wealth at a time
when nations from the U.S. to Japan are signaling more stimulus.  Sixteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
gain next week, while seven were bearish and two were neutral.
That’s the highest proportion of bulls since March 8. Prices
reached a three-week high of $1,617.07 an ounce this week as
Cypriot lawmakers rejected an unprecedented levy on bank
deposits that had been proposed in return for external aid.  Turmoil in Cyprus is hurting Europe’s chances of recovering
from recession. The European Central Bank said it will cut the
island’s banks off from emergency funds after March 25 unless it
agrees on a bailout. Investors sold gold holdings and hedge
funds cut bets on price gains this year amid signs the U.S.
economy is improving and as Federal Reserve policy makers
debated the pace of stimulus. The U.S. central bank said March
20 that it will maintain asset purchases to spur growth.  “There’s a dawning realization that the crisis is
unfortunately far from over in Europe,” said Mark O’Byrne, the
executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., a brokerage
that sells and stores bullion coins and bars. “Ultra-loose
monetary policies are set to continue for the foreseeable future
and that would suggest that gold prices could go higher as long
as that’s the case.”  Gold Price  The metal is down 4 percent this year in London after 12
straight annual gains, the best run in at least nine decades. It
was at $1,67.85 today. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities was little changed this year, and the MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 5.6 percent. Treasuries
lost 0.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Cyprus is seeking to overcome a deadlock after its
lawmakers rejected a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) levy on
bank deposits imposed by euro-area finance ministers as a
condition for a 10 billion-euro rescue. A bank holiday there was
extended to March 25, giving policy makers until that day to
find a compromise to prevent a collapse of the country’s banks.  “Monetary easing as well as Europe back on the front pages
following the Cyprus fiasco are supportive,” said Adrian Day,
the president of Adrian Day Asset Management in Annapolis,
Maryland. “Gold will continue its slow but steady recovery.”  Concerns about Cyprus and political turmoil in Italy may
hinder a recovery in Europe. ECB President Mario Draghi said
earlier this month that the euro region will gradually rebound
later in 2013 from its second recession in four years. Euro-area
services and manufacturing output contracted more than
economists estimated in March, a Markit Economics report
yesterday showed.  Record Average  Gold, which generally earns returns only through price
gains, averaged a record $1,669 last year as nations pledged
more stimulus to bolster growth. Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos
Aires, Argentina’s only gold trader, is talking with mining
companies to buy the metal directly as surging demand from
customers seeking protection from faster inflation exhausts its
supply of scrap, Carlos Leiza, director of the bank’s secured
loans unit, said in a March 11 interview.  Japan’s central bank governor Haruhiko Kuroda vowed
yesterday to pursue bold monetary easing. Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke steered clear two days ago of any suggestion that a
reduction in $85 billion in monthly bond buying is imminent. The
central bank said it will leave its key interest rate near zero
as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation is less than 2.5 percent.  Equity Markets  Gold slid the previous five months in the worst run since
1997 on speculation the U.S. would curb stimulus as signs of a
recovery boosted equity markets. Gold is unlikely to return to
its September 2011 record of $1,921.15, Credit Suisse Group AG
said last month. Barclays Plc and Societe Generale SA are among
banks predicting the bull market has, or is close to, peaking.  About $6.4 trillion was added to the value of global
equities since November as China accelerated for the first time
in two years. The International Monetary Fund predicts global
expansion will climb to 3.5 percent in 2013 from 3.2 percent in
2012. U.S. unemployment fell to a four-year low of 7.7 percent
last month, as job growth surged, Labor Department data show.  Investors sold 179.5 metric tons of gold valued at $9.3
billion from exchange-traded products since holdings reached a
record in December, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Assets
 reached  an almost seven-month low of 2,452.2 tons on March 20.
The U.S. Mint sold 36,500 ounces of American Eagle gold coins
this month, compared with 80,500 for all of February and 150,000
in January, its website show.  Hedge Funds  Speculators held a net-long position, or bets on higher
prices, of 70,193 futures and options as of March 19, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  show. That’s up 77
percent from two weeks earlier, when they were the least bullish
since July 2007.  Bullion slid to a seven-month low of $1,555.55 on Feb. 21.
It retreated to $1,522.65 in December 2011, before rebounding to
$1,796.05 in October. It’s too early to call an end of the bull
market, Commerzbank AG said in a report yesterday, citing low
interest rates, currency devaluation and gold purchases by
central banks. Nations added 534.6 tons to reserves last year,
the most since 1964, the London-based World Gold Council says.  In other commodities, 14 of 23 traders and analysts
surveyed expect copper to rise next week, seven were bearish and
two were neutral. The metal for delivery in three months, the
London Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, slipped 3.5 percent
to $7,655 a ton this year.  Six of 11 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week and four predict a gain. The commodity slid 6.7 percent to
18.2 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Grain Surveys  Fifteen of 28 of those surveyed anticipate a rise in corn
prices next week and 11 said the grain will drop, while 13 said
soybeans will fall and 10 expect higher prices. Fourteen of 25
traders predicted rising wheat and nine were bearish. Corn rose
4 percent to $7.2625 a bushel this year in Chicago as soybeans
added 2.2 percent to $14.405 a bushel. Wheat is down 6.2 percent
at $7.2975 a bushel.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials gained about 1.3
percent since falling to a 10-week low on March 4. Investors
increased wagers on a rally across 18 U.S. commodities by 17
percent in the week to March 19, the most bullish in a month,
CFTC data show.  “We see the current correction as a good buying
opportunity and expect industrial metals to be the sector with
the best potential,” said Filip Petersson, a commodities
strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm. “The U.S. economy is showing
strength and China is stable. I expect sentiment to remain quite
optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  