-- Gucci-owner PPR to Be Renamed Kering to Mark Transformation
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-22T12:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/gucci-owner-ppr-to-change-name-to-kering-to-mark-transformation.html
PPR SA (PP) , the French owner of  Gucci 
and Puma, will change its name to Kering to cap the company’s
transformation into a luxury and sporting goods specialist.  PPR will adopt its new moniker on June 18, Chief Executive
Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said at a presentation in Paris
today. The company’s fifth name since it listed on the Paris
stock exchange in 1988 is supposed to evoke the idea of caring.
It is derived from “ker,” meaning home in Breton, a language
spoken in Brittany,  France , where Pinault’s family comes from,
and “ing,” expressing the idea of movement, the CEO said.  “Changing our name is the logical and necessary outcome of
the group’s transformation,” Pinault said. “More than just a
change in scope or activity that this new name reflects, it
expresses the group’s new identity and corporate culture.”  PPR, known formerly as Pinault-Printemps-Redoute and before
that as Pinault-Printemps and Pinault SA, is disposing of retail
assets it amassed in the past two decades to focus on luxury and
sporting goods, which are more profitable and have better growth
prospects. Pinault’s goal is to lift  sales  to 24 billion euros
($31 billion) by 2020 from 9.7 billion euros in 2012.  PPR aims to complete its transformation this year after
spinning off the Fnac media and consumer-electronics chain and
selling online retailer La Redoute, Pinault said. Once that
happens, the name PPR wouldn’t have reflected businesses it
still owned. The company  sold  department-store operator
Printemps in 2006 and said Feb. 25 it agreed to sell two home-
shopping brands to a Swedish buyout firm.  ‘Empowering Imagination’  Kering’s logo features an owl, symbolizing wisdom, while
the tag line is “empowering imagination,” Pinault said. In
Chinese characters, the company will be known as Kai Yun, which
has the connotation of good luck, the CEO said.  “Kering is a name with a meaning, a name that expresses
both our purpose and our corporate vision,” Pinault said. The
fact that Kering means dried in Indonesian, “completely escaped
us,” the CEO said.  Consulting firms Dragon Rouge, Havas Lifestyle and TBWA\
Corporate worked with PPR on the project, which took a year,
said Louise Beveridge, who heads communications. The cost of the
rebranding is “modest,” she said, declining to quantify it.  With its new focus, PPR, whose brands include handbag maker
Bottega Veneta and surf and snowboarding clothier Volcom, aims
to boost its share price, which has traded at a discount to its
luxury peers because of its retail businesses.  Puma CEO  While PPR’s price-to-earnings  multiple  will probably rise
after disposing of Fnac and the remainder of online fashion
retailer Redcats, it may still trail rivals by that measure
because of the sports lifestyle division, according to Luca Solca, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  Puma,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods maker that PPR
acquired in 2007, is taking longer than anticipated to turn
around, Pinault said last month. The replacement for Puma CEO
Franz Koch, who is due to leave this month after less than two
years in the post, will be announced “in the coming weeks,” he
said today. Discussions are “very, very advanced,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  