-- Guest-Worker Visas Sticking Point on Immigration Rewrite
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-22T21:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/guest-worker-visas-sticking-point-on-immigration-rewrite.html
With Senate Republicans and
Democrats moving closer to an agreement to grant a chance at
U.S. citizenship to 11 million undocumented immigrants, a long-
simmering dispute between organized labor and the business lobby
risks sapping the measure’s momentum.  The two constituencies are at odds over a new program to
provide U.S. work visas to low-skilled foreign workers, placing
pressure on lawmakers poised for a compromise. Unions are
pressing for a limited visa system that guarantees better wages
for future immigrant workers, while businesses seek a broader
program more responsive to their hiring needs.  It’s the thornier side of what is otherwise a broadening
consensus in both parties around an immigration plan, whose
centerpiece is a path to U.S. citizenship for undocumented
immigrants. A bipartisan group of eight senators is nearing a
deal to bolster border security and workplace verification while
revamping the legal immigration system.  Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a member of the
group, called the guest-worker issue “one of the more difficult
parts” of the negotiations.  “I’m not going to be part of a bill that doesn’t create a
process whereby people can come to this country temporarily in
the future if we need them,” Rubio said yesterday. “There’s no
secret that the broader  labor movement , with some exceptions,
would rather not even have an immigration bill.”  Political Consequences  The disagreement carries significant political consequences
for Republicans and Democrats alike, essentially making them
choose between their strongest constituencies -- organized labor
for Democrats and big business for Republicans -- and
achievement of an overriding policy goal that both parties
increasingly see as an electoral imperative.  Hispanics accounted for 10 percent of voters in the 2012
presidential election. President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of
their votes, and just 27 percent backed Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , who had proposed “self-deportation” for undocumented
immigrants. Since then, a growing chorus of Republicans has
publicly backed legal status for undocumented immigrants.  Meanwhile, a group of Republican officials who unveiled a
top-to-bottom review this week called for the party to back
“comprehensive immigration reform” or see its appeal shrink.  “It is in neither party’s interest for one group within a
party to stop this, because it is bad for the economy if we
don’t have immigration reform,” former Mississippi Governor and
Republican National Committee Chairman  Haley Barbour  said this
week, referring to labor unions’ objections to a guest-worker
program.  Worker Program  Former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat co-
chairing an immigration task force with Barbour at the
Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington , said it is ultimately up
to Obama to persuade Democrats not to abandon the bill if the
immigrant-worker program doesn’t match the unions’ agenda.  “If we don’t get guest-worker provisions that are exactly
in line with what labor wants, we can’t hold up the bill because
of that,” Rendell said. “We’ve got to do the best we can to
preserve and protect the interests of organized labor, but in
the end you can’t always get what you want.”  Obama, he added, has “his work cut out for him.”  The bipartisan plan, expected to be unveiled next month
following a two-week congressional break, also faces a
potentially rough road in the Senate and uncertain fate in the
House, where Republican opposition to granting citizenship to
undocumented immigrants is more prevalent.  Closed-Door Negotiations  At issue, for now, is a proposed new program that would
allow immigrants to work temporarily in the U.S. while allowing
them the option of seeking permanent residency. In closed-door
talks, labor unions and Democratic negotiators are proposing to
allocate 10,000 such visas initially and cap the program at
200,000 visas, according to people close to the negotiations who
requested anonymity to describe them.  That number would increase or contract through a formula
that factored in U.S. economic and employment data and the
recommendations of a government panel. Businesses would have to
pay immigrant workers hired through the program a certain wage,
in some cases much higher than would otherwise be required.  Many in the business community regard the proposal as
unworkable and tantamount to not having a guest-worker program.
They say the idea is costly, cumbersome and too slow to meet
their employment needs.  ‘Will Not Work’  “Watching the negotiations unfold, I’m beginning to
believe that the only guest-worker program that unions are
willing to support is a guest-worker program that will not
work,” said Tamar Jacoby of ImmigrationWorks USA, a nationwide
federation of state-based business groups advocating for
rewriting immigration laws.  Republicans have instead proposed starting the program with
more visas -- 25,000 or 35,000 -- and basing the decision to
raise or lower the amount more heavily on employers’ needs and
recruiting efforts than on government recommendations.  “Republicans are going to have to make a decision if
they’re willing to accept a completely unworkable guest-worker
program as the price of getting comprehensive immigration
reform,” said Geoff Burr, vice president of federal affairs for
Associated Builders and Contractors. “They’re coming
dangerously close to attaching themselves to something they will
regret.”  Labor unions say U.S. businesses are trying to create a
program that would let them import workers who could be easily
exploited and paid low wages.  Lower Wages  “What business is trying to do is to rewrite the rules of
future flow to undermine the wages of local workers,” said Ana
Avendano, director of immigration and community action at the
AFL-CIO. “It will be difficult, we think, for Senator Rubio to
go back to Florida and explain to his constituents why he held
up a path to citizenship for 11 million people simply because
his donors wanted to pay lower and lower wages.”  Labor leaders aren’t working to undermine a deal, Avendano
said. They are “committed to advancing a bill that guarantees a
path to citizenship for millions of people,” she said.  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , a Republican member of the
Senate group, said he doesn’t anticipate that union-business
tension over the work-visa program will derail the talks.  “I don’t think so,” McCain said in an interview
yesterday. “I will do everything I can to keep it from going
off the rails.”  ‘Not Dictated’  While senators are willing to listen to concerns raised by
business and labor groups, “we’re not dictated by them,”
McCain said.  “Our hope is that we have an agreement that nobody will be
entirely happy with, but they will understand that this is a
product of compromise,” he said.  McCain said Obama called him before leaving on a trip to
 Israel  to thank him for his work on the immigration issue and to
offer his support for the effort.  The Senate group is considering a measure under which it
would take 13 years for undocumented immigrants to gain U.S.
citizenship, according to people close to the discussions. They
would receive probationary legal status during a 10-year wait
for a green card for permanent residency, and would have another
three-year wait before applying for citizenship.  Brian Fallon , a spokesman for  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democratic member of the group, said in an e-mail
yesterday that the group was “very, very close to a final
agreement.”  Two-Week Break  McCain said he hoped senators could reach agreement on most
of the major issues before all depart for their two-week break.  “Obviously there are concerns on our side about the
influence of the unions, and on their side there’s concerns
about the influence of business,” McCain said. “That’s why
we’ve got to continue these negotiations, recognizing that
sometimes both sides are not going to be happy.”  Republican opposition to a citizenship plan scuttled a 2007
effort to overhaul immigration policy, as opponents slammed the
bill as “amnesty” and flooded Senate telephone lines, e-
mailboxes and fax machines.  The AFL-CIO opposed that measure because it included a
guest-worker proposal and had the support of many Democratic
senators -- including then-presidential candidate Obama -- for
amendments designed to kill that part of the bill.  Another issue the Senate group is trying to resolve is how
to grant permanent legal status to immigrants who have received
a graduate degree in a science or technology field from a U.S.
university.  H-1B Visas  Technology companies in Silicon Valley have been pushing
for a provision that would almost double the number of visas for
higher-skilled workers, or so-called H-1B visas, to 115,000 from
the current 65,000 cap. Rubio is a co-sponsor of a bill
introduced in January that pairs the cap increase with an
escalator clause based on company demand for such workers.  “This is by far the most optimistic we have been that
something meaningful is actually going to happen, and happen
this year,”  Carl Guardino , president of the Silicon Valley
Leadership Group, said yesterday in an interview. The group
represents about 300 companies including software-makers
Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  San Jose ,
California-based  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  