-- Iceland Needs to Shed Emerging Market Status, Gunnlaugsson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-03-22T08:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/iceland-needs-to-shed-emerging-market-status-gunnlaugsson-says.html
Iceland needs to reclaim its
position as a member of the developed world and shed the
emerging market status it had during the global financial
crisis, according to the head of the party leading in some polls
before next month’s elections.  “Iceland’s political instability has caused it to be
ranked among nations that it usually doesn’t compare itself with
such as Russia,  Egypt  and countries in  South America ,” said
 Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson , leader of the opposition
Progressive Party that was part of the coalition that led
Iceland before its 2008 economic meltdown. “It’s fundamental
that we reverse this trend.”  Gunnlaugsson’s political goals have helped the 38-year-old
chairman garner increasing support for his party, which was
pushed out of government in 2007 after losing almost half its
seats in parliamentary elections. A poll published on March 15
by Stod 2 and Frettabladid put the Progress Party in the lead
before the April 27 vote, with 31.9 percent support. Prime
Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir has said she’ll step down as
head of the Social Democrats after next month.  While Iceland is emerging from the deepest recession in six
decades, it still needs to unwind currency controls in place
since 2008 to prevent a krona sell-off. Offshore investors hold
as much as $8 billion in kronur assets that risk destabilizing
the $13 billion economy if dumped once the restrictions are
removed.  ‘Huge Concern’  The foreign exchange balance is a matter of “huge
concern,” Gunnlaugsson said in an interview from Reykjavik.  He says he wants Iceland to harness its commodities wealth
to restore economic balance.  “There are great growth opportunities in the fundamental
industries of Iceland,” he said. “Before too long, we might
reach a point where the fish filet is the least expensive part
of the fish because the rest of the fish is utilized in a manner
that creates even greater value.”  Growing exports will make it easier for Iceland to repay
its foreign debts using kronur. Gunnlaugsson also said he
doesn’t expect Iceland to abandon the krona for another currency
regime “over the short or medium term.”  “Due to this we need to agree that we create better
foundations for the krona, whatever we may do in the future,”
he said. “This entails that Iceland needs to adjust to the
Maastricht requirements” that guide European Union budgets, he
said. “Not necessarily because we’re going to adopt the euro,
but rather because they are sensible economic goals.”  IMF Praise  The north Atlantic island’s policy makers have won praise
from the  International Monetary Fund  as well as the debt rating
companies for their approach in handling the crisis, in part
because they put households’ wellbeing ahead of bank creditor
claims and because of the use of krona controls.  Iceland emerged from an IMF-backed program in August 2011
and is now outgrowing most of  Europe . The economy expanded 1.6
percent last year, according to Statistics Iceland. The euro
area, mired in its fourth year of fiscal crisis, contracted 0.6
percent in 2012, the European Commission said Feb. 22.  “We should make up our minds when we are better equipped
to understand how the union is developing and also once we’re in
a better position economically to decide whether we want to
become a part of this,” said Gunnlaugsson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 