-- Microsoft Cleared of Infringing Google Patents With Xbox
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/microsoft-wins-ruling-in-xbox-case-brought-by-google-s-motorola.html
Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox video-gaming
system doesn’t violate the patent rights of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit, a U.S. trade judge said.  In a one-paragraph  notice  yesterday, U.S. International
Trade Commission Judge David Shaw sided with Microsoft in the
case. His findings are subject to review by the six-member
commission, which has the power to block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patents.  The judge’s findings relate to a patent for a way to
establish communication between the Xbox and accessories. It’s
all that’s left of a case that originally involved five patents,
including two on widely used technology for video decoding, and
led to accusations by Microsoft and regulators that Motorola
Mobility was misusing patents to thwart competition.  “We are pleased with the Administrative Law Judge’s
finding that Microsoft did not violate Motorola’s patent and are
confident that this determination will be affirmed by the
Commission,” David Howard, Microsoft’s corporate vice president
and deputy general counsel, said in a statement.  Google can petition the commission to overrule the judge’s
findings and impose an import ban.  “We are disappointed with today’s determination and look
forward to the full Commission’s review,” Matt Kallman, a
Google spokesman, said in a statement.  Popular Console  Motorola Mobility, then a standalone company, filed the ITC
complaint in November 2010, in retaliation for Microsoft’s
demands for royalties on phones using Google’s Android operating
system. Microsoft has set up a licensing program for companies
that make Android devices and won an exclusion order against
Motorola Mobility phones using a feature called ActiveSync,
which lets users coordinate schedules between their phones and
personal computers.  The Xbox is the most popular game console in the U.S.,
ahead of the Sony Corp. PlayStation and Nintendo Co. Wii.
Microsoft’s entertainment unit, which includes the Xbox,
generated $9.6 billion in sales last year, or 13 percent of the
company’s revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shaw in April said four of the five patents in the case
were infringed. The commission ordered him to revisit the case,
in part because of a precedent-setting decision it issued in an
unrelated case over differentiating whether the infringement
occurred before or after the product was imported.  Motorola Mobility dropped the two video-decoding patents
after Mountain View, California-based Google reached an
agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in January
regarding how it deals with patents that relate to industrywide
standards. The other two that were dropped expire this year.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Gaming and Entertainment
Consoles, 337-752, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  The civil contract suit is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Motorola
Mobility Inc., 10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Washington ( Seattle ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Bernard Kohn
at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  