-- Micron Seen Saving $400 Million on Elpida Due to Weak Yen
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-03-22T20:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/micron-seen-saving-400-million-on-elpida-due-to-weak-yen.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  is poised to
get a $400 million discount on the acquisition of Japanese rival
Elpida Memory Inc., after a 16 percent slump in the yen against
the  U.S. dollar .  The yen has declined to 94.52 per dollar, at 1:16 p.m. in
 New York , compared with 79.51 on July 2, when the takeover was
announced. If the deal to buy Elpida for 200 billion yen were to
be completed today, Micron would pay $2.12 billion, compared
with $2.52 billion at the time it was announced. Even so, some
of the benefit may be limited by hedges made to protect against
a rise in the currency, which didn’t materialize.  Weakness in the yen, which is declining because of Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to curb the currency’s
strength, makes the deal more alluring by cutting the purchase
price, and because Elpida’s products will be less expensive in
markets where currencies are gaining against  Japan ’s.  “The yen weakening while they’re purchasing a significant
asset in Japan allows them to now buy that asset at a much lower
price than was negotiated and makes it much more profitable in
operations,”  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets 
in San Francisco, said in an interview. He has an outperform
rating on Micron. “You have a significant benefit.”  Micron, based in Boise,  Idaho , advanced 11 percent to
$10.04 at the close in New York, after reporting revenue
yesterday that exceeded estimates due to rising chip shipments.
The shares have climbed 58 percent this year, compared with a
9.2 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Deal Close  Micron and Elpida’s biggest competitors,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and SK Hynix Inc., have also seen their
currency, the South Korean won, gain against the yen.  “It makes the operating equation much better for us than
it was six to nine months ago,”  Mark Adams , Micron’s president,
said in an interview. “Because it’s a future event we don’t
typically comment on it. But it’s a net positive thing to
Micron.”  Freedman said he expects the deal to close within weeks.  Elpida, the last Japanese maker of computer-memory chips,
sought  bankruptcy protection  last year after losses left it
unable to pay debts. On Feb. 28, Elpida said it won Tokyo
District Court approval for the sale to Micron, clearing the
last major hurdle in the takeover. The required majority of
creditors backed the plan, according to a statement from the
trustees of the Tokyo-based company.  Currency Discount  Some of the discount on Elpida will be offset by currency
hedges that Micron made to protect itself from a higher yen, Ron Foster, Micron’s chief financial officer, said on a conference
call yesterday with analysts.  Micron, which has reported seven-straight quarterly  losses ,
said yesterday that its second-quarter loss included a charge of
$120 million due to currency hedges to guard against the
possibility that the yen would appreciate and make the deal more
expensive.  “Any reduction in purchase price will not be recognized on
our balance sheet until the transaction has closed using the
exchange value at that time,” Foster said in the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  