-- Life Sale Said to Shift to Strategics as Buyout Firms Go
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-03-22T20:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/life-sale-said-to-shift-to-strategics-as-buyout-firms-go.html
The sale of  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) 
has shifted in favor of strategic buyers for the maker of DNA-
sequencing equipment as some buyout firms drop out, said people
with knowledge of the matter.  The odds are growing that either  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  or  Thermo
Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  could buy Carlsbad, California-based
Life, said two people, asking not to be identified because the
matter is private.  KKR Inc. (KKR) , which was part of a group of bidders, has
withdrawn from the process, two people said. TPG, which was
bidding along with  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Carlyle Group, and
Temasek Holdings Pte., withdrew from that group, they said.  Life, whose market value tops  $10 billion , initially sought
a private equity firm to acquire the company in a leveraged
buyout. Strategic bidders later expressed interest and may be in
better position because opportunities to cut costs mean they
could make a higher offer, the person said.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  has also expressed an interest in Life,
said a person with knowledge of the matter. The Swiss drug maker
is only interested in part of the business and is less likely to
be the final buyer, the person said.  DNA Blueprint  Life fell less than 1 percent to $63.99 at the close in
New York. The  shares  have gained 36 percent in the past 12
months. Danaher gained less than 1 percent to $61.67, while
Thermo Fisher fell less than 1 percent to $75.96.  The company’s products can be used to provide a blueprint
of a person’s DNA, information that may eventually be used to
diagnose disease, identify the risks of certain conditions or
better target medicines. Last year Life’s peer  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) 
rebuffed repeated overtures from Roche.  The private equity firms had been in talks with banks to
arrange financing for their bids, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month. Bids are due in mid-April and  a
private equity consortium could still end up being the winning
bidder, one person said.  Life said in January that directors were working with
Deutsche Bank, as well as Moelis & Co., to examine strategic
alternatives.  “Life Technologies has no comment,” said Suzanne Hatcher,
a spokeswoman for the company, in a telephone interview
yesterday. Owen Blicksilver, TPG’s outside spokesman, declined
to comment as did Roche spokeswoman Silvia Dobry. Kristi Huller,
a spokeswoman at KKR, didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  