-- Tiffany Profit Tops Estimates Led by Demand in Asia
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-03-22T20:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/tiffany-profit-tops-estimates-as-asia-pacific-sales-advance.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-
largest luxury jewelry retailer, reported fourth-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates led by demand in  Asia .  Net income in the quarter ended Jan. 31 rose 0.7 percent to
$179.6 million, or $1.40 a share, from $178.4 million, or $1.39,
a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts projected $1.36, the average of 19  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tiffany said sales in the company’s Asia-Pacific region
advanced 13 percent to $254 million in the quarter. The region’s
sales were helped by store openings in  Singapore ,  China  and
 Australia  last year. Improved political stability and a desire
to hedge against possible future inflation drove Chinese
consumers to buy jewelry, said  Liz Dunn , an analyst at Macquarie
Group in  New York .  “Asia-Pacific was strong because store openings helped and
there has been an improving trend broadly in the jewelry
business,” Dunn said. “You can see that in the China and Hong
Kong retail reports.”  Dunn rates the shares neutral, the equivalent of a hold.  Shares Advance  Tiffany  rose  1.9 percent to $69.23 at the close in New
York. The shares gained 21 percent this year compared with a 9.2
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Revenue rose 4.1 percent to $1.24 billion, meeting
analysts’ estimates. Sales in the Americas rose 2 percent to
$620 million while  Europe  posted sales of $146 million, a 3
percent increase.  Sales at the Manhattan flagship and at U.S. branches open
at least a year declined 3 percent and 2 percent, respectively,
after a disappointing holiday season.  U.S. sales were sluggish across the country among domestic
shoppers, executives said on a conference call today. Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kowalski said there was “pronounced
softness” in jewelry at entry-level prices.  Executives cited the impact of the weak economy on lower-
income consumers as well as the company’s long-term strategy of
focusing less on silver jewelry under $500 and more on higher-
priced jewelry to elevate its brand image.  Weaker Yen  Sales in  Japan  fell 6 percent to $192 million in the
quarter, reflecting a weaker yen versus the  U.S. dollar , Tiffany
said. Chief Financial Officer Patrick McGuiness said on the call
that the weaker yen will hurt sales and profit this year.  The company forecast full-year profit of $3.43 to $3.53 a
share, excluding some items, and projected net sales growth of 6
percent to 8 percent. Analysts estimated profit of $3.47 a
share, on average.  Tiffany said in January that it signed a 20-year agreement
to keep selling jewelry by Elsa Peretti, which accounts for
about 10 percent of its sales. The accord lets Tiffany retain
exclusive rights to the designs, which include “Diamonds by the
Yard” and iconic heart- and bean-shaped pendants.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  