-- Highland Capital Loses Bid to Remove Daugherty Referee
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-22T20:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/highland-capital-loses-bid-to-remove-daugherty-referee.html
Highland Capital Management LP lost
its bid to remove the court-appointed referee in charge of
resolving disputes over evidence production in a lawsuit against
former executive Patrick Daugherty.  Dallas  County District Court Judge Martin Hoffman denied
the investment firm’s request today at the continuation of a
hearing that began March 18.  “You guys consented to this,” the judge said. The
referee, former U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeff Kaplan, was appointed
in October. The firm asked Hoffman to rescind the appointment
last month after Kaplan issued three adverse rulings. Highland
claimed the process was no longer cost-effective.  Highland last year sued Daugherty, who formerly led its
distressed-situations and private-equity investments unit,
accusing him of making derogatory comments to investors about
the firm he left in 2011 and of breaching a contract.  Daugherty counter-claimed that Highland owes him money from
a joint venture and from retention and incentive plans. He also
accused the firm and Chief Executive Officer James Dondero of
defamation.  Marc Katz, a lawyer for Highland, told Hoffman today that
Kaplan was delaying progress in the case. A trial is scheduled
to begin Nov. 12.  ‘Bogged Down’  “We’re in a situation where discovery is getting bogged
down by the process,” he said.  An attorney for Daugherty, Rachel Crockett, said that both
sides had agreed to the referee’s appointment and that they had
submitted 14 disputes to him for resolution.  “We think they are forum-shopping,” she said. “They’ve
appealed three of his orders.”  After hearing arguments on March 18,  Hoffman  asked lawyers
for both sides to brief him on the legal standards governing
removal of the appointee.  “This is a significant ruling for our client,” Daugherty
attorney Ruth Ann Daniels said in an e-mailed statement.
“Continuing with the discovery master in place will ensure that
we can obtain the depositions and documents we need to go
forward with the November trial.”  Tom Becker of Sitrick & Co., a spokesman for Highland, said
his client disagreed.  “The special master is an added cost and inefficiency,”
Becker said in an e-mailed statement. “We are pleased with the
progress of our case.”  The case is Highland Capital Management LP v. Daugherty,
12-04005, District Court of Dallas County,  Texas , 68th Judicial
District (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  