-- India’s Sensex Has Biggest Weekly Drop in 15 Months on Politics
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-03-22T12:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/india-s-nifty-futures-decline-on-reform-outlook-cyprus-concerns.html
Indian stocks fell for the sixth
day, with the benchmark index completing its worst weekly loss
in 15 months, on concern political instability and limited room
to cut  interest rates  will undermine efforts to revive growth.  The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  retreated 0.3 percent to 18,735.60 at
the close in Mumbai, its lowest level since Nov. 26. The index
tumbled 3.6 percent this week, the worst weekly drop since the
period ended Dec. 16, 2011, and its 30-day  volatility  climbed to
a five-month high.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the nation’s largest
mobile-phone operator, decreased 1.3 percent.  State Bank of
India , the largest lender by assets, lost 1.7 percent.  The lower house of parliament was adjourned after it failed
to transact any business for the third day amid uproar over
alleged  war crimes  in Sri Lanka, prompting concern the
government’s efforts to revive growth may be derailed. India’s
central bank March 19 pared funding costs for the second time
this year and said the scope for further cuts is limited.  “The mood and the environment at this point of time is
extremely despondent and I don’t think we’re set up for any
constructive bullish action,” Sanjay Dutt, a director at New
Delhi-based Quantum Securities Ltd., told Bloomberg India TV.
“Given the relatively hawkish statement by the  Reserve Bank  and
the political uncertainty, the best case situation is that we
consolidate at this level until the macro data and the political
environment start to clear out.”  Bharti slid 1.3 percent to 294.05 rupees.  State Bank of
India (SBIN)  lost 1.7 percent to 2,083.95 rupees.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the
largest producer of the alloy, decreased 1.8 percent to 321.85
rupees.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, lost
1.2 percent to 270.35 rupees.  War Crimes  The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party withdrew from Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s alliance on March 19, alleging his
administration had worked with the Sri Lankan government to
“water down” a United Nations Human Rights Council resolution
on alleged wartime atrocities in the island nation. The exit
left Singh’s grouping 44 seats short of parliamentary majority,
adding to the challenge of implementing policies.  The DMK is based in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , which
shares cultural and religious ties with Sri Lankan Tamils.  Foreigners still bought $76 million of domestic stocks on
March 21, extending this year’s purchases to $9.9 billion, data
from the regulator show. Net inflows last year totaled $24.5
billion, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “The market has managed to hold on and not collapse only
because of overseas flows and the risk-on trade that has been on
for a while,” Quantum’s Dutt said. “If inflows start to taper
or vanish, we’re in for bad times.”  Volatile Session  The Sensex changed direction more than 30 times, with its
30-day volatility rising to the highest since Oct. 29. The S&P
BSE Mid-Cap index slid to a six-month low, while the  S&P BSE
Small-Cap (BSESMCAP)  gauge closed at its lowest level in more than a year.  The 50-stock CNX Nifty Index lost 0.1 percent to 5,651.35.
India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against losses
in the Nifty, tumbled 5.9 percent to 15.54.  “The Sensex and the Nifty comprise the biggest companies
and don’t reflect the nervousness seen in the broader market,
which has been massacred,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd. in New Delhi.  The Sensex has lost 3.6 percent of its value this year, the
second-worst performing benchmark index among emerging Asian
nations. Stocks have slid amid the weakest economic growth in a
decade, the highest inflation among major  emerging markets  and
as more company earnings  missed estimates  in the three months
ended Dec. 31 compared with the previous quarter.  The gauge trades at 12.7 times  projected 12-month profits ,
compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.4 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  