-- India’s Rupee Headed for Weekly Drop on Growth, Policy Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-22T04:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/india-s-rupee-headed-for-weekly-drop-on-growth-policy-concerns.html
India ’s rupee headed for its first
weekly loss since the five days ended March 1 on concern
political instability and limited room to lower borrowing costs
will derail efforts to revive the economy.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s main coalition partner
withdrew support this week, threatening the biggest policy
revamp in a decade. The Reserve Bank of India, which cut
 interest rates  for a second time this year on March 19, said
“persisting” inflation curbs scope for further reductions. The
currency is particularly vulnerable due to the nation’s record
current-account deficit, according to BNP Paribas Securities
India Pvt Ltd.  “Progress will be difficult and slow and there are
unlikely to be any huge reform steps taken,”  Kenneth Akintewe ,
a Singapore-based fund manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc,
which oversees $314 billion globally, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The currency will stay range-bound and
somewhat volatile.”  The rupee declined 0.5 percent this week to 54.3050 per
dollar as of 9:53 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was little changed today. One-month implied
volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used
to price options, rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 8.98 percent this week. The rate climbed 16 basis points
today.  Current Account  The shortfall in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, is a “greater worry” than the budget gap and
the government needs to attract capital inflows, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said on Feb. 28.  The withdrawal of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party may
make it relatively difficult to cut fuel subsidies and improve
public finances, according to BNP Paribas Securities. The bank
studied the impact on the nation’s markets from periods of
political uncertainty including the Bharatiya Janata Party’s
2004 election loss and when communist parties pulled support in
2008 protesting an India-U.S. nuclear treaty.  “Under present circumstances, the rupee appears more
vulnerable than it was in 2008 or 2004,” Manishi Raychaudhuri
and Gautam Mehta, analysts at BNP Paribas Securities, wrote in a
March 20 report. “If flows stop the rupee could mean revert to
its fair value,” which is 5 percent or 6 percent lower, they
wrote.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.39 per
dollar, compared with 55.34 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.35 versus 55.33. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  