-- ING Says Executive Pay Gap With European Peers Is Untenable
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-03-22T10:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ing-says-executive-pay-gap-with-european-peers-is-untenable.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest
financial-services company in the Netherlands, said Dutch rules
capping remuneration for top banking executives have created a
gap with peers that threatens the lender’s prospects.  Total compensation for board members including Chief
Executive Officer Jan Hommen, 69, was in “the lowest decile of
the relevant benchmark and creates a significant gap between
ING, the market and its peers in  Europe ,” the Amsterdam-based
company said in its 2012 annual report, released today. “In the
longer term, this is not a tenable situation for ING and its
market positioning.”  ING’s top executives haven’t received bonuses for four
years while their fixed compensation has remained unchanged
since 2010. Responding to voter anger over bailouts in 2008 and
2009, including 10 billion euros ($13 billion) in state aid to
ING and 30 billion euros spent to rescue parts of ABN Amro
Holding NV and Fortis, the Dutch government imposed bonus rules
that are tougher than the recent European Union deal capping
variable remuneration at twice fixed pay.  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain
earned 4.8 million euros last year, the bank’s supervisory board
Chairman  Paul Achleitner  said today, more than triple the amount
ING’s Hommen received.  Hommen Pay  Hommen, who is due to step down in October, received a base
salary of 1.35 million euros last year. The salary of his
successor, Ralph Hamers, currently chief of ING’s Belgian bank,
hasn’t been disclosed yet. Chief Financial Officer Patrick Flynn, who may be appointed for a second term by shareholders in
May, earned 750,000 euros. ING’s board has decided to forfeit
any increases in fixed pay until it has repaid its bailout.  The firm has returned the Netherlands 7.8 billion euros in
bailout money so far, as well as 2.4 billion euros in interest
and premiums.  After paring bonuses for top banking executives to 100
percent of annual salaries in 2010, the Dutch government plans
to limit bonuses to 20 percent of wages across the industry.
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem plans to present draft
legislation around mid-year. A Dutch bank that has received
state aid is prohibited by law from paying bonuses to executive
board members as long as the lender hasn’t repaid the funds.  Outrage against bankers in the Netherlands flared after the
state nationalized  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  on Feb. 1. It will cost
taxpayers 3.7 billion euros as capital is injected into the bank
and an earlier aid package is written down.  Comparable Pay  ING measured board compensation against companies in the
 Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E) , including BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank and
 Royal Philips Electronics NV. (PHIA)   Frans van Houten, CEO of Philips, the Dutch maker of
lighting products and health-care equipment, received total
compensation of 3.4 million euros last year, according to its
annual report. That figure includes  stock options , pension costs
and other items.  Deutsche Bank, Continental Europe’s biggest lender,
today said it will consider raising salaries for management
board members and senior executives as the EU limits bonuses.
While Deutsche Bank must comply with EU rules, it also needs to
pay top staff enough to compete with peers that aren’t affected
by the new regulations,  Juergen Hambrecht , who led an external
committee that reviewed compensation at the lender, said today.  European Parliament lawmakers and Ireland, which holds the
rotating presidency of the EU, earlier this week confirmed
banker-pay rules set to take effect from 2015. Bonuses that are
more than twice fixed pay will be banned, with scope for as much
as a quarter of the bonus to be valued at a discount if payment
is deferred for at least five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  