-- Lingering Cold in Eastern U.S. May Boost Heating Energy Demand
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-03-22T12:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/lingering-cold-in-eastern-u-s-may-boost-heating-energy-demand.html
Lingering cold in the eastern U.S.
may keep heating demand higher than usual through early April,
said Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Temperatures will be at least 5 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8
Celsius) degrees below normal across most of the U.S., falling
as much as 8 degrees lower from  Minnesota  to  Georgia , including
 Chicago , March 27 to 31, according to Rogers.  “The Midwest is probably seeing its coldest weather this
week, but the South and East could see the coldest conditions of
the forecast period this weekend into next week overall,”
Rogers said today in a note to clients. “That means lingering
above-normal late-season heating demand for the Midwest, East,
and sometimes the Deep South too.”  March is the traditional end of the heating season that
starts in November and accounts for the highest natural gas use
each year. Extended cold in the large population centers of the
Midwest and East helps boost prices for heating fuels. About 50
percent of U.S. households use gas for warmth.  Heating demand will be increased by low overnight
temperatures, said Rogers, who’s based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The low temperature in Chicago on March 27 is expected to
be 25 Fahrenheit (4 Celsius), according to  MDA Weather Services 
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. The normal average temperature for
the city on that date is 42.  In New York, the low may reach 34 on March 27; in Boston,
31; and in Atlanta the low that day may reach 34, MDA said.  Rogers said Houston may experience a low of 39 on March 26.  From April 1 to April 5, temperatures will probably be 3
degrees below normal in most of the eastern U.S., according to
Rogers. The Northeast, including New York, is expected to have
more seasonal temperatures, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  