-- Lira Sinks Most in Week Against Euro as Cyprus Debates Bailout
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-03-22T12:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/lira-sinks-most-in-week-against-euro-as-cyprus-debates-bailout.html
The Turkish currency weakened the
most for a week against the euro as Cyprus’s lawmakers debated
the measures needed to obtain a bailout.  The lira traded 0.4 percent weaker at 2.3543 per euro as of
2:15 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest decline among major emerging
market currencies in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . The
euro appreciated against 15 of its 16 major peers.  “I would attribute this to a general euro strength, rather
than lira weakness,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG, said in e-mailed comments. “The lira is not as
much benefiting from the slightly more optimistic sentiment in
Europe as central and eastern European currencies, which are
much more closely related to the euro zone.”  Cypriot lawmakers begin a debate today on legislation to
unlock the rescue funds needed to prevent a financial collapse.
The  European Central Bank  will withdraw funding from Cyprus’s
lenders from Monday if the government and European authorities
fail to agree on a deal.  The lira advanced less than 0.1 percent against the dollar
at 1.8179 at 2:15 p.m. in Istanbul, boosted by comments from
 Fitch Ratings  about a potential upgrade. Yields on two-year
benchmark notes rose one basis point to 6.16 percent.  Fitch Ratings has no requirement to wait for three years
for a new upgrade after  Turkey  was raised to investment ranking
in November, state-owned Anatolia news agency reported today,
citing an interview with Gulcan Ustay, the head of Fitch Turkey.  “The positive comments by Fitch obviously had only little
effect on the lira, as it seems a bit unrealistic that Fitch
upgrades Turkey again, while the other two big rating agencies
still have a sub-investment grade rating,” Nguyen said.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Turkey one level below
investment grade and Standard & Poor’s two levels below.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  