-- Mistry Sees Palm Rally Through May on Ringgit, Reserves Drop
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-03-22T08:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/mistry-sees-palm-rising-through-may-as-ringgit-reserves-decline.html
Palm oil may climb about 10 percent
through May as  Malaysia ’s currency weakens before elections and
inventories drop in Indonesia and Malaysia, the top producers,
according to Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  Futures will trade between 2,400 ringgit ($771) and 2,700
ringgit a metric ton on Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Bhd., he said
in remarks prepared for delivery at a conference in Beijing
today. He had predicted a range of 2,300 ringgit to 2,500
ringgit through April at a meeting in Kuala Lumpur on March 6. A
 bear market  is set to deepen after August as futures drop below
2,000 ringgit, he said today, reiterating a previous forecast.  Prices of the oil used in foods and fuel fell 26 percent in
the past year as inventories rose in Indonesia and Malaysia on
higher output and slowing demand in  China  and  Europe . Mistry is
now predicting  stockpiles  in Malaysia will drop below 2 million
tons in June from 2.44 million tons in February while Indonesian
reserves will fall below 4 million tons, before output rebounds.  “I am expecting a strong recovery in CPO production in
both countries in the second half,” said Mistry, using the
initials for crude  palm oil . “This will coincide with a strong
recovery in soya oil, rape oil and sunflower oil production in
other parts of the world.” Prices will come under pressure
after June and “under strong pressure” once the low-output
cycle ends in August to September, he said.  Malaysian Elections  The ringgit weakened 3.4 percent against the dollar since
reaching a 10-month high in January. Prime Minister Najib Razak
must dissolve parliament by April 28 and hold a vote by the end
of June. Futures are not expected to drop below 1,800 ringgit
unless Brent crude trades below $80 per barrel, said Mistry.  “The ringgit has also shown a tendency towards weakness as
the Malaysian elections approach,” said Mistry. “If the
ringgit weakens as the election campaign gets under way, prices
denominated in ringgit have greater scope to rise.”  The contract for delivery in June gained 0.4 percent to
2,465 ringgit at 3:21 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur. Prices haven’t
traded below 1,800 ringgit since 2009. A weaker ringgit makes
purchases cheaper for holders of other currencies.  Malaysia’s inventories have dropped from an all-time high
of 2.63 million tons in December, according to the nation’s palm
oil board.  Indonesia , which doesn’t issue official data on
output or reserves, may have had stockpiles of about 3 million
tons in February, according to a Bloomberg survey last month.
Mistry on March 6 estimated them to be close to 5 million tons.  Soy Supply  U.S. farmers are poised to plant the most soybean acres
ever, according to a survey of 32 analysts by Bloomberg
published yesterday. The U.S. government has predicted the
harvest will reach an all-time high of 3.4 billion bushels,
doubling inventories by Aug. 31, 2014. The beans can be crushed
to yield an alternative oil to palm.  Soybean plantings may gain on corn because of crop rotation,
said Mistry. The Department of Agriculture releases its
planting-intentions report on March 28.  Soybean oil prices will retreat to $900 a ton from ports in
 Argentina  by September, said Mistry. Soybeans on the Chicago
Board of Trade will drop to $10 a bushel, while corn will
decline to $4.50 a bushel if good weather prevails, he said.
Soybeans traded at $14.41 today and corn was at $7.3175.  Sunflower-seed crops in Ukraine and  Russia  are expected to
be bigger compared with last year on better weather, said Mistry.
From September, sunflower oil will exert pressure on all oils,
particularly on the soybean variety, he said.  China’s consumption of vegetable oils is slowing down as
the world’s biggest consumer is transitioning from a middle-
income country to a high-income one, said Mistry. The country’s
stricter rules on imports of cooking oils effective this year
may turn the nation into an importer of crude palm oil so it can
be refined and fractionated within the country, he said.  “Growth in terms of national economies continues to be
feeble in most of the developed world,” Mistry said. “Demand
for commodities remains flat and prices have fallen. This
development favors major commodity importers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  