-- U.S. Stocks, Euro Gain Amid Debate on Cyprus Bailout
-- B y   W i l l   H a d f i e l d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-03-22T20:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/japan-stocks-drop-as-yen-holds-gain-euro-trades-near-4-year-low.html
U.S. stocks gained and the euro
rallied, paring weekly losses, as Cyprus’s lawmakers debated
measures needed to get a bailout and companies including Nike
Inc. and Tiffany & Co. posted better-than-estimated results.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7 percent at 4
p.m. in New York, trimming its second weekly loss of the year.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell less than 0.2 percent, while the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped to a three-month low. The
euro appreciated versus all 16 major peers and Italian and
Spanish 10-year bond yields fell, while 10-year Treasury note
rates were little changed at 1.92 percent. Industrial metals led
commodities higher.  Stocks and the euro extended gains after Averof Neofytou,
deputy president of Cyprus’s ruling Disy party, said he believes
lawmakers will reach a deal. The European Central Bank will
withdraw funding from Cyprus’s lenders next week if the
government and the euro area fail to agree on a deal. A report
showed German business confidence unexpectedly declined this
month, its first drop since October.  “At the company level, we’re still seeing good economic
momentum, and that investors continue to have constructive view
on the growth in the U.S., which should help the stock market,”
James McDonald, chief investment strategist at Northern Trust
Corp. in Chicago, said by phone. His firm manages $759 billion.
This week, “the market is taking a pause after a very big run.
The increased concern over Europe has led investors to take a
few chips off the table.”  Market Movers  Among U.S. stocks moving today, Nike Inc. rallied 11
percent, its biggest gain since 2008, to a record $59.53 after
the world’s largest sporting-goods company reported better-than-
estimated earnings amid a rebound in profitability. Tiffany &
Co. rose 1.9 percent after posting better-than-estimated
quarterly profit amid increased demand in the Asia-Pacific
region. Micron Technology Inc. jumped 11 percent, the most since
2011, after revenue exceeded estimates.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.2 percent in five days to cap its
second weekly decline this year after uncertainty in Cyprus and
a contraction in euro-area manufacturing reignited concern about
the region’s debt crisis. The U.S. equity benchmark has still
climbed 9.2 percent this year and rose within two points of its
record set in 2007.  The Stoxx 600 trimmed a loss of as much as 0.4 percent to
close down less than 0.2 percent. The gauge dropped 1.1 percent
in five days, its worst weekly performance in four months.  Cyprus and the so-called troika, consisting of the European
Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary
Fund, are in negotiations about winding down Laiki Bank and
levying a modified fee on deposits at the remaining banks in a
“package deal”, Welt reported, without saying where it got the
information.  European Movers  Marine Harvest ASA climbed 3 percent, the most since
October, as a tightening fish supply and rising prices boost the
company’s earnings outlook. MAN SE slid 2.6 percent, the most in
five months, as Volkswagen AG plans to offer shareholders 80.89
euros per share to get full control of the truckmaker. Mulberry
Group Plc, a British luxury-handbag maker, plunged 17 percent
after saying full-year sales and profit will miss estimates.  BP Plc gained 1.9 percent after  Europe’s second-largest oil
producer  said it will buy back $8 billion of shares from
investors. AstraZeneca Plc added 3.3 percent as analysts
responded positively when the drugmaker updated them on plans to
revive its research and development division.  The euro climbed 0.8 percent to $1.2997 and strengthened
0.3 percent to 122.79 yen after earlier weakening as much as 0.8
percent.  Commodities  U.K. natural gas  for same-day delivery jumped as much as 54
percent to 150 pence a therm as imports from Belgium were
interrupted amid predictions for unseasonably cold weather. The
commodity pared its gain to 2.6 percent and traded at 100 pence.  The temperature in the U.K. will average 0.3 degrees
Celsius (33 Fahrenheit) next week, MetraWeather data show.
That’s lower than the 10-year average of 8.2 degrees.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 0.3 percent,
trimming its weekly decline to 0.9 percent. Nickel, oil and
coffee led gains, while silver, corn and cotton lost at least 1
percent to lead declines. West Texas Intermediate gained 0.6
percent to $93.01 a barrel.  Gold futures for April delivery slipped 0.5 percent to
$1,606.10 an ounce. Gold traders are becoming more bullish as
concern mounts that a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis will
spur demand for a protection of wealth at a time when nations
from the U.S. to Japan are signaling more stimulus.  Gold Bets  Sixteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
gain next week, while seven were bearish and two were neutral.
That’s the highest proportion of bulls since March 8. Prices
reached a three-week high of $1,617.07 an ounce this week as
Cypriot lawmakers rejected an unprecedented levy on bank
deposits that had been proposed in return for external aid.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.6 percent after
PetroChina Co.’s profit trailed estimates and Thailand’s bourse
said it may raise margin requirements. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  slid
3.3 percent, its biggest drop since October 2011, on concern the
exchange may increase margin requirements on trading. The Thai
index tumbled 7.5 percent this week to cap the steepest weekly
drop since 2008  PetroChina, the nation’s largest energy producer, sank to
the lowest since Dec. 3 in Hong Kong as net income fell 13
percent. OAO TNK-BP Holding slipped to a record low as OAO
Rosneft said it won’t buy minority stakes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Hadfield in London at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  