-- Insider-Trading Tipsters to Face Prison Under Japan Plan
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-03-22T06:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/japanese-regulator-proposes-prison-for-insider-trading-tipsters.html
Japan’s financial regulator is
proposing imprisonment as part of stiffer penalties for people
who leak information used for insider trading, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg.  Individuals who provide tips for insider traders to help
them gain profits would face up to five years in prison and 5
million yen ($53,000) in fines, the document from the Financial
Services Agency shows. Institutions would be subject to fines of
as much as 500 million yen.  Japan is clamping down on insider trading after regulators
last year found that employees of brokerages including  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  gave tips on share offerings they managed. Under
existing rules, only those who trade on nonpublic information
can be imprisoned or fined.  “We welcome the tightening of regulations as a market
participant,” said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The new rule will act
as a deterrent against insider trading as brokerages are
improving internal controls.”  The proposal for imprisonment is more severe than
recommendations made by an FSA advisory committee in December.
The panel had urged that the names of brokerage employees who
leak confidential information be disclosed to the public in
egregious cases.  Reform Bill  “We are preparing to submit a regulatory reform bill on
insider trading in this ordinary Diet session, in cooperation
with parties in the government,” said Hiroshi Okada, an FSA
spokesman, while declining to comment on the proposals. The
Nikkei newspaper reported the plans earlier today.  The agency’s proposed law change would bring Japan into
line with the U.S., where former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Director Rajat Gupta was convicted in June of passing insider
tips to Galleon Group LLC founder Raj Rajaratnam in a conspiracy
that ran from 2007 to January 2009. Gupta, sentenced to two
years in prison, is free pending his appeal.  Since Japan’s insider-trading scandal emerged a year ago,
politicians have urged that rules barring the government from
imposing fines against information leakers be toughened to
restore confidence in the nation’s financial markets.  Staff at Nomura, Japan’s biggest brokerage, gave tips on
four equity offerings it managed in 2010 and 2011, regulators
found last year. While the FSA didn’t fine the investment bank,
it ordered the firm to improve securities operations and its top
two executives resigned.  The Japan Securities Dealers Association in October fined
Nomura 300 million yen, the biggest penalty by the self-
regulatory group against any firm in 12 years. SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. was docked 200 million yen by the association in
June after being found to have solicited clients by giving them
confidential information on a public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  