-- Joy CEO Says China Coal Miner Demand to Gain as Power Use Rises
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-03-22T17:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/joy-ceo-says-china-coal-miner-demand-to-gain-as-power-use-rises.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the world’s
second-largest maker of mining equipment, expects demand from
coal producers in China to gain this year as the economy picks
up and energy use increases.  “We have active discussions going on with customers,”
Michael Sutherlin, chief executive officer of Milwaukee-based
Joy Global, said in a telephone interview today. “We expect in
the second half of 2013 to see strong orders out of China. We
expect Chinese orders to be up year over year.”  Joy Global  has  declined 22 percent in the past year as
slower economic growth from the U.S. and China, the world’s
largest consumer and producer of coal, prompted miners to curb
capital spending. Two-thirds of Joy Global’s revenue comes from
coal producers globally and about 18 percent from sales to
China’s mining industry, Sutherlin said.  Long-term expansion of coal-powered power plants in China
and  India  over the next three to four years will bolster demand
for Joy’s mining equipment,  Brian Rayle , a Cleveland-based
analyst for Northcoast, who recommends buying the shares, said
in a report March 13. The pace of China’s economic growth
increased to 7.9 percent after seven quarters of deceleration.
China’s power consumption will increase by as much as 8.5
percent this year as the economy expands, the China Electricity
Council, a group of the nation’s biggest power producers, said
Feb. 28.  Adding Capacity  Joy Global tracks about 400 gigawatts of coal-burning power
generation capacity globally and China is in the process of
adding 75 gigawatts in the next couple of years, Sutherlin said.
Along with higher coal-fired power generation, steel production
and export orders in China over the last few months look
“encouraging,” said Sutherlin, 66, who will retire in
February. Edward L. Doheny II, who has been president and chief
operating officer of the company’s underground mining equipment
division, will take over by year-end, the company said on March
14.  Joy Global rose 0.2 percent to $58.39 at 11:46 a.m. in New
York.  The company has “strongly positioned” itself to benefit
from a rebound in coal demand through its 2012 acquisition of
International Mining Machinery in  China , Rayle said. While the
global coal market has begun to rebound from 2012, miners will
delay capital spending until later in the year, he said.  Sutherlin said he is trying to increase the amount of
revenue IMM captures from servicing and maintenance after the
original machine sale.  Mining Delays  Globally, the company’s bookings in the quarter ended Jan.
25 fell 29 percent from a year earlier to $1 billion as
customers opted to delay new projects in favor of making current
mines more productive and efficient, Joy Global said on a Feb.
27 call.  Miners around the world don’t appear to be delaying more
projects, Sutherlin said. The delays had led miners to spend
even less than their already-lowered capital budgets called for
and now “we are starting to see a turning point,” Sutherlin
said.  In the U.S., where the coal industry contracted last year
as a warm winter and lower natural gas prices eroded demand,
demand for parts and maintenance may improve sequentially
quarter over quarter this year as miners schedule delayed
machine servicing or rebuilds, he said. Currently, there is no
need to expand the machine fleet in the U.S., he said.  Caterpillar Inc., based in Peoria,  Illinois , is the world’s
largest maker of mining equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  