-- Juventus Eyes Hernandez as Alternative to Suarez: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-22T08:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/juventus-eyes-hernandez-as-alternative-to-suarez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Juve Targets Hernandez  Juventus may bid for Manchester United striker Javier Hernandez if it fails to sign Liverpool forward Luis Suarez, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Italian league leader is seeking a strike partner for
Fernando Llorente, who’s joining on a free transfer from
Athletic Bilbao, the Mail added.  De Gea Vow  United’s Spanish international goalkeeper David De Gea said
he would snub the chance to replace Victor Valdes at Barcelona
to remain with the Premier League leader, the  Sun reported .  “I know things have been said and written but I have a
contract,” the Sun cited De Gea as saying. “It is not just my
name that appears. At Barca, Valdes is still the keeper and
 Madrid  is my city, one day I’d like to return. But now I hope to
stay in Manchester for a long time and win a lot of titles.”  Lindegaard Hint  Danish goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard hinted that he may
leave United after becoming frustrated at his lack of playing
opportunities behind De Gea, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “For me at the moment it’s not easy to deal with being on
the bench when the team is performing as well as we do,” the
newspaper cited Lindegaard, who’s played one game for the Red
Devils since Dec. 1, as saying. “Everybody wants to play and
I’m not different from anyone else.”  Poyet Rejects Reading  Brighton manager Gus Poyet rejected the chance to become
manager of Reading and a 1.5 million-pound ($2.2 million) bonus
if he kept the relegation-threatened Royals in the Premier
League, the  Independent reported .  Former Chelsea and Tottenham midfielder Poyet decided to
stay with the second-tier Championship club and push for
promotion after analyzing the two squads’ relative merits, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  