-- KB Financial Wins Approval of Outside Directors Amid Opposition
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-03-22T02:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/kb-financial-wins-approval-of-outside-directors-amid-opposition.html
KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) 
shareholders approved the appointment of three external board
members, disregarding a U.S. proxy advisory firm’s concern that
their government relationships may threaten board independence.  Kim Young Kwa won approval as a new outside director at the
Seoul-based company’s annual general meeting today, while
tenures for existing board members Lee Kyung Jae and Bae Jae
Wook were extended.  Institutional Shareholders Services Inc. advised
shareholders to reject the three nominees earlier this month,
calling the practice of appointing former officials to the board
and potential government influence over KB’s leadership a
concern. The board thwarted Chairman Euh Yoon Dae’s bid to buy
ING Groep NV’s South Korean life insurance unit in December.  “While the appointments of non-executive directors were
passed with more than 65 percent approval, we still humbly
accept the opinions of opposing shareholders,” Euh told
shareholders today, pledging to improve external communications.  Kim has formerly held positions at the country’s finance
ministry, according to ISS. Lee has worked for the  Bank of
Korea , and Bae was presidential secretary from 1992 to 1998,
according to the  website  of KB, the owner of South  Korea ’s
biggest bank.  “Political changes appear to be placing unnecessary risks
at the company and making its strategic direction uncertain,
possibly due to some of the directors’ close relationship with
the government,” the ISS said in a note to shareholders on
March 15.  KB’s board refuted the ISS’s report, calling it “distorted
and exaggerated” in an e-mailed statement on March 14.  Non-executive directors Kim Young Jin, Lee Jong Cheon, Koh
Seung Hee, Lee Young Nam and Cho Jae Mok also received approval
for a one-year extension of their terms, today’s vote showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  