-- KBC, Santander Raise $1.5 Billion From Bank Zachodni Sale
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-03-22T07:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/kbc-santander-raise-1-5-billion-from-bank-zachodni-sale.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC)  of  Belgium  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  of Spain raised 4.89 billion zloty ($1.5 billion)
from the sale of a stake in  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) , Poland’s
third-largest lender.  The banks sold 19.9 million shares at 245 zloty each to
financial investors in a transaction that ended yesterday,
Zachodni said in a regulatory filing today. The offering took
the value of this year’s share offerings in Poland to 14.4
billion zloty, a record start of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Santander sold 5.2 percent of Zachodni, cutting its stake
to 70 percent, while KBC its entire 16.2 percent holding in the
Polish bank.  Santander, which completed Zachodni’s merger with KBC’s
Kredyt Bank SA in January, was under pressure from Polish
regulators to boost the proportion of Zachodni shares which are
available to other investors. The sale increased the Polish
bank’s free float to 30 percent.  The offering came two months after sales of stakes in PKO
Bank Polski SA and  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , Poland’s largest lenders. The
government and state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold a
5.24 billion-zloty stake in PKO Bank, while Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  sold a 3.73 billion-zloty holding in Pekao in January.  Zachodni shares fell 0.2 percent to 255 zloty yesterday,
trimming this year’s gain to 5.4 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, KBC
Securities NV, Santander Investment, Dom Maklerski Bank Zachodni
WBK SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG managed Zachodni’s
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  