-- Kurdish Militant Moves Market With Call for Peace: Turkey
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-22T08:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/kurdish-militant-moves-market-with-call-for-peace-turkey.html
Abdullah Ocalan, the imprisoned
leader of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, is moving Turkish
markets from his jail cell with calls for rebels to cease their
armed conflict.  The promise of an end to a fight that’s cost hundreds of
billions of dollars and seen tens of thousands of lives lost
sent Turkish  bonds  rebounding from their worst losing streak
since 2008 and paring the biggest increase in yields in emerging
markets this month. The lira and  stocks  rallied.  “Let guns be silenced, let ideas speak,” Ocalan said in a
letter read by lawmaker Sirri Sureyya Onder to a crowd of
hundreds of thousands celebrating the Kurdish new year in
Diyarbakir, the biggest city in the largely Kurdish southeast.
The call culminated months of talks between the government of
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the militant leader,
whose group, known as the PKK, is classified as a terrorist
organization by Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union.  “The door is now opening for a democratic political
process,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS, the
Istanbul-based bank owned by National  Bank of Greece (TELL) , said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “Successful resolution of the issue
would be the ultimate argument for re-rating the Turkish economy
and lira-denominated assets.”  Bonds Rally  The yield on two-year  notes  dropped three basis points to
6.15 percent on Ocalan’s message, after increasing as much as
six basis points earlier yesterday. It was the first decline in
seven days. The lira gained as much as 0.3 percent, rebounding
from a 0.3 percent loss, before trading 0.2 percent higher at
1.8149 per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul yesterday.  The drop in yields pared the increase this month to 46
basis points, or 0.46 percentage point, the biggest jump among
20 major emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. The lira’s gain
trimmed its loss on the month to 0.9 percent.  While the call to end the armed conflict lowers the
country’s political risk, it’s not the only obstacle facing
 Turkey  and Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, or AKP.  Moody’s Investors Service held Turkey’s credit rating at
Ba1 in January, its top junk level, citing a need for “further
progress” in cutting the current-account deficit. Fitch Ratings
raised the country’s debt to investment grade in November, its
first attainment of that status in 18 years.  Deficit Concern  The two-year yield rose 34 basis points since a report
March 12 showed the current-account gap grew 20 percent in
January from the month before to $5.63 billion, exceeding the
median of nine economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Five-year credit-default swaps rose six basis points to 145
yesterday, extending their climb this week to 16 basis points as
the banking  crisis in Cyprus  damped demand for riskier assets.
Contracts for  Russia , rated three steps above Turkey at Moody’s,
rose seven basis points to 158 yesterday and were 19 basis
points higher in the past four days.  The contracts, which increase as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated sovereign bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries was
little changed at 218 yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index. That left the spread 79
basis points below the average for  emerging markets .  ‘New Era’  “Today a new era is starting,” Ocalan’s letter read. “A
door is opening from the process of armed resistance to the
process of democratic politics.” He called on armed fighters to
leave the country and said while the struggle for Kurdish rights
hadn’t ended, it was taking a new form.  The PKK’s armed fight with Turkey began in 1984 and has
cost the country at least $300 billion, according to government
estimates, while leaving the southeast of the country trailing
the development in the west. More than 30,000 people have been
killed. That time has come to an end, Ocalan said yesterday.  “There have been numerous ceasefires before, which have
come and gone, but it seems this time there are strong interests
from both the ruling AKP side and from Ocalan and his supporters
to make this deal stick,” Tim Ash, chief emerging market
economist for Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed note
to clients from  London  yesterday. “Good news for Turkey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  