-- Israel-Turkey Reconciliation Begins Following Netanyahu Apology
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/netanyahu-apologizes-to-turkey-for-errors-in-flotilla-deaths.html
Israel and Turkey took steps to
restore ties nearly three years after the deaths of nine Turks
on an aid flotilla to the  Gaza Strip  as the U.S. sought to
bolster an allied front in an increasingly unstable  Middle East .  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  apologized
yesterday to Turkey for the deaths in a phone call with Turkish
counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan, according to the Israeli
premier’s office and officials traveling in Israel with
President  Barack Obama , who brokered the thaw between the two
U.S. allies.  Netanyahu “expressed Israel’s apology to the Turkish
people for any mistakes that might have led to the loss of life
or injury” aboard the aid ship raided by Israeli commandos in
May 2010, his office said in a text message.  The countries agreed to work on compensation and a non-
liability accord, a reference to Turkish legal action against
Israeli soldiers, the message said. Erdogan’s office confirmed
those discussions in an e-mailed statement. An Israeli official
also said the countries have agreed to restore diplomatic ties
by reinstating their ambassadors, which wasn’t confirmed in the
Turkish statement.  The Turkish-Israeli alliance, based on security ties
stretching back decades, has been under strain in recent years.
The flotilla incident exacerbated tensions caused by Erdogan’s
repeated criticism of Israeli policy, especially the Gaza
incursion of 2008. More recently there have been signs of
overlap in the countries’ regional interests. Both are calling
for the departure of Bashar al-Assad in  Syria , and Turkey has
distanced itself from Israel’s chief enemy,  Iran .  Surprise Rapprochement  The rapprochement is a surprise, and a “significant” step
toward improved relations between Turkey and Israel, said Kemal
Kirisci, head of the Turkey Project at the  Brookings Institution 
in  Washington .  “It came, literally, out of the blue,” for analysts who
follow Turkish-Israeli relations, he said in an interview. It’s
“a fascinating, spur-of-the-moment production on the part of
Obama, and a little credit would go his way.”  Turkish financial markets reversed losses after the
announcement of the Netanyahu-Erdogan phone call. The  benchmark
stock index  closed up 0.1 percent, after falling as much as 0.6
percent earlier today. The lira gained 0.2 percent against the
dollar, while Israel’s shekel added 0.4 percent to 3.65 per
dollar at 5:50 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  Good News  “The ties are positive,” Guillaume Salomon, chief
emerging-markets strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
said by phone. “Any ties that bring  Israel  closer to some of
its neighbors is good news.”  Obama said the “moment was right” for the attempt to
repair the relationship, and there is more to be done.  “This is just beginning,” Obama said at a news conference
with Jordan’s King Abdullah II in Amman, the final stop on the
U.S. president’s trip to the region.  Cliff May, president of the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, a non-partisan policy institution in Washington,
said hurdles remain to a fuller restoration of the relations.  “It’s positive, but count me pessimistic that it restores
the Turkish-Israelis alliance,” he said in an interview.  The apologetic telephone call, May said, was something
Obama “wanted for good reason, and that Netanyahu was willing
to concede.”  Turkey is a member of NATO, and Israel is the most reliable
ally in the Mideast. Increasing tension between the two is
awkward for Obama and someone had to move. Erdogan’s response
was “reasonably gracious,” May said.  Islamic Leadership  Even so, there remain a set of historical and structural
difficulties between the two U.S. allies. Erdogan “sees Turkey
in a leadership role in the Islamic world,” May said. “You
cannot have very cordial relationships if you aspire to lead the
Islamic world in 2013.”  Erdogan, a politician with Islamist roots, accused Israel
of “state terrorism” in Gaza and walked out of a discussion
with Israeli President  Shimon Peres  in Davos in 2009. His anti-
Israel stance has won him kudos with the public in Turkey, where
there is strong sympathy with Palestinians, and across the
region. Erdogan was welcomed as a hero when he visited  Egypt  and
other Arab countries after the revolutions of 2011.  Erdogan has made statements equating Zionism with fascism,
according to May. “Somebody says Zionism is fascism, or Zionism
is racism, they are saying Israel doesn’t have a right to
exist,” he said.  Restoring Trust  If Netanyahu believes that’s Erdogan’s true conviction,
apologies may not matter and trust might not be restored to any
meaningful degree, May said.  Turkey broke off diplomatic ties after the flotilla attack,
and in November last year it put four former Israeli officers,
including ex-chief of staff Gabi Ashkenazi, on trial in absentia
for the killings. Israel said the aid ship ignored a warning to
turn aside and that activists attacked soldiers who boarded in
order to stop it from breaching the blockade of Gaza.  As diplomatic ties worsened, the two countries have kept
business channels open and trade has flourished. It reached a
record $4.4 billion in 2011, according to official Turkish
figures, and stayed near that level last year. Tourism, though,
has slumped as Israelis shun  Turkey , once a favorite
destination. Visitor numbers have fallen more than 80 percent
since 2009, according to the Israeli Embassy in Ankara.  Syria Dispute  The U.S. is seeking to unite its regional allies in
applying pressure on Iran to halt its nuclear program. Both the
U.S. and Israel have warned they may use military strikes to
achieve that goal if diplomacy doesn’t work.  Turkey, which enjoyed improved relations with the Islamic
Republic during most of Erdogan’s decade in power, has disagreed
with its neighbor over Syria as the region increasingly divides
along sectarian lines.  Shiite Muslim-ruled Iran supports Assad, whose Alawite sect
is affiliated with Shiite Islam. Turkey is aligned with the U.S.
and its main Sunni ally in the region,  Saudi Arabia , in backing
the rebels fighting to oust Assad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  