-- Netherlands, England Win in World Cup Qualifying as Spain Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-22T23:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/netherlands-england-win-in-world-cup-qualifying-as-spain-draws.html
The Netherlands remained perfect in
qualifying for soccer’s 2014  World Cup . England scored its
biggest victory in 17 years, and defending champion Spain was
held to a surprising home draw.  France, Germany and Bosnia-Herzegovina were among the other
winners last night as European qualifying resumed. The winners
of each of the nine groups on the continent qualify for the
World Cup in Brazil, with the best eight runners-up going into a
playoff for the remaining four slots.  The Netherlands made it five straight wins with a 3-0 home
defeat of Estonia.  Rafael van der Vaart ,  Robin van Persie  and
Ruben Schalke scored in Amsterdam for the Dutch, whose 15 points
are five more than Hungary and Romania, who drew 2-2, in Group
D. Turkey beat Andorra 2-0 in the final group match.  England routed San Marino 8-0 in Group H to stay two points
behind Montenegro, which was a 1-0 winner at Moldova. England
visits Montenegro in the next round of qualifiers on March 26.  England, which at No. 4 is more than 200 places ahead of
San Marino in the FIFA world rankings, took the lead on an own
goal in the 12th minute. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain,  Jermain Defoe ,
 Ashley Young  and  Frank Lampard  then made it 5-0 by halftime.  Wayne Rooney ,  Daniel Sturridge  and Defoe then scored in the
second half as the English scored their biggest win since an 8-0
rout of Turkey in 1987.  Mirko Vicinic scored in the 78th minute for Montenegro,
which tops the group with 13 points. Ukraine moved up to third
with five points after beating Poland 3-1.  Spain Draws  World and European champion Spain’s 1-1 draw with Finland
left it two points behind France in Group I ahead of their
matchup in four days in Paris.  Teemu Pukki scored with 12 minutes left for Finland after
 Sergio Ramos  had given Spain the lead in Gijon. The Spanish
dominated the game with 19 shot attempts and 19 corner kicks.  Olivier Giroud, Mathieu Valbuena and Franck Ribery had the
goals as  France  beat Georgia in Paris.  Germany remained unbeaten in Group C with a 3-0 victory in
Kazakhstan. Bastian Schweinsteiger, Mario Gotze and Thomas Muller scored for the Germans, who lead the group with 13
points. Sweden stayed five points back after a 0-0 draw with
Ireland and Austria routed the Faroe Islands 6-0.  Croatia and Belgium both won 2-0 to remain tied at the top
of Group A with 13 points. Belgium beat Macedonia and Croatia
defeated Serbia to leave both with 13 points.  Wales  beat
Scotland 2-1 in the final group match.  Bosnia’s Win  Bosnia-Herzegovina beat Greece 3-1 in a matchup of top
teams in Group G. Bosnia moved three points ahead of the Greeks.
Latvia and Liechtenstein finished 1-1, as did Slovakia and
Lithuania.  Fabio Coentrao’s stoppage-time goal gave Portugal a 3-3
draw with Israel that kept the teams tied for second in Group F
with eight points, four fewer than Russia.  Russia’s match against  Northern Ireland  was postponed
because of snow in Belfast. Azerbaijan and Luxembourg finished
0-0 in the other match in the group.  Aleksandar Tonev scored three times as Bulgaria routed
Malta to move within a point of first-place Italy, which didn’t
play yesterday, in Group B, while Denmark beat the Czech
Republic 3-0.  Iceland and Albania won away games to move within a point
of Group E leader Switzerland. Gylfi Sigurdsson scored twice as
Iceland beat Slovenia 2-1, while Albania defeated Norway 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  