-- Nigerian Author of ‘Things Fall Apart’ Achebe Dies at 82
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-03-22T13:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/nigerian-author-achebe-dies-at-82-mandela-centre-says.html
Chinua Achebe, the Nigerian author
of “Things Fall Apart,” died yesterday at age 82 following a
brief illness.  “One of the great literary voices of his time, he was also
a beloved husband, father, uncle and grandfather, whose wisdom
and courage are an inspiration to all who knew him,” the U.S.-
based Wylie Agency, which represented Achebe, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Achebe’s family requests privacy at this
time.”  “Things Fall Apart,” written in English and first
published in 1958, was one of the first African novels to
resonate worldwide, selling more than 12 million copies and
translated into more than 50 languages, according to  Brown
University  where Achebe most recently taught as professor of
Africana studies.  The novel tells the story of a Nigerian farmer, Okonkwo,
who tries to preserve tribal customs against the assault of
British colonizers attempting to spread Christian doctrine in
his village.  Achebe, an award-winning writer about corruption and
governance in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, rejected in 2011 a
national honor from President Goodluck Jonathan, citing failings
in government, which made him reject another national honor
seven years earlier by former President Olusegun Obasanjo.  Nigeria’s Jonathan said it was with “immense sadness”
that he heard of Achebe’s death, a “cultural icon.”  Patriotism Praise  “Achebe’s frank, truthful and fearless interventions in
national affairs will be greatly missed at home in  Nigeria ,”
the presidency said in an e-mailed statement today. “Because
while others may have disagreed with his views, most Nigerians
never doubted his immense patriotism and sincere commitment to
the building of a greater, more united and prosperous nation
that all Africans and the entire black race could be proud of.”  Achebe started teaching in the U.S. in 1990, shortly after
a car accident in Nigeria left him paralyzed from the waist down
and confined to a wheelchair.  He was awarded the U.K.’s Man Booker International Prize in
2007 for his body of work.  A member of the Igbo tribe, Achebe grew up in southern
Nigeria, toward the end of British colonial rule. After earning
a bachelor’s degree in 1953, at what is now the University of
Ibadan, Achebe got a job writing scripts for the Nigerian
Broadcasting Co. in Lagos. He later went to London to attend a
training course in radio at the British Broadcasting Corp.  Colonial Conflict  In “Things Fall Apart,” Achebe explored his preoccupation
with the conflict between African tradition and European
colonialism.  “The place that I wrote about had problems, but it also
had heroic people,” he said in a 2008 interview with  Bloomberg
News . “There were so many things going for it, and then
suddenly from outside a foreign power comes and pulls it down,
so that’s a big tragedy and that tragedy is the force that made
me write it down.”  Achebe’s last work was his memoir of the Nigeria’s 1967-
1970 civil war, ‘There Was a Country: A Personal History of
Biafra’, published last year. Achebe became a cultural
ambassador for the break-away republic of Biafra in the oil-rich
southeastern part of the country during the turmoil.  “We would like to offer our condolences to the family of
Professor Chinua Achebe, a great African writer and thinker,”
the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory said by e-mail today.
“ Nelson Mandela  referred to Professor Achebe as a writer ‘in
whose company the prison walls fell down’.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  