-- Nikko Bets on Malaysia, Turkey Debt Amid Currency War Concern
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-03-22T01:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/nikko-bets-on-malaysia-turkey-debt-amid-currency-war-concern.html
Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd.
is buying emerging-market debt from nations including Turkey and
 Malaysia , betting their growth prospects outweigh the risk of
competitive currency devaluations.  The asset manager holds a greater proportion of debt from
the countries than the benchmarks it tracks, drawn by higher
yields and strong economic outlooks, Chief Investment Officer
Stuart Kinnersley said in an interview yesterday in Sydney. The
unit of Nikko Asset Management Co., which managed $154 billion
as of Dec. 31, also favors Russian and Nigerian bonds, he said.  “Despite the concern about currency wars at present, the
fundamentals for many of these economies will remain
supportive,” said Kinnersley, whose London-based operation
oversees about $15 billion in fixed-income assets. “They’re
going to exhibit higher levels of economic growth, they’re going
to offer higher yields. I think there’s value there.”  The emerging-market economies known as the BRICS --  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa -- will expand by 6.3
percent in 2013, outstripping the 2.4 percent global average,
according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Calls for greater
stimulus in the U.S.,  Japan  and Europe have intensified concern
over a so-called global currency war that risks debasing
exchange rates.  Russia said in January that policies which end up weakening
currencies may lead to reciprocal action as nations try to
protect their export industries.  The Malaysian ringgit has dropped 2 percent this year,
paring its advance since the end of 2008 to 11 percent. The
Turkish lira has sunk 31 percent in the past five years.  Brazil Confusion  The yield on 10-year government debt in  Turkey  averaged
7.88 percent over the past year, while Malaysian rates averaged
3.51 percent. That compares with 1.77 percent in the U.S. and
1.49 percent in  Germany .  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who popularized
the term “currency war” in 2010, told Bloomberg News last
month he’s abandoning a strategy that has driven the real down
by 17 percent over the past two years as the government shifts
its focus to containing inflation.  The position of Brazil is “more confusing” than some of
its developing-market peers because of the uncertainty
surrounding the government’s position on the currency, and it’s
risky to buy the debt at present, Kinnersley said.  In developed markets such as the U.S., Nikko Asset
Management  Europe  holds shorter-dated notes than its benchmarks
due to the risk that yields will surge once central banks begin
withdrawing quantitative easing policies, Kinnersley said.  Kinnersley is “constructive” on the U.S. economy and
predicts it will perform better than Europe, where the region’s
debt crisis is weighing on growth. The euro common currency will
survive because the political will is there to preserve it, he
said.  The fund manager is also “significantly underweight” on
Japanese debt as it expects the yen to continue depreciating.  “On the debt side, the governments in many emerging
markets, they’re in a much better fiscal position than their
developed market counterparts,” Kinnersley said. “We believe
in the secular story for  emerging markets .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  