-- North Dakota Lawmakers Send ‘Personhood’ Amendment to Voters
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-03-22T21:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/north-dakota-lawmakers-send-personhood-amendment-to-voters.html
Voters in North Dakota, where
lawmakers last week approved the earliest abortion ban of any
U.S. state, will decide whether to amend their constitution with
a so-called personhood measure that could end the procedure
entirely.  The language voters will consider in November 2014 would
establish that “the inalienable right to life of every human
being at any stage of development must be recognized and
protected.” If approved, North Dakota would be the first state
with a personhood amendment after Mississippi and Colorado
voters spurned similar measures in recent years.  Members of the Republican-dominated legislature in Bismarck
also passed a bill that may close the sole abortion clinic in
the oil-rich state, the nation’s third-least populous.  “It’s a wonderful way for a state to display that it
affirms human life,” said Senator Margaret Sitte, a Republican
from Bismarck who sponsored the bill. “I’m hoping it will be a
direct challenge to Roe v. Wade,” the U.S. Supreme Court
decision that legalized abortion in 1973.  Backers say the personhood amendment will end the procedure
in the state, with no exceptions for rape, incest or when a
woman’s life or health is endangered. Opponents say it’s
unconstitutional and could outlaw some forms of contraception
and in-vitro fertilization.  Doctors Opposed  A. Michael Booth, president of the North Dakota Medical
Association, testified that it was “a direct insertion of the
state into the patient-physician relationship” and could impede
end-of-life care and organ transplants.  Nancy Northup, president and chief executive of the New
York-based Center for Reproductive Rights, which fights such
laws in court, called North Dakota “the new U.S. capital of
anti-abortion extremism.”  Those who voted for the measures said doing so was a duty.  “Let’s stand up for those who can’t speak,”
Representative Alex Looysen, a Republican from Jamestown, said
during the debate.  The clinic bill, if approved by Republican Governor Jack Dalrymple, would require doctors to have admitting privileges at
hospitals within 30 miles. Mississippi is on the verge of
becoming the first U.S. state without a dedicated facility after
lawmakers there passed a similar bill last year and a judge
weighs its fate.  Catch 22  Red River Women’s Clinic in Fargo has been North Dakota’s
only clinic since 2001, with three doctors who come from other
states, said Tammi Kromenaker, its director. Admitting
privileges are usually granted only to physicians who admit a
minimum number of patients, she said. Red River has sent only
one to a hospital in the past decade, she said.  “It’s intended to impose impossible-to-meet guidelines,”
Kromenaker said by telephone. “It basically hands the decision
over whether abortion is legal in the state over to the
hospitals.”  North Dakota women obtained 1,247 abortions in 2011,
according to the state health department. Most, 87 percent,
weren’t married and 57 percent already had at least one child.  The personhood measure passed the House 57-35 and has
already been approved by the Senate. Dalrymple’s signature isn’t
needed to put it before voters, said Jay Buringrud, director of
legal services at the Legislative Council, a nonpartisan service
agency for both chambers.  North Dakota is the latest state to test limits on when and
how women can terminate pregnancies. Last week, lawmakers
approved a ban on abortion as early as six weeks, the narrowest
window of any U.S. state, and voted to become the first to bar
terminations sought because of genetic abnormalities.  Those bills haven’t been sent to Dalrymple, said his
spokesman, Jeff Zent. Both sides say he is likely to sign them,
setting up a court battle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  