-- Obama Recess Picks Meet Skepticism From Appeals Judges
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-23T04:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/obama-recess-picks-greeted-with-skepticism-by-appeals-judges.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
appointment of labor board members last year while most senators
were out of town was greeted with skepticism from appeals court
judges weighing whether he overstepped his constitutional
powers.  Two judges on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond,
Virginia, during 90-minutes of argument yesterday, repeatedly
asked lawyers in the case who has the power to decide when the
Senate’s in session and how long a break must be before the
president may install officials temporarily under the Recess
Appointments Clause.  “We suggest some deference to the president,” Beth Brinkmann, a Justice Department lawyer, told the judges.  “I don’t think that would be supported by the separation
of powers agreement,” U.S. Circuit Judge Clyde Hamilton
replied.  In an argument laced with references to  George Washington 
and  Abraham Lincoln ’s appointments and to the pre-Constitution
Articles of Confederation, the government sought to portray
Obama’s temporary appointment of three members of the  National
Labor Relations Board  as a common use of presidential power when
the Senate isn’t available to confirm a nominee.  The Richmond panel is the second to hear a challenge to the
labor board picks since the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington 
in January found their appointments were unconstitutional. An
appeals court in Philadelphia this week heard arguments in a
similar case.  Supreme Court  The Obama administration said this month it will ask the
Supreme Court to reverse the Washington ruling in a petition to
be filed by April 25. Divergent decisions among the circuits
would make the high court more likely to take the case.  “It would benefit the  Supreme Court  if the justices could
get rulings from a few more courts before they move on this,
especially those that embark on a deep historical analysis as
the D.C. Circuit did,” John Elwood, a former Justice Department
official now at Vinson & Elkins LLP in Washington, said in an
interview before yesterday’s hearing.  The cases arose from a dispute between the administration
and congressional Republicans in 2011.  To prevent Obama from making appointments after Congress
started a holiday break in December of that year, House and
Senate Republicans refused to formally adjourn. The Senate then
held so-called pro-forma sessions that sometimes involved a
single senator’s appearance in the chamber every third day.  Bypassing Senate  Obama made the appointments Jan. 4, 2012, bypassing Senate
confirmation by asserting lawmakers were in recess.  Senate Republicans, who filed a brief supporting the
challengers in the Washington case, disagreed the chamber was,
in fact, in recess at the time.  The Washington panel, agreeing the Senate wasn’t in recess,
unanimously ruled Jan. 25 that the labor board picks were
“constitutionally invalid.” A recess is the period between
congressional sessions, known as an intersession recess, as
opposed to the more frequent breaks that the Senate takes
throughout its legislative session, the court ruled.  Two of the judges went further, saying valid appointments
could be made only for vacancies that arose while the Senate was
adjourned for an intersession recess.  The Virginia court is considering two cases brought by
employers who argue NLRB decisions against them should be
reversed because the board lacked a legally appointed quorum.  Sharp Questions  During yesterday’s argument Brinkmann was questioned
sharply by Hamilton, an appointee of Republican President  George H.W. Bush , and U.S. Circuit Judge Allyson Duncan, who was
nominated by Republican President George W. Bush.  “If we accept your interpretation that the recess does not
refer solely to intersession recesses, then what are our
parameters for determining when intrasession recesses are
appropriate intervals for appointments?” Duncan asked
Brinkmann.  Brinkmann wouldn’t give a specific time period.  She argued that when Obama made the appointments, the
Senate was in recess because no business was conducted for 20
days.  Hamilton, who referred to the pro forma sessions, noted
that the Senate on voted Dec. 23 to extend temporarily the
payroll tax cut during this period.  “Can you tell me that meant the Senate was in session by
their own terms?” Hamilton asked.  ‘Own Words’  “Yes,” Brinkmann said. “They said in their own words
that they would not conduct any business.”  “Despite that understanding, they did conduct business,”
Duncan said.  Hamilton also tried to pin the administration down on a
time period.  “The board never states how short a break is too short for
the Recess Appointments Clause,” Hamilton said to Brinkmann.  He asked whether the Senate majority leader taking a four-
day trip to Williamsburg,  Virginia , would be a recess.  The questions were similar to those U.S. Circuit Judge
David Sentelle asked Brinkmann in the Washington case in
December. Sentelle wrote his panel’s opinion.  When Brinkmann argued that until the disputed appointments
presidents installed 400 judges and officials through
intrasession recess appointments, U.S. Circuit Judge Albert Diaz
shot back, “That’s history.”  ‘Genie’ Out  Diaz, an Obama appointee, said “the genie is out of the
bottle” regardless of whether the political branches agree on
the extent of recess appointment powers. Every recess
appointment will face litigation, he said.  “Employers will raise this issue in every case,” he said.  At least 30 cases were put on hold by judges in the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Washington while the Obama administration
considered its options, according to NLRB data.  In recent years, Democratic President  Bill Clinton  made 139
recess appointments, while  George W. Bush  made 171. Obama, a
Democrat, has made 32, according to the  Congressional Research
Service .  The lead Richmond case is National Labor Relations Board v.
Enterprise Leasing Company-Southeast LLC, 12-01514, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond). The Washington
case is Noel Canning v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-01115, 12-01153, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in the U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond at +1-
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  