-- Obama to Seek $200 Million to Help Jordan With Syrian Refugees
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-22T18:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/obama-meets-with-abdullah-as-syrian-refugees-flood-into-jordan.html
President  Barack Obama  promised to
seek an extra $200 million in aid to help Jordan cope with a
flood of refugees from  Syria  that  King Abdullah  II said is
straining his country’s economy and risks destabilizing the
region.  Abdullah, at a news conference with Obama in Amman, said
Jordan has absorbed 460,000 refugees fleeing the civil war in
Syria and that number may double by the end of the year.  Jordan “just can’t turn our back” on children and the
wounded trying to escape fighting between Bashar al-Assad’s
regime and the opposition, the king said. “Refugees will
continue to come through and we will continue within our means
to look after them the best we can.”  Obama said he’d work with the  U.S. Congress , which is
debating how to cut the budget and reduce the deficit, for the
added aid to Jordan this year. He said the international
community “needs to step up.”  The U.S. president is making the final stop of a four-day
trip that included stops in  Israel  and the  West Bank  and has
been dominated by efforts to restart the peace talks between
Israel and the Palestinians, the threat of  Iran’s nuclear
program  and the turmoil in Syria.  Obama defended his decision to refrain from arming Syrian
rebels and said the U.S. is working with other countries to
consider the best approach. The U.S., he said, has led efforts
to provide humanitarian aid and organize a “credible”
political opposition to Assad’s government.  Fragmented Syria  “I am very concerned about Syria becoming an enclave for
extremism,” Obama said.  Abdullah said further fragmentation of Syria would have
“disastrous consequences” for the region.  Jordan received more than $800 million from the U.S. last
year, including $120 million in special assistance to offset
costs related to Syrian refugees.  “This is really very difficult for them to absorb,” said
 Dennis Ross , a former Obama adviser and now a counselor with the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “This is just not
sustainable. The whole issue of Syria needs to be addressed. No
doubt King Abdullah wants to know what’s our strategy for
dealing with Syria.”  Obama also met with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas
while in the region. He urged both of them to return to direct
negotiations.  “Even though both sides may have areas of strong
disagreement, may be engaging in activities that the other side
considers to be a breach of good faith, we have to push through
those things to try to get to an agreement,” he said at a news
conference in Ramallah with Abbas.  U.S. Leadership  Abdullah said that while he is “delighted” with Obama’s
outreach to Israelis and Palestinians to resume peace talks in
his visit to Israel and the West Bank, more U.S. leadership is
of “crucial importance” if there are to be any breakthroughs.
He said Jordan would offer to host any new talks.  Regarding  Iran , Obama said he would “continue to apply the
pressure that we have, in a non-military way, to try to resolve
the problem.” He stressed that the U.S. “will maintain every
option” to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Amman at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  