-- Obama’s Reset With Netanyahu Faces Test in Future Diplomacy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-24T01:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/obama-s-reset-with-netanyahu-faces-test-in-diplomatic-follow-up.html
President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  set out last week to show the
world -- and each other -- that they can get along and get
things done.  Over three days in  Israel , Obama and Netanyahu spent hours
together each day, in private and in public. They toured
cultural sites, smiled and laughed at one another’s jokes. Obama
often touched the prime minister’s back as they walked side by
side. Israeli television provided full-time coverage.  In their parting act March 22 on the grounds of Ben Gurion
International Airport -- this time behind closed doors -- they
telephoned Turkish President  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , a step toward
restoring normal relations between  Turkey  and Israel.  Obama and Netanyahu are two leaders whose recent re-
elections mean they must deal with each another as they confront
rising challenges in  Iran ,  Syria  and the region. Obama’s first
official visit to Israel was a new start after four years of
tense relations.  The U.S. president went to Israel knowing that their
personal chemistry and substantive policy disagreements would be
scrutinized. He sought to push those impediments aside.  “Any drama between me and my friend, Bibi, over the years
was just a plot to create material for Eretz Nehederet,” Obama
joked in a March 21 speech in  Jerusalem  to the delight of the
young audience, making reference to a popular Israeli comedy
show, whose name means “it’s a wonderful country” in English.
“We just wanted to make sure the writers had good material.”  Erdogan Call  The phone call to Erdogan was a demonstrable result of the
new Obama-Netanyahu courtship.  Netanyahu’s phone call with his Turkish counterpart was
facilitated by Obama, and the U.S. president was on the line as
the Israeli apologized to Turkey for the deaths in 2010 of nine
Turks taking part in an aid flotilla to Gaza that was
intercepted by Israeli security forces. The incident damaged
relations between the two nations.  Obama “pulled it off -- this is a black-and-white measure
of his success,” said Kemal Kirisci, head of the Turkey Project
at the  Brookings Institution , a policy center in  Washington .  The telephone call was a “significant” development toward
improved relations between Turkey and Israel that “came
literally out of the blue” to analysts who follow Turkish-
Israeli relations. It was a “spur-of-the-moment production on
the part of Obama” that reflects another step in Obama’s
“attempt to repair relations with Netanyahu, to kind of gin up
the right chemistry,” he said.  Encouraging Youth  To be sure, Obama’s efforts last week to reset his
relationship with Netanyahu and the Israeli people will be
tested over the coming weeks and months. By delivering a speech
to young Israelis, where he encouraged them to pressure their
political leaders to renew peace talks, Obama was indicating
that he doesn’t expect that a warmer relationship with Netanyahu
alone will deliver peace.  For all the goodwill that was built on this trip, strains
might soon reappear with Israel likely to continue its
settlement expansion, said Les Gelb, president emeritus of the
 Council on Foreign Relations .  “It’s a love-fest” and a smart move toward getting
diplomacy restarted, Gelb said. “In the end, leaders are going
to do or not do things based on what they think their political
support back home will be.”  Kerry’s Role  Obama, who left the Middle East after a trip to Jordan,
said repeatedly during his visit that he will delegate follow-up
talks with Israelis and Palestinians to his new secretary of
state,  John Kerry .  Kerry met yesterday with Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  in Amman, Jordan, to continue the conversations
begun earlier this week with Obama, according to the official
Palestinian news agency Wafa. No details of the conversation
were disclosed. Kerry then flew to Jerusalem for a late-night
meeting with Netanyahu.  The reconciliation between Israel and Turkey “will help
advance the cause of peace and stability in the region,” Kerry
said in an e-mailed statement issued late yesterday. Netanyahu
and Erdogan “deserve great credit for showing the leadership
necessary to make this possible.”  No Breakthrough           “The trip was certainly not designed to create a
breakthrough on peace and the circumstances now don’t lend
themselves to such a breakthrough,” said  Dennis Ross , a former
Obama adviser and now a counselor with the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy. “Belief on each side will have to
restored before any real progress will be made.”  Netanyahu rolled out the welcome mat for Obama at sites
including Mt. Herzl and the Dead Sea Scrolls exhibit, allowing
Obama to demonstrate a connection to skeptical Israelis.  In his public remarks, Obama underscored Israel’s right to
defend itself against Iran as it sees fit, even as he sought
more time for diplomacy. In turn, Netanyahu indicated Israel
won’t push the U.S. just yet for military action against Iran.
Together, they said they agreed on a general time frame for
Iran’s nuclear progress.  Obama told Palestinians they must be willing to resume
peace talks even if Israel continues settlement construction,
even as he urged Israelis to stop the practice.  ‘So Stagnant’     “It’s easy to be pessimistic, things are so stagnant,”
said Michael Singh, former senior director of Middle East
affairs at the National Security Council under President  George W. Bush  and now Ira Weiner Fellow at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy.  Even so, he said, “it’s not a small thing” that Netanyahu
“now accepts a two-state solution, as does President Abbas. In
many ways, the fundamental building blocks are there. What they
need to do is reignite the process, they need to get back to the
table.”  Last week’s developments marked a change from a year ago,
when Obama, in an interview with the Atlantic ahead of a
Netanyahu visit to Washington, described his relationship with
the prime minister as “very functional.”  Months before, Obama was overheard commiserating about
Netanyahu with then-French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  by saying,
“I have to deal with him even more often than you.”  Netanyahu had showed no more affection for Obama, and his
warm welcome of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  to
Israel last year underscored U.S. and Israeli perceptions that
Netanyahu would welcome a change at the White House.  Steven Simon of the International Institute for Strategic
Studies in Washington, and Obama’s former senior director for
the  Middle East  and North Africa on the National Security
Council, said Obama and Netanyahu are “smart leaders with
complicated domestic politics facing major strategic challenges.  Room to Maneuver  ‘‘It was in their interest to give each other a bit more
maneuvering room in both realms,’’ he said. ‘‘And that’s what
they did.’’  Obama’s involvement in the Israel and Turkey call ‘‘makes a
lot of sense,’’ Simon said, because both are key U.S. alliances
with common concerns including Syria.  Gelb said Obama’s and Netanyahu’s gestures suggested both
men wanted to change how their relationship is perceived.  ‘‘I think somebody sat down with the president before this
trip who really had a good understanding of Israel and explained
how you really talk to Israelis in a way that shows you care
about them,” Gelb said. “He understood it finally, and
everywhere he went he struck the right note.”  As for Netanyahu, Gelb said, “I think he basically decided
beforehand that he was going to make every effort to make the
Obama trip a big success because his political situation at home
has changed and he does not want to create the impression that
he is destroying relations with America. He had to change course
and make nice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  