-- Modelo Said to Hire Bank of America to Sell Extra Chain
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-03-22T22:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/modelo-said-to-hire-bank-of-america-to-sell-extra-chain.html
Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , Mexico’s biggest
brewer, hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to help sell its Extra
convenience-store chain, said people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be named because details are private.  Modelo, the maker of Corona beer, had 960 Extra stores at
the end of 2011 after cutting the number by more than half over
the previous five years, according to annual reports. Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for the Mexico City-based company,
declined to comment. A Bank of America spokeswoman declined to
comment.  The brewer in 2007 announced plans to close hundreds of
Extra stores as Chief Executive Officer Carlos Fernandez said
that the company was trying to “focus on profitability.”
Modelo had 2,043 Extra stores at the end of 2006.  In April 2012 Chief Financial Officer Emilio Fullaondo said
Modelo was “talking about analyzing different possibilities”
for the Extra business.  “We have a lot more competitors coming into the retail
side in terms of the  convenience stores ,” he told analysts on a
conference call.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer, is
seeking to buy the half of Modelo it doesn’t already own for
$20.1 billion. An antitrust lawsuit filed by the U.S. government
to block the transaction has been suspended until April 9 as
settlement talks continue. The brewers have made “substantial
progress” in their discussions with the government, AB InBev
said March 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  