-- Tombini Says Brazil May Need More Measures to Slow Inflation
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-03-22T18:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/tombini-says-brazil-may-need-more-measures-to-slow-inflation.html
Brazil’s economy may require more
measures to slow inflation levels that are approaching the top
of the central bank’s target range, bank President Alexandre Tombini said.  Brazil’s  monetary policy  is focused on maintaining  price
stability , Tombini said in a speech before the French-Brazilian
business chamber in  Sao Paulo  today. Policy makers stand ready
to enter the foreign exchange market to avoid excess volatility,
he added.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has been caught
between the slowest growth since the aftermath of the Lehman
Brothers collapse in 2009 and the fastest annual inflation in 14
months. The central bank expects inflation, already higher than
in Mexico and Chile, to remain above target for the fourth
straight year. Monetary policy requires caution because of an
uncertain economic outlook, even as faster inflation may be
settling in, the bank said on March 14.  “Adjustments in the bank’s message provoked changes in
financial conditions and further actions may be necessary,”
Tombini said today. “The central bank will monitor the
evolution of the macroeconomic scenario.”  Swap rates on the contract due January 2014 fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.76 percent at 2:44
pm local time. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 2.0123 per  U.S.
dollar .  Foreign Exchange  “The central has said it’s always ready to enter the
market to make sure the various segments of the foreign exchange
market function normally,” Tombini said. The bank can enter the
futures market to prevent “distortions,” he added.  Prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index  rose 0.49
percent in the month through  mid-March , the national statistics
agency said today in a report published on its website. The same
report showed annual inflation accelerated to 6.43 percent, the
fastest since January 2012, from 6.18 percent in mid-February.  The central bank targets an inflation rate of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  After growing by 0.9 percent in 2012,  Latin America ’s
largest economy will expand 3.03 percent this year and 3.5
percent next year, according to the latest central bank  survey 
of financial institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 