-- Homeserve Falls as U.K. Client Dip Causes Job Cuts: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-03-22T11:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/homeserve-falls-as-u-k-client-dip-causes-job-cuts-london-mover.html
Homeserve Plc (HSV) , the U.K. repair-
service provider being investigated by the Financial Services
Authority, fell the most in seven months after saying it will
cuts jobs in the U.K., where it’s losing customers.  Homeserve  dropped  as much as 16 percent in London trading,
the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 22. It was the biggest
decline on the FTSE 350 Index, and 1.79 million shares of the
Walsall, England-based company were traded, more than four times
the three-month daily average.  The company plans to cut 300 jobs at is U.K. business as
the number of British customers is expected to fall to 1.9
million by March of next year from 2.25 million, Homeserve said
today. The company will book a charge of about 4 million pounds
($6.1 million) in the year ending March 31 related to the job
cuts and an additional 15 million-pound charge for a writedown
on its French warranty business, Homeserve said.  “The revised guidance for the U.K. highlights the
challenges of turning the business around,” Hugo Mills, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note today. “We remain
cautious given uncertainty around the FSA investigation and weak
trading conditions in U.K.”  Homeserve shares were down 7.9 percent at 205.4 pence as of
11:37 a.m., taking the decline to 13 percent this year and
giving the company a market value of 678 million pounds.  Continuing Investigation  The FSA’s investigation into “past issues is ongoing and
is expected to continue for a number of months,” Homeserve
said. The FSA began a formal inquiry into Homeserve’s former
sales practices in May of last year, more than six months after
the company suspended telephone sales.  Homeserve said in 2011 when it announced the suspension
that it had been in regular touch with the regulator about
issues uncovered in an internal review.  The company should return to “modest growth” in fiscal
2015, Chief Executive Officer Richard Harpin said in today’s
statement.  Homeserve forecast adjusted pretax profit before
exceptional costs for the current fiscal year in line with
analyst estimates of 102.9 million pounds to 110 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 