-- London Best: Kasabian Rocks, Spotty Vuitton, Hibiscus
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-03-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/london-best-kasabian-rocks-spotty-vuitton-hibiscus.html
Polka-dot Louis Vuitton bags, a
dancing insect and the revamped Hibiscus restaurant are among
Muse’s arts and leisure recommendations for  London  this week.  STAGE  A man wakes up as a cockroach, petrifying his parents and
sister. Sound familiar? Kafka’s “ The Metamorphosis ” is back --
in the haunting dance theater version starring the Royal
Ballet’s Edward Watson. The bony Watson (who won an  Olivier
Award  for this) gets his body in impossible twists, then
secretes a treacle-like liquid as he morphs from human to
insect. Ends Saturday at the  Royal Opera House ’s Linbury Studio
Theatre. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  Only a few weeks left to rate the stage debut of Joe Wright
(director of “Atonement”). In “Trelawny of the Wells,” an
actress ditches the theater for an aristocrat, then finds his
circle so stuffy, she runs back to her career. Ends April 13 at
the  Donmar :  http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7624.  DINING  Hibiscus has had a makeover: Out with the airport-lounge
look, in with something warmer and quirkier. The biggest change
is in the food. Claude Bosi, one of London’s most creative
chefs, serves dishes that surpass even the ones that earned him
two Michelin stars in 2009.  http://www.hibiscusrestaurant.co.uk/   Little Social, just opened in the heart of Mayfair, is the
latest eatery from Jason Atherton, who created Maze for  Gordon Ramsay  before going solo at Pollen Street Social. The new venue
is an informal, inexpensive French bistro. No website yet.  VISUAL ARTS  The spotty Louis Vuitton collection by artist Yayoi Kusama
is among some 90 nominees for the Design of the Year award --
all featured in a new  Design Museum  exhibition. Red-wigged
Kusama appears as a life-sized model in a recreated Selfridges
window. Her design is up against  Renzo Piano ’s Shard, Thomas Heatherwick’s Olympic Cauldron, and an inner lining for ketchup
bottles so the ketchup won’t stick to the sides. Winners are
announced April 17; the exhibition ends July 7. Information:
 http://designmuseum.org  or +44-20-7940-8783.  If you haven’t seen “Manet: Portraying Life” at the  Royal
Academy , there’s a little more time: Opening hours have just
been extended to midnight on the final weekend (April 12-14). A
chance to discover Manet’s unusual approach to portraiture.
Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +4420-7300-8000.  ROCK & POP  Britpop takes over the  Royal Albert Hall  this weekend in
aid of the Teenage Cancer Trust. Kasabian blasts out rock on
Friday, Noel Gallagher stars on Saturday with guests Damon Albarn and Graham Coxon, and pop duo Rizzle Kicks leads the
younger pretenders on Sunday.  Royal Albert Hall,  Kensington Gore , SW7 2AP. Information:
+44-845-401-5045;  http://www.royalalberthall.com  or
 http://www.teenagecancertrust.org/   OTHER LONDON OUTINGS  The first full-length feature film shot entirely in  Saudi
Arabia  is screening in London as part of the Human Rights Watch
Film Festival ending this weekend. “Wadjda” is about a 10-year-old girl so desperate for a bicycle that, when her mother
pronounces it improper, she decides to raise the money herself.
Information:  http://ff.hrw.org/london .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater, New York  weekend guide  and
 Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 