-- Hong Kong Electronic Trading Rules May See Firm Closures
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-03-22T10:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/hong-kong-electronic-trading-rules-may-see-firm-closures.html
New electronic-trading regulations
in Hong Kong may cause some firms to exit the business due to
increased compliance costs, according to James Wadham, a partner
at law firm Clifford Chance in Hong Kong.  Intermediaries will be responsible for all orders made via
their electronic trading platforms under the  new rules  released
by the Securities and Futures Commission today after a
consultation that closed in September. While firms won’t be held
strictly liable for misconduct or wrongdoings, they will be
responsible for all settlement and financial obligations for
orders sent through their systems, including those by clients
that can send orders directly to venues.  Hong Kong is the most recent jurisdiction after Australia
and  Europe  to update the rules around electronic trading after
the practice was blamed for a May 2010 incident that saw the Dow
Jones Industrial Average briefly lose almost 1,000 points in
less than 20 minutes. The new rules also require thorough
testing of electronic systems and keeping of records of how the
systems are developed and used and of any “material” failures
or delays.  “The proposals may cause some providers to reconsider
whether this is a viable service,” Wadham said by telephone.
“There will need to be a significant cost increase around
compliance and if you’re not prepared to incur that, you may
have to get out of this business.”  The SFC rules, which come into effect Jan. 1, are based on
principles published August 2010 by the International
Organization of Securities Commissions on direct electronic
access to markets, the Hong Kong regulator said in a statement
today.  Clarity, Safety  “The initiatives are intended to provide clarity to
intermediaries on the standards that they are expected to meet
when they conduct electronic trading,” Ashley Alder, chief
executive of the SFC, said in a statement today. “They must
have appropriate policies, procedures and controls in place to
ensure their electronic trading activities will not pose undue
risks to the market.”  The conclusion paper clarified that “intermediaries will
not be held strictly liable for their clients’ misconduct or
wrongdoings.” The proposed rules suggested making
intermediaries “ultimately responsible,” without this
specification.  The heightened cost of compliance, Wadham said, will come
from the record keeping, systems testing and risk management
procedures. The rules will be part of Hong Kong’s code of
conduct for securities market participants, meaning breaches
would be punishable by sanctions including fines and license
suspensions.  Compliance Costs  “I suspect it will be challenging but it should be enough
time for most, depending on their existing systems and
controls,” Wadham said of the Jan. 1 deadline. “Some providers
are not as well resourced as others, and they will have more to
do.”  The new rules only apply to orders placed using electronic
systems including the Internet, and do not apply to the
operations of alternative trading venues and dark pools,
anonymous platforms that do not display prices, the SFC said. A
separate market consultation on the platforms will be published
later this year, the SFC said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  