-- LOT Polish Airline Faces ‘Painful’ Cost Cuts to Survive
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-03-22T10:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/lot-polish-airline-faces-painful-cost-cuts-to-survive.html
LOT Polish Airlines SA , central
Europe’s biggest state-owned carrier, needs to implement a
“painful” cost-cutting program this year to avoid bankruptcy,
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told lawmakers today.  LOT’s new management this week filed its proposals with the
government, seeking to generate more than 150 million zloty
($46.3 million) of savings this year and return to profits in
2014, Budzanowski said during a parliamentary debate over LOT.
The carrier, unprofitable since 2007, sold assets last year and
received a 400 million-zloty emergency loan from the government
in December to continue operations.  “We won’t inject more cash into the company if there’s no
chance for LOT to regain sustainable profits,” Budzanowski
said, adding the company’s proposals include 131 initiatives
that should be implemented this year. “The restructuring will
be painful but without it the company will cease to exist.”  Government-owned carriers in post-communist Europe are
struggling to survive as the global debt crisis coincides with
high fuel prices and a European Union clampdown on state aid.
Hungary’s Malev Zrt. collapsed in 2012 while AS Estonian Air,
Latvia’s AirBaltic AS and Slovenia’s Adria Airways d.d. asked
for state support in past years after their losses mounted.  Job Cuts  LOT, which has already begun dismissal of 360 employees,
plans another 320 job cuts, Dziennik Gazeta Prawna reported
yesterday, citing the plan. Last month the company said it will
eliminate unprofitable routes and focus on trans-Atlantic, long-
haul flights and European destinations that attract business
passengers.  The airline, the first European carrier to receive 787
Dreamliners, incurred additional losses this year after  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s model was grounded globally on Jan. 15 by the decision of
the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration on battery faults. The
Treasury Ministry said in February that LOT, which earlier bet
on 787s to cut its fuel costs, is losing $50,000 for every day
its two new planes aren’t flying.  Poland, which holds a 93 percent stake in the company,
keeps plan to sell the airline to industry and financial
investors after it becomes profitable, Budzanowski said today.  LOT lost a potential buyer in June when  Turk Hava Yollari
AO (THYAO) , or Turkish Airlines, ended talks because of EU rules capping
outside ownership. To help draw interest from bidders, the
government is considering changes in foreign ownership rules to
allow a buyer to gain a controlling stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  