-- PepsiCo Sees No Large Deals as Peltz Reported to Build Stake
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-03-22T20:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/peltz-builds-stakes-in-pepsico-and-mondelez-telegraph-reports.html
PepsiCo (PEP)  Inc. said it doesn’t need
large-scale acquisitions after a newspaper reported billionaire
investor  Nelson Peltz  has built stakes in PepsiCo and food maker
 Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ)  and may agitate for a merger.  “We are making strong progress in our strategy to deliver
long-term growth and create shareholder value, and we do not see
the need for any large scale M&A,” Jeff Dahncke, a PepsiCo
spokesman, said in an e-mail. He declined to comment
specifically about Peltz.  The size of the stakes taken by Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP is unclear, the  Daily Telegraph  reported today,
citing people it didn’t identify. One of the people told the
newspaper that Peltz has spent at least $2 billion on his latest
foray into the  food industry . Peltz could push for a merger of
the two companies, the Telegraph said, citing unidentified
people in London.  PepsiCo rose 3.3 percent to $78.64 at the close in  New
York , while Mondelez gained 4.1 percent to $29.73, for the
biggest advance since Jan. 2  Jo Bradley, a U.K.-based spokeswoman for Mondelez, said the
Deerfield, Illinois-based company doesn’t comment on “market
rumors or speculation.” A representative at New York-based
Trian didn’t immediately return a voice mail requesting comment.  Food Forays  Peltz, 70, is an activist investor who takes stakes in
companies, particularly those in the food and restaurant
sectors, and then frequently pushes for changes designed to
boost their share prices.  The billionaire’s $300 million purchase of iced-tea maker
Snapple in 1997 paid off when he sold it for $1.45 billion three
years later. He also bought a stake in British confectioner
Cadbury Schweppes Plc and pushed for a spinoff of its soda unit,
prior to its 2010 takeover by Kraft Foods Inc. He also invested
in ketchup maker H.J. Heinz Co., which  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital agreed to acquire this year.  In November 2011, Trian reported it had purchased 2.36
million PepsiCo shares as of Sept. 30 of that year. It was the
first time Trian reported investing in PepsiCo. Months later, in
February 2012, Trian reported selling all its shares. At the
time, investors and analysts said PepsiCo’s snack and drink
units may be worth more separated as declining soft drink market
share in the U.S. dragged earnings below the company’s targets.  Shares of PepsiCo and Mondelez have both outperformed the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  over the past 12 months, with
PepsiCo up 16 percent and Mondelez rising 14 percent, compared
with the U.S. benchmark’s 11 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  