-- Philippine Peso Weakens to 2-Month Low on Signs of Inflow Curbs
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-03-22T09:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/philippine-peso-weakens-to-2-month-low-on-signs-of-inflow-curbs.html
The Philippine peso fell to its
lowest level in almost two months as the central bank signaled
it is considering additional measures to curb capital inflows
that made the currency  Asia ’s second-best performer last year.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will soon discuss a plan to ban
foreign funds from placing money in its reverse-repurchase
facility, Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said in an interview
yesterday. The monetary authority last year prohibited overseas
investors from its special deposit accounts and lowered the rate
on the borrowing facility twice this year.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 40.85 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , completing a 0.6 percent drop this week, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 40.885, the weakest level since
Jan. 29. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.63 percent.  “We may see the 41 level soon,” said Lito Mercado, head
of trading at  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in Manila. “The
strong peso view is tapering after the SDA rate cuts, prospects
of further reduction and signals that they’re pursuing more
measures to address inflows.”  The peso will strengthen to 39.80 per dollar by the end of
the year, according to the median estimate of 25 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. A similar survey at the end of last year
predicted a gain to 39.50 in 12 months.  Policy Toolkit  Bangko Sentral hasn’t maximized the use of the SDA rate,
Governor Amando Tetangco told Bloomberg Television on March 15,
a day after he cut the rate to 2.5 percent from 3 percent. and
set the rate on all tenors for its reverse repurchase facility
at 3.5 percent, same as the benchmark overnight borrowing.The
central bank’s policy toolkit can be expanded by adjusting
existing measures or introducing new ones if necessary, he said
on March 20.  The special accounts hold 1.88 trillion pesos ($46 billion)
while the reverse repurchase facility had 279.5 billion pesos as
of March 1,  latest data  show.  The government’s plan to meet all of its 2013 funding
requirements locally will help mitigate inflows and lessen the
need for additional measures, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo
said today. The central bank will encourage companies to also
tap the local market for funding, Guinigundo said.  The yield on the 8 percent bond due July 2031 rose four
basis points to 3.97 percent, according to Tradition Financial
Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  