-- Pimco Says Markets Would Tolerate Delayed New Zealand Surplus
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-03-22T03:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/pimco-says-markets-would-tolerate-delayed-new-zealand-surplus.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, wouldn’t be concerned
if New Zealand were to delay its budget surplus target beyond
2015 provided any government spending boosts growth.  “If decisions are made to increase fiscal spending and
push out the time of the surplus, I don’t think it would have a
big impact on bond investors or the currency markets,” Scott Mather, head of global portfolio management at Pimco, said on a
conference call from Auckland.  The Newport Beach, California-based company’s holdings of
New Zealand and Australian bonds are about 4 percent to 5
percent over a neutral position, which Mather said is a
“notable overweight” for the manager of $2 trillion in assets.
Prime Minister John Key’s government has shown a commitment to
returning to a budget surplus in 2015 after posting a record
deficit in 2011.  “That’s why investors such as ourselves are increasing
their exposures to government debt in the region,” Mather said.
“What you want as an investor is a good credit growth profile
and a government that has a sustainable balance. It doesn’t mean
they have to be always in balance but they have a path toward
balance and a commitment to it.”  Both New Zealand and  Australia  “stack up relatively well”
compared to other developed nations in terms of debt levels and
growth prospects, he said.  “It’s nice to be connected through trade with regions of
the world that are growing,” he said. The reliance on exports
is a vulnerability not a weakness and the region doesn’t display
the same sorts of “terminal illnesses” that much of the rest
of the developed world has, he said.  “That doesn’t mean growth will easily bounce back to
normal,” Mather said. “New Zealand and Australia will be
impacted by having currencies stronger than they normally are,
and will be that way persistently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  