-- Polish Retail Sales Contract as Unemployment Hits 14.4%
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-22T09:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/polish-retail-sales-contract-as-unemployment-hits-14-4-.html
Polish February  retail sales 
contracted last month and the  unemployment rate  rose to the
highest in six years, curbing consumer spending.  Sales fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier, compared with a
3.1 percent gain in January, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. That compared with a median forecast for a
0.7 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists.
Retail sales dropped 2.6 percent from the previous month.  Policy makers cut  interest rates  to a record low this month
in a bid to prevent the European Union’s largest eastern economy
from sinking into its deepest slump in 12 years. Individual
consumption, which accounts for 62 percent of gross domestic
product, fell for the first time since 1996 last quarter. More
cuts are possible if economic growth undershoots expectations,
Governor  Marek Belka  said last week.  “Demand is looking weak as consumers prefer to save rather
than spend amid uncertainty,” Grzegorz Ogonek, an economist at
ING Groep NV’s Polish unit, said by phone from Warsaw yesterday.
“The central bank has already acknowledged the economy is
having a problem with consumption.”  In a separate report today,  Poland ’s  unemployment rate  rose
to 14.4 last month, the highest since March 2007, from 14.2
percent in January, the statistics office said. That compared
with a median forecast of 14.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of
28 economists.  Falling Sales  Sales at CCC SA fell 4.8 percent from a year earlier last
month after its 2012 net income missed analyst estimates,
Poland’s biggest publicly-traded shoe retailer said on March 4.  E.Leclerc, the French supermarket chain that operates 40
Polish stores, doesn’t see any signs of improving demand as
consumers cut spending on home appliances and electronics,
according to Krzysztof Gajewski, who runs a store in the Warsaw
district of Bielany. Its sales “stagnated” in January and
February compared with last year, he said.  “It’s the worst crisis we’ve seen,” Gajewski said in an
interview in Warsaw yesterday. “Sales had increased almost
constantly until now, but  consumer spending  isn’t propelling
economic growth this time round.”  E.Leclerc has been in Poland since 1995, the longest of any
foreign supermarket chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  