-- Pound Falls Versus Euro on Bets Cyprus Contagion to Be Contained
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-22T17:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/pound-rises-to-5-week-high-versus-euro-as-cyprus-debates-bailout.html
The pound fell from a five-week
high against the euro as the bond markets of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations rallied amid optimism Cyprus is moving closer
to reaching agreement on an international bailout.  Sterling pared a second weekly gain versus the 17-nation
currency after Averof Neofytou, deputy president of Cyprus’s
ruling Disy party, said he believes lawmakers will reach a deal
in the next few hours. The Cypriot parliament is seeking an
agreement to unlock rescue funds to avert a financial collapse
after Finance Minister Michael Sarris failed to gain support
from  Russia . U.K. government bonds gained for a second week.  “All the moves we are seeing in pound-euro are focused on
Cyprus,” said Eimear Daly, a currency analyst at Monex Europe
Ltd. in  London . “Everyone is just waiting for any kind of
headline to see if we are going to get some kind of resolution.
It’s actually impressive how resilient the euro has been.”  The pound weakened 0.4 percent to 85.37 pence per euro at
5:14 p.m. London time after appreciating to 84.85 pence, the
strongest level since Feb. 11. The U.K. currency has still risen
1.3 percent versus the euro this week. Sterling gained 0.3
percent today to $1.5212.  The pound stayed lower against the euro and pared its
advance against the dollar after  Fitch Ratings  said it placed
the country’s grading on a negative watch.  Italian Bonds  Cyprus is seeking to overcome a deadlock after lawmakers
this week rejected a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) levy on
 bank deposits  imposed by the European Union as a condition for a
10 billion-euro rescue. The  European Central Bank  said it will
cut emergency funds to Cypriot banks on March 25 unless a
bailout program with the EU and International Monetary Fund is
in place.  Italian  10-year bonds  advanced for a third day, with the
yield falling seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
4.52 percent, and similar-maturity Spanish securities dropped
three basis points to 4.86 percent.  Benchmark 10-year gilts were little changed today at 1.85
percent having declined eight basis points this week. The price
of the 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 was 99.11.  Gilts advanced this week amid speculation turmoil in the
euro region will underpin demand for the relative haven of U.K.
government securities.  “The safe havens will remain well bid” including gilts,
said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at Investec Bank
Plc in London. “There seems to be a belief they can’t really
just let Cyprus go. We’ll see.”  U.K. government bonds have returned 1.1 percent this month
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds gained 0.6 percent and Treasuries fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  