-- Prada Crowd Better Bet for Iguatemi: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-03-22T13:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/prada-crowd-better-bet-for-iguatemi-corporate-brazil.html
Mall operator Iguatemi Empresa de
Shopping Centers SA is expanding at its fastest pace since going
public in 2007, betting that luxury shoppers will be more
resistant to a souring economy.  Brazil’s fourth-biggest mall company is planning to open
more shopping centers in the South and Southeast as soon as this
year, Chief Financial Officer Cristina Betts said in an
interview. The total size of its malls will grow 54 percent to
434,000 square meters (4.67 million square feet) by 2015.  Iguatemi, whose malls boast the world’s most luxurious
brands, from Christian Louboutin to Prada, is eschewing the
faster-growing Northeast, where rivals such as industry leader
 BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3)  are vying for bigger market share.
While that region has experienced the biggest income boom as
Brazil’s middle class expanded by 36 million people to about 100
million since 2002, their spending habits are more sensitive to
rising debt burdens and surging consumer prices, according to
Marcelo Motta, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “If you look at what consumers are buying in our malls,
everything that’s different-slash-luxury is doing spectacularly
well,” Betts said at the company’s Sao Paulo headquarters.
“All the tenants in our malls that are geared toward a lower-
income segment, it’s not that they are doing poorly, they just
haven’t done that much better than last year.”  Faster Inflation  Inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
central bank’s target range for more than two years. Annual
inflation accelerated to 6.43 percent from 6.18 percent in mid-
February, according to the national statistics agency in a
report published today. Consumers’ buying power is also being
hurt by rising debt loads and slowing economic growth, which
narrowed to 0.9 percent last year from 2.7 percent in 2011.  Rivals including BR Malls are growing revenue at a faster
pace by targeting the middle class. Income for the poorest 10
percent of Brazilians grew 550 percent more than that of the
richest 10 percent between 2001 and 2011, according to a
September study by the federal government’s Institute for
Applied Economic Research, known as IPEA.  “Our entire history depends on the middle class,” Luiz Alberto Quinta, commercial and developments director at BR
Malls, said in a phone interview from Rio de Janeiro. “For a
company to be big, you have to focus on where most of the
population is and where the biggest income is, and that’s the
middle class.”  Slower Growth  Iguatemi’s sales growth has averaged 24 percent in the past
three years, the lowest of the five mall operators listed on the
Bovespa index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BR Properties
SA (BRPR3) , the third-biggest operator by market value, posted the best
gain at 78 percent per year, followed by BR Malls at 42 percent.  Iguatemi’s “differentiated” strategy to build new malls
with exclusive stores in wealthy cities should soon begin to pay
off, said Sam Lieber, chief executive officer at Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC, which owns 2.4 million  Iguatemi shares ,
or about 1.5 percent of the company.  “To the degree that they can attract good stores to their
centers, that creates a good pattern of hopefully stable
earnings and hopefully growing earnings,” he said. “For now it
makes a good business model -- in the long run, who knows.”  Iguatemi has  climbed  18 percent to 25.49 reais in the past
12 months, trumping a 7 percent gain by BR Malls. While both
companies trade at discounts to the benchmark Bovespa index,
Iguatemi’s is the smallest, at  26 percent .  While the newly minted middle class -- known as Class C and
D in Brazil and defined as having an average monthly family
income between 1,110 reais and 3,875 reais ($550 to $1,925) --
may be cutting down on discretionary spending, the upper ranks
are more resilient, said Jefferson Finch, an analyst at
political risk consultant Eurasia Group in New York.  Disappointing Profit  Brazil retailers from Cia. Hering to Lojas Renner SA, which
cater to the middle and upper-middle classes, posted the most
 disappointing  profits in almost six years. Fourth-quarter  profit (IGTA3) 
at Renner, Hering, Cia. Brasileira Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar, Natura Cosmeticos SA and B2W Cia. Global do Varejo
trailed analysts’ per-share estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The last time that many retailers on the Bovespa
index fell short was in the first quarter of 2007.  “Looking at the pyramid of wealth, Class A and B are the
smallest population, but they are huge in terms of income,”
JPMorgan’s Motta said.  BR Properties declined to comment.  Profit at Iguatemi will probably rise by about 13 percent
this year and 24 percent in 2014, after remaining little changed
since 2010, Motta said.  The company, which operates 13 malls and three office
towers, is planning to build four new shopping centers and
expand three others by 2015. It is also trying to buy out
partners in existing older sites, such as its flagship Iguatemi
mall, the first in Brazil.  Selling to the wealthiest “is the highest profitability
per square meter you can get,” CFO Betts said. “It’s less
replicable, what we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  