-- Puerto Rico on Junk Precipice Gets Investor Ho-Hum: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-22T00:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/puerto-rico-on-junk-precipice-gets-investor-ho-hum-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico, on the brink of being
cut to speculative grade, is rallying the most in a year as
investors bet that the 11-week-old administration of Governor
Alejandro Garcia Padilla will mend the commonwealth’s finances.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings mark Puerto Rico general obligations, which are tax-
exempt in all U.S. states, one step above junk with a negative
outlook. The island’s budget gap for the fiscal year ending June
30 has almost doubled to $2.2 billion, Moody’s estimates. Its
largest pension system will run out of cash in 2014, according
to the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico.  Even with rating downgrades that began in December, debt of
the self-governing U.S. territory is earning 2.6 percent this
year, more than 10 times the gain for the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, Barclays Plc data show. The yield penalty on
revenue-backed bonds of commonwealth issuers has shrunk to the
least since September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Puerto
Rico will pay its debts even if it drops to junk, said Daniel Solender at Lord Abbett & Co. in Jersey City, New Jersey.  “While that’s clearly not a positive, it’s still a long
way from being a default situation,” said Solender, who helps
manage $19.5 billion of munis.  Bank Meeting  The Development Bank, the commonwealth’s fiscal agent, is
set to meet investors today in New York to discuss the fiscal
challenges, said Betsy Nazario, a spokeswoman.  Puerto Rico’s rally, following December losses, shows the
tradeoff of lower-rated credits. Investors have been buying
riskier munis in search of extra yield as interest rates on 20-
year general obligations remain about 20 percent below their
average since 1993, Bond Buyer  data  show. Yields set a 47-year
low in December.  The territory’s debt is held in national portfolios as well
as high-yield and single-state funds. General obligations sold
last year and due in July 2041 were the most frequently traded
muni security in 2012, according to the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board. Bonds from Puerto Rico accounted for six of
the 10 most-traded securities.  The risk of the commonwealth’s falling below investment
grade has already been priced into the bonds, Solender said. The
general obligations due in July 2041 traded yesterday with an
average yield of about 5.4 percent, or about 0.4 percentage
point above an index of 30-year BBB munis, Bloomberg data show.  Adjustment Made  “They’re trading at much higher yields than other BBB
bonds,” Solender said. “So the market’s already trading them
as if they’re lower-rated.”  Bondholders have refrained from selling Puerto Rico
securities this year because of the higher relative yields and
because they’re waiting to hear from the financial officials
before adjusting portfolios, said Lyle Fitterer, who oversees
about $31 billion of munis as a managing director at Wells
Capital Management in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin .  Puerto Rico needs to sell refinancing debt in the next
three months. The fiscal 2013 budget counts on selling about
$775 million of bonds by June 30 to push principal and interest
payments to future years, according to Javier Ferrer, president
of the Development Bank.  Sale Pause  The island hasn’t sold bonds since November, Bloomberg data
show. Officials wanted to wait for the governor to release his
plan to strengthen the island’s retirement fund before
borrowing, Ferrer has said.  Garcia Padilla, 41, of the Popular Democratic Party, took
office in January. His administration last month announced a
proposal to raise the retirement age, increase employee
contributions and direct $100 million annually from Puerto
Rico’s general fund to boost the pension system’s 6.8 percent
funding level. By comparison,  Illinois  had about 43 percent of
needed assets, the weakest ratio among states, Bloomberg data
show.  The last time Puerto Rico issuers went through the first
quarter of the year without selling debt was in 2003, Bloomberg
data show. Island issuers had sold $5.8 billion of debt at this
time last year.  The diminished supply is helping commonwealth bonds. Puerto
Rico’s total return this year compares with a 0.2 percent gain
for the broader market and beats all states, Barclays data show.  Deficit Plan  Investors demand  1.95 percentage points  of additional yield
to buy 10-year revenue-backed debt from Puerto Rico, the lowest
penalty since September and down from 2.25 percentage points on
Jan. 14, Bloomberg data show. The last time the yield spread
shrank more was March of last year.  To address this year’s deficit, the administration plans to
reduce spending, pursue delinquent taxpayers and accelerate
certain 2014 corporate revenue into the current year, according
to Moody’s. The commonwealth may need additional borrowing to
help close the gap, the company said. It already has about
$14,000 of net tax-supported debt per capita, about 10 times the
U.S. average, according to Moody’s.  The preliminary size of Puerto Rico’s budget for the fiscal
year starting July 1 is about $9.8 billion, with a projected
deficit of $1.4 billion, according to Moody’s.  Default Dismissal  “We’re not saying they’re going to default on their debt
any time soon,” Fitterer said. “But looking at them from a
financial perspective, it’s hard to argue that you couldn’t see
further downgrades.”  While Puerto Rico has been absent from the market,
localities nationwide are offering about $10 billion this week,
the year’s busiest period. The wave is helping keep muni yields
above those of Treasuries for seven straight days, the longest
span since December, Bloomberg data show.  At 2.03 percent,  yields  on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to an 11-month high and compare with 1.91 percent on
federal securities, Bloomberg data show.  The  ratio  of the two interest rates is about 106 percent,
compared with an average of about 92 percent since 2001. As that
percentage rises, local bonds become cheaper relative to
Treasuries.  Still, muni investors aren’t signaling concern about credit
quality.  It costs the annual equivalent of about $151,000 to protect
$10 million of munis for 10 years through credit-default swaps,
close to the lowest since mid-2011, according to Markit Group
Ltd. index data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  