-- Qatar World Cup Organizers Say They Can Host in Summer or Winter
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-22T15:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/qatar-world-cup-organizers-say-they-can-host-in-summer-or-winter.html
Organizers of the 2022 soccer World
Cup in Qatar said today they’re committed to creating air-
cooling technology essential to stage the event during the
desert state’s hot summer months.  Qatari officials released a statement after recent comments
from senior soccer officials that the 32-team event would have
to be switched from the agreed dates in June and July to earlier
in the year to avoid playing in temperatures that can reach 50
degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit).  “We have always reiterated that we bid on the parameters
that we would host in the summer of 2022,” the organizing
committee said in a statement. “Various figures from the world
of football have raised preferences for hosting in the winter.
We are ready to host the World Cup in summer or winter. Our
planning isn’t affected either way, as we are committed to the
cooling technologies for legacy reasons.”  Qatar beat out the U.S.,  Japan  and  Australia  three years
ago for the rights to sports’ most-watched event in a vote by
executives of soccer governing body  FIFA . The organization
changed how it selects hosts a year later after allegations of
vote buying and collusion between bidders. Russia was selected
to host the 2018 tournament.  England’s Premier League, soccer’s richest competition,
this week said it would oppose moving the tournament forward
because of the effects it would have on the European season
calendar. Nations bid for the 2022 World Cup on the basis it
would be played in June and July.  Social Levels  “We are committed to delivering on the promises we made to
FIFA and the international football community through staging a
successful FIFA World Cup in 2022 -- not only on the pitch, but
also off the pitch -- on social, human and cultural levels,”
Qatar’s statement read.  FIFA President Sepp Blatter yesterday said at a press
conference the organization was not losing control of its
marquee tournament, and the source of the majority of its $1.2
billion annual income. Blatter was asked about the competition
following public comments from FIFA executive board members,
including European soccer head Michel Platini and Michel
D’Hooge, chief of FIFA’s medical committee, that the tournament
should be played in cooler months.  “Suddenly people have realized when playing in the summer
it will be very difficult because it is very hot,” Blatter
said.  Platini voted for Qatar even though he knew about the risk
posed by the summer temperatures. Since casting his ballot for
the small gas-rich emirate, Platini has said he did so in the
hope it would be moved to winter and shared with neighboring
states.  Cooling Technology  Blatter said any request to move the tournament must first
come from Qatar, and then will be studied by the executive
committee. Blatter is poised to end his presidency in 2015, and
has spoken of Platini being among the candidates to replace him
should he not stand for a fifth term.  During its successful bid, Qatar, which is smaller in size
than  Connecticut , said it would install carbon neutral air-
cooling technology to ensure matches are played at optimal
temperatures. It said the creation of the new cooling system
would benefit countries around the world.  “We will forge ahead with implementing and developing this
technology,” today’s statement read. “Our commitment to this
is grounded in the legacy it will offer for Qatar and countries
with similar climates. The application of this technology is not
limited to stadiums or sports venues. It can be applied in
public spaces, so outdoor life can be enjoyed all year round,
regardless of climate.”  Dangerous Heat  FIFA general secretary  Jerome Valcke  said earlier this
month the 2022 World Cup could be moved to the winter if
research shows holding the tournament in the summer heat would
be dangerous for players. FIFA’s own technical committee
reported concerns about the temperature ahead of the final vote
in Zurich in December 2010.  That didn’t stop FIFA’s executive committee from choosing
the tournament’s first Middle East host as Qatar received 14 out
of 22 votes in a run off with the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  