-- Raskin Says Fed Policy Can’t Fix All Issues for Low-Paid Workers
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-22T12:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/raskin-says-fed-policy-can-t-fix-all-issues-for-low-paid-workers.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said low borrowing costs, while spurring the
economic expansion, can’t create the higher-quality jobs needed
by low- and moderate-income workers.  The central bank has fueled job growth by keeping the main
 interest rate  near zero since December 2008, Raskin said today
in a speech in Washington. Still, the Fed has “little effect on
the types of jobs that are created” over the longer term.  “Our country cannot achieve prosperity without addressing
the powerful undertow created by flat wages and tenuous
financial security for so many millions of Americans,” Raskin,
51, said in the text of remarks to the National Community
Reinvestment Coalition. The recession hurt low- and moderate-
income Americans the most and restricted access to borrowing is
impeding their recovery, she said. “Access to credit is an
enduring challenge.”  The Fed is attacking joblessness with $85 billion in
monthly bond buying, which the  Federal Open Market Committee  on
March 20 reiterated it will continue until the labor market
improves “substantially.” The FOMC also said it will keep the
main interest rate near zero as long as unemployment is above
6.5 percent and it expects inflation of less than 2.5 percent.  While about two-thirds of all job losses in the recession
were in moderate-wage positions such as manufacturing,
construction, and office administration, those fields account
for less than a quarter of job gains since then, she said.
Lower-wage jobs such as retail sales and food service made up
about a fifth of job losses and half of later gains, she said.  ‘More Muted’  “Wage growth has remained more muted than is typical
during an economic recovery,” Raskin said. “To some extent,
the rebound is being driven by the low-paying nature of the jobs
that have been created. The slow rebound also reflects the
severe nature of the crisis, as the slow wage growth especially
affects those workers who have become recently re-employed
following long spells of unemployment.”  Increased hiring is sustaining the recovery. Employment
rose 236,000 in February after a revised 119,000 gain the prior
month that was smaller than first estimated, Labor Department
figures showed March 8. The median forecast of 90 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected an advance of 165,000. The
jobless rate dropped to  7.7 percent , the lowest since December
2008, from 7.9 percent.  More Jobs  Construction hiring jumped by the most in almost six years.
Payrolls also climbed at retailers and professional and business
services such as temporary-help firms.  Private payrolls, which don’t include jobs at government
agencies, rose by 246,000 in February after a revised gain of
140,000 the previous month. Economists forecast they would grow
170,000 following an initially reported 166,000 gain in January.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
 unemployment insurance  last week, a signal the labor market is
maintaining its recent progress. Applications for jobless
benefits increased by 2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended March
16, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. The four-week
moving average of claims, a less-volatile measure, dropped to a
five-year low of 339,750 from 347,250.  Fed policy makers at this week’s meeting lowered their
 expectations  for the  unemployment rate  at the end of the year to
a range of 7.3 percent to 7.5 percent from a previous forecast
of 7.4 percent to 7.7 percent. The economy will expand 2.3
percent to 2.8 percent this year, they estimate, compared with
their earlier forecast of 2.3 percent to 3 percent growth.  Raskin was appointed by President  Barack Obama  in 2010 for
a term that expires in 2016. Before joining the Fed she was
 Maryland ’s Commissioner of Financial Regulation, and before that
she was a managing director at the Promontory Financial Group, a
consulting firm, and served as a staff attorney to the Senate
Banking Committee, according to the Fed  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  