-- Ravens to Open NFL Season on Road Because of Orioles Baseball
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-03-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ravens-to-open-nfl-season-on-road-because-of-orioles-baseball.html
The  Baltimore Ravens  will become
the first Super Bowl winner in a decade to open its championship
defense on the road because of a scheduling conflict with
baseball’s  Baltimore Orioles .  The  National Football League  wanted to have the Ravens open
the 2013 season on Thursday, Sept. 5, at M&T Bank Stadium
against a yet-to-be-named opponent. The  Orioles  already were
scheduled to host the  Chicago White Sox  the same evening. The
stadiums are adjacent to each other and share a parking lot.  Although the Orioles were willing to move their game from
its 7:05 p.m. local time start, officials decided there would be
too much congestion and it would be best to send the Ravens out
of town.  “It became clear that holding both an Orioles game and the
Ravens’ regular-season opener on the same day would create
logistical situations that would cause serious issues for the
city of Baltimore, and fans for both teams,” Ravens President
Dick Cass said yesterday in a statement.  He said possible problems with parking, rush-hour traffic
and pedestrian and highway congestion “will keep the double-
header from taking place.”  The  Baltimore Sun  reported that the Ravens didn’t want to
move the game to Sept. 4 because that’s the start of the Jewish
holiday of Rosh Hashanah, and didn’t want to play Sunday because
they would lose the extra rest from having the longer week
before the second game of the season.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  released a statement saying the
league will explore holding fan activities to celebrate the
annual NFL Kickoff Game in Baltimore, including a pregame
concert, even with the team on the road.  The NFL began opening the season with a midweek game,
usually on Thursday night, in 2002. Since 2004, the reigning
Super Bowl champion has opened at home with a “big event,” NFL
spokesman  Brian McCarthy  said in an e-mail.  The Orioles issued a statement saying there were limited
options to reschedule the game so late in the baseball season
and that an earlier start time would “greatly diminish the fan
experience for both events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  