-- RBS Said to Ask Branch Bidders to Buy Bond Before Unit IPO
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-03-22T21:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/rbs-said-to-ask-branch-bidders-to-buy-bond-before-unit-ipo-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is
telling bidders for the 316 branches it’s selling they will be
able to buy a bond convertible into shares of the division after
an initial public offering, according to four people with
knowledge of the talks.  Bidders would invest in the so-called pre-IPO convertible
before the division, known as Williams & Glyn’s, is taken
public, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private. While the buyer would likely get a seat on
the division’s board, RBS  managers  would continue to run it
before the offering, the person said. The buyer would get a
coupon on the bond before an IPO in 2015 at the earliest and a
minority stake in the unit thereafter, the person said.  RBS, Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, has to sell
the outlets by 2014 to comply with  European Union  state-aid
rules after receiving 45.5 billion pounds ($69 billion) in the
biggest banking bailout in the world in 2008 and 2009. The bank
is offering the alternative structure after  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
 Spain ’s biggest bank, abandoned its 1.7 billion-pound bid for
the branches in October, citing completion delays. Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, is still
trying to complete the sale of 632 branches to Co-Operative Bank
Plc after more than eight months of negotiations.  RBS and its adviser, UBS AG, asked potential buyers to
submit bids for the bond before a deadline this week, the people
said. Some of the U.K.’s biggest fund managers are competing
with offers from U.S. private equity firms, people with
knowledge of the discussions said on March 20.  Schroders, Flowers  Bidders for the branches include a group of 20 U.K. money
managers, including Schroders Plc and F&C Asset Management Plc,
people with knowledge of the matter said then. JC Flowers & Co.,
the private-equity firm started by former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. banker J.  Christopher Flowers , and Apollo Global Management
LLC are making a joint offer as is Centerbridge Partners with
Corsair Capital, the people said. AnaCap Financial Partners LLP
and Virgin Money Holdings (U.K.) Ltd. are making separate bids,
they said.  Officials at the bank in London declined to comment.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said last month
that while the lender would prefer to sell the unit through an
IPO, it was open to offers. The bond would give Edinburgh-based
RBS more time to separate and improve operations of the unit and
allow the bank to benefit from the earnings while simultaneously
showing the EU that it’s made progress with the disposal, one of
the people said.  European Commission  RBS has signaled to the European Commission that it may
seek an extension to the branch-sale deadline, though it hasn’t
formally asked for one yet.  The division for sale has 21.5 billion pounds in deposits
and serves about 2 million small businesses and consumers. It
made 305 million pounds in operating profit in 2012, about 10
percent of RBS’s operating profit that year.  Officials at AnaCap, Virgin, Schroders and F&C couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment outside of regular business
hours. Susanne Clark, managing director and general counsel at
Centerbridge; and Robert Siegfried, a spokesman for Corsair at
Kekst & Co., declined to comment. declined to comment.
Representatives for Apollo and JC Flowers didn’t return phone
messages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  