-- Treasuries Rise Second Week as Cyprus Crisis Fuels Haven Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-22T21:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/treasuries-poised-for-second-weekly-advance-amid-cyprus-turmoil.html
Treasuries gained for a second
straight week as investors sought safety on speculation
financial turmoil in Cyprus would worsen  Europe ’s three-year-old
sovereign-debt crisis.  Bonds slipped today amid signs Cyprus was moving closer to
European Union-led bailout. Benchmark  10-year note yields  traded
below 2 percent for a sixth day even after a Cypriot official
said there may be a deal in the next few hours and lawmakers
passed legislation on  capital controls .  “It’s all Cyprus,”  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates
strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .
“We’ve not had data that would support any rally. Data has been
at the margin positive. What this is telling you is the market
was pricing in very little  risk premium  for Europe.”  The  10-year yield  declined six basis points this week, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.93 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. It increased one basis point today at 5 p.m.
in New York. The price of the 2 percent security due in February
2023 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 21/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields dropped six basis points this week
to 3.15 percent. They rose two basis points today after falling
as much two basis points.  Headline Trading  “The market is just trading on headlines, and right now we
are settling in and waiting to see which way the wind blows,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “There is
anticipation something will happen shortly with Cyprus, but
geopolitical risk is hard to handicap. So the Treasury market is
going to stay relatively bid.”  The yield on the 10-year note fell below its 50-day moving
average for a fifth straight day. Moving averages, which
indicate momentum, are seen by some traders as potential turning
points. The yield has traded on a closing basis this month
within a 22 basis-point  range , from 1.84 percent on March 1 to
2.06 percent on March 11.  The benchmark note yields still have risen 17 basis points
since Dec. 31, poised for the first back-to-back  quarterly
increase  in two years.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their  net-short  position in U.S. 10-year note futures in the
week ending March 19, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 3,295 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 54,051 contracts, or
94 percent, from the week ended March 12, when traders reversed
from a net-long position, the Washington-based commission’s
Commitments of Traders report showed.  Treasuries Lose  U.S. government securities lost 0.5 percent this year
through yesterday, after returning 2.2 percent in 20012, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 8.9 percent this year including reinvested
dividends, after climbing 16 percent last year.  Treasury volatility as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch  MOVE index  rose today to 61.9 basis points, the
highest level since Feb. 6. The gauge, which tracks the outlook
for swings in  U.S. government debt  rates, has averaged 65 basis
points over the past year.  Trading  volume  fell for a third day, dropping 25 percent to
$201 billion, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer
broker of U.S. government debt. It touched a one-week high of
$354 billion on March 19. The average daily volume for the past
year is $247 billion.  Cyprus Talks  European and Cypriot officials were locked in talks to find
a way to avert the Mediterranean island’s financial collapse.  Lawmakers in Cyprus rejected this week a 5.8 billion-euro
($7.49 billion) levy on  bank deposits  imposed by euro-area
finance ministers as a condition for a 10 billion-euro rescue.
The European Central Bank said it will cut emergency funds to
banks on the island after March 25 unless a bailout program with
the EU and International Monetary Fund is in place.  Cyprus’s House of Representatives approved legislation late
today to allow capital controls and to create a “solidarity”
investment fund, part of efforts to secure assistance from the
euro area and IMF. Legislators were debating seven other laws,
including one on reorganization of the nation’s banks.  “We believe that in the next few hours we could be able,
with a lot of difficulties, to reach a framework that will be
within the policies of the EU,  European Central Bank  and IMF,”
Averof Neofytou, deputy president of Cyprus’s ruling Disy party,
told reporters in Nicosia, the capital.  Yield Outlook  Ten-year yields will trade at 2 percent at the end of June
and increase to 2.31 percent by year-end, according to the
weighted-average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The Fed bought $3.68 billion of Treasuries today due from
December 2018 to February 2020 as part of its efforts to bolster
growth through lower borrowing costs. It’s purchasing $85
billion a month of Treasury and mortgage debt.  Reports due for release next week may show the U.S.
economic recovery is gaining traction.  Durable-goods orders  rose
in February, while gross domestic product expanded 0.5 percent
in the fourth quarter, according to economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  The Treasury said yesterday it will auction $99 billion of
notes next week: $35 billion of two-year debt on March 26, the
same amount of five-year securities the next day and $29 billion
of seven-years on March 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  