-- Romanian Leu Heads for First Back-to-Back Weekly Drop This Year
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-22T11:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/romanian-leu-heads-for-first-back-to-back-weekly-drop-this-year.html
Romania ’s leu headed for its first
back-to-back weekly retreat since November as mounting concern
over a Cyprus bailout dented investor confidence in riskier
emerging-market assets.  The currency weakened for a second day after the  European
Central Bank  said yesterday it may cut off emergency funds to
Cyprus’s lenders unless a rescue plan is in place by March 25.
The leu, the second-best performer after the Russian ruble in
eastern  Europe  so far in 2013, has pared gains since the
Romanian central bank scrapped a cap on the size of its weekly
repo auctions on March 4, providing unlimited funding to
commercial banks.  “Central and eastern European currencies were battered by
the Cyprus saga” and “there was no ray of light for the leu
either, as external headwinds continued to entail a substantial
knock-on effect on the region,” BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA
analysts including Bucharest-based Roxana Hulea wrote in a note
today. “In absence of a quick fix solution, the leu should
continue to trade above 4.4 per euro.”  The leu weakened 0.1 percent to 4.4269 per euro by 12:25
p.m. in Bucharest, taking this week’s decline to 0.8 percent.
The currency depreciated 0.9 percent last week.  Cypriot lawmakers will begin debate today on legislation to
unlock bailout funds. Euro-area finance ministers expect a
proposal from Cyprus “as rapidly as possible” to raise the 5.8
billion euros ($7.5 billion) needed to trigger the emergency
loans, they said in a statement late yesterday after meeting in
a teleconference.  Cyprus will continue talks with Russia after it didn’t get
the financial support it sought from the country, Cypriot
Finance Minister Michael Sarris said.  Investor Demand  The leu rallied this year on increased foreign investor
demand for Romanian debt after JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays
Plc announced the inclusion of local-currency bonds in their
benchmark emerging-market debt indexes from March 1 and March
31, respectively.  John Taylor , founder and chief executive officer at FX
Concepts in  New York , said he hasn’t owned euros in his funds
for 1 1/2 years, preferring assets from other European nations,
including Romania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  