-- Rubber Heading for Bear Market on Dead Cross: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-03-22T00:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/rubber-heading-for-bear-market-on-dead-cross-technical-analysis.html
Rubber is poised to enter a  bear
market  in the next month as a dead-cross formation signals a
further sell-off, according to Trading Central SA.  Futures in  Tokyo , the global benchmark, may tumble as much
as 14 percent to 242 yen a kilogram ($2,550 a metric ton), said
Ludwig Garric, a technical analyst at the Paris-based company,
who correctly predicted the rally in soybeans to a record last
year. Rubber last traded at that level in November.  “A bearish signal was given by the crossing of the short-
term 20-day moving average below the mid-term 50-day moving
average,” said Garric. “A rising trend line is broken and a
descending channel has formed. The descending 20-day moving
average suggests that the commodity still has potential for a
further decline.”  The most-active contract fell 17 percent from this year’s
peak of 337.8 yen a kilogram reached on Feb. 6 on concerns that
increasing  stockpiles  in  China , the biggest buyer, and the debt
crisis in  Europe  will reduce demand for the commodity used for
tires. Futures settled at 282 yen on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange yesterday and are down 7.8 percent this year.  “The near-term outlook favors the bear camp with a support
level at 242 yen, which may be reached over the next one
month,” Garric said.  The decline of a short-term average below a longer-term
measure is described as a dead-cross and often interpreted as a
sign prices will decline. In  technical analysis , investors and
analysts study charts of trading patterns and prices to predict
changes in a security, commodity, currency or index.  -- With assistance from Yumi Teso in Bangkok. Editors: Thomas
Kutty Abraham, James Poole  To contact the reporter on the story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  