-- Russia Proceeds With Trial of Dead Hermitage Lawyer, Browder
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-03-22T12:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/russia-proceeds-with-trial-of-dead-hermitage-lawyer-magnitsky.html
A Moscow court opened proceedings
in the tax-evasion trial of Hermitage Capital Management tax and
legal adviser Sergei Magnitsky, who died in prison in 2009.  Russia ended its investigation last week into Magnitsky’s
November 2009 death at age 37 in a Moscow jail, saying it found
no sign he had suffered physical abuse while he was detained.  Tverskoi District Court Judge Igor Alisov opened the
proceedings near an empty cage where defendants are usually
kept. The court appointed lawyers for Magnitsky and Hermitage
founder William Browder asked Alisov to replace the chief
prosecutor in the case because he refused to give them enough
time to study the case materials. Alisov denied the request.  In 2011, a human rights council under then-President Dmitry Medvedev called for officials to be prosecuted for Magnitsky’s
death. The council said he was bludgeoned with rubber batons
after being denied medical care during almost a year of pretrial
detention on trumped-up tax evasion charges.  Magnitsky was in pretrial detention after alleging the
biggest-known tax fraud in Russia, a theft of $230 million from
the national treasury. The case sparked a diplomatic row, with
the U.S. imposing sanctions on Russian officials accused of
playing a role in the death and Moscow retaliating by barring
American citizens from adopting Russian orphans.  Medvedev Support  Russia is “officially defending Sergei Magnitsky’s
torturers and killers,” Hermitage Capital said in a March 19
statement. Magnitsky and Browder are accused of evading 522
million rubles ($17 million) of taxes, the Prosecutor General’s
Office said Nov. 29.  Magnitsky was subject to no “special conditions” while in
prison, Russia’s Investigative Committee said on its  website 
last week. He died of cardiac failure and there is no evidence
of torture or physical violence against him, it said.  Prime Minister Medvedev, who as president in 2008-2012 made
fighting corruption a priority, in January defended Magnitsky’s
prosecution for tax evasion.  Browder has denied any wrongdoing by either him or
Magnitsky. He has lobbied for U.S. and European legislation
targeting 60 Russian officials who he says are responsible for
Magnitsky’s death with visa bans and asset freezes. Hermitage
was once Russia’s biggest foreign equity investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  