-- Russian Stocks Cap Worst Week Since May After Cyprus Failure
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-03-22T15:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/russia-stocks-head-for-first-weekly-drop-in-three-on-cyprus-woes.html
Russian equities  fell, capping
their biggest weekly retreat since May as lenders dropped after
Cyprus failed to get the financial support it sought from the
Russian government and investors.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 1.2 percent to 1,441.36 by the close
in Moscow, giving a 3.6 percent decline in the past five days,
the most since the week ended May 18. The gauge closed at the
lowest since Dec. 6, with eight stocks advancing and 42 sliding.
Financial stocks led losses, trading down 1.9 percent on
average, while OAO TNK-BP Holding, which isn’t in the measure,
sank to a record low. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender,
fell 2.3 percent, while VTB Group lost 0.9 percent.  Cyprus was “not able to get the support” it wanted, the
Mediterranean island’s Finance Minister Michael Sarris said
today after checking out of his hotel in downtown Moscow. A plan
to tax deposits in Cyprus drove  Russian shares  to a three-month
low on March 18. Euro-area finance ministers expect a proposal
from Cyprus “as rapidly as possible” to raise the 5.8 billion
euros ($7.5 billion) needed to trigger emergency loans, they
said in a statement late yesterday.  “The market is concerned that  Europe  might disregard
Russia’s interests in Cyprus’s bailout and the deposit levy
might happen after all,” Alexei Yazikov, head of research at
Aton Capital LLC, said by phone from Moscow. “The Cyprus-Russia
talks led to nothing, the situation is the same. About 30
percent of Cyprus’s banking system consists of Russian money.”  Russian lenders and companies had about $31 billion placed
in Cypriot banks or their own units at the end of 2012,
according to a March 13 report from Moody’s. Bank loans to
Cypriot companies of Russian origin created at least $30 billion
in further exposure, the ratings company said.  Energy Offer  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  retreated 1 percent to
1,470.91 today.  OAO Rosneft and OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s biggest state-run oil
and gas producers, weren’t interested in Cyprus’s offer to bid
for offshore assets, a Russian government official said today,
asking not to be identified because talks were private. Rosneft
lost 1.9 percent to 237.80 rubles and Gazprom retreated 1.7
percent to 140.13 rubles in Moscow trading.  Cyprus had asked Russia for about 5 billion euros of
funding in exchange for banking and energy assets, another
government official said yesterday.  “Cyprus is running out of time for a banking rescue
solution, and any new developments will shape sentiment today,”
UralSib Capital analysts said in an e-mailed note.  The number of shares traded on the Micex was 39 percent
below the 30-day average and  10-day price swings  dropped to
13.79, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  TNK-BP Minorities  Oil, Russia’s main export earner, increased 0.6 percent to
$93.02 a barrel in New York, after dropping yesterday. Crude and
natural gas account for about 50 percent of Russia’s budget
revenue.  TNK-BP closed down 12 percent at 50.05 rubles, after
tumbling as much as 19 percent. Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, which yesterday completed the biggest takeover in
Russian history, doesn’t plan to buy  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) ’s minority
stakes, Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin, said today in an
interview broadcast by national television channel Rossiya 24.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, retreated 0.5 percent today. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, fell 1.8 percent to 21.29.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials added
less than 0.1 percent to 645.02. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index (RUS14BN)  of the 14 most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. declined
less than 0.1 percent to 97.73 today.  The Micex trades at about 5.2 times  estimated earnings  and
has lost 3.6 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which dropped 3.7
percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  