-- Russian Monetary-Policy Changes Are Possible, Putin’s Pick Says
-- B y   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-22T10:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/russian-monetary-policy-changes-are-possible-putin-s-pick-says.html
Russia ’s central bank may change
its monetary policy even as its new leadership focuses on
continuity, said  Elvira Nabiullina , President  Vladimir Putin ’s
nominee to take over as Bank Rossii chairman in June.  “Policy continuity should be maintained, because the
credibility factor is very important in the banking system,”
Nabiullina told reporters in Moscow today, her first public
comments since Putin nominated her for the job on March 12.
“But this doesn’t mean there won’t be changes, because life
changes, new challenges appear, everything moves.”  Nabiullina, Putin’s former aide, takes over at the helm of
monetary policy as the economy is expanding at the slowest pace
since a recession in 2009. That prompted the Russian leader this
month urge all state economic institutions to promote growth.  The new governor will replace Sergey Ignatiev, who is
coming to the end of his third and final term. He had led a
charge against inflation, which surged to the fastest pace in 18
months, resisting government pressure to stimulate a flagging
economy. Nabiullina’s nomination is pending parliamentary
approval.  The ruble traded at 30.913 per dollar at 2:21 p.m. in
Moscow, compared with 30.9345 yesterday. It has weakened 1.5
percent in the past month.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in February from a
year earlier, slowing from 1.6 percent in January, according to
a government estimate. That compares with Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s long-term target of 5 percent annual expansion.  Russia, the largest emerging country to increase  interest
rates  last year, is struggling to restrain  inflation  that
exceeds the central bank’s target range of 5 percent to 6
percent and accelerated to 7.3 percent in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Artyom Danielyan in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  