-- S. Africa’s Davies Says BRICS Some Way From Currency-Pool Start
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-03-22T12:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/s-africa-s-davies-says-brics-some-way-from-currency-pool-start.html
Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and
South Africa are unlikely to agree on starting a common
foreign-currency pool to ward off balance-of-payment or
currency crises at a meeting next week, South African Trade
Minister Rob Davies said.  Leaders of the so-called BRICS nations, which together have
$4.4 trillion in foreign reserves, are due to discuss the
creation of the reserve pool at their annual summit in the
eastern South African port city of Durban from March 26-27.  In October, Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said
the pool will be modeled on the Chiang Mai Initiative, which
gives  Japan , China, South Korea and 10 southeast Asian nations
access to $240 billion of emergency liquidity to shield the
region from global financial shocks.  “A reserve pool, I think, is still some way off,” Davies
said in an interview in Cape Town today. “There won’t be very
precise decisions at this particular moment. If we can find ways
to insulate ourselves from the some of the shocks we have been
having in global financial markets, we will be very happy to see
proposals of that sort as South Africa.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Jim O’Neill coined the BRIC term
in 2001 to describe the four nations that he estimated would
equal the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020. The BRIC
nations held their first summit in 2009 and invited South Africa
to join the group in December 2010.  At their meeting in New Delhi a year ago, BRICS leaders
authorized a study into the feasibility of establishing a
multilateral bank for funding projects in the developing world.  Development Bank  “There will be a major step forward in terms of the BRICS-
led development bank,” Davies said. “When you set up a bank
like this it’s not just a question of opening the doors. There
are some issues about where it is going to be located, what the
capital contributions are going to be, the rules of deploying
that investment. These are the sort of details that are in
various stages of discussion and negotiation.”  The summit in South Africa will also see the establishment
of a BRICS Business Council, that will help make recommendations
to political leaders about programs that can enhance trade and
investment, Davies said.  Trade between the BRICS nations surged to $282 billion last
year, from $27 billion in 2002, and may reach $500 billion by
2015, Brazilian government data shows.  “We have realized for some time that we can’t just be an
organization that coordinates positions around the world economy
or international affairs,” Davies said. “This particular
summit will be a significant and important step forward in the
agenda of intra-BRICS cooperation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  