-- S&P 500 Posts 2nd Weekly Drop in 2013 Amid Cyprus Concern
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/s-p-500-posts-2nd-weekly-drop-in-2013-amid-cyprus-concern.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
posted its second weekly drop of the year as Cyprus struggled to
stave off financial collapse and data on the euro-area economy
overshadowed better-than-estimated U.S. reports.  Equities advanced on the last trading day amid  earnings 
that topped projections and optimism a solution would emerge for
Cyprus. Material, financial and energy stocks led losses for the
week, as investors sold shares of companies most tied to
economic growth.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  lost 12 percent as results missed
estimates.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  fell 9.7 percent after lowering its 2013
earnings forecast.  KB Home (KBH)  rose 7.3 percent amid a narrower loss
and data showing an improving housing market.  The S&P 500 slumped 0.2 percent to 1,556.89 for the five
days, ending a three-week streak of advances. The benchmark
equity gauge has fallen only one other week in 2013. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  erased 2.08 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 14,512.03.  “We’ve got one week to go and the quarter’s done, and it’s
a solid ‘A’ for stocks,” David Sowerby, who helps oversee about
$185 billion at Loomis Sayles & Co. in Bloomfield Hills,
 Michigan , said by telephone. “When you’ve had such a big run,
there’s a tendency to want to coast home, and that plays into
the European uncertainty, leading to some break in the winning
streak this week.”  Cypriot lawmakers raced for a compromise with European
officials to avert the Mediterranean island’s financial
collapse, after rejecting a tax on bank deposits that was
demanded as a condition for a bailout package. Equities also
slid as a purchasing managers’ index in  Germany  fell and euro-
area manufacturing contracted, adding to signs the region is
struggling to emerge from a recession.  Economic Reports  The European developments overshadowed data indicating an
improving economy in the U.S. Fewer Americans than forecast
filed jobless claims in the latest week. Sales of previously
owned U.S. homes rose to the highest level in more than three
years in February, and a gauge of leading economic indicators
topped estimates for last month.  “The greater evidence of  Europe  staying weaker longer goes
beyond Cyprus,” Sowerby said. “In the more near term, it’s
going to win that tug-of-war with relative U.S. business
conditions modestly improving.”  The S&P 500’s weekly decline pared the index’s advance this
year to 9.2 percent. The measure is still within 10 points of an
all-time record set in October 2007. The Dow reached an intraday
high after closing at record levels a week earlier. The bull
market in equities entered its fifth year this month as the S&P
500 more than doubled from its bottom in 2009, driven by an
unprecedented three rounds of bond purchases by the Federal
Reserve.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed said March 20 it will continue its stimulus efforts
in order to boost growth in the economy. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank would alter its monthly bond
buying in response to gains in the job market, underscoring a
need for flexibility as he expands Fed assets beyond a record $3
trillion.  Housing “data still suggests that there’s improvement
there,” Christopher McHugh, who helps manage $10 billion at
Turner Investment Partners in  Berwyn ,  Pennsylvania , said by
phone. “Markets understand that Cyprus is a one-off
situation.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, jumped 20 percent to 13.57 for the week. The
 gauge , known as the VIX, is still down 25 percent this year and
reached its lowest level since February 2007 on March 14.  Raw Materials  Raw-materials producers fell the most out of  10 S&P 500 (SPXL1) 
groups, losing 2 percent. Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S. aluminum
producer, decreased 2.1 percent to $8.45. Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc., the largest U.S. iron ore producer, tumbled 6
percent to $20.76.  Financial and energy companies declined 1.5 percent and 1
percent, respectively. Lenders posted the biggest loss since
November, as the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  retreated 1.6 percent. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. fell 2.5 percent to $48.78. Citigroup Inc. sank 4.3
percent to $45.23.  Oracle plunged 12 percent to $31.98, for the biggest
decline in the S&P 500. Third-quarter sales and profit  missed
analysts’  estimates as corporate customers transitioning to Web-
based programs bought less hardware and software.  Economic Bellwether  FedEx tumbled 9.7 percent, the most since September 2011,
to $98.48. The economic bellwether that moves goods as varied as
medical supplies and auto parts lowered its 2013 earnings
forecast. FedEx said it was planning capacity cuts in Asia amid
a widening customer shift to its cheaper overseas delivery
services.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  tumbled 5.4 percent to $20.75. FBR & Co.
lowered its  rating  on the world’s biggest maker of computer
networking equipment, citing reduced demand for the company’s
components.  Ten out of the  11 companies  in the S&P Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index rose this week. U.S. builders are benefiting
as a tight supply of existing homes for sale and mortgage rates
near record lows boost demand for new properties.  KB Home, the best-performing U.S. homebuilder stock this
year, rallied 7.3 percent to $21.77. The Los Angeles-based
company reported a  narrower loss  for its fiscal first quarter as
sales and prices climbed amid the nationwide rebound in housing
construction.  Nike, Apple  Nike Inc. added 8.7 percent to a record $59.53. Price
increases enacted last year paid off for the world’s largest
sporting-goods company as its gross margin widened for the first
time in nine quarters. The company also reported that orders for
the Nike brand in  China (NKE) , excluding changes in currency exchange
rates, gained after sales there sank 10 percent last quarter for
a second straight decline.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 4.1 percent to $461.91. The world’s most
valuable company closed above its 50-day moving average for the
first time since Oct. 4, as speculation over a dividend increase
helped end the stock’s longest streak ever of staying below the
threshold.  Fannie Mae surged 98 percent to 79 cents, while Freddie Mac
increased 93 percent to 78 cents. The two government-seized
mortgage financiers appear increasingly likely to pay billions
of dollars to the U.S. Treasury. Fannie Mae said it expects to
report “significant net income” for the quarter ended Dec. 31,
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  