-- Safety Ed Reed Signs With Texans in Latest Departure for Ravens
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-22T15:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/safety-ed-reed-signs-with-texans-in-latest-departure-for-ravens.html
Nine-time Pro Bowl safety Ed Reed
signed a free-agent contract with the Houston Texans, the latest
key player to leave the Baltimore Ravens since they won the
Super Bowl last month.  Texans General Manager Rick Smith announced the signing
today in a press conference alongside Reed and team owner Bob McNair. Reed signed a three-year deal worth as much as $15
million, according to NFL Network.  “It’s awesome to go from a great franchise to another
great franchise,” Reed, 34, said in the press conference. “I
came here to win a championship and help guys with whatever it
may be, on and off the field.”  Reed’s 61 career interceptions and 1,541 interception-
return yards are the most among active National Football League
players. The 2004 Associated Press Defensive Player of the Year
has scored nine defensive touchdowns and recovered 13 fumbles.
He also is the only player in NFL history to score on a punt
return, a blocked punt, an interception and a fumble recovery,
according to ESPN.  Last season, Reed had a team-leading four interceptions and
58 tackles, his highest total in six years. He also had an
interception in the team’s 34-31 Super Bowl victory over the San
Francisco 49ers.  “Ed has had a major impact on our organization and our
community,” Ravens coach John Harbaugh said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will always be thankful for what we accomplished
together.”  Flacco Signing  Baltimore signed quarterback Joe Flacco to a six-year,
$120.66 million deal, the richest in NFL history, following the
Super Bowl. The team, meanwhile, has lost Reed, cornerback Cary Williams, and linebackers Paul Kruger and Dannell Ellerbe to
free agency, and traded wide receiver Anquan Boldin to the
49ers.  Those losses are compounded by the retirement of linebacker
Ray Lewis, who left the team after 17 seasons and 13 Pro Bowl
appearances, and center Matt Birk, a six-time Pro Bowl
selection. Offensive tackle Bryant McKinnie and tight ends
Dennis Pitta and Ed Dickson are among the Ravens from last
year’s team that are still free agents. Safety Bernard Pollard,
the team’s leading tackler last season, signed with the
Tennessee Titans after being cut by the Ravens.  “No Reed or Ray in Baltimore????? This season is gonna be
weird,” Ravens wide receiver Torrey Smith said on his Twitter
account this week.  Owner’s Lament  Team owner Steve Bisciotti said this week that, while he
was disappointed he couldn’t retain some of those players, it’s
something all teams go through. The Ravens are now $7.2 million
under the league’s $123 million salary cap, according to the
Baltimore Sun.  “Losing games and losing players that you admire and work
hard for you are two difficult tasks,” Bisciotti said in a
televised interview from the annual league meetings in Arizona.
“If you didn’t get such a high from the victories, no one would
subject themselves to that kind of disappointment.”  Drafted by the Ravens out of the  University of Miami  with
the No. 24 pick in 2002, Reed spent his entire 11-year career in
Baltimore, helping the Ravens to the playoffs seven times.  The Texans were 12-4 last year, the best regular-season
finish in franchise history, and lost to the New England
Patriots in the second round of the playoffs. The team allowed
20.7 points per game, fifth fewest in the American Football
Conference, before losing safety Glover Quin and linebacker
Connor Barwin to free agency.  Today’s move reunites Reed with Texans wide receiver Andre Johnson, a teammate from Miami.  Veteran Moves  Reed is the latest multiple Pro Bowl selection to sign with
a new team this offseason after staying with the franchise that
brought him into the league.  Wide receiver Greg Jennings joined the Minnesota Vikings
after seven years with the Green Bay Packers, running back
Steven Jackson signed with the Atlanta Falcons after nine
seasons with the St. Louis Rams and safety Dashon Goldson left
the 49ers after six seasons to join the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.  The Chicago Bears said this week that they were parting
ways with four-time All-Pro linebacker Brian Urlacher after the
two sides were unable to agree on a new contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  