-- San Bernardino Unions Seek Delay of Bid to End Contracts
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-22T21:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/san-bernardino-unions-seek-delay-of-bid-to-end-contracts.html
San Bernardino, the insolvent
 California  city, shouldn’t be allowed to cancel contracts with
its three biggest unions until a judge decides whether the
city’s bankruptcy is legal, labor officials said.  The city’s main police and fire unions asked  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  Judge Meredith Jury to delay an April 4 court
hearing on whether San Bernardino officials can throw out the
three contracts, according to court papers filed yesterday in
Riverside, California.  The unions are fighting the city’s effort to cancel their
contracts and force workers to accept pension changes imposed by
elected officials in January. Those changes will save the city
about $26 million by requiring workers to pay for 50 percent of
their monthly pension premium.  The city prematurely ended mediation with its labor unions
and then imposed the changes at an emergency council meeting,
Ron M. Oliner, an attorney for the police union, said in court
papers.  “On the pretense of its self-constructed emergency, the
City Council then passed a resolution that imposed draconian
cuts,” Oliner said.  San Bernardino was the third California city to file for
bankruptcy last year. The city of about 209,000 people lies
about 60 miles (97 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles . A fiscal
emergency, brought on by a $46 million budget shortfall, forced
it to stop paying some creditors and seek court protection, the
city said.  Before the city can adopt a plan to adjust its debts, it
must first prove to Jury that it’s eligible for bankruptcy.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  