-- Sanofi Obtains EU Panel Recommendation for MS Tablet Aubagio
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-03-22T15:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sanofi-gets-eu-panel-backing-for-multiple-sclerosis-pill-aubagio.html
Sanofi (SAN)  won backing from a European
advisory panel for its first multiple sclerosis therapy, the
tablet Aubagio, a step forward in the French drugmaker’s plan to
grab a slice of the $14 billion MS business.  Aubagio, a once-daily pill, was recommended for treatment
of relapsing forms of the debilitating disease by the  European
Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human
Use , the London-based agency said today. The committee decided
that the medicine’s key ingredient, known as teriflunomide,
couldn’t be considered as a new active substance, the EMA said.  The decision not to grant new active substance status to
Aubagio “isn’t likely to have much of an impact,” Vincent Meunier, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, who has a buy
recommendation on the stock, said in a phone interview today.
“The one risk is that a company decides to work on a generic
version of the medicine, but Aubagio isn’t a huge product for
Sanofi.”  Sanofi won U.S. backing to sell the tablet in September.
The Paris-based company has been building up an MS business
since its 2011 purchase of the U.S. biotech company Genzyme
Corp., which gave it access to Lemtrada, another experimental
treatment for the nerve-damaging illness. Sanofi needs new
medicines to help offset revenue losses from generic competition
to best-sellers including the blood thinner Plavix.  Aubagio is meant to treat relapsing-remitting MS, the most
common form of the illness.  ‘Very Disappointed’  “We are very disappointed by the CHMP opinion regarding
new active substance designation,” David Meeker, the president
and chief executive officer of Sanofi’s Genzyme unit in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in a statement. “This decision
could have a detrimental impact on future scientific innovation
in MS.”  Sanofi said it’s planning to ask the EMA to re-examine the
designation. The European Commission usually follows the panel’s
recommendation.  MS affects more than 2.1 million people worldwide,
according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society . Patients
with RRMS get attacks that degrade their neurological function,
followed by periods of recovery.  Flooded Market  Lemtrada is administered through infusions for five
consecutive days when treatment begins and for another three
days 12 months later. Patients probably will use Aubagio in the
earlier phases of the disease, while Lemtrada is more likely to
be used at a more advanced stage, neurologists say.  Aubagio and Lemtrada will have to make inroads in a market
flooded by new products, such as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s pill Gilenya.
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s BG-12, also an oral treatment, is awaiting a
decision from U.S. regulators this month. The European panel
recommended its approval today.  Aubagio is a less compelling product than BG-12, Meunier
said. He estimates Aubagio will garner about 300 million euros
($389 million) in annual sales by 2016.  “It’s not a great medicine,” he said.  Aubagio will be an important treatment option for many MS
patients because of its “very well characterized” safety
profile, Michael Panzara, Genzyme’s therapeutic area head for MS
and immune diseases, said in an interview in September.  Multiple sclerosis is caused by an abnormal immune response
that attacks the protective covering that surrounds nerve cells
in the brain and spinal cord. The assault stops nerve cells from
sending signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision
and slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.  The market for MS drugs will grow to $19.6 billion annually
by 2022 from $13.8 billion at present, Ravi Mehrotra and other
Credit Suisse analysts predicted in an Oct. 8 note.  The EMA today also  confirmed  the CHMP’s refusal to back
Sanofi and  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) ’s Kynamro, a drug to treat
patients with a rare disorder that causes run-away levels of the
fat-like substance cholesterol. Sanofi had requested a re-
examination of the CHMP’s initial negative opinion in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  