-- Sarkozy Rejects Claims of Wrongdoing in Bettencourt-Case Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-22T09:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sarkozy-rejects-claims-of-wrongdoing-in-bettencourt-case-appeal.html
Former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , named a suspect late yesterday by judges probing claims
he took advantage of billionaire  Liliane Bettencourt ’s mental
frailty to access her money, rejected charges of any wrongdoing.  “We have nothing to hide,” Sarkozy lawyer Thierry Herzog
said today on Europe 1 radio, adding that he would seek to have
the investigation thrown out. “A judge can make a mistake. This
judge has made a mistake.”  The placing of Sarkozy under former investigation comes
after months of questioning over whether he, his 2007
presidential campaign or his party got gifts from the  L’Oreal SA (OR) 
heiress while she wasn’t mentally fit to make decisions, and
whether Bettencourt,  France ’s richest woman, was manipulated
into making them.  Sarkozy lost his bid for re-election in May, lifting the
immunity that accompanies the post of president in France. He is
the second former president in France’s modern era to face
criminal inquiries after leaving office. His predecessor,
 Jacques Chirac , was found guilty of corruption during his time
as mayor of Paris prior to his term as president, receiving a
suspended jail sentence in December 2011.  Sarkozy in November had been named a “material witness”
by judges investigating the claims, a position placing him
between being called to testify and being made a target of the
matter. The announcement yesterday by Bordeaux prosecutors means
that Sarkozy has become the focus of the investigation.  On Appeal  Sarkozy’s lawyer told BFM TV yesterday that he will appeal
the ruling.  As a formal suspect, Sarkozy gains certain rights, notably
access to all elements in the legal case. An appeals judge can
now throw out the investigation or affirm it. An affirmation
could draw the case out for a long time.  Bettencourt’s former financial adviser, Patrice de Maistre,
and  Eric Woerth , the treasurer of Sarkozy’s party during the
campaign and a former budget minister, have been charged in the
case. Both men deny the allegations. De Maistre said in an
interview in the Journal du Dimanche on Nov. 11 that he never
gave money to either Woerth or Sarkozy.  More than a dozen people have been charged in the probes
spawned by the affair, according to  Agence France-Presse .  In an interview this month in the conservative magazine
Valeurs Actuelles, Sarkozy talked about his post-presidential
life, saying it was his “duty” to consider returning to the
public arena to help the country facing an economic and social
crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  