-- Sarkozy Named as Suspect in Campaign Finance Probe Over Heiress
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-22T00:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sarkozy-named-as-suspect-in-campaign-finance-probe-over-heiress.html
Former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was named as a formal suspect by judges probing claims
he took advantage of billionaire  Liliane Bettencourt ’s mental
frailty to access her fortune, Bordeaux prosecutors said.  Sarkozy’s being placed formally under investigation comes
after months of questioning over whether he, his 2007
presidential campaign or his party got gifts from the  L’Oreal SA (OR) 
heiress while she wasn’t mentally fit to make decisions, and
whether Bettencourt,  France ’s richest woman, was manipulated.  Sarkozy lost his bid for re-election in May, lifting the
immunity that accompanies the post of president in France. He is
the second former president in France’s modern era to face
criminal inquiries after leaving office. His predecessor,
 Jacques Chirac , was found guilty of corruption during his time
as mayor of Paris prior to his term as president, receiving a
suspended jail sentence in December 2011.  Sarkozy in November had been named a “material witness”
by judges investigating the claims, a position placing him
between being called to testify and being made a target of the
matter. The announcement yesterday by Bordeaux prosecutors means
that Sarkozy has become the focus of the investigation.  A call to Thierry Herzog, Sarkozy’s attorney, outside of
regular business hours wasn’t answered. Herzog said he will
appeal the ruling, according to France’s  BFM TV .  Bettencourt’s former financial adviser, Patrice de Maistre,
and  Eric Woerth , the treasurer of Sarkozy’s party during the
campaign and a former budget minister, have been charged in the
case. Both men deny the allegations. De Maistre said in an
interview in the Journal du Dimanche on Nov. 11 that he never
gave money to either Woerth or Sarkozy.  More than a dozen people have been charged in the probes
spawned by the affair, according to Agence France-Presse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  