-- SAS Scraps Business Class in Europe to Meet Low-Cost Threat
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-03-22T13:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sas-scraps-business-class-in-europe-to-meet-low-cost-challenge.html
SAS Group (SAS) , the largest Nordic
airline, became the first major European network carrier to
scrap its business class in favor of a model positioning it
closer to discount operators such as  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)   SAS will eliminate its business cabin, in which the middle
seat of three was left empty to give more room and passengers
were served a three-course meal, in favor of a uniform seating
plan and a trolley-based food service. People will be able to
pay extra for faster airport transit and an extra checked bag.  “We’ve torn everything up and started from scratch,” SAS
spokeswoman Elisabeth Manzi said by telephone. “Business class
was the right thing in the 1980s, when we helped pioneer it, but
the modern traveler has different needs. The highest priority
now is time and affordability, not luxury.”  SAS’s plan is the most radical yet as former flag-carriers
including  Air France (AF)  and Iberia shrink European operations to
cope with high fuel costs and competition from discount carriers
including Ryanair and Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA. The company
said it will retain a premium offering on long-haul flights,
where more people are prepared to pay for extra comfort.  Unique  SAS fell as much as 1.8 percent and traded 0.4 percent
lower at 14.05 kronor as of 12:23 p.m. in  Stockholm , where the
company is based. The stock has added 79 percent this year,
giving a market value of 4.62 billion kronor ($706 million).  The decision to eliminate business class on European
flights came about following a study that focused on “customer
needs rather than on industry standards,” SAS Chief Executive
Officer Rickard Gustafson said in a statement.  SAS is unique in scrapping short-haul business class among
peers including British Airways, Iberia, Air France, KLM, Swiss
and Lufthansa, despite having led its introduction in 1981. Its
EuroClass product offered more legroom, upgraded meals, lounge
access and other perks aimed at luring corporate travelers, all
at a full-fare economy price that replaced first class.  Passengers will now be faced with a choice of two service
standards, called SAS Go and SAS Plus. The former includes a
free seat reservation and checked bag -- unlike most discount
carriers -- plus tea or coffee and mobile check-in, while the
Plus option adds an extra bag, lounge access and more air miles.  Muffins  Those choosing the higher fare will also get free food and
beverages from a trolley-based “Cafe” service, with items such
as salads, muffins, chips and hot wraps rather than traditional
meals. People who opt for the Go product can choose from the
same food but must pay.  Manzi said that SAS Plus customers will also get to board
first and will likely sit together at the front of the plane.
The new brands won’t be introduced until June and fares haven’t
yet been set, though they’ll be “very competitive,” she said.  “You have to change strategy when the market changes and
people don’t choose an airline because they have business class
anymore,” said First Securities analyst Hans-Erik Jacobsen in
Oslo, who has a “reduce” rating on SAS. “Those days are over.”  SAS currently offers three classes on short-haul flights,
with business berths having extra room because of the vacant
seat, together with a full meal service.  A curtain is also drawn during the flight to make the cabin
separate. Economy extra has no extra space but includes a meal,
differentiating it from the “buy on board” food option in coach.  SAS said March 8 it might post a first annual profit since
2007 this fiscal year as job cuts, pay agreements and disposals
lift margins. The 4Excellence plan aims to deliver 3 billion
kronor in savings over two years, with the company seeking a
similar amount from asset sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  