-- HSBC to UBS See Turkey Value Gain as CBQ Pays ‘Top Dollar’
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-03-22T07:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/hsbc-to-ubs-see-turkey-value-gain-as-cbq-pays-top-dollar-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said Turkish deals are becoming more
expensive as investors such as  Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC (CBQK)  seek
acquisitions to benefit from an accelerating economy.  “Everyone’s a strong believer in the growth prospects of
the country and that sends the sellers’ expectations higher,”
Selim Kervanci, head of global banking in Turkey for HSBC, said
in an interview at the bank’s offices in Istanbul on March 20.
“One transaction sets the benchmark for the next.”  Turkey is attracting investors seeking to tap a near $800
billion economy set to grow about 4 percent this year.
 Commercial Bank of Qatar , known as CBQ, said earlier this week
it agreed to buy a 70.8 percent stake in  Turkey ’s Alternatifbank
AS for two times book value. That compares with OAO Sberbank’s
acquisition of Turkey’s Denizbank AS from  Belgium ’s Dexia for
1.3 times book value, or about $3.8 billion, last year.  “Valuation expectations on the part of sellers are quite
high,” Gonca Gursoy Artunkal, chief executive officer of UBS
Securities in Istanbul, said in an interview yesterday. “The
latest CBQ acquisition seems to have set the multiple higher.”  While there’s appetite for deals in health care,
infrastructure, insurance and pension companies in Turkey,
transactions may take longer to complete due to the high
multiples, Kervanci said. The  enterprise value of listed Turkish
companies  is 10 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, more than double that in  Russia 
and  Poland , according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Advent Closes  Excessive valuations for potential targets prompted U.S.
private equity firm Advent to shut its Istanbul office, Turkey’s
Hurriyet newspaper reported yesterday, citing office head Kayril
Karabeyoglu. Spending the firm’s resources in the country under
current conditions isn’t rational, it said.  “Despite these exits, I would say there’s increased level
of interest in Turkish assets,” UBS’s Artunkal said. “And with
large scale privatizations coming up, I would think this year we
would replicate last year’s success.”  Investors poured into Turkey after the economy accelerated
8.2 percent in the third quarter of 2011, the fastest increase
among Group of 20 countries after  China . The economy, which
expanded 2.5 percent last year, according to Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan, is forecast to grow 4 percent this year.  Alternatifbank’s book value was 585.1 million liras ($323
million) at the end of 2012, CBQ said in a March 18 statement.
The sale will be based on the book value of Istanbul-based
Alternatif at the end of this June, the bank said.  ‘Top Dollar’  CBQ is doing the deal “at top dollar valuation,”  Jaap Meijer , a director of equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam
Capital Ltd, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. “We
downgrade CBQ to sell and add CBQ to our Avoid Portfolio.”  Ernst & Young LLP said in January it expects mergers and
acquisitions in Turkey to rise to $25 billion this year from
$23.2 billion in 2012. The country has drawn international
investors such as Diageo Plc, Russia’s OAO Sberbank, E.ON SE,
Amgen Inc. and Aeroports De Paris in the past two years.  Turkey’s government approved the sale of Seyitomer power
plant for $2.25 billion and Ankara gas grid Baskent Dogal Gaz
for $1.16 billion this month.  A secondary public offering of shares in state-run
Vakifbank may take place in second half, according to Deputy
Prime Minister, Ali Babacan, after the Turkish Treasury takes
over 58.5 percent stake from the Directorate of Foundations.  Qatar National Bank SAQ, the  Middle East ’s biggest bank by
assets, may seek to buy a stake in one of the top 10 lenders in
Turkey as it boosts expansion overseas, Chief Financial Officer
Ramzi Mari said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  