-- Schroders Says It’s in Talks to Acquire Cazenove Capital
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-03-22T16:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/schroders-says-it-s-in-talks-to-acquire-cazenove-capital.html
Schroders Plc (SDR) , Europe’s biggest
publicly traded money manager, said it’s in talks to buy
Cazenove Capital Holdings Ltd., which has 18.7 billion pounds
($28.5 billion) of assets.  The firm may make a cash offer for Cazenove Capital with a
loan note alternative, London-based Schroders said in a
statement today. The talks do “not amount to a firm intention
to make an offer,” Schroders said, without disclosing a price.  The combination of Schroders and Cazenove Capital would
bring together two of the City of London’s oldest firms, which
can both trace their histories back to the 19th century. Both
companies sold their more famous investment-banking arms since
the millennium -- Schroders’s to Salomon Smith Barney in 2000,
which later became part of Citigroup Inc., and Cazenove started
a joint venture with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2005, and was later
bought by the U.S. bank. Schroders and Cazenove Capital now
solely focus on asset management.  “The potential Cazenove Capital acquisition accelerates
Schroders’s bolt-on acquisition strategy,” Peter Lenardos, a
London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a note to
clients. The firm has 1.14 billion pounds of surplus capital
earning minimal returns that can be used for “accretive”
purchases, he said.  Schroders is looking to boost its assets under management
after the announcement that Richard Buxton, head of U.K.
equities and manager of its 3.5 billion-pound  Alpha Plus fund ,
will leave to join  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  later this year. Buxton, who
is taking colleague Errol Francis with him to Old Mutual, will
run a  fund  following the same strategy at his new firm.  Schroders has until 5 p.m. on April 19 to make an offer for
Cazenove Capital, which is owned by current and former
employees, Lenardos said. Cazenove confirmed the discussions in
a separate statement today.  Schroders climbed 0.6 percent to 2,093 pence a share in
London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  