-- Schulman Hires Moelis to Advise on Offer to Buy Ferro
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-22T14:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/schulman-hires-moelis-to-advise-on-offer-to-buy-ferro.html
A. Schulman Inc. (SHLM) , a U.S. plastics
maker, hired Moelis & Co. to serve as financial adviser on its
unsolicited offer to acquire  Ferro Corp. (FOE)  for $563 million,
signaling its intent to continue pursuit of the chemical maker.  Schulman also hired Squire Sanders LLP as legal adviser,
the Akron, Ohio-based plastics company said today in a
statement. Ferro said March 4 its directors unanimously rejected
the offer of $6.50 per share, half in cash and half in Schulman
stock. The bid is 25 percent higher than Ferro’s March 1 closing
price, the last trading day before the offer was announced,
valuing Ferro at $855 million including assumption of debt.  Schulman is trying to acquire Ferro while it operates with
an interim CEO and battles investor efforts to nominate a slate
of directors. Ferro makes electronic materials, coatings,
ceramics, plastics, plastic additives and pharmaceuticals, and
Schulman has said all but pharmaceuticals would be a good fit.  Schulman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph M. Gingo said “the overwhelming majority” of Ferro investors with
whom managers have spoken “strongly stated” Ferro should
discuss the offer with Schulman. “Our offer merits serious
consideration by the Ferro board, and we are encouraged by the
Ferro shareholder responses,” Gingo said in the statement.  Ferro, based in Mayfield Heights,  Ohio , rose 0.5 percent to
$6.78 at 10:19 a.m. in  New York . The shares have climbed 62
percent this year.  Schulman reiterated that it’s willing to adjust its offer
if warranted by the due diligence process.  Ferro has said the takeover bid is not in the best interest
of shareholders, who should take no action.  FrontFour Capital Group LLC and Quinpario Partners LLC on
Feb. 20  nominated  three people to Ferro’s board, citing the poor
performance of the company’s shares.  Ferro’s financial adviser is Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
its legal adviser is  Jones Day .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  