-- SEC Rule on Foreign Oil Payments Questioned by Judges
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-22T18:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sec-rule-on-foreign-oil-payments-questioned-by-judges.html
A U.S. regulation requiring public
companies engaged in oil, natural gas or mineral extraction to
disclose payments to foreign governments was questioned by
appeals court judges, who asked whether it violates the right to
free speech.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission attorney William
Shirey said today that requiring the reporting of factual
information has never been viewed as a violation of the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment.  Circuit Judge David Sentelle of the U.S. Court of Appeals
in  Washington  asked at a hearing what legal authority Shirey
could cite in support of that position.  “We don’t have any direct authority on that,” Shirey told
the three-judge panel. Still, he said, mandatory disclosures of
facts aren’t viewed as compelling speech.  “The First Amendment doesn’t protect factual data,” he
told the court.  The ruled is being challenged by the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , the  American Petroleum Institute  and two other
business trade groups. No lower court has ruled on the matter
yet.  Dodd-Frank  The regulation implements a provision of the 2010 Dodd-
Frank financial reform law aimed at increasing transparency and
thwarting corruption by giving citizens of resource-rich
countries information about their governments’ oil and mineral
revenue.  “It allows them to hold governments accountable,” Ian
Gary, senior policy manager for extractive industries for  Oxfam
America , said in a phone interview before the hearing.
“Citizens can have a conversation with their own governments
about how to use the money.”  Oxfam America intervened in the case in support of the SEC.  The rule obligates oil, gas and mining companies to
disclose payments of $100,000 or more on a form filed to the
SEC’s Edgar public database for fiscal years ending after Sept.
30.  It also requires companies to disclose payments made to the
U.S. government.  Overall Payments  Circuit Judge David Tatel questioned Shirey about whether
companies should be forced to report just overall payments to
governments, or on a project-by-project basis, as the rule
requires.  Project-by-project reporting is critical, Shirey said,
because it reveals “what resources are generating the funds and
where those funds ultimately go into the government.”  Government-level reporting “only gives you the second
piece of it,” he said.  Complying with the  rule , which applies to 1,100 companies,
will cost about $1 billion, the SEC estimates.  Eugene Scalia, an attorney for the plaintiffs, argued that
the rule will cost “more than $14 billion” and yield uncertain
benefits.  Cost-Benefit Analysis  “They cannot defend this rule by walking away from the
cost-benefit analysis,” said Scalia, the son of Supreme Court
Justice Antonin Scalia and a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
LLP in Washington.  Tatel noted that $12.5 billion of the amount asserted by
Scalia was the cost of lost business in countries with laws
purportedly barring  disclosure and the SEC “wasn’t convinced
that those countries in fact prohibit disclosure.”  Shirey said Congress had decided that promoting
“transparency in resource rich countries” would be a
worthwhile foreign policy benefit.  As for costs, Shirey said the SEC tried to hold them down
by not requiring disclosure of payments under $100,000 and not
requiring auditing of payment data.  Under the SEC rule, payments that need to be disclosed
include taxes, royalties, bonuses, fees, dividends and
infrastructure improvements.  The regulation was backed by billionaires Bill Gates and
 George Soros , who wrote letters to the commission arguing that
transparency will help investors assess risk.  TIAA-CREF, the manager of retirement accounts for employees
of non-profit institutions, and California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension fund, also
submitted comments during rulemaking in support of the
disclosure proposal.  Joining the Chamber and API in the court challenge to the
rule were the Independent Petroleum Association of America and
the National Foreign Trade Council.  All four groups filed a similar complaint in federal
district court in Washington because of uncertainty over which
court had authority to rule on the complaint.  The appeals court panel today asked several questions about
jurisdiction, indicating some uncertainty about their own
authority to decide the case.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-1398, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 