-- SEC Favors Pilot to Vary Tick Sizes for Small Stocks
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-03-22T19:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sec-favors-pilot-to-vary-tick-sizes-for-small-stocks.html
The U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission ’s staff is poised to recommend a pilot program to
test whether larger trading increments promote more active
trading of small stocks.  A pilot program would increase the ‘‘tick size,’’ or
minimum increment for quoting shares, for smaller public
companies. A 2012 law, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act,
required the SEC to examine the impact that penny increments had
on the liquidity of shares issued by small- and medium-size
companies.  “There seems to be a lot of support for a pilot program
and we think that makes sense,” John Ramsay, the SEC’s acting
director of trading and markets, said in an interview. “We’re
still working through the details of how it should be
structured.”  In theory, wider tick sizes would increase the spread
between bid and offer prices, boosting profits for market
makers. Higher profits may revive interest in funding analyst
research on small stocks, generating greater interest in the
stocks, supporters of the idea say.  Proponents say widening minimum tick sizes would help boost
the number of small companies going public, while skeptics
complain it will cause people to pay more when they trade.  James J. Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown
University , said a well-designed pilot program should last at
least five years in order to provide meaningful data about the
impact of varying tick sizes. Companies should be allowed to
pick their own tick size because they have “the incentive to
get it right,” Angel said.  Long-Term Impact  “It will take a long time to see the longer-term impact on
analyst coverage, visibility in the media, and on valuation,”
said Angel, who has published research papers on optimal tick
size.  R. Cromwell Coulson, chief executive officer of  OTC Markets
Group Inc. (OTCM) , said the pilot should also require market makers to
show a minimum quote size to ensure the depth and liquidity of
the market improves. The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-regulator, began a
similar pilot last year for over-the-counter equities. The
program decreased the minimum number of shares required for a
quote to be displayed at most price points. A security offered
for 51 cents, for instance, would require a minimum quote size
of 1,000 shares to be displayed, instead of 2,500.  “It would be great for the investor experience because
they would see more liquidity on their screens and there would
be a higher willingness to trade,” Coulson said in a phone
interview.  Penny Increments  U.S. exchanges began quoting stocks in pennies in 2001,
after over 200 years pricing equities in fractions. The move to
penny increments benefited professional traders willing to pay a
penny more to jump in front of a competing bid, Angel said.  At a roundtable on decimalization last month at the SEC,
many participants expressed support for a pilot even as some
questioned whether varying tick sizes would yield more IPOs or
research coverage.  Skeptics of varying tick sizes point out the benefits are
unknown, while it’s clear the move to 1-cent increments lowered
spreads and created savings for investors.  “We are arguing we need to provide more returns to the
market makers -- not necessarily because we want to make market
makers better off, but because we want them in turn to subsidize
research,” Maureen O’Hara, a finance professor at  Cornell
University  and chairman of  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) ,
said at the roundtable. “I think that linkage is really
tenuous.”  Timing Uncertain  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to say how soon
a tick-size pilot program would be approved.  The SEC’s staff issued a study on decimalization last year
and declined to immediately recommend a new regulation
increasing tick sizes for smaller exchange-listed companies. The
study said the SEC should solicit outside views on
decimalization, including how to develop a pilot program to test
varying tick sizes.  A pilot program would probably move forward under the SEC’s
next chairman. Mary Jo White, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee
to lead the agency, told senators on March 12 that she was
inclined to believe that one tick size “doesn’t necessarily fit
all.”  “Clearly, it’s a priority to focus on that issue,” White
said at her nomination hearing before the Senate Banking
Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  