-- SEC Approves Payments on Nasdaq for Making Markets in Some ETFs
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-22T19:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sec-approves-payments-on-nasdaq-for-making-markets-in-some-etfs.html
Regulators approved  Nasdaq Stock
Market (NDAQ) ’s request to allow sponsors of some exchange-traded funds
to offer payments to market makers.  The decision by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
loosens a ban on compensation that has been in place since 1997.
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., which plans to begin the program as a
one-year pilot, argued along with  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  before Congress
in 2011 that payments to market makers may increase liquidity
and improve prices to investors in less-active securities.  Approval of the program comes amid concern that stocks with
lighter volume are suffering in America’s computerized equity
markets because they are less attractive to automated traders.
NYSE Arca, an all-electronic venue that competes with  Nasdaq ,
submitted a request to the SEC yesterday for its own initiative.
Payments for market making in smaller companies is allowed in
some European countries.  Nasdaq had originally sought to limit the arrangements to
ETFs with average daily trading of fewer than 2 million shares
and subsequently cut the threshold to 1 million. The exchange
told the SEC it expects the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees almost 4,300 U.S. brokers and bans
payments to market makers, to allow its program.  Finra imposed the prohibition almost 16 years ago to
improve investor confidence. It  said  at the time that the
decision to make a market in a security should be based on
supply and demand, competition, the firm’s expectations about
trading and its inventory of shares. It shouldn’t be influenced
by payments from issuers, the regulator said.  There were almost 4,800 exchange-traded products globally
with $2 trillion in assets in February, compared with 106 with
$79 billion in 2000, according to data compiled by BlackRock
Inc. The 1,444 U.S. products accounted for $1.4 trillion of the
total, the data show.  SEC staff expressed concern that allowing payments has the
’’potential to distort market forces because the program may act
to artificially influence trading in ETFs.’’ Those were
mitigated by Nasdaq’s proposal to submit monthly reports about
the program to the SEC and public, among other precautions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 