-- Senators Seek to Overturn TSA Change on Knives on Planes
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-03-22T20:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/senators-seek-to-overturn-tsa-change-on-knives-on-planes.html
Two U.S. senators said they will
offer a bipartisan amendment aimed at overturning the
 Transportation Security Administration ’s “foolhardy” plan to
let passengers bring small knives on commercial flights.  Permitting knives in airplane cabins puts passengers and
flight crews at an unacceptable risk, Senators  Charles Schumer ,
a  New York  Democrat, and  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican,
said in a statement today.  “We can’t simply sit on our hands and allow TSA to enact
this foolhardy plan to let knives back onto airplanes,” Schumer
said in the statement. “Knives are every bit as dangerous today
as they were on September 11th.”  The TSA will start permitting U.S. airline passengers to
carry pocket knives beginning April 25. Since the decision was
announced March 5, Congress has been besieged with complaints
from unions representing flight attendants, pilots and airport
screeners.  A coalition of flight attendant unions representing 90,000
workers released a letter signed by 133 lawmakers of both
parties to TSA Administrator  John Pistole , saying the agency set
its policy “without any formal engagement with stakeholders.”  ‘Integral Layer’  “We strongly believe that the prohibition of dangerous
items is an integral layer in the safety of our aviation
system,” wrote the lawmakers including Representatives Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat, and Michael Grimm, a New York
Republican. “TSA’s recent change in policy seems unlikely to
produce significant efficiencies at airport security.”  TSA has said it made the change to align the U.S. with
international security standards and let screeners focus on the
bigger threat of terrorists using explosives made out of liquids
to blow up a plane.  The Schumer-Murkowski measure would direct congressional
committees to adjust their budget allocations to bar the TSA
from implementing the knives policy. The measure has to be
approved by the full Senate and reconciled with a separate
resolution passed by the House.  The annual budget blueprint under consideration is
nonbinding and is agreed to only by Congress to set fiscal
policy goals. Any policy change would have to be approved by
both chambers in separate legislation and signed by President
 Barack Obama  to go into effect.  The TSA doesn’t comment on proposed legislation, said  David Castelveter , an agency spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  