-- Shell Lifts Force Majeure on Nigerian Bonny Crude Exports
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-03-22T16:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/shell-lifts-force-majeure-on-nigerian-bonny-crude-exports-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  ended curbs
on crude exports from its Bonny oil terminal in  Nigeria  after
repairs were completed following a leak on its Nembe Creek
pipeline, a company spokesman said.  Force majeure, a legal step that protects a company from
liability when it can’t fulfill a contract for reasons beyond
its control, was lifted from 4 p.m. local time on March 19,
Precious Okolobo, a Shell spokesman said by phone today from the
southern oil hub of  Port Harcourt . “Investigation showed that
the leak was caused by a failed theft point on the pipeline,”
he said.  Nigeria is Africa’s top oil producer and a major supplier
of U.S. crude imports. Shell, the largest producer in the West
African country, operates a joint venture in the nation in which
it holds a 30 percent stake and state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp owns 55 percent. Total SA has a 10 percent stake
and  Eni SpA (ENI)  holds 5 percent.  Shell plans to briefly shut the 150,000 barrel-a-day Nembe
Creek Trunkline in April to clear theft points along the export
link, Okolobo said.  Exports of  Bonny Light  will rise to eight cargoes in May,
including three lots deferred from April, according to a loading
program obtained by  Bloomberg News . The size of the consignments
ranges from 175,000 to 1 million barrels.  The company on March 5 declared force majeure on Bonny
Light shipments after it discovered a leak on the Nembe Creek
link. Shell said the pipeline, replaced in 2010 at a cost of
$1.1 billion, remains at risk from thieves that drill holes to
tap oil. Twelve oil flow-stations supplying the Nembe pipeline
were shut three times in four days in February because of theft,
the company said March 4.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  