-- Silicon Valley Boys Club Shown as Jokes Spark Firings
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-03-25T16:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/silicon-valley-frat-boy-culture-shown-as-sex-jokes-spark-firings.html
(Corrects Richards’s job title in second paragraph of
story that ran March 23.)  Just as the technology industry’s
glass ceiling is being shattered by high-profile executives like
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s Sheryl Sandberg and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s  Marissa Mayer ,
Silicon Valley is showing signs it’s still a boys club.  Tech blogs blew up this week with the story of Adria
Richards, who until March 21 was a developer evangelist at
Internet startup  SendGrid Inc.   Richards received  threats  of violence and was fired after
posting on the Internet an image of male programmers she accused
of making inappropriate innuendos at a public conference. The
incidents have left fissures across the industry, with critics
saying Richards mishandled the offense and defenders saying her
dismissal will discourage standing up to misconduct. News of
guys audibly cracking sex jokes at an event that actively
encouraged female participation also reinforces the image of a
male-dominated industry unwelcoming to women engineers.  “The irony is that this conference, of all conferences,
attempts to really be inclusive,” said Sharon Wienbar, a 22-
year veteran of the technology industry and a partner at venture
capital firm Scale Venture Partners in  Foster City ,  California .
“In a world where they’re trying to do things the right way,
this still comes out.”  Richards had attended PyCon, a programming event in  Santa
Clara , California, that promotes a “harassment-free conference
experience for everyone” in its  code of conduct . Supporters
include groups with names like Women Who Code and PyLadies.  Twitter Shaming  Yet, while attending a session on March 17, Richards was
seated in front of a small group of men making jokes that she
deemed sexual and inappropriate. She took a picture of them and
posted it to her Twitter Inc. account, along with a message
about their behavior. She then sent a Tweet with a link to the
code of conduct. Then her account began receiving threats of
violence, according to  Gina Trapani , a prominent app developer.  Richards was fired March 21, amid a four-day social media
firestorm, for “publicly shaming the offenders,” SendGrid
Chief Executive Officer Jim Franklin wrote in a blog post. How
she called attention to the incident “spiraled into extreme
vitriol,” making it difficult for her to be effective in her
role at SendGrid, Franklin wrote.  Wienbar, like Richards, has spent her career in an industry
dominated by men. Women make up only about a quarter of all jobs
in computers and mathematics, and 23 percent of computer
programmers,  according  to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The rise to prominence of  Facebook ’s Sandberg, who recently
published a book titled “Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to
Lead,” hasn’t altered the fraternity-like atmosphere of the
programming world, said Wienbar.  Mayer, Whitman  In addition to Sandberg, Mayer recently took over the top
job at Yahoo, following another woman,  Carol Bartz .  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  is led by longtime technology executive  Meg Whitman ,
while Ginni Rometty was promoted to CEO at  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  last year.  Richards, who has a blog called But You’re a Girl, didn’t
respond to requests for an interview. She was hired by SendGrid
a year ago with the title developer evangelist, according to her
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  profile. Prior to that she worked at technology
companies including Zendesk and was employed as a network
specialist for companies including  American Express Co. (AXP)   She wrote a post on March 18, the day after her Tweet,
explaining that the group of guys behind her were making sexual
jokes about forking, a term that in computer speak means to take
some software code and start developing on top of it.  PlayHaven Employee  Two of the men were employed by a San Francisco-based
startup called PlayHaven, and one of them was fired after the
company reviewed the matter.  “The result of this investigation led to the unfortunate
outcome of having to let this employee go,” CEO Andy Yang wrote
in a blog. The company isn’t commenting further about the matter
“out of respect for the privacy of our employees,” said Laura
Perez, a spokeswoman for PlayHaven.  SendGrid’s Franklin didn’t respond to a request for
comment. In his  blog post  announcing Richards’ firing, he wrote
that while the company supports an employee’s right to report
inappropriate behavior, the way Richards chose to do so
“crossed the line.” He also wrote that her conduct put the
“business in danger,” and that the company’s primary concern
is its 130 employees and 130,000 customers.  Franklin didn’t say how the business was put at risk,
though the company wrote in a separate post that it had received
a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, causing
disruptions for clients. SendGrid’s technology helps businesses
easily set up and manage the distribution of mass e-mails.  E-Mail Disruption  KISSmetrics, a Web-analytics company, was among the clients
affected. The San Francisco-based company sends e-mails to close
to 1,000 clients daily, updating them with data on activity on
their site. Those e-mails weren’t going through on the morning
of March 21 and were delayed until the afternoon, said Neil Patel, the vice president of marketing.  SendGrid is now facing criticism for its actions.  Rachel Sklar , an entrepreneur, blogger and advocate for women in
technology, wrote a piece yesterday for Business Insider,
arguing that by firing Richards instead of defending her, the
company is deterring women from speaking out against sexist
behavior that may be even more egregious.  “Anyone who thinks that women won’t think twice about
speaking up forcefully about this stuff is kidding themselves,”
Sklar wrote. “Maybe not in the clear-cut situations, but in
those blurry wait-maybe-it’s-me-should-I-just-learn-to-take-a-
joke?-everyone-else-is-laughing situations that happen so often
in rooms dominated by dudes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  