-- Slovenia Bond Yield Rises to Highest This Year on Bailout Risk
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-22T09:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/slovenia-bond-yield-rises-to-highest-this-year-on-bailout-risk.html
Slovenia’s dollar-denominated
benchmark bonds declined, pushing yields to the highest level
this year as bailout risks increase.  The yield on the notes maturing in 2022 advanced to 5.437
percent at 10:29 a.m. in the capital Ljubljana, the highest
since Dec. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The two-day-old government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek may be forced to ask for international aid to prop up
the banking system because of increased political risk,
economists at Nomura International Plc said in a report
yesterday. The Cabinet has signaled it prefers pro-growth
policies over austerity, which is set to slow fiscal
consolidation, boost debt and possibly prompt a credit-rating
cut, economists Peter Attard Montalto and James Burton in  London 
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  “The bond-yield increase reflects the nation’s need to
sell bonds by June to finance the budget and repay maturing debt
and the market seems to have priced this in,” Andraz Grahek,
the director of Capital Genetics in Ljubljana, said by phone.
“With all the jitters around Cyprus, investors seems to be
asking themselves, which country is the next in line.”  The former Yugoslav nation needs about 3 billion euros
($3.8 billion) of funding this year with financing requirements
due in June, the International Monetary Fund said in a March 20
report. Banks in Slovenia would also need 1 billion euros of
fresh capital, the IMF said.  Slovenia, rated A- at Standard & Poor’s, last tapped the
U.S. debt market in October with a $2.25 billion bond sale. The
Adriatic nation considered selling more dollar-denominated debt
in January, according to former Deputy Finance Minister Dejan Krusec. The plan was scrapped after a political crisis erupted
with corruption allegations against then-Prime Minister Janez Jansa, whose government was ousted on Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  