-- South Korea’s Hyun Pledges Economic Growth Measures Within Days
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-03-22T08:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/south-korea-s-hyun-to-be-named-finance-chief-as-stimulus-looms.html
South Korea’s president Park Geun Hye appointed Hyun Oh Seok as finance minister, paving the way
for stimulus measures within days to boost growth in Asia’s
fourth-biggest economy.  “We need to use all possible policy measures to speed the
economic recovery,” Hyun, 62, said in an e-mailed speech after
his appointment. “We need to come up with measures to
revitalize the economy in March,” he said, adding that policy
makers need to gain the people’s trust.  Pressing on with Hyun’s appointment in the face of
objections from opposition lawmakers may bring forward measures
that Park hopes will spur the economy after growth last year was
the weakest since the global financial crisis. Challenges
include a stagnant property market, an aging population, and
weakness in the yen that aids export competitors in  Japan .  “Hyun becoming finance chief is likely to speed up
preparation for a stimulus package, given that Hyun shares the
view that a policy boost is needed,” said Kim Hyeon Wook, an
economist at SK Research Institute who has worked under Hyun.  The Kospi Index fell 0.1 percent today as Cyprus struggled
to avoid a financial collapse. Park reappointed Defense Minister
Kim Kwan Jin. Her preferred nominee for defense chief, Kim Byung
Kwan, withdrew his candidacy, the Chosun Ilbo newspaper reported
earlier.  Stimulus Expectations  Hyun was president of the state research center Korea
Development Institute, which was founded by Park’s father,
former dictator Park Chung Hee. He has a Ph.D. in economics from
the University of Pennsylvania and previously worked at the
World Bank, as well as South Korea’s finance ministry.  The government may announce a supplementary budget of 10
trillion won ($8.9 billion) on March 26, Yonhap News reported
this week, without saying where it got the information. Choi Sang Mok, a director general at the finance ministry, said no
decision had been made.  Delays in filling the finance minister slot have been
costly because consumers and companies are delaying spending
until they see the new government’s stance, said Kong Dong Rak,
a fixed-income analyst at Hanwha Investment & Securities Co. in
 Seoul . “It’s a great loss to our economy to have the economic-
policy control tower empty for nearly a month,” Kong said.  South Korean officials aim to get the nation closer to a
potential growth rate estimated by central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo at 3.8 percent, after last year’s 2 percent expansion
was the weakest since 2009.  “Hyun will need to announce at least 20 trillion won of
supplementary spending to achieve growth of about 3 percent this
year,” Lee Chul Hee, chief economist at  Tongyang Securities
Inc. (003470)  said by phone in Seoul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  