-- S. Korea Says Source of Cyberattack Didn’t Come From China
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m ,   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-03-22T09:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/south-korea-says-source-of-cyberattack-didn-t-come-from-china.html
South Korean officials said a
cyberattack that froze networks at broadcasters and banks this
week came from a domestic source and not  China , contradicting an
initial conclusion.  The malware code was from an Internet Protocol address at
Nonghyup Bank, one of the banks affected, that may have
originated from abroad, the Korean Communications Commission
said in a statement. The agency yesterday said the code came
from China, amid speculation  North Korea  was responsible for the
March 20 attack that affected around 32,000 servers.  Confusion over the source of the attack highlights growing
threats to cybersecurity, which a U.S. assessment this month
listed as the intelligence community’s top concern, ahead of
terrorism. The breach occurred as North Korea threatens
preemptive nuclear strikes against the U.S. and South Korea,
raising regional tensions.  “Even if the attack didn’t come from China, it’s too early
to say that it wasn’t from North Korea either,” said Youm Heung
Youl, a professor at the department of Information Security
Engineering at SoonChunHyang University in Asan, south of  Seoul .
“The latest attack came through multiple channels, so we can’t
conclude what’s behind it yet. All we can say is that it was
very systematic and organized, something like a state-sponsored
cyberattack.”  Attack ‘Medium’  The networks at  Shinhan Bank  and Cheju Bank have been fully
restored, while 10 percent of the networks at Munhwa
Broadcasting Corp., YTN and Korean Broadcasting System are back
to normal, according to the commission’s statement.  “The first malware code was found from an Internet
Protocol address at Nonghyup Bank, so we investigated it and
found that it wasn’t from China but from a domestic source,”
Kim Shim Gyum, deputy director at KCC’s network policy bureau,
said today by phone. “No other malware coded IPs are found yet,
but we are still investigating.”  Nonghyup Bank is checking whether its IP addresses were
used in the attack and believes that the code identified as
coming from its IP address affected only its own network, bank
spokesman Kim Dong Gi said by phone, without elaborating. About
10 percent of the lender’s 8,700 automated teller machines are
still have distruptions and the bank aims to fix them by the end
of the weekend, he said.  South Korea  in 2011 blamed North Korea for attacks on about
40 websites and on closely-held Nonghyup, the Korean name for
the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation, that kept
almost 20 million clients from using automated teller machines
and online banking services.  The bank said at the time it would spend 510 billion won
($456 million) by 2015 to boost network security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  