-- Spain Values Bankia Shares at 1 Euro-Cent as Debt Swap Looms
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-22T19:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/spain-values-bankia-shares-at-1-euro-cent-as-debt-swap-looms-1-.html
Spain  cut the nominal value of
 Bankia SA (BKIA)  shares to 1 euro-cent from 2 euros in a debt swap that
will practically wipe out existing stockholders in the
nationalized lender.  The holding company BFA will own about 70 percent of Bankia
following a 15.5 billion-euro ($20.1 billion) recapitalization
approved by the Frob rescue fund today, an official from the
fund said at a briefing in Madrid. Investors who bought
subordinated debt or preferred shares will end up with about 30
percent of the  bank’s stock .  Spain’s bank rescue fund fixed the price as the basis for
converting 4.8 billion euros of hybrid securities including
preferred shares and 10.7 billion euros of so-called contingent
convertible bonds into stock as part of a 15.5 billion-euro
recapitalization of the lender, the fund, known as Frob, said in
an e-mailed statement today. Bankia has about 2 billion
 outstanding shares , which closed today at 25 euro cents.  The Bankia group helped to trigger Spain’s request last
year for European aid for its banking system amid concern that
mounting losses at Spain’s fourth-biggest lender would
contaminate the finances of the government.  The group, which took about 18 billion euros in bailout
aid, is now targeting earnings of 1.2 billion euros in 2015
after moving 22.3 billion euros of real-estate linked assets to
a bad bank.  Catalunya Banc  Catalunya Banc’s preferred shareholders face an average 61
percent haircut while perpetual subordinated debt holders face a
40 percent haircut. NCG Banco preferred shareholders’ haircut
will be 43 percent on average and owners of perpetual bonds will
lose 41 percent.  The 1 euro-cent valuation for Bankia is in line with the
negative valuation of 4.15 billion euros that Frob had given the
bank, the fund said. Once the reduction in the value of Bankia
shares is in place, Frob plans to group the shares in blocks of
100 to give them a nominal value of 1 euros, Frob said.  The first stage in the recapitalization will be a capital
increase of 10.7 billion euros subscribed to by Frob via
Bankia’s parent BFA, which it wholly owns.  The haircut for the holders of Bankia preferred shares will
be 38 percent and 36 percent for holders of perpetual
subordinated debt, Frob said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  