-- Specter of Topix Tumbles Evoked by Broken JGB Link: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-03-22T07:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/specter-of-topix-tumbles-evoked-by-broken-jgb-link-japan-credit.html
The relationship between Japanese
stock prices and government bond yields has collapsed, prompting
analysts to question the sustainability of the Topix Index’s
climb to a 4 1/2-year high.  A measure of the 60-day correlation between 10-year
Japanese yields and the Topix slid to a two-year low of 0.17
this month, below the decade average of 0.42 and the 1 level
that would represent lockstep moves. The gauge for 10-year
Treasuries and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. equities
was 0.67, according to Bloomberg data.  The last two times  Japan ’s bond yields and stock prices
stopped heading in the same direction, in December 2010 and
February 2007, it wasn’t long before shares tumbled, and Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. and Tokyo-based hedge fund Prospect Co.
predict the trend will repeat. Options traders have turned
bullish on the yen for the first time in eight months,
reflecting concern that new Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has limited tools to stoke inflation and growth.  “It’s not a normal state that both bond and stock prices
are high, and what market participants including me are
concerned about is the sustainability of the equity rally,”
said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho, a
unit of Japan’s third-biggest financial group by market value.
“People are afraid that they’ll realize the king is actually
naked,” he added, referring to Kuroda.  Topix Tumbles  When the correlation between the stock gauge and JGB yields
fell to 0.09 in February 2007, it preceded an almost two-year,
62 percent slump in the Topix amid the global financial crisis.
After the measure reached 0.04 in December 2010, the Topix
slumped 26 percent from an intraday high of 976.28 on Feb. 17,
2011, to 725.90 on March 15. That was four days after a record
earthquake devastated Japan’s northeast.  Since Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office on
Dec. 26, the equity index has climbed 23 percent, the biggest
winner among developed-nation markets, as he called for
aggressive monetary easing to end deflation. It finished at
1,058.10 yesterday, the highest close since October 2008, and
ended at 1,038.57 today.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  touched 0.56 percent today, the
least globally and the lowest level since June 2003, when the
record of 0.43 percent was reached. The 30-year yield slid 5 1/2
basis points, or 0.055 percentage point, to 1.62 percent, a
level unseen since August 2010.  “Under normal circumstances, bond yields would rise when
the economy improves, but here in Japan, we have to exit from
deflation first and that won’t happen if borrowing costs rise,”
said Akio Kato, the team leader for Japanese debt at Kokusai
Asset Management Co., which manages the equivalent of $36
billion in assets in Tokyo. “The market is expecting yields to
go lower as long as BOJ keeps buying.”  BOJ Stimulus  Kuroda this week took over the leadership of the BOJ, which
buys notes maturing in one to three years as well as other
securities through its 76 trillion-yen ($803 billion) asset-
purchase fund that is projected to be used up this year. The
central bank also scoops up 1.8 trillion yen of government bonds
via a separate account every month.  In comparison, the Federal Reserve acquires $85 billion a
month of government debt and mortgage-backed securities without
a predetermined date of completion.  Kuroda told lawmakers on March 11 that the central bank’s
current asset-purchase program isn’t sufficient to achieve the
BOJ’s 2 percent inflation goal that it adopted at Abe’s urging.
Policy makers will do “whatever we can” to meet the price
target, he said at his inaugural news conference yesterday,
adding that he’s confident the goal can be reached.  Dollar Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Bank Ltd. hired Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for an offering of five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  Nippon Flour Mills Co. registered to sell as much as 10
billion yen of notes, according to a filing yesterday with the
Ministry of Finance. It takes effect on March 29 and is valid
for two years.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors 0.24 percent
this month, compared with a 0.74 percent return on the nation’s
sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company notes worldwide have gained 0.17 percent.  The yen has plunged about 18 percent in the past six months
against the dollar, the biggest slide among major currencies. It
rose 0.2 percent to 94.69 per dollar at 3:57 p.m. in Tokyo,
after weakening to 96.71 on March 12, a level unseen since
August 2009.  Currency Options  The dollar-yen’s three month risk reversal rate slid as low
as minus 0.535 percent this week, the least since December 2011,
indicating increased demand for options that grant the right to
buy Japan’s currency versus the greenback. The rate had been
positive since July until this month.  Currency depreciation typically lowers the prices of
Japanese-made products overseas, making exporters more
competitive against rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. in
South Korea. The improved earnings prospects for the nation’s
manufacturers are prompting overseas investors to pile into
Japanese equities.  Foreign money managers were  net buyers  of domestic shares
every week since November and scooped up a record 1.12 trillion
yen in equities in the period ended March 8, according to data
from the Ministry of Finance going back to 2001. The Topix has
risen 39 percent in the past six months, compared with a 2.6
percent decline in South Korea’s Kospi Index.  ‘Appealing’ Policies  “I am confident that Japan can emerge from the last 20
years of depression,” said Nick Wright, the head of global
markets for Japan at Barclays Plc. “Japan has got an active
government with stated policies that are appealing to the
equities market.”  Recent economic data suggest the weaker yen hasn’t yet
spurred a turnaround. Government figures released this month
showed  consumer prices  excluding fresh food declined 0.2 percent
in January from a year earlier.  Machinery orders , an indicator
of corporate investment, dropped 13 percent in January from the
prior month.  A depreciating yen eases pressure on domestic companies
that need restructuring to be more competitive, according to
 Curtis Freeze , the Tokyo-based chief investment officer at
Prospect, which manages about $300 million in Japanese shares
for overseas investors. He’s been selling the nation’s stocks
because they are overbought, he said.  “Companies are not changing; only share prices are
changing, so it’s very much a technical rally,” said Freeze.
“It’s all about hope and dream.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  