-- Stanley Chesley, Sidley, Paul Hastings: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-03-22T11:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/stanley-chesley-sidley-paul-hastings-business-of-law.html
The  Kentucky   Supreme Court  upheld
the disbarment of famed class action lawyer Stanley Chesley, a
partner at Waite Schneider Bayless & Chesley Co. in Cincinnati,
for “unreasonable” fees received in the settlement of a class
action. Under  Ohio  Rules of Professional Responsibility, the
disbarment may provide grounds for disbarment in Ohio as well.  In upholding the disbarment imposed by the Kentucky Bar
Association yesterday, the court found that Chesley had
committed eight counts of professional misconduct. The court,
however, declined to order restitution.  The case stemmed from $20 million in fees Chesley received
for his involvement in the class action originally filed in 1999
against Wyeth, now part of Pfizer Inc., over the diet drug known
as fen-phen, which was shown to cause heart and lung damage. The
case settled in 2001 for $200 million.  In 2009, two Kentucky lawyers involved in the case were
sentenced to 20 years and 25 years in prison for stealing from
the settlement fund. The lawyers had contracts entitling them to
fees of as much as one-third of the $200 million awarded to a
statewide group of Kentucky citizens who said they were harmed
by diet drug. The lawyers tried to keep more than twice that
amount, prosecutors said.  In its 38-page decision, the Kentucky Supreme Court noted
that Chesley didn’t meet directly with any of the clients to
effectuate the settlement and it wasn’t shown that he had
specific knowledge of the deception practiced upon each client
to secure the signed release.  The court did find that his “$20,497,121.87 share of the
fee was unreasonable, especially in light of his professed
ignorance and lack of responsibility for any aspect of the
litigation except showing up at the mediation and going through
the motions of announcing the agreement.”  Sheryl Snyder, the lawyer representing Chesley, yesterday
said in a statement that “Stan Chesley has been a distinguished
lawyer and continues to be a philanthropic supporter of his
community. He has a previously unblemished record of legal
service and we are therefore disappointed with the court’s
decision to impose such a severe sanction, especially in light
of its finding that ‘it is not shown that he had specific
knowledge of the deception practiced on each client’ by the
other lawyers.”  In a telephone interview yesterday, Snyder added that “the
actions by the other lawyers in the fen-phen settlement were
egregious.” Chesley “is situated differently from those
lawyers,” she said.  Yesterday’s ruling is by no means the end to Chesley’s
saga. Ohio, where his office is located, has reciprocity rules
that require sanctions similar to those imposed by another
state. Arthur Greenbaum, a professor at the Moritz College of
Law at  Ohio State University , said in an e-mail that the “Ohio
Supreme Court uses the provision frequently.”  Snyder declined to comment on the impact of the ruling on
Chesley in Ohio.  Chesley is married to Susan Dlott, the chief judge of the
Southern District of Ohio in Cincinnati.  The case is Kentucky Bar Association v. Chesley, 2011-
SC-000382-KB, Supreme Court of Kentucky.  Moves  Former Congressman Joins Akin Gump and Ietan Consulting  Dale Kildee, a Democrat from Michigan who served 18 terms
in Congress, is joining  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP as a
senior consultant in its American Indian law and policy practice
as well as affiliated Ietan Consulting LLC as a policy adviser.  Kildee was the founder of the Congressional Native American
Caucus. During his tenure in Congress, he was one of the
foremost experts on Native American issues.  “We are thrilled to have Congressman Kildee join our
firm,” Ietan managing partner Wilson K. Pipestem said in a
statement. “Very few people have dedicated their lives to
helping improve Indian Country like Dale Kildee, and we look
forward to his continued advocacy for Indian Country.”  Don Pongrace, head of the public law and policy practice at
Akin Gump, said: “Congressman Kildee is an icon in Indian
Country, and we are very pleased to be able to tap into his
experience and wisdom on behalf of our clients.”  Kildee said in the statement, “For most of my public
career, both in the Michigan State Legislature and in the  U.S.
Congress , I have had the honor and privilege to work with Indian
tribes to bring some justice to Indian Country.” He added that
he looks forward “to continuing my role in advocating for the
inherent sovereignty of tribal governments.”  Ietan Consulting is a Native-owned, Washington, D.C.-based
consulting firm that specializes in working on behalf of tribal
governments. Ietan Consulting has a strategic alliance with Akin
Gump.  Technology Lawyer Joins New York Office of Sidley Austin  Jennifer B. Coplan joined Sidley Austin LLP in its New York
office as a partner in its technology transactions practice.
Coplan regularly advises public and emerging companies on
digital media, intellectual property and  information technology 
matters in both domestic and international transactions.  “Adding Jennifer to our team is a natural next step in the
expansion of our global Technology Transactions practice and is
a wonderful complement to our growing M&A and corporate
practices in New York,” said Michael J. Schmidtberger, managing
partner of Sidley’s New York office.  Coplan was a partner at Cooley LLP prior to joining Sidley.  Litigation Partner Joins Houston Office of Paul Hastings  Paul Hastings  LLP announced that Sam Cooper joined the firm
as a litigation partner in its Houston office.  According to a statement from the firm, Cooper possesses
diverse litigation and energy industry expertise, which will
help reinforce the complex litigation, white-collar, Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act investigations, and international
arbitration capabilities at Paul Hastings.  “Sam’s arrival is another important step in building our
energy related litigation practice,” said William Sullivan,
global chair of the litigation practice.  Cooper’s recent matters have included cases tried before
the  International Chamber of Commerce  and the Stockholm Chamber
of Commerce. He also has experience in representing companies in
civil litigation arising out of government investigations, and
has represented a number of clients, including boards of
directors, in civil claims related to foreign bribery
investigations. Cooper also represents companies and individuals
under investigation by governmental entities and works for
boards of directors conducting internal corporate
investigations. He previously was a partner with Baker Botts
LLP.  The firm opened its office in Houston in 2012.  Locke Lord Adds New Partner in its Washington Office  James Alford joined the Washington office of Locke Lord LLP
as a partner in the corporate and energy practices. Alford has
more than 25 years of experience in all phases of international
project development and finance worldwide, with a particular
focus on renewable energy, water, toll road and port projects in
Central and  Latin America .  Alford’s practice focuses on helping U.S. and foreign
private and public sector clients design, develop, finance and
complete energy, infrastructure, construction and related
operations and transactions in the U.S. and globally, according
to a statement from the firm.  He advises on a broad cross-section of corporate ventures,
as well as planning, developing and financing private and
public-private turnkey production facilities in renewable
energy, infrastructure, utilities and large-scale real estate
development.  “Jim has developed a wide network of experience and
contacts in Central, Latin and South America, which gives our
already strong Energy Practice even more depth and breadth in
additional markets,” said William J. Kelty, office managing
partner in Washington.  Previously, Alford was a partner in the Washington office
of Curtis Mallet-Prevost Colt & Mosle LLP.  Litigation  Smith Barney Shareholder Class Approved in Fund Lawsuit  Investors in  Smith Barney  mutual funds can sue as a group
over claims that shareholders were harmed by a kickback scheme
in which  Citigroup Inc. (C)  pocketed fee savings, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  certified a
class of Smith Barney mutual fund investors who bought or
redeemed shares from Sept. 11, 2000, to June 24, 2004, according
to a decision filed yesterday.  A class action allows plaintiffs’ to share the costs of
gathering evidence and pursuing claims. When cases are bundled
together, plaintiffs have greater leverage in trying to persuade
defendants to settle.  The lawsuit was filed against Smith Barney Fund Management
LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in 2005, after Citigroup
Securities and Exchange Commission that its subsidiaries kept
fees that should have been turned over to Smith Barney’s mutual
funds.  Citigroup replaced a stock transfer agent with an in-house
transfer agent and subcontracted with the original company at
lower rates than it had previously charged, according to court
papers.  In 2009,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  bought a controlling stake in a
joint venture that combined Smith Barney with its own brokerage.
The New York-based bank has said it plans to buy the rest of the
venture from Citigroup this year.  The case is In re Smith Barney Transfer Agent Litigation,
05-cv-07583, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ex-Goldman Employee Suing in Sex-Bias Case Must Do Arbitration  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  persuaded a federal appeals court
to rule that a female former managing director must pursue a
gender-discrimination lawsuit through arbitration rather than in
court.  The New York-based panel yesterday ruled that Lisa Parisi,
one of three women who sued the firm in 2010 claiming they were
subjected to pay and promotion discrimination, can’t maintain
her case in federal court. Her employment contract contained a
clause requiring disputes to be resolved through arbitration.  Parisi’s lawyers argued their client had a right under
federal law to press her claim that Goldman Sachs has a pattern
and practice of discriminating against managing directors who
are women, and that such claims can only be litigated in the
context of a class-action, or group, case.  A lower court judge agreed, denying Goldman Sachs’s request
to order Parisi’s case to arbitration.  “Because we disagree that a substantive statutory right to
pursue a pattern-or-practice claim exists, we reverse,” U.S.
Circuit Judge Barrington Parker wrote for a unanimous three-
judge panel. Joining him were Judges Gerard Lynch and Reena Raggi.  The appeals court said Parisi may present to the
arbitrators any evidence of discriminatory practices or policies
at Goldman Sachs that affected her employment.  Adam Klein , an attorney for Parisi, didn’t immediately
reply yesterday to a telephone message seeking comment on the
court’s ruling.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,
in an e-mail message said the firm is pleased with the court’s
decision.  The case is Parisi v. Goldman Sachs & Co., U.S. Second
Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  Gupta Sues New Silk Route Chief Saxena for Contract Breach  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Director  Rajat Gupta ,
convicted last year on insider-trading charges, sued Parag Saxena, chief executive officer of  New Silk Route LLC , for
breach of contract.  In February 2012, while securities charges were pending
against him and in response to Saxena’s request that he distance
himself from the company, Gupta entered into a voting agreement
under which he would step down from the New Silk Route NSR board
of directors, he said yesterday in a federal court complaint in
Manhattan.  Gupta, 64, alleges that he transferred his voting shares in
NSR, an investment firm he co-founded, to Saxena, his partner in
the venture. Gupta claims Saxena breached the agreement by
improperly removing Gupta’s current designee and refusing to
permit NSR to acquire directors’ and officers’ insurance.  “Saxena is seeking to thwart Gupta’s contractual right to
designate one member” of the company’s board, Gupta said in the
complaint.  Gupta sat on the board of New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble Co. and ran the consulting
firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003. He was convicted in June
of passing insider tips to Galleon Group LLC founder Raj Rajaratnam in a sprawling conspiracy that ran from 2007 to
January 2009. Gupta is free pending his appeal.  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year sentence. Gupta, who was
sentenced to a two-year term, remains free while he appeals his
conviction.  New Silk Route, based in New York, has offices in Mumbai,
Dubai and Bangalore, India, according to its website. Gupta, who
is chairman, leads the firm with Saxena and senior adviser
Victor Menezes.  New Silk Route, a $1.4 billion private-equity firm that
focuses on  South Asia  and the  Middle East , said in a statement
that the lawsuit is without merit.  “Since Mr. Gupta’s conviction of conspiracy and securities
fraud in June of 2012, the firm has been actively working to
sever all ties with him including offering to buy his remaining
investment stake,” the firm said.  The case is Gupta v. Saxena, 13-civ-01891, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 