-- Sterling’s Slide May Inflate Costs of Next Shirts to Barr’s Soda
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-03-22T00:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/sterling-s-slide-may-inflate-costs-of-next-shirts-to-barr-s-soda.html
Higher clothing prices for U.K.
shoppers and increased costs for British drink makers may be
among the consequences of sterling’s slide against the dollar
and euro, according to  Next Plc (NXT)  and  A.G. Barr Plc. (BAG)   Next, the U.K.’s second-largest fashion retailer, said
yesterday that it expects to raise prices next year should the
pound remain near current rates against the dollar. Sterling’s
weakness is “the biggest risk” to the cost of production, A.G.
Barr, the maker of Irn-Bru, said separately.  The pound has fallen 4.5 percent this year, the second-
worst performance after the yen, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation
currencies. The decline came amid speculation that the central
bank would debase the currency by expanding its asset-purchase
program from the current target of 375 billion pounds ($569
billion) to prevent the economy from slipping to its third
recession in five years.  “If the pound remains at its current rate of exchange
against the dollar, we would expect our prices to rise in
2014,” Next said in a statement. Sterling’s decline will have
“very little impact” on Next’s prices this year because the
Leicester, England-based retailer extended its hedge against the
dollar in anticipation of increased currency volatility, Chief
Executive Officer Simon Wolfson said in a phone interview.  “The  currency market  had been quite volatile and we’re not
in the business of gaining on currency so we hedged out the
risk,” Wolfson said. “We took a view four or five months ago
that we should push our cover further, so we are covered out on
the dollar for the rest of this year at more than $1.58.”  Dollar Strength  Sterling has dropped 6.7 percent against the dollar this
year, reaching $1.4832 on March 12, the weakest level since June
2010. It was at $1.5174 at 7:38 p.m. in  London  yesterday. A
weaker pound pushes up Next’s costs because the company pays in
dollars for goods it gets from suppliers outside the U.K.  A.G. Barr, based in Cumbernauld,  Scotland , said that the
pound’s weakness is the main threat to its expectation of
reduced input cost inflation this year. Still, the maker of the
Rockstar energy drink has “appropriate levels of cover in
place” for the year ahead, it said in a statement.  The U.K. currency advanced on March 20 after the
publication of the minutes of the  Bank of England ’s March 7
meeting showed some policy makers said more easing may cause an
“unwarranted depreciation of sterling” and damage the
credibility of their commitment to keep prices in check. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  kept the inflation
target at 2 percent during his budget speech the same day, even
as he gave policy makers more flexibility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  