-- Most Swiss Stocks Fall as Holcim, Sika Shares Retreat
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-03-22T17:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/swiss-stocks-drop-as-cyprus-faces-bailout-deadline.html
Most  Swiss stocks  declined as
Cyprus’s lawmakers sought to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) needed to obtain a bailout from the euro area,
offsetting an advance by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and  Sika AG (SIK)  followed a gauge of European
construction shares lower. Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest
offshore oil-rig contractor, fell more than 1.5 percent. Credit
Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, gained 1.3 percent,
while  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches,
climbed 1.1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.2 percent to 7,744.33 at the
close of trading in Zurich, as three stocks dropped for every
two that climbed. The gauge retreated 1.5 percent this week, its
first loss in six weeks and the biggest drop since Nov. 16. The
SMI has still  climbed 14 percent  this year. The broader Swiss
Performance Index fell 0.3 percent today.  “Investors are on the sidelines, waiting for more clarity
on the situation in Cyprus,” said  Markus Wallner , an equity
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Market participants
aren’t in panic, they’re just waiting to see what unfolds over
the weekend. Construction companies are weighing on the SMI.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 15 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus’s lawmakers hold a debate today on how to raise the
money needed to obtain a bailout from the European Union. The
European Central Bank has said it will withdraw funding for the
country’s lenders from Monday if Cyprus’s government fails to
reach a deal with the 17 nations that use the single currency.  Cyprus Talks  Cyprus didn’t get the financial support it sought from
 Russia , though the two countries will continue talking, Cypriot
Finance Minister Michael Sarris said.  The race for a compromise comes after a week of tumult
marked by Cypriot lawmakers’ rejection of a levy on bank
deposits. The other 16 euro countries and the International
Monetary Fund had made the charge a condition for a 10 billion-
euro rescue.  In  Germany , a report showed that business confidence
unexpectedly fell in March from a 10-month high in February. The
Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate index , based
on a survey of 7,000 executives, declined to 106.7 from 107.4.
Economists had predicted the measure would climb to 107.8,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Holcim, the world’s largest cement maker, slid 2.2 percent
to 74.75 francs and Sika, the world’s biggest maker of
construction chemicals, lost 3 percent to 2,244 francs. A gauge
of European construction companies posted the  worst performance 
on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, slipping 1.1 percent.  Transocean fell 1.6 percent to 48.74 francs.  Credit Suisse increased 1.3 percent to 25.65 Swiss francs,
the biggest gain on  the SMI , while Swatch added 1.1 percent to
533 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  