-- U.K. Gas Prices Jump to Seven-Year High as Belgian Supplies Halt
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-03-22T11:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/u-k-gas-surges-50-to-seven-year-high-as-belgian-flows-halt.html
U.K. natural gas surged to its
highest price in seven years as imports from Belgium equivalent
to almost one quarter of the nation’s demand halted and storage
levels dropped to a record.  Gas for today  jumped as much as 54 percent, reaching the
highest level since March 17, 2006, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. Flows through the  pipeline  from Zeebrugge
to Bacton on the east coast of  England  halted at about 7 a.m.
London time after earlier today reaching a record 79 million
cubic meters a day, National Grid Plc data show.  The U.K. has become increasingly dependent on imported gas
as indigenous production from the North Sea slumped in recent
years and the price of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, shipments
traded near a record high. Norway was the source of an
unprecedented 48 percent of Britain’s gas on Dec. 26, data from
network operators Gassco AS and  National Grid Plc (NG/)  show.  “We are more vulnerable to these types of events than were
were five years ago,” Patrick Heather, senior research fellow
at The Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said in a telephone
interview. “Something as important as the interconnector is
always going to have an impact on prices. With demand at the
level it is today, I don’t think the U.K. is going to run out of
gas.”  Gas for today reached 150 pence a therm, before trading at
115 pence a therm at 11:21 a.m. The  next-week  contract added 37
percent to 135 pence a therm, also a seven-year high, before
paring its advance to 105 pence. Month-ahead gas climbed 1.9
percent to 71.1 pence a therm.  Boiler Fault  The pipeline into Europe’s biggest market halted because of
a water pump failure at the boiler house in Bacton, where gas is
heated before it enters the U.K. grid, according to
Interconnector Ltd.  “We are working hard to establish full capacity, but it is
unlikely to be available before late afternoon,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement. More information will be made
available at noon, it said.  Inventories at Rough, the U.K.’s largest gas-storage
facility, fell to an all-time low of 2,684 gigawatt-hours
yesterday. The site is unable to flow at full capacity because
of falling pressure, it said on March 19.  Withdrawals from Rough were at a rate of 17 million cubic
meters a day after dropping to zero at about 5:45 a.m., National
Grid data show.  SSE Plc said its Aldbrough gas storage site will be halted
from tomorrow through March 28 for maintenance, cutting supply
by about 11 million cubic meters a day, according to a statement
on its website.  The mean temperature in the U.K. will be 0.3 degrees
Celsius (33 Fahrenheit) next week, the lowest average for the
time of year for at least 10 years, according to MetraWeather
data on Bloomberg using the ECMWF model.  LNG Shipments  Demand in the 24 hours to 6 a.m. tomorrow is predicted at
329 million cubic meters compared with a seasonal normal of 271
million, grid data show. Total flows were at 305 million cubic
meters a day, after falling to 263 million earlier today.  Supply from  Norway , the U.K.’s biggest source of imported
gas, was at 131 million cubic meters a day after reaching 135
million yesterday, the most since Feb. 7, Gassco AS data show.
Norway has supplied an average of 108 million cubic meters a day
this year, the data show.  LNG tankers with a total capacity of 5.5 million cubic
meters (3.1 billion cubic meters of gas) arrived in the U.K. in
the five months through February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s down 53 percent from the same period a year
earlier. Three tankers with capacity of 734,126 cubic meters of
LNG are scheduled to arrive through March 29.  LNG for delivery in four to eight weeks in Northeast Asia
cost $16 a million Btu on March 18, after reaching a record
$19.40 on Feb. 4, according to assessments by New York-based
World Gas Intelligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  