-- U.K. Moves Closer to Losing AAA at Fitch on Debt Concerns
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-22T17:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/u-k-moves-step-closer-to-losing-aaa-at-fitch-on-debt-concerns.html
Britain came a step closer to
losing its top credit grade at Fitch Ratings after Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne said debt will rise more than
previously forecast.  The U.K. was placed on rating watch negative, “indicating
a heightened probability of a downgrade in the near term,”
Fitch said in a statement in  London  today. The company will
complete its review of the grade by the end of April.  “The persistently weak performance of U.K. growth, in part
due to European growth, has increased uncertainty around the
U.K.’s potential output and longer-term trend rate of growth
with significant implications for public finances,” the ratings
company said.  The move comes two days after Osborne’s annual budget, when
he reduced his growth forecast and said it will take longer than
previously expected to lower Britain’s debt. Moody’s Investors
Service took Britain’s rating down to Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22,
citing the economic outlook and challenges to the fiscal
program. Investors often ignore such moves, evidenced by a drop
in gilt yields since that downgrade.  “It’s hard to conclude that Fitch won’t now move to a
downgrade,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in London. “The uncertainty over both near and long-term U.K.
growth is high.”  He added the bigger issue “will arguably be whether they
keep the negative outlook on the U.K. after the downgrade.”  The pound pared its advance against the dollar after the
Fitch statement. It was trading at $1.5173 as of 5:53 p.m. in
London, up 0.3 percent from yesterday.  Debt Forecasts  The independent  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its
2013 growth projection to 0.6 percent from 1.2 percent, Osborne
told Parliament in his March 20 budget speech. Over the five
fiscal years starting in April, the deficit will total 434
billion pounds ($660 billion), 55.7 billion pounds higher than
forecast in December.  The OBR also expects net debt to begin falling in 2017-18,
a year later than previously planned. It’s the second time the
debt target has slipped. Net debt will peak at 85.6 percent of
gross domestic product in 2016-17. The OBR previously put the
peak at 79.9 percent of GDP in 2015-16.  Osborne first pushed back his timeframe for cutting debt in
December. Fitch said at the time that missing the target
“weakens the credibility of the U.K.’s fiscal framework.”  Rating Changes  Investors often disregard changes in ratings. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg published in December.  Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard and Poor’s. That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  The U.K. economy shrank 0.3 percent in the  fourth quarter 
of 2012, and Osborne said in his budget statement that renewed
turmoil in the euro area may damage recovery prospects.  “I will be straight with the country: another bout of
economic storms in the euro zone would hit Britain’s economic
fortunes hard again,” he said.  S&P put the U.K.’s rating on a negative outlook in December
and said on March 20 it was examining the details of the latest
budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  