-- U.S. Senator Wyden Asks EPA to Explain Ethanol RIN Volatility
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-03-22T16:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/u-s-senator-wyden-asks-epa-to-explain-ethanol-rin-volatility.html
U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden  asked the
Environmental Protection Agency for data that would explain
recent volatility in ethanol Renewable Identification Numbers.  The value of RINs, certificates used by refiners and the
EPA to show compliance with government biofuel mandates, reached
a record $1.06 on March 8 from 7.1 cents on Jan. 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Petroleum interests and ethanol proponents have been
battling over the reason for the surge in prices and its effect
on the cost of gasoline at filling stations. The credits are a
mechanism of the Renewable Fuels Standard, a 2007 energy law
that calls for an escalating amount of biofuel consumption.  Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, chairs the Senate’s Energy and
Natural Resources Committee.  “Given that ethanol is an increasingly important factor in
the cost and supply of motor fuel in the U.S., it is critical
that the committee have a better understanding of the causes and
effects of RIN market volatility and developments,” he said in
a letter to the EPA today.  RINs for the corn-based variety of ethanol were unchanged
yesterday at 70.5 cents, while the  advanced  certificates, which
include biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol, slipped
1.3 percent to 75.5 cents, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline  demand  is projected to average 133.5 billion
gallons in 2013 and 2014, the Energy Information Administration,
the statistical arm of the Energy Department, said in its March
12 Short-Term Energy Outlook. Under the 2007 energy law, the
U.S. is required to use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this
year and 14.4 billion in 2014. Ethanol is typically combined
with gasoline in a 10 percent ratio, which is referred to as the
blend wall.  The  American Petroleum Institute  said March 20 that it
commissioned a study by NERA Economic Consulting that shows the
country’s ethanol law will boost gasoline prices by 30 percent
and affect the  U.S. economy .  The  Renewable Fuels Association , a Washington-based trade
group, says oil interests are manipulating the RINs market in an
attempt to dismantle the biofuel mandate, and prices for the
certificates would ease if refiners sold higher blends of
ethanol in gasoline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  