-- UBS Plans Istanbul Hires as Turkey Growth Trumps Global Cuts
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-03-22T12:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/ubs-plans-hiring-in-istanbul-as-turkey-growth-trumps-global-cuts.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the Swiss bank cutting
about 10,000 jobs, is planning to expand in Turkey as the
nation’s economic growth boosts demand for assets.  “We’re working on hiring more for our investment banking
team in Turkey,” Gonca Gursoy Artunkal, the bank’s chief
executive officer in Turkey, said yesterday in an interview in
Istanbul, without giving more details on the expansion. “We’re
also waiting for detailed capital markets regulations to be
published to see whether to start asset management operations.”  UBS’s expansion plans for Turkey follow the Swiss bank’s
announcement in October that it will cut about 16 percent of its
workforce in the next three years and slim down investment
banking. Tougher regulation and slower markets have left
investment banks worldwide jostling for market share, with
companies looking to shrink unprofitable areas.  Turkey has attracted investors such as Russia’s  OAO
Sberbank (SBER)  and  Diageo Plc (DGE)  in the past two years, seeking to enter
an almost $800 billion economy set to grow about 4 percent this
year. Ernst & Young LLP said in January it expects mergers and
acquisitions in Turkey to rise to $25 billion in 2013 from $23.2
billion last year.  Investment Banking  UBS, which employs 30 people in Turkey, offers investment
banking services such as debt capital markets, equities trading
and research, as well as having a corporate advisory team
focusing on M&A work for smaller transactions.  “Things have been quite busy and we’re enjoying a good
momentum,” Artunkal said. “We’re trying to evaluate the
potential in the space and looking to see what additional value
we can bring clients here in Turkey.”  UBS last month reported its second straight quarterly loss
after booking a fine for trying to rig global interest rates and
costs tied to job cuts. CEO Sergio Ermotti is exiting most debt-
trading businesses to concentrate on money management and boost
returns for shareholders. The company announced plans to raise
its dividend by 50 percent to 15 centimes ($0.16) a share for
2012 and repurchase as much as 5 billion francs of debt to lower
funding costs.  Turkey’s market regulator is considering draft regulation
on the structure of asset management companies, including
introducing 10 million liras ($5.49 million) minimum of capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  