-- UN Probes Syrian Chemical-Weapon Use With Evidence Scarce
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/un-probes-syrian-chemical-weapon-use-with-evidence-scarce.html
The  United Nations  will probe
conflicting accounts of as many as three alleged uses of
chemical weapons in Syria, which could prompt intervention by
the U.S. or other countries if substantiated.  Given the high stakes, finding conclusive evidence will be
a challenge.  Jean Pascal Zanders, a senior research fellow at the Paris-
based European Union Institute for Security Studies, said he’s
“not convinced” that video and photos released by Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime prove its charges that rebels
used chemical weapons in Aleppo province on March 19.  “There are no images of the site of the attack; just some
of the affected people,” Zanders wrote on the Arms Control Law
blog. “These people do not show outward symptoms” consistent
with exposure to agents such as mustard or nerve gas.  Still, he sees a risk of rising tensions.  “The next days and weeks may become very nasty indeed,”
Zanders wrote. “Not just because of chemical warfare, but also
because of the various red lines Western states, and the U.S. in
particular, have drawn if such an escalation with chemical
weapons were to take place.”  President  Barack Obama , who has said proven use of deadly
gas would be a “game-changer” for U.S. policy, warned Assad
yesterday to keep chemical weapons out of the conflict.  “I have made it clear to Bashar al-Assad and all who
follow his orders -- we will not tolerate the use of chemical
weapons against the Syrian people or the transfer of these
weapons to terrorists,” Obama said in  Jerusalem . “The world is
watching; we will hold you accountable.”  Chemical Stockpile  Syrian government charges of a rebel chemical attack, and
opposition counterclaims that regime forces resorted to chemical
warfare in three instances since December, have sparked concern
over the safekeeping of chemical weapons in a two-year civil war
that has killed more than 70,000 people.  Syria  holds the
region’s largest stockpile.  The UN’s investigation, announced yesterday by Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, will focus on allegations by Syrian
authorities that an opposition rocket laden with chemicals
killed 25 people on March 19. The opposition says it was Assad’s
troops that used a toxic weapon.  The U.K. and France formally requested a wider probe to
include claims alleging chemical weapons use on March 19 near
Damascus and on Dec. 23 in Homs. Rebels say those attacks were
carried out by government forces.  “I am of course aware that there are other allegations of
similar cases involving the reported use of chemical weapons,”
Ban told reporters in  New York .  Iraq Specter  Russia , which has supported Assad, voiced skepticism about
rebel claims. Its UN envoy,  Vitaly Churkin , said demands for a
wider UN probe evoked the “specter of  Iraq ,” alluding to the
U.S.-led 2003 invasion triggered by still unproven allegations
that Saddam Hussein had stockpiled weapons of mass destruction.  Neither the U.S. nor its European allies, which have
supported the Syrian opposition, say they’ve confirmed chemical
assaults by either side.  Michael O’Hanlon , a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , said Syria’s combatants may want to
exploit alarm about chemical weapons. For the opposition, it
could draw more active support from the West.  “We don’t want to be baited into a situation,” said
O’Hanlon, who described the possibility of U.S. intervention as
remote given reluctance by Obama and the public.  ‘Unfettered Access’  Getting answers in Syria, where few journalists and aid
workers are allowed entry, won’t be easy. A UN team monitoring
the conflict departed last year, unable to leave their hotels or
keep track of abuses committed on the ground.  Ban stressed the need for “unfettered access” and said
the UN mission would be dispatched “as soon as practically
possible.”  In a separate report, Ban said turmoil in Syria threatened
a four-decade ceasefire with  Israel , monitored by about 1,000 UN
peacekeepers in the  Golan Heights . Patrols of the border have
been suspended because of safety concerns, and some countries,
including Croatia and Japan, have recalled their troops from the
peacekeeping force.  The fighting also has spurred a refugee exodus that
threatens to destabilize neighboring  Jordan  and Lebanon.  Obama is scheduled to arrive today in Jordan for meetings
with  King Abdullah  on how the U.S. can help the Middle East ally
grapple with the influx of Syrians fleeing the conflict.  Western Intervention  Amid the conflicting chemical weapons claims, Western
powers are considering whether to weigh in more forcefully.  The U.K. has said it will supply armored vehicles and  body
armor  for the opposition. France said it may act alone to arm
the rebels.  Calls for action are growing in the U.S.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, signed a letter to Obama supporting efforts
to impose a no-fly zone in Syria and establish a “safe haven”
for opposition groups.  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, speaking on PBS’s “The Charlie Rose
Show,” called for intervention -- short of “whole-scale war”
-- to disrupt Syria’s chemical weapons capabilities.  “As the president called for that red line, this is the
time we need to take action if we’re going to prevent needless
civilian casualties,” Rogers said.  Ban has some power to work around the impasse over Syria at
the UN Security Council by dispatching a fact-finding mission.
The most pertinent parallel goes back to the 1980s during the
 Iran-Iraq war .  UN chemical warfare experts traveled to the region in  1984,
1986 and 1987  to look into Iranian claims that Iraq had used
chemical weapons and concluded in reports on all three trips
that  Saddam Hussein ’s regime had used gas on civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  