-- Hungary to Buy Gas Storage as Orban Seeks Wider Sway Over Assets
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-22T16:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/hungary-to-buy-gas-storage-as-orban-seeks-wider-sway-over-assets.html
Hungary will buy a majority stake
in the nation’s strategic natural-gas storage facility from oil
company  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  as the state seeks to broaden its influence
over industry assets.  The government and Mol signed a declaration of intent for
the purchase of a 51 percent stake in the unit, the Development
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. Mol will sell the
rest of its 72.46 percent to the Hungarian Hydrocarbon
Stockpiling Association, or  MSZKSZ , which holds the remaining
shares, according to the statement. MSZKSZ is an independent
industry body charged with overseeing oil and gas reserves.  “The agreement is in line with Mol’s profile-cleaning
strategy according to which Mol intends to focus on its core
activities,” Chief Operating Officer Sandor Fasimon said in a
statement to the Budapest bourse today.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban is reversing earlier
privatizations as he seeks to boost his Cabinet’s role in
industries deemed of strategic importance. Since coming to power
in 2010, Orban purchased OAO Surgutneftegas’s 21.2 percent stake
in Mol for $2.65 billion, gained control of car part maker Raba
Nyrt. and savings bank Takarekbank Zrt. and purchased a stake in
Budapest waterworks from  Suez Environnement SA (SEV)  and RWE Aqua
GmbH.  Orban last year said Hungary would buy German utility EON
SE’s local gas businesses for a maximum 875 million euros ($1.13
billion). The transaction may be signed “within days,” daily
Magyar Nemzet reported on March 20.  Budget Cutting  Hungary, the most indebted eastern member of the European
Union, cut welfare spending, nationalized private pension fund
assets and levied extraordinary industry taxes to narrow its
budget  deficit  below an EU limit of 3 percent of economic
output.  The government is imposing mandatory household energy price
cuts as it gears up for general elections next year.  The deal will help the government “guarantee the lowest
possible gas household gas prices, thus supporting efforts to
cut energy costs,” the statement said.  The forint posted its longest losing streak against the
euro since 2011 after Standards & Poor’s cut Hungary credit
rating outlook to negative yesterday, citing concern the
government’s “interventionist” policies may hurt growth and
credibility.  The forint has weakened 4.2 percent this month, the most
among more than 20 emerging market currencies and traded at
306.7 per euro at 3:46 p.m. Mol  shares  fell 1.2 percent to
16,420 forint, the lowest intraday price since Sept. 4.  The transaction, which won’t affect the budget balance,
will be completed within 90 days, the ministry said. The sale
fits Mol’s “clear strategy for profile cleaning,” according to
the statement.  The facility has a capacity of 1.9 billion cubic meters,
the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  