-- Uruguay’s Central Bank Holds Benchmark Lending Rate at 9.25%
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-22T20:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/uruguay-s-central-bank-holds-benchmark-lending-rate-at-9-25-.html
Uruguay’s central bank held its
 benchmark interest rate  after increases at the two previous
monetary policy meetings failed to slow inflation in the
agriculture-based economy.  The committee held the benchmark rate at 9.25 percent
following raises of 25 basis points in September and December.
Three out of four economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast an
increase in the rate while the other forecast no change.  “Inflation continues to be one of the main concerns” of
Uruguay’s economy, the bank said in today’s statement, adding
that its decision to hold rates took into account a recent
increase in reserve requirements.  The effective rate of inflation as well as inflationary
expectations, while significantly less than the current pace,
continue “considerably higher than the target range,” the
board said.  Annual  inflation  accelerated in February to 8.89 percent
from 8.72 percent in January and has remained above the bank’s
target of 4 percent to 6 percent since 2009. Consumer prices
will rise 8 percent this year, according to the median estimate
of economists in a central bank survey released this month,
compared with a 7.5 percent forecast released in January.  “Inflation is a concern for this government and it will
try to keep it away from 10 percent, that’s a psychological
limit,” said Julio de Brun, a former central bank president,
said in a telephone interview from Montevideo before the bank
decision. “There have been some wage increases of about 10
percent that were passed on in prices.”  Target Range  Inflation won’t slow to within the central bank’s target
range this year because of robust domestic demand, Central Bank
President Mario Bergara said in a March 15 interview.  Annual inflation of around 8 percent to 9 percent is
manageable and stems from rising incomes and prices for soy and
meat exports, Bergara said.  The central bank on Dec. 13 reported that Uruguay’s $45
billion economy expanded 3 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier and 1.2 percent from the previous quarter. The bank
will release fourth-quarter and 2012 growth on March 27.  The economy will expand 3.86 percent this year from 3.9
percent in 2012, according to the median estimate from
economists surveyed by the central bank this month.  Uruguay’s credit rating was raised to investment grade by
Standard & Poor’s in April and by Moody’s Investors Service in
July after the South American country reduced debt and
diversified exports. Fitch Ratings places the country one level
below investment grade.  The peso strengthened 0.9 percent to close at 18.83 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  