-- Vestas Chiefs Signal Worst Is Over as Turnaround Work Continues
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/vestas-chiefs-signal-worst-is-over-as-turnaround-work-continues.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  Chairman
Bert Nordberg and Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said the
worst may be over for the wind turbine maker, which has lost 91
percent of its value since 2008.  “Today we are in better control of our costs, our position
and our development than we were a year ago,” Nordberg said.
“We have had a dangerous position, and it’s been pretty
exciting for a while, but I think it’s calmer now.”  Engel said Vestas has made “good progress” in the past
year. Nordberg said he doesn’t expect to hold as many board
meetings in 2013 as the record 24 last year. They spoke in phone
interviews late yesterday from Aarhus,  Denmark , after the
manufacturer’s annual shareholder meeting.  Vestas has lost money for two years as overcapacity in the
industry pushed down prices.  Nordberg and Engel cited progress made in cutting fixed
 costs  as evidence of the turnaround. The company is 15 months
into a two-year push to cut its workforce by about 30 percent to
16,000. Last month, the company said it has achieved more than
250 million euros ($322 million) of the 400 million euros in
savings it has targeted.  At the meeting yesterday, shareholders rejected a proposal
to probe a change in the turbine maker’s accounting policy that
some investors said damaged the company’s share price. They also
approved the election of proposed members to the board of
directors, including Nordberg, and director pay.  Seeking Partners  The two Vestas chiefs said they’d like to find a partner to
help develop the company’s biggest ever machine, the 8-megawatt
V164 offshore turbine.  “There’s no secret that to have a partner would be good
for us,” said Nordberg. Vestas will deliver its first prototype
of the device as promised by the second quarter of next year,
even without a partner, he said.  Engel reiterated past comments that “several” partners
have indicated interest.  “It makes sense with such huge projects to have a
partner,” Engel said. “We see our clients they go in and share
the risk in some of these big offshore projects, even
corporations much larger than Vestas.”  Vestas rose 0.6 percent yesterday to 47.20 kroner in
Copenhagen. The shares have gained 48 percent this year.  ‘Tough Year’  Neither Nordberg nor Engel would comment on the progress of
talks on a strategic cooperation with  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011) , which it announced in August.  Nordberg also said he’s “still open” to securing a single
major shareholder for up to 20 percent of Vestas, reiterating
comments he made in August to the Berlingske Business newspaper.  “Many of the big shareholders are not industrial -- they
are investors, but they are not discussion partners for the
future of the company in the way that we’d like,” Nordberg
said. “It would be good for the company.”  Vestas has warned that it expects 2013 to be a “tough”
year for wind, and in February the company reduced its shipments
forecast for 2013 to 4 gigawatts to 5 gigawatts of turbines from
previous guidance of about 5 gigawatts.  “We have a cautious forecast and we are following that,”
said Nordberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  