-- Australia Recovers to 231-8 in Test After Watson Chooses to Bat
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-22T12:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/watson-to-captain-australia-in-final-test-after-clarke-ruled-out.html
Australia recovered to 231-8 at
stumps on day one of the final cricket Test against India in
Delhi as it bids to avert its worst series result in more than
four decades.  The touring team had slumped to 136-7 during the afternoon
session before Peter Siddle led a revival with an unbeaten 47.
Siddle shared a 53-run partnership with Steve Smith, who made
46, before combining with James Pattinson for an unbroken 42-run
stand. Ravichandran Ashwin was India’s best bowler with 4-40,
while fellow spinner Ravindra Jadeja and paceman Ishant Sharma
each took two wickets.  Shane Watson, leading the national team for the first time
in an elite Test after Michael Clarke was ruled out with a back
injury, earlier won Australia’s fourth straight toss of the
series as it tries to avoid being swept in a four-match contest
for the first time since 1970.  “It’s very disappointing that Michael hasn’t come up,”
Watson said in a statement. “His batting and leadership will
certainly be sorely missed, but I’m looking forward to the
challenge and responsibility over the next five days.”  Watson, 31, was reinstated to the lineup as skipper after
being among a group of four players suspended for the third Test
for failing to submit feedback on how they and the team could
improve. He returned home for the birth of his first child
before rejoining the squad in Delhi.  Australia made five changes from its six-wicket loss in the
third Test. Watson and wicketkeeper Matthew Wade came in for
Clarke and Brad Haddin, while fast bowlers Pattinson and
Mitchell Johnson, who were also stood down for the third match,
replaced Mitchell Starc and Xavier Doherty. Glenn Maxwell was
chosen as the all-rounder ahead of Moises Henriques.  India, which has never won four Tests in a series, handed
Ajinkya Rahane his debut in place of injured opener Shikhar
Dhawan in its only change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  