-- Won Set for Third Weekly Drop on Europe Woes, Korea Curb Concern
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-22T01:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/won-set-for-third-weekly-drop-on-europe-woes-korea-curb-concern.html
The won headed for a third weekly
decline as turmoil in Cyprus underscored concern that Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening, and South Korea said it will consider
steps to curb capital flows.  Government bonds  gained.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it may cut Cypriot
banks off from emergency funds after March 25 following the
nation’s lawmakers’ rejection of a plan to tax bank deposits.
The won touched a six-month low after a South Korean official
said March 20 that policy makers will consider various financial
taxes if needed. The Kospi Index of shares slipped 1.7 percent
this week as foreign investors sold more local stocks than they
bought in the six days through yesterday.  “Investors remain concerned the Cyprus issue hasn’t been
resolved, which is keeping them from investing in emerging-
market assets,” said Jeon Seung Ji, analyst at Samsung Futures
Inc. in Seoul. “Exporters are looking to sell dollars, which
will limit further declines in the won.”  The won slid 0.6 percent this week to trade at 1,117.03 per
dollar as of 10:40 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.1 percent today and touched
1,119.95 on March 20, the weakest since Sept. 27. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 8.45 percent.  Prospects for economic growth in Europe this year are “not
good,”  John Lipsky , the International Monetary Fund’s former
no. 2 official said at a forum in Seoul today. Continued
monetary easing brings concerns of slowing growth and inflation
in  U.S. economy , Lipsky said.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 dropped one basis point to 2.58 percent, a record low,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The yield dropped
three basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  