-- World’s Richest Lose $15 Billion as Buffett Beats Ortega
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2013-03-22T21:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/world-s-richest-lose-15-billion-as-buffett-beats-ortega.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet dropped $15.2 billion from their collective net worth
this week as Cyprus struggled to ward off a financial collapse.  The biggest loser was  Larry Ellison . The founder and CEO of
software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  shed $4.4 billion from his fortune
during the week. The Redwood City, California-based company fell
the most since 2011 on Thursday after last quarter sales and
profit missed analysts’ estimates. The 68-year-old ranks 8th in
the world with a net worth of $38.6 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “The fact that Cyprus needs assistance is not new,” said
Hans Olsen, head of New York-based investment strategy at
Barclays Wealth Management, in a note to clients yesterday.
“European policymakers have yet to develop the right financial,
regulatory and structural cocktail to knock the debt virus from
the tissue of their collective economy.”  European and Cypriot officials are locked in talks to avert
the Mediterranean island’s financial demise. The finance chiefs
are considering a plan to shutter the two biggest banks in
Cyprus and freeze the assets of uninsured depositors. The
 European Central Bank  has said it will cut off emergency funding
to Cypriot banks at the end of Monday, March 25 unless there is
a deal.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 1.1 percent during the
week, closing at 294.04. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost
0.2 percent to close at 1556.89 in New York.  Buffett, Ortega  Warren Buffett  is once again the world’s third-richest
person. The 82-year-old American investor regained the title on
Wednesday after relinquishing it to Spanish retail tycoon
 Amancio Ortega  in August. Buoyed by a 49 percent jump in fourth-
quarter profit, shares of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  have
rallied 14.7 percent this year, driving up Buffett’s fortune to
$54.9 billion, $200 million ahead of Ortega.  The 76-year-old founder of the Zara clothing chain has seen
his wealth decline amid fresh concern that Spain’s recession
will hurt sales for his  Inditex SA (ITX)  holding company. From a
record high on Jan. 2, the shares have slumped 4.2 percent. He’s
now worth $54.7 billion, down $2.8 billion for the year.  Mexican telecommunications magnate  Carlos Slim , 73, remains
the richest person in the world with a fortune of $70.7 billion.
He finished the week up $2.9 billion after shares of his America
Movil SAB, the largest wireless carrier in the Americas by
subscribers, surged 8.4 percent amid an increase in share
buybacks and optimism from its finance chief on Mexican
telecommunications legislation.  The stock had plunged to its lowest price in almost four
years last week.  High Valuations  Slim’s banking, mining and construction companies are so
expensive that if they aligned with industry averages, he would
relinquish the No. 1 position to Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill
Gates ,  Bloomberg News  reported Thursday. The wealth gap between
between the two was $184 million last week, the closest it’s
been since the index debuted in March 2012.  Gates, 57, remains the world second-richest person with a
net worth of $67.3 billion.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  chairman Philip Knight gained $840 million.
Shares of the world’s largest sporting-goods company surged the
most in more than 20 months after the company eased investors’
concerns that its profitability and business in China were
weakening. The stock rose 11.1 percent in trading yesterday for
the largest intraday gain since 1982. The 75-year-old ranks 47th
on the ranking with a net worth of $15.8 billion.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David De Jong in New York at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  