-- Would-Be Terrorist Lied to FBI About Travel, Jury Is Told
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-22T21:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/would-be-terrorist-lied-to-fbi-about-travel-jury-is-told.html
A  New York  man lied to U.S. agents
about his reasons for traveling to Pakistan to hide his true
intention of joining the Taliban or al-Qaeda, a prosecutor told
jurors at the end of a trial in Brooklyn.  Abdel Hameed Shehadeh, 23, made the June 2008 trek to wage
“violent jihad,” yet later told agents he wanted to attend a
religious school, a wedding and an engagement party, according
to the prosecutor. Shehadeh is charged with three counts of
making false statements about the trip.  “The FBI remained vigilant,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
David Sarratt said today in closing arguments to jurors. “By
doing so, they thwarted the defendant’s plans. The consequences
of the defendant’s lies could have been disastrous.”  A New York native from  Staten Island , Shehadeh attracted
the attention of U.S. authorities when he purchased a one-way
ticket to Islamabad, according to court documents. Agents first
confronted him at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  before
his plane left and then kept in touch with him regularly for
more than two years, according to the documents.  Shehadeh was denied entry in Pakistan and he returned to
the U.S. immediately.  After lying repeatedly about the reasons for his trip,
Shehadeh later disclosed his true intentions while under the
impression that he was acting as an informant for the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , the government alleged. Agent Russ
Mochizuki of the FBI testified that Shehadeh was falsely told he
was an informant as a “ruse.”  ‘Nothing Violent’  A lawyer for Shehadeh, Frederick Cohn, argued during the
trial that his client’s statements about the trip were
immaterial and he was convinced he was working for the
government.  “He did nothing violent,” Cohn said in his opening
statements. “Most of the time he was cooperating with the
FBI.”  Jurors began deliberating this afternoon.  The jury of five men and seven women heard testimony from
two of Shehadeh’s friends about his motives for the trip and
interest in terrorist groups. Jurors were also shown violent
messages and images of al-Qaeda leaders from websites Shehadeh
ran. One of the sites, www.civiljihad.com, displayed a logo that
appeared to drip with blood.  ‘Jihadist Propaganda’  “The defendant created some websites that were full of
violent jihadist propaganda,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Alexander Solomon in his opening statement.  Before attempting his trip to  Pakistan , Shehadeh bought a
hiking backpack and searched the Internet for terms such as
“Damadola” and “South Waziristan,” which are militant
strongholds in the tribal region of Pakistan, Sarratt said.
Shehadeh also searched for “Waziristan map,” “Taliban” and
names of al-Qaeda operatives, according to Sarratt.  “The defendant knew exactly where he wanted to go and
exactly what he wanted to do,” the prosecutor said today.  No witnesses were called on behalf of Shehadeh. For much of
the proceeding, he sat next to defense lawyers in khaki jail
garb.  He wore jail garments even after U.S. District Judge Eric N. Vitaliano advised him he could be given other clothing for
the trial.  Along with his flight to Pakistan, Shehadeh made other
attempts to fight on behalf of terrorists, prosecutors said.  Army Rejection  In October 2008, he tried to join the U.S. Army so he could
turn his gun on fellow soldiers on the battlefield, prosecutors
said. He was rejected because he failed to disclose the Pakistan
trip in his travel history, according to court filings.  That same month, Shehadeh flew to Amman, Jordan, where he
was denied entry, according to the documents. He later left New
York and was found living in a homeless shelter in  Hawaii  and
working at a RadioShack, Mochizuki testified. Mochizuki said he
and other agents interviewed Shehadeh and allowed him to believe
he was working as an informant for the government.  The information he provided was “useless,” the agent
said.  The FBI agents told Shehadeh he was on the “No Fly” list,
which prevented him from making an overseas trek from Maui to
Dubai in June 2009, according to court documents. Mochizuki said
Shehadeh had asked to become an informant to get off the list.  Cohn, the defense attorney, today told Vitaliano that
prosecutors were trying to “terrify the jury” in their closing
statement.  “That is the nature of international terrorism,” the
judge said.  The case is U.S. v. Shehadeh, 10-cr-01020, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  