-- WTI Oil Rises, Narrows Discount to Brent
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-03-22T20:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/wti-oil-rises-narrows-discount-to-brent.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose,
narrowing its discount versus Brent to the lowest level since
July, on signs that Cyprus is moving closer to a deal to stave
off financial collapse and as the U.S. economy improved.  WTI capped a third weekly gain and the euro increased
against the dollar as a Cypriot lawmaker said talks are going in
the right direction to avert the island’s financial collapse.
U.S. jobless claims dropped to the least in five years last
week, based on the four-week  moving average , the Labor
Department said yesterday. Brent lagged WTI’s rally as German
business confidence unexpectedly fell.  “Oil is rising because the euro is stronger and there is
optimism that Europe and Cyprus will reach a last-minute deal,”
said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in Chicago. “When you are worried about the European
economy, you are not going to see Brent get stronger. The U.S.
economy is a lot better.”  WTI for May delivery gained $1.26, or 1.4 percent, to
settle at $93.71 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Prices are up 0.3 percent this week. The volume of all futures
traded was 13 percent below the 100-day average for the time of
day at 4:04 p.m.  Brent for May settlement increased 19 cents to end the
session at $107.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It closed at $107.45 March 19, the lowest level
since Dec. 10. The volume of all futures traded was 8.9 percent
below the 100-day average for the time of day. The grade has
lost 3.1 percent this year, while WTI has gained 2.1 percent.  The European benchmark’s premium to WTI shrank to $13.95,
the narrowest level in eight months.  Cyprus Bailout  Cyprus is trying to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion)
needed to trigger emergency loans from the European Central Bank
and avoid a financial crisis.  “We believe that in the next few hours we could be able,
with a lot of difficulties, to reach a framework that will be
within the policies of the EU, European Central Bank and IMF,”
Averof Neofytou, deputy president of Cyprus’s ruling Disy party,
told reporters in Nicosia, referring to the troika of creditors.
“We are trying hard. I believe we may have a result today.”  The ECB said it will withdraw funding from Cyprus’s lenders
from next week if the government and the euro area fail to agree
on a deal.  The Cypriot parliament rejected a measure to tax bank
deposits earlier this week. German lawmakers from Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition criticized the handling of Cyprus
bailout proposals today.  WTI Buying  WTI is attracting some buying “because of the slightly
better economic picture here in the States,” said Gene McGillian, an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Investors are looking for a reason to
send WTI higher. It’s going to stay stationary overall because
of the risk of a default in Cyprus.”  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of the world’s
oil consumption in 2011,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World
Energy shows.  The euro gained as much as 0.9 percent to $1.301. A
stronger euro and weaker dollar increase dollar-denominated
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “We do not think that risk appetite has necessarily
deteriorated,” said Harry Tchilinguirian, head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London, who forecasts that
Brent will average $114 a barrel this quarter. “Once the Cyprus
issue is resolved, and ultimately it will have to be resolved,”
crude is likely to strengthen, he said.  Brent oil will rebound toward $111 a barrel “once the
current macroeconomic headlines fade,” Miswin Mahesh, an
analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said in an e-mailed report
today.  German Confidence  German business confidence fell from a 10-month high in
March as Cyprus inflamed the euro region’s debt crisis. The Ifo
institute in Munich said its  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, declined to 106.7 from 107.4 in
February. That’s the first drop in five months.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted more
than economists estimated in March, data from London-based
Markit Economics showed yesterday.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI crude options
expiring in May was at 17.6 percent at 4 p.m., a decrease from
18.3 percent yesterday. The figures have slipped from 24.7
percent on Feb. 21.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 402,572
contracts as of 4:04 p.m. It totaled 410,594 contracts
yesterday, 25 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.65 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  