-- Zinc Use in China Seen Stronger by CRU on Construction Spending
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-22T17:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-22/zinc-use-in-china-seen-stronger-by-cru-on-construction-spending.html
Zinc usage is strengthening in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal used to rust-
proof steel, as the state finances spending on building,
according to researcher CRU.  “Orders are picking up sharply,” London-based analyst
Graham Deller said by phone. “The bulk of zinc used in China is
within domestic construction. The uptick in construction orders,
especially government-funded construction, which happened the
third and fourth quarter of last year -- that’s feeding into
physical demand. Galvanizers have a lot of business.”  Zinc sheet is used “extensively” in construction in areas
including roofing and gutters, the International Zinc
Association  says . China’s government said in 2011 it planned to
build 36 million units of social housing by next year. The
nation accounted for 44 percent of global zinc demand last year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., and 53 percent of its usage
was for construction and infrastructure, RBC Capital Markets
Ltd. estimates.  “There’s been a big change in sentiment in China since
they came back from holidays,” Deller said today, referring to
last month’s weeklong Lunar New Year celebration. “They seem to
have switched in the last month or so from everyone being very
depressed to everyone being optimistic.”  Zinc demand in  Europe  is “flat to down,” while
consumption in  North America  “still seems to be doing OK,”
driven by demand from the  auto industry , Deller said. “There do
seem to be signs of optimism in the construction sector as
well,” he said.  Medium-gauge steel sheet that’s been galvanized, or coated
with zinc, by being passed through a bath is used mainly in body
panels for cars,  according  to the association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  