-- Ackermann Says Greek Default Would Be ‘Playing With Fire’
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-28T12:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/ackermann-says-greek-default-would-be-playing-with-fire-1-.html
The economic and political
consequences of  Greece  defaulting instead of reaching a
voluntary debt-restructuring deal are being underestimated,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive OfficerJosef Ackermann said.  “Default risk is much higher than what people normally
take into account,” Ackermann said today in an interview at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland. “You see already
that some markets are nervous about certain countries,” he
said. “That is playing with fire if you think that a default
will have no impact.”  As Greece’s creditors continue negotiations with the
country’s government as well as the  International Monetary Fund ,
European Union, and European Central Bank over the terms of a
restructuring, some investors and financiers are downplaying the
consequences of a default.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said this week that it would not be a
“disaster,” Dow Jones reported, citing an interview with CNBC.  “They are underestimating the collateral damages and they
are underestimating the risk of contagion,” Ackermann, 63, said
today. “If we have a default in the euro zone going forward,
this will reduce somewhat the trust and confidence in the euro
system and so, in that sense, we should do everything also from
a historic and political perspective to prevent a default.”  Market participants remain sceptical that Greece will be
able to make a 14.5 billion-euro ($19.2 billion) bond payment in
March. In a Bloomberg Global Poll of 1,209 investors released
this week, 93 percent of respondents said they expect Greece to
default.  Single Negotiator  Such a failure would damage direct investments that banks
and companies have made in Greece while also hitting the firms
because of their exposure to its broader economy, Ackermann said
today. The fallout would affect a claim of about 100 billion
euros that the  European Central Bank  payment system has against
the Greek central bank, he said.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, has 874.7 million
euros of total debt exposure to Greece, according to figures
released by the European Banking Authority in  London  in
December. The bank at that time had sold 4.42 billion euros of
credit-default swap protection on Greece and had purchased 4.32
billion euros of CDS protection, the data showed.  Ackermann is immersed in the Greek debt negotiations as
chairman of the  Institute of International Finance , which
represents banks, fund managers and other private-sector Greek
creditors in the debt-restructuring talks. He said today that he
wants policy makers at the table, including the IMF, EU, ECB and
Greek government, to appoint a single negotiator to ease the
process.  Soros, Babacan  “We have a team now in Athens negotiating, or ready to
negotiate, and we need someone from the public sector who has
the authority to close the deal,” Ackermann said. “The gap is
narrowing. We are still not quite there where the IMF and
especially  Germany  would like to be, but we are making good
progress.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  told Bloomberg Television
yesterday that Greece remains the region’s weakest link.  “If Greece defaults it should not be the end of the world,”
Soros said. “But the rest of  Europe  needs to be sufficiently
ring-fenced, and not enough has been done.”  Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan also warned
against the dangers of allowing a country to default.  Turkey  is
not a member of the European Union or the euro area.  “Once that door is open for defaults, it is possible and
likely other countries could go through that door,” Babacan
said today in Davos. “It’s time to show a serious demonstration
of solidarity, but make sure countries don’t default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in Davos,  Switzerland , on 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Otis Bilodeau at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net  