-- Magic Johnson Group Makes Cut for Dodgers, L.A. Times Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-28T19:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/magic-johnson-joe-torre-make-cut-for-dodgers-l-a-times-says.html
Bidding groups led by  Magic Johnson 
and  Joe Torre  are among those selected as candidates to acquire
Major League Baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers, the Los Angeles
Times reported.  The finalists will be notified by Blackstone Advisory
Partners, the investment bank handling the sale for owner  Frank McCourt , the team said in a statement yesterday.  “The preliminary round of bidding has underscored the
robust nature of the sales process,” the Dodgers said in the
statement.  About 10 groups, including one headed by hedge-fund manager
 Steven Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut, advanced to the second round of bidding, the Times
said, citing an unidentified person familiar with the process.  Other approved bidders include basketball Hall of Famer
Johnson, who is partnered with former baseball executive Stan Kasten; Torre, former manager of the Dodgers, who has joined
real estate developer Rick Caruso; and a group led by cable
investor Leo Hindery and New York financier Marc Utay.  Dallas Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban  won’t be included in the
next round, the Times said, citing the person familiar. Cuban
didn’t answer e-mails seeking comment by Bloomberg News.  The Dodgers have debts of about $570 million, the team said
in a disclosure statement filed with its plan of reorganization
earlier this month.  The team received several bids of more than $1 billion,
which would set a record for the purchase of a baseball club,
the Times said.  McCourt will name the winning bidder by April 1 with the
sale to be completed by April 30, the Times said. McCourt owes
his ex-wife Jamie a $131 million payment by May 1, the Times
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  