-- Arab League Suspends Syrian Mission
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-01-29T12:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/arab-league-suspends-observeration-mission-as-syrian-fighting-intensifies.html
The  Arab League  suspended its
observer mission in  Syria  as forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad pressed on with attacks against protesters strengthened
by army defectors.  The 22-member group halted the mission due to “the grave
deterioration of the situation in Syria, and the continuation of
violence and exchange of shelling and shooting,” the group’s
secretary-general, Nabil El-Arabi, said in a statement
yesterday. “The Arab League decided to immediately stop the
work of its observers’ mission in Syria until submitting the
issue to the council of the Arab League for review.”  The suspension of a regional mission that aimed to end the
violence and allow for a political resolution to unrest that has
left about 5,000 dead may add to pressure on the international
community to find a solution. The Arab League had proposed a
power-transfer plan for Syria that has been sent to the  United
Nations  as they seek to end the violence in the country.  “The suspension helps guarantee that the Arab League will
be able to successfully argue that a resolution needs to be
passed and that the UN should start thinking about getting
involved militarily,” according to  Theodore Karasik , director
of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis.  Latest Attacks  Six Syrian soldiers were killed when a “terrorist group”
detonated a bomb on a road outside of Damascus, the state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency reported today, citing an unidentified
military official. Six others were wounded in the attack, the
news service said.  Syrian security forces killed seven today,  Al-Jazeera 
television reported, citing activists. Sixty-five Syrians were
killed yesterday in violence across the country, the news
service said. In addition, at least 20 unidentified corpses were
recovered in the national hospital of Hama, according to the
network.  El-Arabi and Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani plan to travel to  New York  and present Syria’s dossier
to the Security Council on Jan. 31. A draft council resolution
affirms a transition plan put forward by the Arab League calling
for a national unity government within two months to implement a
handover of power.  Opposed Efforts  Syria has rejected the Arab League proposal saying it
infringes on the country’s sovereignty while  Russia  has opposed
 Security Council  efforts to take action against Syria.  The Security Council on Jan. 27 discussed a revised draft
resolution calling on Assad to transfer power to his deputy.
Previous language, which urged Assad to abandon power to pave
the way for “fair elections,” was replaced with a call for him
to hand over “full authority” to his deputy and for the
“formation of a national unity government,” according to the
draft obtained by Bloomberg News.  Eleven months into the unrest, the European Union and the
U.S. have yet to overcome Russia’s resistance at the UN’s
decision-making body to hold Assad responsible for the
crackdown.  Assad’s security forces maintained their efforts to crush
demonstrations even after the Cairo-based organization sent
observers to Syria on Dec. 26. The monitors tried to ensure that
Assad followed through on his pledge to withdraw security forces
from cities, release political prisoners and allow anti-
government demonstrations.  ‘Little Time’  “The Syrian regime has little time left,”  Paul Sullivan ,
a specialist in Middle East security at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in an e-mail. “The clock is ticking. If it
were not for Iranian and Russian help, Bashar would have been
out already most likely.”  Assad’s government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign
provocateurs for fomenting the protests.  More than 100 people were killed in clashes Jan. 27, the
bloodiest day since the uprising started in March, Al Jazeera
reported, citing activists.  Syria said it was surprised by the Arab League decision
after agreeing to allow the mission in the country for another
month, the official  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified government official.  The Syrian government controls access to the country for
journalists and the death tolls cited by activists aren’t
independently verifiable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net 
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  