-- Azarenka Wins Australian Open Title to Extend Sharapova’s Grand Slam Skid
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-28T13:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/azarenka-beats-sharapova-in-australia-for-first-major-title.html
Victoria Azarenka won the Australian
Open to grab her first Grand Slam title and the No. 1 ranking a
year after her grandmother talked her out of quitting tennis.  The 22-year-old from Belarus, the No. 3 seed, beat  Maria Sharapova  of Russia 6-3, 6-0 at Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne
last night to become the fourth straight first-time major winner
in the women’s game.  “I guess I made a pretty smart decision not walking out,”
said Azarenka, who was presented the trophy by five-time Grand
Slam champion Martina Hingis. “I’m so glad that I went through
everything I had in my career to achieve this goal. There’s
always ups and downs.”  Azarenka wanted to retire in February, after she lost in
the first round of an event in Doha. She told reporters at
Wimbledon, where she made her first major semifinal, that her
grandmother had talked her into playing on, pointing out that
life as a tennis player was a lot better than trying to hold
down three jobs at the same time.  Last night’s victory over the fourth-seeded Sharapova
pushes Azarenka into the top spot in women’s tennis, passing
 Denmark ’s  Caroline Wozniacki  and Petra Kvitova of the  Czech
Republic . Azarenka had moved to the final by ousting defending
champion  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium  in the semifinals.  The last time that the WTA’s No. 1 ranking was decided by
the outcome of a Grand Slam final was at the 2009 Australian
Open. Azarenka’s win also marks the first time each of the four
majors are held by first-time champions, the WTA said. Li Na of
 China  won the French Open, Kvitova is the Wimbledon champion and
 Australia ’s Samantha Stosur took the U.S. Open.  ‘Great Level’  “It’s a great thing for women’s tennis,” Azarenka told
reporters. “It’s a great competition, and we can really look
forward for the women’s game. It’s at a great level right now.”  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  faces No.
2 seed  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  today in their third straight
matchup in a Grand Slam final. Djokovic won the previous two to
secure the Wimbledon and  U.S. Open  titles and is seeking to
become just the fifth man since the Open professional era began
in 1968 to win three majors in a row.  Azarenka, who entered Rod Laver Arena wearing a yellow
hooded top and listening to music through headphones, overcame a
nervous start to her first Grand Slam final. She made two double
faults on her way to losing her opening service before going on
to make 12 unforced errors to 30 from Sharapova.  ‘Like a Rabbit’  “She did everything better than I did,” Sharapova said
after slipping to a 3-3 record in Grand Slam finals. “I had a
good first couple of games, and that was about it. Then she was
the one that was taking the first ball and hitting it deep and
aggressive. I was always the one running around like a rabbit,
trying to play catch-up all the time.”  After falling behind 2-0, Azarenka won 12 of the last 13
games to extend her winning streak in 2012 to 12 matches after
tuning up by taking the Sydney International.  The Belarusian held her second service game with a forehand
down the line after trailing love-30. She used the momentum to
break Sharapova to even the match at 2-2. Leading 4-3, Azarenka
hit three volleyed winners to break and earn the right to serve
for the first set, which she took in 46 minutes.  She broke again at the start of the second set with
forehand winner after anticipating the direction of an overhead
from Sharapova. Azarenka held serve and then, focusing on
Sharapova’s second serve, broke for a 3-0 lead. The Russian won
just 3 of 17 total points on her second serve.  Sharapova saved one break point, but hit a forehand long on
another second serve to trail 5-0. The Russian got a break point
with a ball that hit the netcord and dropped over, though she
couldn’t convert. A Sharapova backhand into the net ended the
match, and Azarenka fell to her knees in celebration.  Breakthrough Year  Azarenka had a breakthrough year in 2011, reaching the
semifinals at Wimbledon and the final of the season-ending WTA
Championships.  After taking the Sydney title by beating Li, Azarenka
dropped just two sets in  Melbourne  to reach the championship
match, against Clijsters in the semifinals and Agnieszka Radwanska in the quarterfinals.  “It’s been so long, this road since Sydney,” Azarenka
said with the trophy by her side. “I didn’t have one day off.
So it kind of kept going and right now it still hasn’t hit me
that it’s over and I won this.”  Azarenka moved to the U.S. in 2005 to train and lived with
the family of Soviet Union-born National Hockey League goalie
Nikolai Khabibulin at their home in  Paradise Valley ,  Arizona .
She’s now based in  Monte Carlo .  Sharapova had been seeking her fourth major title and first
in four years. She broke through at Wimbledon in 2004 at age 17
and followed with wins at the 2006 U.S. Open and 2008 Australian
Open, making her the world’s highest-paid female athlete.
Sharapova was ranked No. 1 in 2008, before a shoulder injury
sidelined her for nine months and pushed her out of the top 100.  “I’m proud of the fact that I made it this far,” said
Sharapova. “It’s been a few years since I’ve been in the finals
of the Australian Open. It’s a good start to the year. I have a
lot to look forward to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  