-- Bank of Canada’s Carney Says Volcker Rule Might Damage Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/bank-of-canada-s-carney-has-concerns-with-volcker-rule-draft.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said U.S. efforts to prevent deposit-taking banks from trading
with their own money could damage markets in government bonds
and other securities unless the plans are revised.  U.S. regulators’ latest draft of the so-called Volcker rule
may prevent banks from buying securities while conducting trades
for clients, Carney said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker  at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland.  “It is not clear the definition of ‘market-making’ versus
‘proprietary trade,’” Carney said. “There appears to be a
presumption that something is proprietary,” adding “we think
that it should go in reverse.”  The Volcker rule, named after former U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , 84, seeks to stop regulated banks that
receive support from the government from making risky bets with
their own money.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the most profitable
securities firm before converting to a bank in 2008, is among
Wall Street companies that have argued the limitations could
harm capital markets by reducing the role of banks.  Carney, 46, has become one of the world’s most important
financial policy makers since he was named in November to
succeed  Mario Draghi  as chairman of the  Financial Stability
Board . Group of 20 leaders have charged the FSB with making
recommendations for global financial reform and to monitor
progress. Draghi stepped down after becoming president of the
 European Central Bank . Carney and Draghi both held roles at New
York-based Goldman Sachs earlier in their careers.  ‘Obvious Concerns’  “I am speaking from my perspective at the  Bank of
Canada ,” Carney said. “We and other officials in Canada have
looked at the current draft of the Volcker rule and we have some
obvious concerns.”  The Volcker rule, as currently written, exempts any trades
in U.S. government securities from the prohibition. Unless the
same exemption is provided to other countries’ government bond
markets, it could drain trading activity, he said.  “No other government bond market is carved out,” he said.
“U.S.-based institutions are significant players in those
markets, and so there is a potential for real liquidity
change.”  Carney isn’t the first official from outside the U.S. to
criticize the Volcker rule for its potential effects on markets.
Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said in a Jan. 25
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York that Canada’s
federal and provincial governments should get the same
exemptions to the rules that are granted to U.S. governments.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  “We’re very concerned about the Volcker rule and its
unintended consequences for us,” he said.  Japan’s central bank and financial regulator, in a letter
to U.S. authorities on Dec. 28, said the rule would increase the
cost of trading Japanese  government bonds  unless it was amended
to exempt them. The European Union’s internal market
commissioner,  Michel Barnier , plans to raise objections to the
Volcker rule with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
next month, the Wall Street Journal reported last week.  Carney said the rule could freeze trading in markets
outside the U.S. because of uncertainty over how it could be
applied to “any U.S.-based infrastructure.”  Sows Confusion  The rule also has been criticized within the U.S. by House
Republicans and banking-industry groups. They have said the
draft, proposed by four agencies in October and by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission this month, sows confusion about
which activities are permitted and puts U.S. firms such as
Goldman Sachs and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  at a
competitive disadvantage to overseas rivals.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  and top officials from the CFTC
and three other agencies defended the 298-page rule at a Jan. 18
hearing before a House Financial Services joint subcommittee in
 Washington , faulting Congress for imposing complexities in the
Dodd-Frank Act, which mandates the rule.  “There is a lot of concern” in other countries about the
rule,  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at Bank of Montreal in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “We would probably notice
the absence of liquidity in  Canada  of those U.S. institutions
and more so in  Europe ,” where the sovereign-debt crisis has
roiled markets.  Carney’s role at the Financial Stability Board adds more
weight to the criticism of the rule, John Clinkard, economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Goldman Sachs, said at a Nov. 15 investor conference that he
expects clients to push back against the Volcker rule when they
realize the potential harm it could do to markets. Goldman
Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, made 60 percent of
its revenue from trading last year.  “Most of the questions we’re responding to at this point
are questions that our clients have for what the consequences
will be to them,” Blankfein, 57, said at the time. “If we’re
hearing about it directly, I think user groups will chime in and
make their interests known. In fact, I’m sure of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net  