-- California Cities Lose Bid to Stop Redevelopment Law Diverting $1 Billion
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M e l i s s a   C o r k e r
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/california-law-dissolving-redevelopment-agencies-won-t-be-blocked-by-judge.html
California ’s law dissolving
redevelopment agencies as of Feb. 1 and redirecting more than
$1 billion of their funds to the state to fill a budget gap
won’t be blocked by a judge in  Sacramento .  State court Judge Lloyd Connelly, ruling yesterday in a
pair of lawsuits filed by California cities claiming the law is
unconstitutional and jeopardizes bondholder payments, rejected a
request to issue an injunction blocking it.  Under the law, 400 redevelopment agencies will be abolished
and taxes going to them will be blended in a caretaker fund run
by local governments that would pay investors holding more than
$20 billion in bonds.  “I have mixed emotions about this,” said Connelly, who
said he previously served on a city council. “I understand the
motivation of the state and their right to exercise that
discretion. I also understand the problems with some of the ways
in which the tax increments were spent, but as a whole it’s been
a good thing.”  Jeffrey Oderman, an attorney representing the cities, said
the law’s fine print could leave bondholders in third or fourth
place behind other payees and without a funding source if the
agencies run out of money. He said in a phone interview before
the hearing that the law isn’t consistent with bondholders’
rights.  Yesterday, Oderman said he couldn’t discuss the cities’
next steps until he confers with his clients.  The California Supreme Court upheld the law Dec. 29 in a
separate court challenge. The high court didn’t consider the
legal arguments raised in the lawsuits led by the cities of
Cerritos and Carlsbad. The cities had asked for a court order
blocking enforcement of the measure pending the outcome of their
cases.  Ross Moody, a lawyer for the state, said yesterday’s ruling
was what he “expected would happen.”  The case is City of Cerritos v. California, 2011-80000952,
California Superior Court (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  