-- Carnival Sued in Miami by Six Passengers of Wrecked Cruise Ship in Italy
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-01-28T18:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/carnival-sued-in-miami-by-six-passengers-of-wrecked-cruise-ship-in-italy.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest
cruise line owner, was sued in Miami over the Jan. 13 wreck of
the Costa Concordia off the coast of  Italy .  The complaint, which names six plaintiffs, four Americans
and two Italians, was filed yesterday in state court in Miami,
said attorney Marc J. Bern, who provided Bloomberg with a copy.
The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed with the court.  The plaintiffs were “in terror of catastrophic injury,
death, drowning, having been placed in a situation where common
sense said the vessel was sinking but the orders from the crew
were to return to their cabins,” according to the complaint.  Bern said he’s working with an Italian consumer-law group,
Codacons, as well as the New York firm of Proner and Proner. He
said he expects to later sue on behalf of about 1,000 passengers
of the Costa Concordia.  Carnival Cruise lines, based in Miami, and Costa Cruise
Lines, based in Hollywood,  Florida , are named as defendants in
the complaint. Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman for Carnival, said,
“Since this is pending litigation, we are not in a position to
comment at this time.”  A crew member of the ship filed a complaint Jan. 26 in
federal court in  Chicago  seeking at least $100 million in
damages. The crew member, Gary Lobaton, seeks class-action
status to represent all victims of the disaster off Giglio
island.  The Carnival ship, carrying 4,200 passengers and crew for a
Mediterranean cruise, struck rocks and ran aground leaving at
least 17 people dead.  Insurance Costs  Insurance costs for the accident may reach $1 billion once
environmental damage and injuries are tallied, Moody’s Investors
Service said Jan. 23. Most of the losses will be incurred by
reinsurers, Moody’s said. Jefferies International Ltd. put the
total at $850 million in a separate report.  Hours after the vessel left a port near  Rome , the ship’s
captain, Francesco Schettino, deviated from the planned route
and steered close to the island, according to Italian
investigators. Carnival’s Costa Crociere unit suspended
Schettino, who was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for
allegedly causing the shipwreck.  Schettino told prosecutors that company officials requested
him to perform a maneuver known as a “salute,” which led the
cruise liner to sail close to the island, according to the
newspaper La Repubblica. Carnival knew of the danger of sailing
so close to shore and knew the Schettino had performed such
maneuvers in the past, according to the complaint.  Duty Breached  “By retaining Francesco Schettino, despite this practice,
defendants have breached their duty of care,” according to the
complaint.  Carnival’s Genoa-based  Costa Crociere unit  said that while
a “touristic navigation” five miles from the coast of Giglio
was planned for the Concordia on its cruise, it was up to the
captain to ensure the safety of the route.  The 51-year-old captain allegedly left the ship after the
accident ripped a hole in the hull and before the last passenger
was evacuated. Schettino ignored repeated orders from a Coast
Guard official to get back on the cruise liner and allegedly
took a taxi into town before being arrested.  Schettino is accused of manslaughter and abandoning the
ship, which his lawyer, Bruno Leporatti, has denied.  Witnesses described a chaotic rescue. The deputy mayor of
Giglio, Mario Pellegrini, said it took him 20 minutes to find a
senior officer on the ship and that he helped passengers to
lifeboats after he was unable to find senior crew members to
coordinate with.  Alarm System  The ship didn’t have an adequate alarm system to warn crew
and passengers that it was taking on water, according to the
complaint.  Costa Crociere has offered passengers assistance to return
home and plans to refund all expenses, including the cruise
fare, the unit said. Costa is also discussing other damage
claims with consumer associations.  Carnival has said the accident will cut fiscal 2012
earnings by about $85 million to $95 million, or 11 cents to 12
cents a share. The company said it anticipates additional costs
to the business.  Carnival cruises depart mostly from the U.S., the Bahamas
and the Caribbean, according to the line’s website. Its Costa
Crociere unit operates mostly in southern  Europe . Carnival owns
10 cruise lines including Princess, Seabourn, Holland America,
Cunard and P&O.  The Costa Concordia was insured by companies including
Assicurazioni Generali SpA, RSA Insurance Group Plc and XL Group
Plc.  The case is Scimone v. Carnival Cruise Lines, Circuit Court
of the 11th Judicial Circuit (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  