-- Carstens Says Mexico’s Historic Drought May Hamper Inflation Expectations
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e ,   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   M a r t a   M a r i n o
-- 2012-01-30T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/carstens-says-mexico-s-historic-drought-may-hamper-inflation-expectations.html
Mexico ’s worst drought on record is
pushing up food costs and may hamper the country’s efforts to
keep inflation expectations in check, central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said.  “We have had a very severe drought in Mexico and that has
affected some agricultural prices,” Carstens said in an
interview Jan. 28 from the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland . “We need to be watchful so that those relative
price adjustments do not have secondary-order effects on
inflationary expectations.”  Inflation (MXCPYOY)  has accelerated for three consecutive months as
the drought in the country’s north sparks price increases in
produce including corn, tomatoes to beans. An appreciation in
the peso so far this year will help keep inflation within a
range of 3 percent to 4 percent in 2012, Carstens told reporters
on Jan. 27.  The drought, which President Felipe Calderon said Dec. 14
was the worst on record, is crimping grain crops and fueling
concerns of shortages of food and water supplies in some areas.
Mexico is spending about 34 billion pesos ($2.63 billion) to
help communities and farmers deal with the lack of rainfall, the
interior ministry said this week.  Strength in Mexico’s economy will “anchor” the value of
the peso, Carstens said Jan. 28. Mexico and other emerging
countries may be affected if the debt crisis in  Europe  deepens,
he said.  “Mexico has good foundations to navigate through these
turbulent waters,” he said.  European Debt Crisis  Europe must make an “important contribution” to the
 International Monetary Fund  to ease the debt crisis, Carstens
said. The IMF needs additional funds to deal with the
consequences of the crisis for other countries outside of the
region, he said.  “Europe plays such an important part in the world economy
that to have Europe not on the right path can affect growth
prospects, trade, and investment in many other countries and in
particular in the emerging market economies,” he said.  Emerging countries will be “more than willing to
participate” in delivering funds to the IMF and to avert a
wider crisis, Carstens said.  Mexican policy makers have pushed for greater support for
the fund through its current presidency of the Group of 20.  Carstens, 53, competed against  Christine Lagarde  for the
top post at the IMF in May. Although he lost, he won support
from some emerging market governments in his effort to break
Europe’s hold over the IMF’s leadership.  A former IMF deputy managing director, he was named by The
Banker magazine in December as central bank governor of the
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 