-- Chavez Says He’ll Disregard World Bank Arbitration Rulings
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-01-28T00:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/chavez-says-he-ll-disregard-world-bank-arbitration-rulings-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he won’t accept any rulings from the World Bank’s
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, or
ICSID, as they are contrary to the South American country’s
constitution.  “Any decision taken at the ICSID comes up against the
Venezuelan constitution,” Chavez said in comments broadcast on
state television. ”As an independent country, we won´t accept
that.”  Venezuela ’s government officially requested to leave the
Washington-based International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes, or ICSID, Jan. 25 after being a member
since 1993. The court is currently considering about 20 suits
filed by companies against Venezuela.  Venezuela´s intention is to disavow any obligation to pay
future ICSID awards on arbitration regarding currently pending
cases by saying all of them were nullified by the current
constitution, Bank of America analysts  Francisco Rodriguez  and
Jane Brauer said today in an e-mailed report.  “Given that nonpayment would be an event of default, we
believe Venezuela will ultimately back down,” the report said.  Chavez said today he already feels free from the ICSID,
while adding he understands the process to leave the arbitration
court will take six months.  “Even after a denunciation of the ICSID Convention by
Venezuela takes effect, claimants can still come forward and
file ICSID claims because Venezuela is a signatory to more than
20 bilateral investment treaties consenting to arbitration,”
said  Michael Nolan , a partner in the Washington office of
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, in an e-mail.  Chavez also denied a report in Madrid-based ABC newspaper
saying he may have as little as nine months to live.  “There are some Spanish media telling the world that I’m
dying,” Chavez said. “I am more alive than ever. They say that
I injected painkillers. It is pure speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  