-- Davos Leaders Urge Europe to Fix Crisis Hurting Growth
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-29T08:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/davos-leaders-urge-europe-to-resolve-crisis-threatening-the-global-economy.html
Global finance chiefs warned no
economy is safe from  Europe ’s debt crisis, adding urgency to
their calls for its governments to deliver a swift resolution.  Policy makers from Hong Kong to  Canada  used the last full
day of the  World Economic Forum  to push euro-region counterparts
to boost their bailout cashpile to protect Italy and Spain. They
also pressed Greece and its creditors to strike a credible
agreement to cut the nation’s debt.  Failure to deliver home-grown solutions would cost Europe
any chance of further outside support and undermine the
International Monetary Fund’s push for more crisis-fighting
resources of its own, officials said. The concern tempered
optimism from earlier in the week when delegates expressed hope
that Europe had succeeded in calming markets after two years of
turmoil.  “I’ve never been as scared as I am about the world,”
 Donald Tsang ,  Hong Kong ’s chief executive, said yesterday in
Davos,  Switzerland . “Nobody’s immune. You need decisive action.
You need to inspire confidence.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  estimated the European
crisis will subtract 1 percentage point from global growth by
the end of 2012 “and that’s in a world where this crisis is
contained.” Europe’s pain could be transmitted via trade or
financial channels with banks already hoarding cash or investing
only in domestic markets, he said.  ‘Train Wreck’  Yale University Professor Robert Shiller echoed the concern
by estimating the euro-area will contract this year by more than
the 0.5 percent predicted by the IMF.  Nouriel Roubini , co-
founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said  Greece  may be
forced to quit the single currency within 12 months.  “The  euro zone  is a slow-motion train wreck,” Roubini
said.  The concern leaves the euro-area’s leaders under pressure
to raise the size of their rescue funds from the limit of 500
billion euros set to take effect in July when a permanent fund
comes online aside the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility.  While they plan to reassess that amount in March, U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  indicated they may
need to do so sooner by demanding steps in “the next few
weeks.” EU leaders next meet in two days time in Brussels to
draw up a fiscal compact to strengthen governance of the euro
area.  Not Dealt With  Osborne also sided with the consensus by urging a fast
accord on slashing Greece’s debts, three months since creditors
agreed to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of more
than 200 billion euros of debt. Negotiations continue in  Athens 
this week.  “The fact we’re still at the beginning of 2012 talking
about Greece is a sign this problem hasn’t been dealt with,”
Osborne said.  Carney said a “credible” agreement is required even if
that means increasing the participation of the private sector
and perhaps the public sector. Turkey’s Deputy Prime Minister
Ali Babacan said Greece should be prevented from defaulting
because “once that door is open” others could follow.  Policy makers from  Japan  and the U.K. said while they and
others might add to the IMF’s coffers, a prerequisite was Europe
putting up more money of its own. Absent “firm action, I don’t
think developing countries like  China  are willing to pay more
money,” Japanese Economy Minister Motohisa Furukawa said.  Little Bag  Seeking to insulate the world from Europe’s woes, Lagarde
wants to boost her institution’s lending capacity by $500
billion. She made her pitch by saying the world had “never been
so interconnected” and that the IMF was always repaid with
interest.  “I’m here with my little bag to collect a little bit of
money,” she said.  Last-minute worries took the shine off the sentiment of
earlier in the week when delegates sounded upbeat about Europe’s
outlook after financial markets stabilized. Market lending rates
eased again this week and Italian and Spanish bonds rose as
borrowing costs fell at debt auctions. At the same time,
Portuguese credit-default swaps hit a record and Fitch Ratings
on Jan. 27 downgraded  Spain , Italy and three other euro
countries.  Buys Time  World Bank President Robert Zoellick said the respite was
likely temporary and linked it to the ECB last month lending
euro-area banks a record 489 billion euros for three years to
ward off a funding squeeze.  “I’m really glad the ECB took these actions, but let’s not
be complacent,” Zoellick said. “This buys time, you still have
to act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Jana Randow in Davos at  jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  