-- Delta Air Said to Study US Airways Bid
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/delta-said-weighing-bid-for-us-airways-as-amr-bankruptcy-spurs-m-a-reviews.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is studying a
bid for  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  as North American carriers assess
possible combinations after the bankruptcy of American Airlines
parent  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) ., people familiar with the matter said.  A potential tie-up with  US Airways  is only one option under
consideration amid a review that may not lead to any offers,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. Atlanta-based Delta hasn’t
approached US Airways, one of the people said.  Delta and TPG Capital also are evaluating possible bids for
American, people familiar with the matter have said, and US
Airways has confirmed it’s doing the same. American, the third-
largest U.S. carrier, filed for bankruptcy Nov. 29 following
annual losses that began in 2008.  The filing touched off widespread reviews by U.S. airlines
of all their competitors for possible mergers and acquisitions
as well as purchases of assets that might be divested in a
restructuring, one of the people said.  Delta declined to comment on any consideration of a US
Airways bid, citing its policy against discussing rumors or
speculation, said  Betsy Talton , a spokeswoman. US Airways also
declined to comment, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman.  US Airways surged 61 percent this year through Jan. 27,
while Delta jumped 28 percent as most U.S. airlines advanced.  Following AMR’s bankruptcy, analysts speculated that it
might receive an offer from US Airways, and Chief Executive
Officer Doug Parker said last week that his company, the fifth-
largest U.S. carrier, is evaluating the possibility of such a
merger.  ‘Value-Enhancing Opportunities’  Millstein & Co., Barclays Plc and the law firm of  Latham &
Watkins LLP  have been hired to help Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways evaluate AMR options, Parker told analysts and investors
on a Jan. 25 earnings conference call.  “We can now decide whether it’s best to operate as a
stand-alone or to participate in further consolidation over
time, and that’s what we intend to do,” Parker said on the
call. US Airways is “always interested in studying potential
value-enhancing opportunities.”  With the industry shrinking in tie-ups in the past four
years, further contraction is possible while not imperative,
Parker said.  US Airways is preparing a merger plan that would boost
revenue and fix a weak domestic route system at American, people
familiar with the matter said this month. President Scott Kirby
is leading the analysis, said the people.  “We expect AMR will remain in bankruptcy for quite some
time and, therefore, we and our advisers will be studying the
situation for quite some time,” Parker said on the call.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  is now the biggest U.S.
carrier after its predecessor, UAL Corp., merged with
Continental Airlines Inc. in 2010. No. 2 Delta bought Northwest
Airlines Corp. in 2008, and No. 4 Southwest acquired AirTran
Holdings Inc. last year.  Delta’s evaluation of a US Airways bid was reported by the
Wall Street Journal on Jan. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  