-- Dollar Tumbles on Fed’s Interest Rate Pledge, Discussions Over Greek Debt
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-28T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/dollar-tumbles-on-fed-s-interest-rate-pledge-discussions-over-greek-debt.html
The dollar fell against all its
most-traded counterparts after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to
keep interest rates low for at least three years, spurring
investors to seek higher-yielding assets.  The greenback declined for a second week against the euro,
the longest streak in three months, on speculation the U.S.
central bank will enact further monetary stimulus and that
 Greece  would reach a deal with private-sector creditors.
Canada’s dollar and  Norway ’s krone rallied as gasoline prices
reached an almost five-month high.  “The combination of the direct implications for U.S.
yields and the fact that the carrot of quantitative easing is
still dangling rather enticingly over the market was an
undeniable dollar negative,” said Ray Attrill, head of currency
strategy for BNP Paribas SA in New York.  The dollar fell 2.2 percent to $1.3220 per euro, after
dropping 2 percent last week, its longest losing streak since
October. The greenback lost 0.4 percent to 76.70 yen in its
first weekly drop this year. The euro rose 1.8 percent to 101.39
yen.  Canada ’s currency had its biggest weekly gain versus the
dollar in a month. Crude oil, the largest export for Canada and
Norway, was buoyed as gasoline jumped to the strongest level
since August.  Canada Rally  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose 1.1 percent
to C$1.0018. It traded stronger than parity on Jan. 26 for the
first time since Nov. 1.  Norway’s currency reached its highest level in six weeks
against the greenback. The krone gained 2.2 percent to 5.8001
per dollar and 0.3 percent to 7.6675 per euro.  The euro gained against the dollar every day this week.
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday that Greece was “close” to reaching
agreement with its creditors.  “The next three days will be very crucial,” Rehn said at
the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . An agreement may
come “if not today, then over the weekend,” he said.  Euro area governments are seeking to fill a deeper-than-
expected hole in Greece’s finances by pressing investors to
accept a lower  interest rate  on exchanged bonds. The accord is
tied to a second financing package for the cash-strapped
country, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March
20.  Greek Talks  “The euro is benefitting from hopes that we could enter
next week with a deal for Greece to stabilize its finances,”
said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.
“Expectations that U.S. interest rates will be on hold for an
even longer duration puts a spotlight back on global interest-
rate differentials that highlights a key source of dollar
weakness.”  Italy auctioned 182-day bills at a yield of 1.969 percent
yesterday, down from 3.251 percent at a sale of similar-maturity
debt on Dec. 28. The Frankfurt-based ECB loaned euro-region
banks a record 489 billion euros ($646.5 billion)for three years
on Dec. 21 to avert a credit crunch.  Futures traders increased their bets the euro will fall
versus the dollar to a record for a fifth straight week. So-
called net shorts rose to 171,347 on Jan. 24, according to data
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, declined for a second week,
dropping 1.7 percent to 78.825.  The Fed “recognizes the hardships imposed by high and
persistent unemployment in an underperforming economy, and it is
prepared to provide further monetary accommodation,” Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said at a Jan. 25 press conference in Washington
after the central bank’s meeting.  The Fed pledged to keep its interest rate at a record low
of zero to 0.25 percent until late 2014.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 2.8 percent annual
rate following a 1.8 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington . The median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 3 percent increase.  Weekly Downturn  The dollar was the worst performer this week against its
nine developed-nation counterparts, falling 1.6 percent,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weight Indexes. The euro
gained 0.9 percent and the yen fell 0.6 percent.  The yen fell against most of its major counterparts after
the Ministry of Finance said  Japan ’s exports dropped 8 percent
in December from a year earlier. The median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 7.4 percent
decline. The Japanese currency is viewed as a safe haven because
the nation’s trade surplus makes the currency attractive because
it means the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies was 10.3 percent, almost the lowest in since March,
according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7) . Low volatility
makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending
rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that market
moves will erase profits.  “We’ve had an environment of very low volatility so that is
good for carry trades,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto. “The truth of the
matter is that interest rates are on hold for a very long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  