-- Euro Officials Said to Discuss Veto Powers Over Greek Budget Decisions
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-28T15:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/euro-officials-said-to-discuss-veto-powers-over-greek-budget.html
European policy makers are
discussing plans to directly intervene in Greek budget decisions
as the country struggles to cut its deficit, two euro-region
government officials said today.  Under the proposals, European institutions would have
powers to implement austerity measures agreed under the terms of
 Greece ’s bailout agreements, said one of the officials, who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential.
The plan would accelerate decision making and strengthen the
power of officials overseeing Greece’s budget as part of the so-
called troika of the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , the person said.  European leaders meet in Brussels on Jan. 30 as they draw
up a fiscal compact to strengthen governance of the euro region
after  Greece (GDBR10)  sparked a wave of financial turmoil that still
threatens to splinter the bloc. With Greece struggling to meet
the terms of bailout agreements struck over the past two years,
European officials are trying to work out how to deal with
countries that can’t meet the terms of bailout agreements.  The Greek government rejects the plan because it’s contrary
to national sovereignty, a Greek official said today. A German
 finance ministry  spokesman declined to comment. The French
finance ministry didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Executive Tasks With Greece  The European Commission said today that executive tasks
must remain the full responsibility of the Greek government.  “That responsibility lies on their shoulders and it must
remain so,” commission economics spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said
in an e-mailed statement. “The  Task Force  on technical
assistance set up by the commission continues to support the
Greek authorities in a number of key areas to reform and
optimize public administration, among other crucial tasks.”  It also said, “The commission is committed to further
reinforce its monitoring capacity and is currently developing
its capacity on the ground.”  The Financial Times earlier today reported that  Germany  is
proposing the creation of a commissioner, appointed by euro-
 member states , with power to veto budget decisions by Greece as
a condition for its second bailout agreement.  The proposal is likely to spark controversy in Greece as
politicians gear up for an election that may take place in
April. Nine in 10 Greeks are unhappy with the performance of
 Lucas Papademos ’s interim government, according to a poll
published by Skai TV and the newspaper Kathimerini on Jan. 15.  Elections Near  The main opposition New Democracy Party, led by Antonis Samaras, had 30.5 percent support and the socialist Pasok party
had 14 percent. Backing for both the Communist Party of Greece
and the Coalition of the Radical Left was around 12 percent, the
poll showed.  The Greek government is currently locked in talks with
bondholders, who agreed three months ago to implement a 50
percent cut in the face value of more than 200 billion euros
($264 billion) of debt. A worsening economy since then has made
it more difficult to achieve a goal of cutting Greece’s debt to
120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020. An accord with
bondholders is tied to a second bailout from Greece’s European
partners and the IMF for the country, which faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment March 20.  Greece now requires 145 billion euros as part of its second
aid package, 15 billion euros more than was agreed in October,
 Der Spiegel  reported today, citing an unidentified official from
the troika in Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  