-- Gilts Advance on Bets Bank of England Will Increase Purchases
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-28T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/gilts-advance-on-bets-bank-of-england-will-increase-purchases.html
U.K. government bonds rose this
week, pushing two-year yields down by the most in more than a
month, on speculation the Bank of  England  will buy more debt
after a report showed the economy is edging toward recession.  Sterling fell for a third week against the euro as European
officials said negotiations over a Greek debt swap are leading
to an agreement. Minutes from the central bank’s latest policy
meeting, published on Jan. 25, showed some policy makers say
more stimulus is “likely.” The U.K. economy contracted 0.2
percent from the third quarter, twice the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, the Office for National Statistic said on the
same day.  “The U.K. economic outlook has deteriorated and that
supports a market view that the Bank of England will provide
further stimulus,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “The
uncertainty surrounding the Greek debt talks also underpins
demand for AAA assets. Gilts should continue to do well in this
environment.”  The  yield  on the 10-year gilt fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, from Jan. 20, to 2.07 percent as of 4:31
p.m. London time yesterday. Two-year note yields declined three
basis points, the biggest drop since the five days ending Dec.
16. Thirty-year yields were little changed at 3.12 percent.  The pound fell 1 percent from last week to 83.90 pence per
euro and declined 0.4 percent to 120.39 yen. It rose 0.7 percent
to $1.5692. Sterling dropped 1.3 percent so far this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar declined 2.3 percent
and the euro lost 0.6 percent.  Gilt Sales  Yields may rise next week before the Debt Management Office
sells 3.75 billion pounds of gilts. The debt agency plans to
auction 2.5 billion pounds of 5 percent bonds maturing in 2025
on Feb. 1, and offer 1.25 billion pounds of a 0.125 percent
index-linked security due in 2029 the next day.  The  Bank of England ’s current round of bond purchases under
its quantitative easing program will end this month. Governor
 Mervyn King  said on Jan. 24 that slower  inflation  gives policy
makers room to increase bond purchases to guard against a
“renewed severe downturn.” His view was echoed in minutes of
the January policy meeting published the next day.  ‘Inflation Target’  U.K. consumer-price inflation slowed to an annual 4.2
percent in December, from a record-equaling 5.2 percent in
September. The Bank of England aims to keep annual price
increases below 2 percent.  “For some members, the risks of undershooting” the
inflation target “meant that a further expansion of asset
purchases was likely to be required,” the central bank said in
the minutes of its Jan. 11-12 meeting. “But there was no
compelling need to increase the scale of the program before
completing those already announced.”  Gilts underperformed Treasuries this week as the  Federal
Reserve  extended its pledge to keep  interest rates  low until
late 2014 and signaled it may buy more bonds to cap borrowing
costs. The extra  yield  investors demand for holding 10-year U.K.
government debt instead of its U.S. counterpart rose to 14 basis
points from nine basis points last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  