-- Liverpool Beats Manchester United, Chelsea Defeats QPR in F.A. Cup Soccer
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-28T19:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/liverpool-beats-manchester-united-chelsea-defeats-qpr-in-f-a-cup-soccer.html
Liverpool beat  Manchester United  2-1
in the fourth round of English soccer’s F.A. Cup, as Chelsea
advanced and Newcastle was upset.  Dirk Kuyt’s goal in the 88th minute gave Liverpool the home
win at Anfield. The Reds eliminated a Manchester team from a cup
competition for the second time in four days after their Carling
Cup semifinal victory over  Manchester City .  “They controlled large parts of the game, but the most
important thing was the result and we got there in the end,”
Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  told broadcaster ITV.  Juan Mata  scored with a disputed penalty kick in the second
half to lift Chelsea to a 1-0 win at QPR. There were two upsets
on the day as Newcastle lost 1-0 to Brighton of the second-tier
Championship and Crawley Town, from fourth-tier League Two, beat
Hull 1-0.  Tensions ran high leading up to matches at Liverpool and
QPR, which were the first meetings of the respective teams since
racial issues in games between them earlier in October.  Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  sat out as he serves an eight-game
ban for racially abusing United defender  Patrice Evra , who was
booed by Liverpool fans.  Chelsea captain  John Terry  also allegedly racially abused
QPR’s Anton Ferdinand in a match, a charge he denies. England’s
Football Association, after discussions with both clubs, said in
a statement the two would forego the traditional pre-game
handshake “to further defuse tensions before the match.”  Liverpool Advances  “There was a tendency from the players to focus only on
the game,” Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas said on the club’s
website. “Emotions were kept low and both teams set out to play
football and it worked as a spectacle.”  Daniel Agger  put Liverpool in front at Anfield after 21
minutes, only for Park Ji-Sung to tie the game for United 18
minutes later. Liverpool won the game with two minutes remaining
as goalkeeper Pepe Reina’s downfield punt was headed into the
penalty area by Andy Carroll. Kuyt raced ahead of Evra to the
ball and fired a shot past David De Gea.  “I don’t know how they lost it,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told ITV. “Just one breakaway, one bad break against
you and you can lose the game.”  Mata’s penalty lifted Chelsea past west London rival QPR at
Loftus Road. The kick came in the 62nd minute after referee Mike Dean judged Clint Hill had taken down Daniel Sturridge. QPR
protested the call and television replays appeared to show Hill
making slight contact with Sturridge.  Brighton, Crawley Upsets  Brighton defeated Newcastle on an own goal in the 76th
minute when Will Buckley’s shot deflected off defender Mike
Williamson and past goalkeeper Tim Krul. Matt Tubbs scored as
Crawley, tied for second in the League Two lead, won at Hull,
which is two divisions and 45 ranking places higher.  In all-Premier League matchups, Bolton beat Swansea 2-1 on
a goal from Chris Eagles early in the second half, while Simeon
Jackson’s 85th-minute goal lifted Norwich over West Brom by the
same score.  Swindon, the other League Two team left in the competition,
lost 2-0 at Leicester. Stoke defeated Derby 2-0, Birmingham won
4-0 at Sheffield United and Stevenage beat Notts County 1-0.  Blackpool and Millwall earned replays by scoring late for
1-1 ties. Kevin Phillips’s injury-time penalty gave Blackpool
the draw with Sheffield Wednesday, and Darius Henderson scored
with four minutes left as Millwall tied with Southampton.  The fourth round concludes tomorrow as Sunderland hosts
Middlesbrough and  Aston Villa  is at Arsenal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 