-- Texas Official Urged by Judges to Negotiate Redistricting Deal
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/judges-urge-compromise-to-end-texas-redistricting-fight-to-allow-election.html
Texas  Attorney General Greg Abbott’s
office was urged by a panel of judges to keep trying to broker a
compromise with Latino activists that would let the court create
interim election maps and allow Texas to conduct primary
elections without further delays.  The only chance Texas has to salvage its current April 3
primary date, U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia said at a
hearing yesterday in San Antonio is for “all the parties to get
together in a room and resolve this. Short of that, it is not
likely we are going to have an April primary.”  Texas Deputy Attorney General David Mattax told Garcia,
“I’m going to work as hard as I can to settle whatever I can.”  Garcia asked the parties to submit their proposed
compromises to the court by Feb. 6 for its use in creating
interim maps. The deals won’t be binding on the court or
constitute formal settlements of claims that the Republican-
controlled legislature’s redistricting plan discriminates
against Latino voters.  Mattax said he’s opened negotiations with all the principal
voting-rights groups opposed to the state’s maps to discuss
temporary solutions for the “handful” of U.S. congressional
and state legislative districts he said are truly disputed as
potentially discriminatory.  ‘Doesn’t Concede’  “I’m trying to do something where the state doesn’t
concede but doesn’t object” to temporary boundary changes
opponents want for election maps the Republican-controlled
legislature created last year, Mattax said. “We need to get a
map out so we can have some primaries.”  The  San Antonio  judges had ordered all parties involved in
the state’s redistricting dispute to court yesterday to discuss
splitting the primaries onto different dates and whether the
state could repay counties for the cost of holding multiple
primaries. The session was the latest round of a six-month
redistricting fight that has already reached the  U.S. Supreme
Court (1000L) .  Hispanic voting rights groups and lawmakers whose jobs were
threatened by the state’s new voter maps sued Texas Governor
Rick Perry, a Republican, in federal court in San Antonio after
he approved the legislature’s work last July. Critics claim the
new boundaries were designed to prevent the election of Latinos.
State lawmakers contend they didn’t discriminate and were
legally allowed to draw districts that favored the election of
Republicans.  Splitting Primaries  The San Antonio court is considering splitting Texas’s
primaries, holding the presidential primary April 3 and all
other state and local primaries later, Garcia said. When Mattax
told Garcia the legislature probably wouldn’t use emergency
funds to reimburse cash-strapped counties for the cost of
multiple elections, Garcia replied that could be a deciding
factor for the court.  Several county election officials testified they couldn’t
afford to pay for multiple primary elections and needed seven
weeks to 150 days to prepare for elections. The most time-
consuming element is complying with federal laws requiring that
printed ballots be mailed to overseas military personnel, Jacque
Callanen, a Bexar County election official testified. She said
Texas has more military ballots to process than some states do
regular ballots.  Texas was required to create new voter boundaries after
gaining four congressional seats to accommodate almost 4.3
million new residents since 2000, according to the 2010  U.S.
Census . About 65 percent of the state’s population growth came
from Hispanics, who have historically voted more often for
Democrats than Republicans.  Justice Department  After the activists sued Perry in San Antonio, Texas sued
the U.S.  Justice Department  in  Washington  seeking so-called pre-
clearance of its maps. Pre-clearance is required of all states
with a history of voting rights violations. Texas can’t
implement its new election boundaries without this approval from
either a Washington federal court or the Justice Department.  To avoid election delays while it considers pre-clearance,
the Washington court asked the three-judge San Antonio panel
last year to draw temporary voter maps for the election cycle.
The Texas panel released interim boundaries in November after
taking testimony in a two-week trial. The court also postponed
the state’s primary elections from March 6 to April 3 to allow
candidates time to assess the boundary lines.  Texas appealed the San Antonio judges’ maps to the U.S.
Supreme Court. The high court rejected the court-created maps as
not deferential enough to the legislature’s maps. The justices
ordered the San Antonio judges to try again, using the
lawmakers’ maps as a starting point.  Washington Court  The Washington court hasn’t ruled on pre-clearance. That
court is scheduled to conclude a two-week trial next week, and
the San Antonio judges asked the Washington judges to expedite
their ruling to guide the Texas panel’s redistricting efforts.  After yesterday’s hearing, Luis Roberto Vera Jr., national
general counsel for the League of Latin American Citizens, said
he wasn’t optimistic about the state’s ability to broker a
compromise, especially on the Congressional district map.  “Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  started making the
calls himself last night,” Vera said in an interview outside
the courthouse. “But they’re trying to get the plaintiffs to
fight amongst each other. I believe Texas will have a unified
primary on May 29.”  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appellate case is
Perry v. Perez, 11A536 (Congressional map); U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  