-- News Corp. Journalists Arrested as U.K. Bribery Probe Spreads to The Sun
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-29T09:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/news-corp-journalists-arrested-as-u-k-bribery-probe-spreads-to-the-sun.html
Four current and former employees of
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s tabloid The Sun were among five men arrested on
bribery allegations as a year-long police investigation spreads
to Britain’s best-selling daily newspaper.  Officers searched company offices in London and made the
arrests with the help of a News Corp. committee set up to assist
Operation Elveden, a probe into inappropriate payments to
police, the company said in a statement yesterday. It said the
arrests were the result of News Corp. “proactively” providing
information to a U.K. bribery investigation.  The arrests came the day after News Corp. Deputy Chief
Operating Officer  James Murdoch  indicated he’s preparing to move
to the company’s headquarters in  New York , a plan that was
delayed last year by the bribery and phone-hacking scandal, in
which more than 20 people have been arrested, though no one has
been charged.  “News Corp. made a commitment last summer that
unacceptable news gathering practices by individuals in the past
would not be repeated,” the company said.  The four arrested employees are The Sun’s head of news
Chris Pharo, crime editor Mike Sullivan, former deputy editor
Fergus Shanahan and former managing editor Graham Dudman,
according to two people familiar with the matter, who declined
to be named because the information isn’t public.  Corruption  The Metropolitan Police said in a statement that four men
were arrested on suspicion of corruption. A fifth person, a
serving officer in the Territorial Policing command, was
detained at the central  London  station where he works, it said.  All five men were later bailed “pending further
inquiries,” the Met said in a separate statement.  Miranda Higham, a News Corp. spokeswoman, and Alan
Crockford, a spokesman for the police, declined to identify the
employees or comment on the arrests beyond the statements.
Contacts details for Pharo, Sullivan, Shanahan and Dudman
weren’t available via the Internet.  Yesterday’s arrests aren’t the first time News Corp.’s
Management and Standards Committee has acted on information
uncovered during internal reviews. The company last year fired
Matt Nixson, a features editor at The Sun who previously worked
at the News of the World.  In court documents filed in response to an employment
lawsuit, the MSC said Nixson had agreed to pay a prison guard
for information and had failed to raise an objection when he
received an e-mail about phone hacking.  Sunday Tabloid  The arrests come ahead of a potential start of a Sunday
edition of the Sun to succeed the News of the World. The
publication will probably be called The Sun on Sunday, with the
first edition expected to go on sale on April 29, the
Independent newspaper  reported  yesterday, without saying how it
got the information.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News International, declined to
comment on “speculation.”  Operation Elveden was set up last year to investigate
alleged bribes paid to officers by News Corp.’s News of the
World tabloid, which was shuttered in July 2011 as a result of a
phone-hacking scandal.  News International is facing police probes of phone
hacking, computer hacking and bribery and has agreed to pay more
than 5 million pounds ($7.9 million) to settle dozens of
lawsuits filed by victims of phone hacking.  In the phone-hacking probe, called Operation Weeting,
police have made at least 17 arrests since the probe started
about a year ago.  Murdoch Return  James Murdoch, the son of News Corp. ChairmanRupert Murdoch, is leaving the board of London-based  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  after less than three years as he’s moving to New York, the
U.K. drugmaker said this week. Murdoch’s strategy adviser for
 Europe ,  Matthew Anderson , is stepping down and moving to  San
Francisco , News Corp. said separately.  James Murdoch was named deputy chief operating officer last
March, four months before reports of voicemail interception by
tabloid journalists in the U.K. forced News Corp. to drop its
bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  U.K. lawmakers are
currently preparing a report about Murdoch’s role in the scandal
and may publish their findings in coming weeks.  The fallout of the scandal also led to the resignation of
Rebekah Brooks, the CEO of News International, and Les Hinton,
head of the Dow Jones & Co. division who had previously worked
in the U.K.  Murdoch joined News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News
International as chairman in December 2007, after the hacking
took place. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes
with News Corp. units in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  