-- Obama Says Congress Blocking His Government Nominees, Engaging in Gridlock
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/obama-says-congress-should-take-lesson-from-the-u-s-military.html
President  Barack Obama  said members
of Congress are blocking his nominations for political gain and
tangling Washington in “gridlock” instead of dealing with
important issues.  In his weekly radio and Internet address released today,
Obama said lawmakers should look to the “incredible example”
set by the U.S. military and work together to achieve the goals
outlined in his annual State of the Union remarks on Jan. 24,
which included increasing U.S. manufacturing, creating jobs in
clean energy and supporting domestic oil production.  Members of the military “focus on the mission at hand”
and are “not consumed with personal ambition,” Obama said,
repeating a theme from his State of the Union speech.  He repeated a message from his address, calling on Congress
to pass a rule that would give all judicial and public service
nominations a “simple up-or-down vote within 90 days.”  Obama pointed to a statement by Utah Senator  Mike Lee , a
Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, who said he
wouldn’t vote to confirm any of Obama’s judicial nominations
until the president revokes his Jan. 4 recess appointments of
 Richard Cordray  to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
and three members of the  National Labor Relations Board .  The Constitution gives presidents authority to make
appointments without confirmation when the Senate is in recess.
Republicans say Obama’s recess appointments were unlawful,
because the Senate stayed in session by holding brief pro-forma
meetings every three days during the holiday break.  Political Points  Obama said that Lee probably thinks the nominees are
qualified and accused him of “gumming up the works” to earn
political points in an election year. He said that all of his
judicial nominees being blocked have support from Democrats and
Republicans.  He also repeated another request from his State of the
Union address calling on Congress to “stem the corrosive
influence of money in politics” with a bill that would limit
elected officials from “owning stocks in industries they
impact.” He said that so-called bundlers, who raise large sums
of campaign money, shouldn’t be allowed to lobby Congress.  In the Republican address, Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida 
said the president’s State of the Union speech “pit Americans
against other Americans” by telling people concerned about
losing their jobs “that the way to help them is to raise their
bosses’ taxes.”  Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, called the president’s
populist message “divisive.”  ‘Economic Heritage’  “For the first time in my adult life, we have a president
who’s asking us to abandon our economic heritage,” he said.  Obama, he said, is proposing economic policies that would
make the U.S. “like the countries people come here to get away
from.”  Rubio, who hasn’t endorsed a candidate ahead of  Florida (BEESFL) ’s
Jan. 31 primary, said that American capitalism was the reason
his father got a job as a bartender and it allowed him to
support his family.  Still, Rubio said he recognized that he benefited from
 student loans  and grants to get his education and he said that
the government has a role to play in people’s lives.  Americans have always believed “that those who have made
it fairly, can stay there. And those who are trying to make it
will have a real chance to join them,” he said in a reference
to the debate over illegal immigration.  Rubio said the national  debt  has grown under Obama’s watch
and the  unemployment  rate has increased since he took office.  Obama didn’t talk about his administration’s successes in
the State of the Union “because there isn’t much” to
highlight, he said. Republicans in Florida are looking forward
to the primary because they “believe our country is in big
trouble,” Rubio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  