-- Omnicare Sued by FTC to Block $440.8 Million Takeover of Rival PharMerica
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/omnicare-sued-by-u-s-regulators-to-block-takeover-of-pharmerica.html
U.S. regulators sued  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) 
to block its $440.8 million takeover of rival drug-supply
company  PharMerica Corp. (PMC) , a deal they said would increase prices
for elderly nursing-home residents covered by Medicare.  Omnicare’s acquisition of Louisville, Kentucky-based
PharMerica would give it the bargaining leverage to raise
medicine prices for those covered by Medicare prescription drug
plans, passing those costs on to U.S. taxpayers, the Federal
Trade Commission said yesterday in a statement.  Omnicare offered $15 a share in August in an unsolicited
bid for PharMerica, which the Covington, Kentucky-based company
extended yesterday for a fourth time before the FTC’s
announcement. The regulators’ complaint leaves little room for
Omnicare to make changes or negotiate further, probably killing
the deal, said A.J. Rice, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial
Group LLP in New York. That would make PharMerica attractive to
private equity firms, he said.  “It would be a natural buy for private equity,” Rice
said. “It’s in a fairly concentrated market with two players in
the space, and no chance of being topped by a strategic buyer
because Omnicare will be out of the picture.”  An acquisition would give Omnicare control of as much as 60
percent of the market to distribute drugs to nursing homes,
hospitals and hospices, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli
& Co. in Rye, New York. Omnicare already is the largest such
supplier.  ‘Diminish Competition’  “If Omnicare is allowed to purchase its biggest and only
national competitor, it will diminish competition and raise
health-care costs, leaving taxpayers and patients to foot the
bill,” said Richard Feinstein, director of the FTC’s bureau of
competition, in a statement.  Omnicare said in a statement that it disagrees with the FTC
decision and the deal for PharMerica would help lower costs. The
company sought the acquisition to save money through automation
and scale amid U.S. cuts to health-care spending, Omnicare Chief
Executive Officer John Figueroa said when the bid was announced
in August.  Omnicare declined less than 1 percent to $33.05 at the
close of  New York  trading yesterday before the FTC’s
announcement. PharMerica declined as much as 16 percent to $12
in  extended trading  after the FTC’s action. The shares had
closed at $14.30.  National Networks  Omnicare and PharMerica operate about 300 long-term care
pharmacies across the country that coordinate with nursing homes
and contract with residents’ prescription drug plans, the FTC
said. The network of pharmacies don’t provide medications to
“walk-in” consumers, the agency said.  Omnicare had  revenue  of $6.1 billion in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. PharMerica’s 2010 revenue was $1.8
billion.  If the acquisition occurs, Omnicare’s competition for
nursing home residents’ drug plans “would come from small,
regional and local long-term care pharmacies, none of which
currently operates in more than a few states,” the FTC said in
its statement. Omnicare already has used its size to bargain for
better Medicare prescription drug plan contracts, threatening to
terminate them if the company’s terms were not met, the agency
said.  Omnicare may have failed to persuade the FTC that its
specialized market was competitive with retail pharmacies, Rice
said.  NeighborCare Deal  The FTC in 2005  allowed  Omnicare’s takeover of
NeighborCare, saying that the company had many rivals in local
areas and that the institutional pharmacy market was easy to
enter. The commission also dismissed a concern that the Medicare
Modernization Act would allow Omnicare to get above-market rates
by coordinating with prescription drug plans.  “The FTC has already examined the institutional pharmacy
industry, noting the numerous players and explaining how the
ease of entry and other market conditions facilitate
competition,” Omnicare said in yesterday’s statement. “The
institutional pharmacy business is competitive and Omnicare is
confident it would remain so after the transaction.”  Omnicare’s takeover offer had a value of $716 million
including net debt, the company said in August.  “It undervalues PharMerica,” Gregory Weishar,
PharMerica’s chief executive officer, said Jan. 12 at the J.P.
Morgan Chase Health Care Conference in  San Francisco .
“Reasonable success in executing our growth strategy will lead
to greater  shareholder value  than the $15.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  