-- Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes Loses $16 Million Drapkin Verdict
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-01-28T05:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/perelman-s-macandrews-forbes-loses-16-million-drapkin-verdict.html
Ronald Perelman ’s MacAndrews &
Forbes Holdings Inc. was ordered by a jury to pay $16 million to
Perelman’s ex-lieutenant, Donald Drapkin, after jurors found the
billionaire’s firm breached a separation agreement.  Jurors in  Manhattan  federal court deliberated for about 90
minutes before returning their verdict yesterday in Drapkin’s
breach-of-contract lawsuit. They had heard three days of
testimony.  “I’m very happy,” Drapkin said immediately after the
verdict.  “We are obviously disappointed” in the outcome,  Barry
Schwartz , executive vice chairman of MacAndrews & Forbes, said
in a statement. “We believe that the facts unequivocally proved
a substantial breach by Mr. Drapkin. We will review all
appropriate post-trial options.”  Drapkin, a dealmaker, sued MacAndrews & Forbes in 2009,
saying he was hired by Perelman in the 1980s to serve as vice
chairman and act as in-house investment banker. In court papers,
he said the relationship between the two men had deteriorated so
much by 2006 that Drapkin’s salary had been slashed and his
responsibilities cut.  Drapkin said he agreed to leave the firm in 2007 in return
for millions of dollars in severance and proceeds from the sale
of his stock. He claimed he wasn’t paid $16 million. MacAndrews
& Forbes said it withheld the payments because Drapkin breached
the separation agreement by withholding documents and trying to
get Eric Rose, who heads the firm’s life sciences business, to
leave.  Laptop Computer  The judge barred evidence about the soured relationship and
said the focus of the trial would be on whether the firm had
breached its contract with Drapkin. As a result, much of the
three days of testimony focused on contract clauses, document
retention and e-mails.  Perelman didn’t testify at the trial, and jurors heard
little about him, his prominent ex-wives including actress Ellen Barkin, or intrigue at the closely held firm, owner of cosmetics
maker  Revlon Inc. (REV)  and Deluxe Entertainment Services Group Inc.,
a provider of movie services. Perelman wasn’t a defendant in the
case.  Drapkin testified, as did his personal assistant, Nancy
Link, on whose laptop computer was found firm-related documents.
Drapkin and Link said they were unaware that documents had been
stored on the computer, which Link was allowed to take with her
when they left the firm.  Drapkin’s lawyer, Elkan Abramowitz, told jurors that
MacAndrews & Forbes was concocting reasons for breaching its
deal with Drapkin, an attorney.  ‘Material Breaches’  “These so-called material breaches were nothing more than
phony excuses,” he said in his summation.  MacAndrews & Forbes presented testimony from Schwartz and
Rose. Rose testified that Drapkin had told him in May 2007 that
Rose’s career would stall after Drapkin had left the firm.  In closing arguments, Matthew Menchel, a lawyer for
MacAndrews & Forbes, argued that Drapkin failed to comply with
the separation agreement because he didn’t adequately instruct
Link to delete documents on her computer.  He also urged jurors not to be swayed by Drapkin’s
testimony about Perelman’s wealth, which Drapkin put at
$12 billion. Drapkin had been paid millions of dollars when he
quit, Menchel said.  ‘Amount of Justice’  “Mr. Perelman and MacAndrews & Forbes are entitled to the
same amount of justice as everyone else,” Menchel told jurors.  After the verdict, juror Nibaldo Aguilera said in an
interview that the amount of compensation at issue was
“obscene, but we acted in accordance with the law.”  “It is sad that friends for 20 or 25 years ended in that
way,” he said.  The cases are Drapkin v. Mafco Consolidated Group, 09-
cv-1285, and MacAndrews & Forbes LLC v. Drapkin, 09-cv-4513,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  