-- RBS Says Chairman Hampton Won’t Get Bonus Amid Furore Over Pay
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-01-28T16:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/rbs-says-chairman-hampton-won-t-get-bonus-amid-furore-over-pay.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
said Chairman  Philip Hampton  won’t receive a bonus agreed when
he joined in 2009 amid political furore over executive pay at
Britain’s biggest state-owned lender.  Hampton had been due to receive 5.17 million shares, a
spokesman for the bank said today by e-mail. That would have
been worth about 1.4 million pounds ($2.2 million), according to
Bloomberg calculations based on RBS’s  closing price  yesterday.  The British Broadcasting Corp. reported today that Hampton
gave up the bonus, saying that he told the bank’s remuneration
committee it would be inappropriate to receive the compensation.
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  is set to be awarded 3.6
million shares, worth about 963,000 pounds, even after the
Edinburgh-based bank said this month it plans to cut 4,800 jobs.  The government won’t vote against Hester’s bonus at the
company’s annual general meeting in April, the BBC reported,
citing Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne . Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s approval has sparked criticism from the
opposition  Labour Party , as well as coalition allies in the
Liberal Democrats and members of his own  Conservative Party .  Hester’s shares will be based on the closing price on Jan.
25 when the decision was taken, the bank  said yesterday . The
bonus is half of what it was last year, Cameron said today in an
interview at Chequers, the prime minister’s country residence.  “We need this team to get on with the job of turning the
bank round,” he said in a transcript of his comments received
by e-mail. “That is the major concern, that’s what needs to
happen and that’s what the team needs to get on and do.”  Britain has an 82 percent stake in RBS after bailing out
the bank with 45.5 billion pounds of capital during the 2008 and
2009 banking crisis. In addition to the planned job cuts, RBS
said this month it intends to sell or close its cash equities,
mergers advisory, corporate broking and equity capital-markets
operations. Its  shares  have fallen 35 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  