-- Treasury Five-Year Note Yields Decline to Lowest Ever on Fed Strategy
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-28T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/treasury-five-year-yield-falls-to-record-low-on-federal-reserve-strategy.html
Treasury five-year note yields fell
to the lowest level ever after Federal Reserve officials
unexpectedly said their benchmark  interest rate  will stay low
until at least late 2014.  Yields on the securities set three consecutive records
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 25 that the central
bank is considering additional asset purchases to boost growth.
 U.S. government debt  rose for a third day yesterday as a report
showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a slower-than-forecast 2.8%
annual pace in the fourth quarter. The Labor Department is
expected to report on Feb. 3 that unemployment remained at 8.5
percent this month.  “Preparation for, and reaction to, the Fed’s low-rate
commitment was the dominant trading trend of the week,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, said in a telephone interview.  The five-year note yield decreased 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 0.75 percent after dipping below 0.74 for
the first time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell 13 basis points to
1.89 percent after climbing to as high as 1.97 percent.  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this year through Jan. 26,
compared with a 0.3 percent decline at the same point last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and the threat of a U.S. economic slowdown
combined to give Treasuries a 9.8 percent return last year, the
most since 2008.  $99 Billion  The Treasury sold $99 billion of debt this week, auctioning
$35 billion of two-year notes on Jan. 24, $35 billion of five-
year debt on Jan 25 and $29 billion of seven-year securities at
a record low yield on Jan. 26. Investors who snapped up the
Treasury’s five-year notes saw the assets’ market value soar as
much as $238 million in less than two hours of trading.  “If you have a Fed on hold for the next three years, five-
year notes probably make some sense,” said  Ray Remy , head of
fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc.,
one of 21 primary dealers obligated to bid in U.S. debt
auctions.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said the economy
will probably slow this year while confronting risks “skewed to
the downside.” The central bank forecast Jan. 25 that gross
domestic product would likely expand about 2.2 percent to 2.7
percent this year, compared with an estimate in November of 2.5
percent to 2.9 percent.  ‘On the Table’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  this week voted to extend
its pledge to keep interest rates low until at least late 2014,
compared with a previous date of mid-2013. Further bond buying
is “an option that’s certainly on the table,” Bernanke said at
a news conference Jan. 25.  “The Fed has made it clear that they don’t care about
inflation with the economy in the shape it is in,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo
Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “They want to keep rates low
as long as they can.”  Yields on 30-year Treasuries increased to 1.17 percentage
points more than those maturing in 10 years, the biggest spread
since September, on concern that more stimulus from the Fed will
eventually spur higher inflation.  “There was a strong message sent to indulge or embrace the
belly, or intermediate part, of the curve,” Russ Certo,
managing director of rates trading at Gleacher & Co. in New
York. “The Fed set the tone for not just this week, but for the
quarter or the year.”  Stockpile Rebuilding  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  The rise in GDP, the value of all goods and services
produced, follows a 1.8 percent gain in the prior quarter,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 3 percent increase. Excluding a jump in
inventories, growth was 0.8 percent. Stockpile rebuilding
accounted for 1.9 percentage points of the expansion.  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the break-even rate, widened today to 1.82 percentage points,
up from 1.55 at the end of last year.  Demand for inflation protection has led to a 1.2 percent
gain in TIPS this year, following a 14 percent return in 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘Keep Rates Low’  The Fed sold $8.74 billion of securities due from March
2014 to January 2015 yesterday as part of a plan to replace $400
billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs. The central bank
purchased $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing that ended in June.  Fed officials are “going to keep their foot on the gas
pedal until it’s wrong,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury
trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “Will
it go too far and crash? I think they’re comfortable saying they
know how to put their foot on the brakes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  