-- Senegal Riots Leave One Dead After President Approved to Seek Re-Election
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-01-28T10:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/senegal-riots-leave-one-dead-after-president-approved-to-seek-re-election.html
Senegal ’s highest court approved a
bid by President  Abdoulaye Wade  to stand in a Feb. 26 election,
paving the way for him to extend his 12-year rule of the West
African country into a third term and sparking riots in the
capital, Dakar.  Wade’s candidacy for next month’s election was approved by
Senegal’s Constitutional Court late yesterday, Serigne Mbacke
Ndiaye, spokesman for the president, said by mobile phone today.
Rioting in Dakar after the court’s decision led to the death of
a policeman, according to local police.  Wade, 85, has fueled criticism in the former French colony
with his bid to stay in power. He has argued that because
Senegal’s constitution was changed in 2008, his time as leader
before then shouldn’t be considered as his first of two
permissible terms as president.  The Constitutional Court is headed by Cheikh Tidiane
Diakhate, who is a supporter of Wade, according to James Clinton Francis, a sub-Saharan Africa researcher with Eurasia Group Ltd.
in  Washington .  “Wade will most likely get the plurality of votes in the
first round of elections, possibly enough to win outright,”
Francis said in an e-mailed response to questions on Jan. 25.  Rioting in Dakar yesterday killed a policeman, spokesman
Alioune Ndiaye said by mobile phone today. The unrest ended at
about 1 a.m. local time and the capital city is currently
peaceful, he said. “Today we will wait and see, but we think it
will be calm,” Ndiaye said.  ‘Widespread Unrest’  An attempt by Wade to lower the proportion of the vote
needed to win a first-round ballot led to two days of protests
in June. The  Constitutional Court ’s approval may lead to
“widespread unrest in Dakar and cities, much worse than those
seen since June,” according to Eurasia’s Francis.  Alioune Tine, leader of Mouvement 23, a group of political
and social organizations, called for protests in Dakar. Y’en a
Marre, a political grouping meaning “we’re fed up” in
colloquial French, plans to hold protests after the court
ruling, said Fadel Barro, a member of the group.  Under Wade’s leadership, Senegal, which has a $13 billion
economy, has been boosting investment in infrastructure ranging
from power plants to roads.  Senegal’s 8.75 percent Eurobonds, due 2021, rose 0.3
percent to 99.188 cents on the dollar late on Jan. 27, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield fell 5 basis points to
8.876 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar on  at
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  