-- Slovenia Nominates Jansa as Premier a Day After Fitch Cuts Credit Rating
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-28T16:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/slovenia-nominates-jansa-as-premier-a-day-after-fitch-cuts-credit-rating.html
Slovenia’s parliament nominated
 Janez Jansa  as the next prime minister to lead the euro-area
nation that’s had its credit score cut by  Fitch Ratings  as the
economy slides into recession.  Lawmakers chose Jansa in a televised vote of 51-39 after
his party came second in an election last month. He has two
weeks to nominate his team of ministers before parliament holds
a confirmation vote. A government could be in place by Feb. 10.,
said Gregor Virant, the speaker of the parliament and a partner
Slovenia’s five-way coalition.  “The priorities are clear as they would be for any
government, to stabilize public finances, spur economic growth
and create new jobs,” Jansa, 53, told lawmakers before the
vote. ”We will focus on savings measures and fiscal discipline
so that our credit rating improves and we can then borrow
affordably since we need money to finance projects.”  Slovenia, which has been without an official government
since September, had its long-term credit rating lowered by
Fitch to A from AA- with a negative outlook yesterday because of
a lack of financing flexibility in the face of the debt crisis.
The country is sliding into recession because demand for its
exports in  Europe  is slowing as nations trim spending to lower
their debt burden.  Jansa, who led the former Yugoslav nation when it adopted
the euro in January 2007, pledged to cut  government spending  by
800 million euros ($10.5 billion) this year.  Costly Borrowing  Slovenia’s borrowing costs advanced past 7 percent in
November as the sovereign debt crisis threatened  Italy , its
neighbor to the west and the third-biggest trading partner after
Germany and  Austria . The yield on notes maturing in January 2021
has dropped since then and stood at 6.487 percent yesterday,
according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slovenians went to the polls on Dec. 4 after the Cabinet of
Prime Minister  Borut Pahor  was toppled in September for failing
to convince voters in the need to approve pension changes and
its own inability to cut spending. The surprise winner of the
snap vote was  Zoran Jankovic , who was nominated by President
Danilo Turk to form a government. He failed to win enough
support from lawmakers.  Slovenia’s gross domestic product shrank an annual 0.5
percent in the third quarter last year. The economy is forecast
to contract 1.1 percent this year, according to the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Slovenia’s government
forecasting institute sees a 0.2 percent growth in 2012.  The nation’s public debt surged to over 45 percent last
year from 23 percent in 2007, according the European Commission.
Slovenia may have difficulties cutting its budget gap to below 3
percent by the end of next year as mandated by the euro region’s
stability pact, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec said on Jan.
26. He says the current  budget deficit  is about 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  