-- Swiss Tax Pact With U.S. May Come Soon, Widmer-Schlumpf Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-01-28T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/swiss-tax-pact-with-u-s-may-come-soon-widmer-schlumpf-says.html
Switzerland  may reach an agreement
with the U.S. about undeclared bank accounts within months,
Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said.  “We’re hoping that we’ll reach an agreement with the U.S.
within the next couple of months,” Widmer-Schlumpf said in an
interview in Davos, Switzerland, where she had a meeting with
the U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner . The fact that
Wegelin & Co., a 270-year-old Swiss private bank, was forced to
sell itself to Raiffeisen Group because of the U.S. tax
investigation highlights the need to find a solution, she said.  Switzerland and the U.S. have been holding talks for a year
to resolve a U.S. probe into offshore  tax evasion  that includes
11 Swiss banks. The investigation includes Wegelin, which
yesterday agreed to a sale after three of its bankers were
charged this month with conspiring to help American clients hide
more than $1.2 billion from U.S. tax authorities.  Widmer-Schlumpf declined to comment on a report in Tages-
Anzeiger today which said Wegelin received a letter from the
U.S. Justice Department about 10 days ago asking the bank to
disclose data on its American clients or face charges. The
newspaper didn’t say where it got the information. Joerg
Denzler, a spokesman for Wegelin, declined to comment on the
article.  ‘Threats of Punishment’  “I cannot say that other banks are in a similar
situation,” Widmer-Schlumpf said when asked whether more Swiss
banks may follow Wegelin’s path. “What I know is that various
banks have been confronted with threats of punishment from the
U.S. We need to continue to try everything to reach a
solution.”  Geithner promised to personally monitor the talks with
Switzerland, Widmer-Schlumpf said in an interview with Swiss
television SF, posted on the station’s website today.  Widmer-Schlumpf told SF she had a “very good, open”
discussion with Geithner and thinks he got the message that
Switzerland wants to find a solution as quickly as possible.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  