-- Syrian Forces Press Crackdown After U.N. Body Disagrees on Draft
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-28T11:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/syrian-forces-press-crackdown-after-u-n-body-disagrees-on-draft.html
Syrian forces pressed their
crackdown against anti-government protesters as the  United
Nations  argued over a resolution that would pressure Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad to transfer power to his deputy.  Eleven Syrians were killed today in violence across the
country as security forces stormed and shelled towns on the
outskirts of Damascus, the Syrian capital, Al Arabiya television
said, citing activists. More than 100 Syrians died in clashes
yesterday, the highest number in one day since the uprising
started, Al Jazeera television reported today, citing activists.  The violence comes after the UN  Security Council  discussed
yesterday a revised draft resolution calling on Assad to
transfer power to his deputy. Previous language, which urged
Assad to abandon power to pave way for “fair elections,” was
replaced with a call for him to hand over “full authority” to
his deputy and for the “formation of a national unity
government,” according to the draft obtained by Bloomberg News.  Opponents of Assad’s government broke into  Syria ’s embassy
in Cairo yesterday,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency
reported, without saying where it got the information. An oil
pipeline was damaged by a blast in a town near Deir Al Zour,
after shelling by the Syrian army, Al Jazeera television said.  Eleven months into the unrest, the European Union and the
U.S. have yet to overcome  Russia ’s resistance at the UN’s
decision-making body to hold Assad responsible for a crackdown
that the UN estimates has killed more than 5,000 people.  Draft Changes  “Unfortunately, the draft that we saw today not only
ignored our red lines, but also added some new elements that we
find unacceptable as a matter of principle,” Russian Ambassador
 Vitaly Churkin  told reporters after yesterday’s meeting. “The
Security Council cannot go about imposing political solutions in
crisis situations in various countries of the world.”  To mollify Russia, which says Western powers are seeking
regime change in Syria, the draft underwent three changes.
Previous language that urged Assad to relinquish power was
replaced with a call for him to delegate power to his deputy, a
move that could leave Assad the nominal leader even if he is
devoid of powers, according to a UN diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  Arab League  Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi and Qatari
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani plan to travel
to  New York  this weekend and present Syria’s crisis dossier to
the Security Council on Jan. 31. The draft resolution affirms a
transition plan put forward by the Arab League calling for a
national unity government within two months to implement a
peaceful handover of power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  