-- United Nations Tackles Power Transition in Syria on Deadly Day of Protests
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2012-01-28T00:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/united-nations-tackles-power-transition-in-syria-on-deadly-day-of-protests.html
The  United Nations  decision-making
body argued over a resolution that would pressure Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad to transfer power to his deputy amid
one of the deadliest days of protests in the 11-month uprising.  As the UN Security Council met on the Syrian crisis
yesterday, security forces killed at least 102 people, according
to an opposition group, the General Committee of The Syrian
revolution.  Russia  reiterated its opposition to a resolution
that Arab and Western nations want to bring to a vote as early
as next week.  “Unfortunately, the draft that we saw today not only
ignored our red lines, but also added some new elements that we
find unacceptable as a matter of principle,” Russian Ambassador
 Vitaly Churkin  told reporters after yesterday’s meeting. “The
Security Council cannot go about imposing political solutions in
crisis situations in various countries of the world.”  To mollify Russia, which says Western powers are seeking
regime change in  Syria , the draft underwent three changes.
Previous language that urged Assad to relinquish power was
replaced with a call for him to delegate power to his deputy, a
move that could leave Assad the nominal leader even if he is
devoid of powers, according to a UN diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  Sticking Points  Still, that may not go far enough to appease veto-wielding
Russia, which together with  China , blocked a European-led Oct. 4
attempt to sanction Syria for the crackdown on protesters.
 Germany ’s UN envoy, Peter Wittig, said yesterday that the parts
of the resolution that tackle the transition of power are “one
of the main sticking points.”  Russia, which initially had been in favor of the Arab
League taking ownership of the Syrian crisis, has become
increasingly critical of the 22-member body since it imposed
sanctions and outlined a peace plan for a transfer of power.  The draft is “an Arab League-imposed outcome of a
political process which has not yet taken place,” Churkin said.
“The Arab League may have its ideas of where that political
dialogue should go” but the “ Security Council  cannot be a tool
to impose specific solutions on countries.”  Almost a year into the unrest, the European Union and the
U.S. have yet to overcome Russia’s resistance at the UN to
efforts to hold Assad responsible for a crackdown that the UN
estimates has killed more than 5,000 people.  Russia leads critics in the 15-member Security Council who
say a UN mandate in  Libya  was abused to bring down  Muammar Qaddafi  and that Western powers are seeking to repeat that
scenario in Syria. The U.S. and  Europe  say Russia is using the
precedent as an excuse not to act against a country that buys
weapons from it.  Straw Men  “A lot of straw men are being put up in order to knock
them down,” British Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said of the
Russian concerns about arms embargoes, sanctions, and a Libya-
style military intervention in Syria. “You shouldn’t be fooled
by those who are claiming there are all sorts of things in the
text, trying to refight battles over Libya.”  Negotiations will begin with a view to “moving to a vote
very quickly next week,” he said.  Arab League  Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi and Qatari
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani plan to travel
to  New York  this weekend and present Syria’s crisis dossier to
the Security Council on Jan. 31. The draft resolution affirms a
transition plan put forward by the Arab League calling for a
national unity government within two months to implement a
peaceful handover of power.  “The objections that have been raised have actually been
raised against the decisions by the Arab League,” French
Ambassador  Gerard Araud  told reporters. Next week, “will be a
good opportunity” for critics to ask the Arab League directly
“is it regime change or is it not?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  