-- Woods, Rock Tied for Lead in Final Round of Golf Tournament in Abu Dhabi
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-29T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-28/woods-rock-tied-at-11-under-for-lead-after-third-round-of-abu-dhabi-golf.html
Tiger Woods and Robert Rock share a
two-stroke lead going into the final round of the  Abu Dhabi  HSBC
Golf Championship.  Woods and England’s Rock both shot 6-under-par 66 yesterday
to reach  11-under  at the Abu Dhabi Golf Club. Northern Ireland’s
Rory McIlroy, Italy’s Francesco Molinari and Sweden’s  Peter Hanson  are 9-under, with four players, including second-round
leader Thorbjorn Olesen of Denmark, at 8-under.  “There’s a ton of guys with a chance to win,” Woods told
reporters. “The field is bunched. I need to go out there and
put together a solid round of golf. I’ve got to go out there and
get it.”  Woods had six birdies and no bogeys in his round. Rock made
seven birdies, including at the final two holes to move into the
tie, and one bogey.  “I’ve not done really well here in the past,” Rock said.
“But I had a good first couple of rounds and carried on playing
well today. Pretty pleased overall.”  Woods ended a 749-day winless drought with a victory last
month at the limited-field Chevron World Challenge, an
invitational tournament in  California . He’s making his season
debut this week in a field that features the top four in the
Official World Golf Ranking.  Hanson posted the day’s lowest score of 64, Molinari had 66
and third-ranked McIlroy, playing with Woods for the third
straight day, shot 68.  “It was one of those days where you have the best job in
the world,” Hanson said of his round. “Eight birdies, no
bogeys, beautiful blue sky in Abu Dhabi.”  Olesen shot 71 to drop into a tie with Scotland’s Paul Lawrie and South Africans George Coetzee and James Kingston.
World No. 1 Luke Donald shot 1-over 73 to fall to even-par and
fellow Englishman  Lee Westwood , ranked second, is 4-under after
a round of 68.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 