-- ‘Bourne’ Without Damon Signals Box-Office Drop for Universal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-09T21:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/-bourne-without-damon-points-to-box-office-tumble-for-universal.html
Universal Pictures ’ reboot of the
“Bourne” films, without series star  Matt Damon  or the
character he played, will struggle to match the success of the
previous action thrillers.  U.S. weekend forecasts for “The Bourne Legacy,” opening
tomorrow, extend from the low $30-million range to about $40
million, compared with $69.3 million for the previous Bourne
movie, released in 2007. For its full U.S. run, “Bourne
Legacy” projections stretch from $105 million to $160 million.
Damon’s last Bourne took in $227.5 million in the U.S. and
 Canada . The new film is expected to lead sales this weekend.  The studio, part of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal , is
trying to replicate the staying power of franchises such as
“Fast & Furious” by creating a new Bourne-like super soldier
played by Oscar nominee Jeremy Renner.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s most recent
“Spider-Man,” swapping  Andrew Garfield  for Tobey Maguire in
the title role, failed to bring in as much as earlier pictures.  “Like every studio, we have to be very mindful of the
franchises we’ve established and look for ways to keep them
fresh,” Peter Cramer, Universal’s co-president of production,
said in an interview. “In that sense this is important for us.
We thought this was a much better -- in fact, unique -- way to
do it.”  Studio Rebound  Universal is rebounding from years of low box-office
rankings with a slate that includes franchises like “Bourne”
and more big-budget pictures, including “ Snow White  and the
Huntsman,” estimated by Box Office Mojo to cost $170 million.  The Los Angeles-based studio’s top 2012 films are “Dr.
Seuss’ The Lorax” and the comedy “Ted,” pictures that cost
$70 million or less and collected more than $280 million
worldwide each, according to Box Office Mojo. “Battleship,”
made for $209 million, didn’t fare as well, with sales of $302.8
million, much of which is shared with theaters.  Reboots often underperform their predecessors as audiences
adjust to new actors and settings. The “Bourne” filmmakers
have set their sights accordingly,  Ben Smith , one of the
producers, said in an interview. In addition to “Spider-Man,”
new versions of James Bond and X-Men also opened lower than
their immediate predecessors, box-office data show.  Fast, Furious  “Our expectations are definitely in check,” Smith said.
“My biggest desire is that it satisfies our fan base and
expands it. If it does that we’ll do phenomenally financially.
We want fans to go, ‘That was a Bourne film.’”  Universal’s “Fast & Furious” street racer films took a
new turn last year with  Dwayne Johnson  joining the cast. The
story morphed into a heist movie called “Fast Five” and took
in $209.8 million in the U.S. and Canada, more than any
predecessor. “American Reunion,” released in April, renewed
the “American Pie” series.  An opening of $35 million to $40 million, about half of the
last “Bourne,” would be a strong start for the film, said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office. That’s
also in line with the studio’s projection. The film cost about
$125 million, according to a person with knowledge of the
situation who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. That would be
the most of any Bourne film, according to Box Office Mojo.  “You have to treat it like a new movie,” Dergarabedian
said.  Universal ranks third this year with $1.07 billion in
domestic sales as of Aug. 6, about $20 million behind first-
place Sony, according to Box Office Mojo. The studio, which hit
the $1 billion mark sooner than ever before, will probably have
its best year ever in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales. Universal
hasn’t finished better than fourth since 2005.  Franchise Dependent  Film franchises are crucial to an industry that has become
dependent on familiar characters to attract audiences to the
multiplex. Sony successfully restarted “ James Bond ” with a new
star.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures  did the same with “ Star
Trek ,” casting young actors in roles played by  William Shatner 
and Leonard Nimoy starting in the 1960s on TV.  “The Bourne Legacy” may also suffer from being sandwiched
between “The Dark Knight Rises” and “The Expendables 2,”
scheduled for release next week, said Phil Contrino, editor of
the  Boxoffice.com  industry website. He estimates a $105 million
domestic run for “The Bourne Legacy.”  “We’re not that impressed with its activity on Twitter,
and Facebook is also not that great,” said Contrino, who
predicts opening weekend sales in the low $30-million range.
“The franchise came with a base from the other films. What that
says to me is audiences are a little skeptical that Matt Damon
has been replaced by  Jeremy Renner .”  “The Bourne Legacy” had a 55 percent approval rating on
Rottentomatoes.com yesterday, with 11 positive reviews among the
20 listed on the site.  Acting Pedigree  Renner established himself with critics and fans in “The
Hurt Locker,” gaining an Oscar nomination for best actor, and
in “The Town,” which brought a supporting actor nomination. He
played Hawkeye in “Marvel’s The Avengers,” this year’s top-
grossing film, and was in last year’s “Mission Impossible -
Ghost Protocol.”  The idea for the new character and story came from
writer/director Tony Gilroy, who co-wrote the previous Bourne
films. Universal executives, deciding they couldn’t replace
Damon as Jason Bourne, invited Gilroy to come up with a new
approach, Cramer said.  Gilroy suggested a film exploring the government program
that gave Bourne and other agents their enhanced abilities. In
“The Bourne Legacy,” Renner’s Aaron Cross learns he was
genetically altered. Like Bourne, he fights back when the agency
tries to have him killed.  More Bourne?  “This gave us the opportunity to expand this franchise and
have another character who lives in this world,” Cramer said.
“We feel like there is a lot more life for Aaron Cross.”  Rachel Weisz co-stars as one of the scientists who
developed the gene-altering techniques. Scott Glenn, David Strathairn and Joan Allen return from “The Bourne Ultimatum.”  Audiences for the Bourne movies have always skewed toward
males. A developing romance between Cross and Weisz’s character
may draw more women to “The Bourne Legacy,” Cramer said.  Cramer said Universal is considering more reboots,
including “Jurassic Park,” the most successful franchise in
the studio’s history with $1.9 billion in worldwide sales,
according to Box Office Mojo.  The studio is also developing a new “Mummy” film, Cramer
said. The first four movies took in $1.42 billion globally.
There may be another “American Pie,” and “Snow White and the
Huntsman” may get a sequel, he said.  Jeremy Duns , author of the spy novel “Free Agent,”
credits the Bourne series with inspiring the grittier Bond films
introduced in 2006 with  Daniel Craig  in the lead role.  “If the ‘Legacy’ film works we may see more of this sort
of thing,” Duns said. “Professionally, I’m looking forward to
seeing how it stacks up to the first three in the series, and as
a fan, too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  