-- Ten Charged With $40 Million Jersey Shore Mortgage Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-09T21:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/10-charged-with-40-million-jerset-shore-mortgage-fraud.html
Ten people were charged with a
$40 million fraud relying on phony documents and straw buyers to
bilk mortgage lenders for properties at the  New Jersey  Shore and
resorts in  South Carolina  and  Georgia , prosecutors said.  The 10 were accused today of using unqualified buyers to
purchase 28 oceanfront condominiums from financially distressed
developers in Wildwood Crest, New Jersey, according to an
indictment in federal court in Camden, New Jersey. They used
similar methods to buy 21 properties in Georgia and South
Carolina, and eight properties in foreclosure in New Jersey.  Prosecutors said the scheme caused more than $40 million in
losses to various lenders. Nine of the 10 charged were arrested,
including Joseph Witkowski, 66, who helped to locate properties
to buy; Isatu Tejan-Sie, 54, a loan representative at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ; and Robert Serao, 46, a former loan officer at  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , the government said.  After  mortgage loans  were approved, Witkowski and others
“took proceeds from the fraudulent mortgage loans by having
funds wired or checks deposited into various accounts they
controlled,” according to the indictment.  Witkowski and others told straw buyers they “would
maintain the properties, locate renters, collect rent and make
mortgage payments,” according to the indictment.  “After the first or second monthly mortgage payments,
there were no more payments on most of the properties, and on
others, only nominal payments which then ceased,” Stephen Stigall, an assistant U.S. attorney, said in an interview.  Money Laundering  Five people earlier pleaded guilty to their role in the
scheme, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman.
The nine arrested today appeared in federal court in Camden,
where a magistrate judge set bail for them, Stigall said. All 10
are charged with conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . Witkowski also
is charged with conspiracy to commit  money laundering .  The scheme, which ran from September 2006 to September
2008, involved recruiting straw buyers with good credit scores
who lacked the financial resources to quality for mortgage
loans, according to the indictment. The conspirators created
phony documents about the employment, income, and assets of the
buyers and their intended use of the properties.  The Wildwood Crest properties were at the Silver Dollar,
Ebb Tide, Stockton Beach House and Vista Mar condo developments,
according to the indictment.  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on the case.  Kim Fellenz, an attorney for Tejan-Sie; Robert A. Weir, an
attorney for Serao; and Maggie Moy, an attorney for Witkowski,
didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  Seroa left Wells Fargo a few years ago, a bank spokesman,
Tom Goyda, said in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. v. Witkowski, 12-cr-522, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  