-- Chinese Rescue of Battery Maker Saves U.S. Jobs, CEO Says
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-08-10T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/a123-rescued-by-china-firm-draws-scrutiny-on-startup.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) ’s chief executive
officer said the company’s financial rescue by China’s largest
auto-parts maker will preserve U.S. jobs, after the agreement
drew criticism from congressional Republicans.  A123, a maker of  lithium-ion batteries  for electric cars,
may get financing worth as much as $450 million from Wanxiang
Group Corp. The deal that may give Wanxiang an 80 percent stake
in Waltham, Massachusetts-based A123, recipient of a $249
million federal grant for U.S. factory construction, is opposed
by Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican.  The federal funds “can only be used for building factories
in  North America  and the creation of jobs, and that’s what’s
been done,”  David Vieau , A123’s president and CEO, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “This is a step toward financing
the company so we can continue on that mission.”  The possibility of A123 being bought by a Chinese company
fuels further political debate over government financing of
alternative-energy and transportation businesses. Federal grants
and loans to companies including A123, Fisker Automotive Inc.
and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  have drawn scrutiny from congressional
Republicans following the September 2011 bankruptcy filing of
solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC two years after getting a $535
million loan guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department.  Stearns, author of a pending bill intended to prevent more
situations like Solyndra’s, said this week that A123’s financing
arrangement with Wanxiang raises possible security concerns.  “It appears the  Department of Energy  and the Obama
administration have failed to secure sensitive taxpayer-funded
intellectual property from being transferred to a foreign
adversary,” Stearns said in a statement e-mailed Aug. 8.  ‘Growing Concern’  “There is definitely a growing concern about foreign-
controlled or -owned companies attempting to gain a foothold
into our supply chain in the  United States ,” Stearns said. “We
need to make sure the federal government isn’t an unwitting
accomplice to the theft of our own national secrets by providing
them with multimillion-dollar government grants and loans.”  A123, which has posted at least 12 straight  quarterly
losses , needed a financial lifeline after struggling with costs
from a recall of batteries for plug-in hybrid luxury carmaker
Fisker. A political debate over the Wanxiang agreement is
inevitable, according to Michael Lew, an analyst at Needham &
Co. in New York.  “If you already have lawmakers talking, you can pretty
much assume how it’s going to play out,” said Lew, who
recommends holding A123 shares.  An acquisition of A123 “raises more troubling questions
about the direction of this government-led effort,” Becca
Watkins, spokeswoman for Representative  Darrell Issa  of
California, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
chairman, said in an e-mail message.  Michigan Factory  “This acquisition appears to have been made possible by
taxpayer funds made available through the stimulus,” she said.  More important than the ownership is where the work gets
done, said Lew.  A123 has a factory in Livonia, Michigan. The company also
has a contract to supply batteries for  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Spark electric car; Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW 5 Series
hybrid sedan; and rechargeable and hybrid cars from China’s SAIC
Motor Corp.  “What’s important is, even if it’s owned by the Chinese,
that the jobs are here and the manufacturing is performed in the
United States,” Lew said. “That’s ultimately the goal -- job
creation or at least an industry fostering and helping the
economic climate here in the states.”  Stock Rises  A123 fell 4.5 percent to 59 cents at the close in New York.
The shares gained 30 percent over the two previous days, which
followed the announcement of the deal with Hangzhou, China-based
Wanxiang. The  stock  has fallen 64 percent this year.  Stearns’s and Issa’s opposition highlights the challenges
Chinese companies face when expanding in the U.S. Last month,
two Democrats said  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion offer to buy  Nexen
Inc. (NXY) , which holds U.S. oil leases in the  Gulf of Mexico , should
be held up until the U.S. negotiates concessions from China.  A123, which calls itself the U.S. leader in advanced
batteries, used the Energy Department’s funds to build the
Michigan factory that made the flawed Fisker packs.  “I’d be less than honest if I said I didn’t expect some of
that,” Vieau said of criticism of the Wanxiang agreement.  “The optics on it allow you to look at it and say, ‘A
Chinese company is buying into an American company that has
received support for developing factories in North America,’”
he said. The accord strengthens A123’s balance sheet, which is
“a good thing for our company, for our investors and for our
stakeholders.”  Energy Grant  The funds A123 received from the Energy Department can only
be used for its U.S. operations, said  Amy Brundage , a White
House spokeswoman.  “Under the terms of the grant agreement, the company can
only use funding to support U.S. manufacturing facilities,”
Brundage said in an Aug. 8 e-mail. “Any changes to the scope of
the grant would have to be approved by DOE, and DOE would not
approve any changes that allowed the grant money to be used for
anything other than investment in the manufacturing facilities
here in the U.S. or U.S. jobs.”  A123 had “engagement” with the Energy Department before
concluding the Wanxiang deal and that continues, Vieau said.  Financing Arrangement  Wanxiang would give A123 as much as $75 million in debt
financing under the terms of the nonbinding agreement, A123 said
in an Aug. 8 statement. Wanxiang may also buy $200 million of
senior secured convertible notes and invest $175 million by
exercising warrants, which could be converted for shares
representing a stake of about 80 percent.  “It does imply that they could become the majority owner
at the end of this deal,” Vieau said. “The implication is that
they would have access to how we make batteries. But we’re a
commercial maker of batteries, and frankly 98 percent of the
battery industry today is owned, operated and controlled by
companies that are operating out of Korea, Japan or Taiwan and
China.”  Wanxiang has been expanding in the U.S. It said in February
that it would invest $25 million in  Kansas City , Missouri-based
 Smith Electric Vehicles Corp. (SMTH) , an A123 customer.  Three calls to Wanxiang’s public-relations office yesterday
were unanswered.  A123, with  investors  including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Japan’s  IHI Corp. (7013) , said in March it needed to
adjust fundraising plans because of the $55 million cost of
recalling Fisker Karma battery packs with misaligned hose clamps
and other flaws.  The Wanxiang funding, modified  today , provides financial
stability to A123 in the near term and improves A123’s prospects
for boosting business in China and other global markets, Vieau
said.  “This is a global industry that we’re involved in,” he
said. “If we’re going to be a player at large scale, we need a
stronger balance sheet and a partner to do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Hasan Dudar in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  