-- Madonna Criticized by Russia for Supporting Anti-Putin Punks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-08-09T09:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/madonna-criticized-by-russia-for-supporting-anti-putin-punks-1-.html
A top Russian official criticized pop
singer Madonna after she spoke out in support of members of an
all-female punk band facing jail for a protest against President
 Vladimir Putin  in the country’s main Orthodox cathedral.  Referring to Madonna with a letter commonly used in Russian
as an abbreviation for prostitute,  Dmitry Rogozin , deputy prime
minister in charge of industry and defense, said on his Twitter
Inc. account that the pop star “as she gets older, wants to
lecture everybody on morality, especially on world tours.”  Challenged by a Twitter user who insisted that Madonna was
championing free speech, Rogozin replied: “Either take off the
cross, or wear underwear.” The deputy premier’s spokeswoman,
Lidia Mikhailova, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  The U.S. and European Union have condemned the prosecution
of the three Pussy Riot band members, who have been declared
prisoners of conscience by  Amnesty International . Music and film
stars including Peter Gabriel,  Yoko Ono , Sting and  Danny DeVito 
have rallied to their defense. Pussy Riot performed what they
called a “punk prayer” in February inside Moscow’s Christ the
Savior cathedral, urging the removal of Putin, who extended his
12-year rule in presidential elections in March.  ‘Something Courageous’  Madonna, at a concert in Moscow on Aug. 7, appealed for
their freedom. “I think that these three girls -- Masha, Katya,
Nadya -- I think that they have done something courageous,” she
said. Madonna scrawled the words “Pussy Riot” on her back, and
put on a balaclava mask similar to that worn by the band members
during their protest.  Prosecutors have demanded a three-year prison sentence for
Maria Alekhina, 24, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, who are on trial for hooliganism and inciting
religious hatred. The verdict in the trial will be delivered on
Aug. 17.  The three defendants, who were among five Pussy Riot band
members who staged the performance in masks and skimpy dresses,
face a maximum of seven years in prison under the Russian
criminal code.  Supporters of Pussy Riot will stage rallies in various
cities around the world on the day of the verdict, including
London, Paris,  New York  and Brussels, the women’s lawyer, Mark
Feigin, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  