-- TAG Immobilien Rental Income Doubles on DKB Acquisition
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-08-09T16:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/tag-immobilien-rental-income-doubles-on-dkb-acquisition-2-.html
TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  said second-quarter
rental income doubled after the German real estate company
integrated the 25,000 homes it acquired from  Bayerische
Landesbank  in March.  Net rental income rose to 41.2 million euros ($51 million)
from 20.1 million euros a year earlier, the Hamburg-based
company said in a statement today. Funds from operations, a
measure of a company’s ability to generate cash, amounted to
10.8 million euros.  TAG’s March acquisition of DKB Immobilien AG, owner of
homes valued at about 1.1 billion euros, increased the company’s
portfolio to about 57,000 homes. Most of the additional
properties are in eastern  Germany , where average rents are lower
than in the rest of the country.  “Many important indicators such as costs, rent increases
are already moving in the right direction,” TAG said in its
 second-quarter report .  TAG was up 15 cents, or 1.9 percent, at 8 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close in  Frankfurt . The shares have climbed 34 percent in
the past 12 months, raising the company’s market value to 791
million euros. The 50-member SDAX Performance Index for small
companies has gained about 12 percent.  Rental Growth  TAG owns homes in cities such as Berlin and Hamburg and is
benefiting from rental growth in large urban areas as young
Germans move to places where jobs are easier to find. The
company plans to add more residential properties while shrinking
its commercial real estate business. It expects to sell as many
as five commercial properties by the end of the year, Chief
Executive Officer Rolf Elgeti said on a conference call today.  TAG reiterated its guidance for the full year, predicting
FFO excluding sales of 40 million euros.  While TAG plans to increase the size of its residential
portfolio, it may sell some homes for opportunistic reasons,
Elgeti said.  “The market is reasonably hot,” he said. “We constantly
get contacted with unsolicited bids. Sometimes they’re so high
we just can’t refuse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 