-- Magyar Telekom Drops to Record as Earnings Miss: Budapest Mover
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-09T11:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/magyar-telekom-drops-to-record-as-earnings-miss-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian
phone unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , plummeted to an all-time low
after the company reported a 9 percent decline in second-quarter
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Shares (MTELEKOM)  dropped 2.2 percent to 401 forint, the lowest ever,
by 11:25 a.m. in Budapest, pushing this year’s fall to 22.5
percent. That compares with a 5.4 percent gain in the benchmark
 BUX (BUX)  stock index in the same period.  Magyar Telekom’s Ebitda, adjusted for a special tax,
spendings related to an internal investigation and headcount
reduction, fell 9 percent to 56.2 billion forint in the April-
June period, the company said in a statement to the Budapest
bourse today. Revenue rose 1.3 percent to 145.5 billion forint
in the period.  The Budapest-based company, which has subsidiaries in
Macedonia and Montenegro, saw its profit suffer as the economic
recession in the region put pressure on households’ disposable
income and a special industry tax in Hungary hit the bottom
line. Expectations for a slow recovery in the domestic market
“dissipated” as a result of an “increasingly negative”
Hungarian economy and regulations, Magyar Telekom said in the
release.  Second-quarter results were “mixed” with Ebitda and net
profit missing market expectations, analysts at Budapest-based
brokerage Equilor Zrt. said in an e-mailed note today. “Broad
market interpretation is likely to be a ‘fail’, in our view.”  Net Income  Net  income  was 10.7 billion forint ($48 million), compared
with 4.4 billion forint a year earlier, after a $62 million one-
time expense depleted the year-earlier profit. The average
estimate of eight analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg was 11.9
billion forint.  “Despite the worsening Ebitda trends, outlook for our
revenues looks more positive,” Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Mattheisen said in the release. Revenue in the first
six months increased an annual 2 percent, “comfortably
exceeding our guidance of flat to a maximum decline of 2 percent
for the full year,” the executive said.  The company will raise domestic telephony tariffs in
several steps this year after the government introduced a
special tax on telecommunications services, Magyar Telekom said
on July 12.  The management reiterated an earlier forecast for an Ebitda
decline of between 4 to 6 percent this year, excluding the
effects of the special industry tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  