-- Mahathir Warns Najib of Malaysia Coalition Woes: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e ,   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-08-09T02:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/mahathir-warns-najib-of-malaysia-coalition-woes-southeast-asia.html
Mahathir Mohamad,  Malaysia ’s longest-
serving leader, warned Prime Minister Najib Razak against
measures that may alienate members of the ruling coalition and
threaten its 55-year grip on power.  “The problem here is not Najib -- he is a leader of a weak
government,” Mahathir, who ran the country for 22 years before
stepping down in 2003, said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur . Any
defections from the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition could
“result in BN losing the next election,” the 87-year-old said.  The 13-party alliance has ruled since independence in 1957
and now controls 63 percent of Malaysia’s 222-member parliament.
Najib, who stoked speculation he would call an election in June
or July after making a series of campaign-style appearances,
must call a vote by early next year.  Najib, the son and nephew of two former premiers, has
maintained high approval ratings after his government provided
cash to the poor and pledged to allow more freedom of expression.
That contrasts with other members of his United Malays National
Organization party who have refused to step aside in favor of
younger candidates, according to  Farish Ahmad Noor  of the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies.  “I doubt that either side will be able to win an
overwhelming victory,” he said in an e-mail. “Under such
circumstances, Najib’s delay may serve the opposition better as
they have more time to campaign among the young and the fence-
sitters, which they are doing already.”  Najib U-Turns  The prime minister’s approval rating remained steady in
June at 64 percent, according to a survey by the  Merdeka Center
for Opinion Research . By contrast, those who were “happy” with
the government fell six percentage points to 42 percent, the
survey showed.  The government “is weak because it has to continuously
relent to demands,” said  Ibrahim Suffian , a political analyst
at Merdeka. “Pressure groups realize that their support is
needed to win the elections. You see a situation where he has to
make concessions. There have been a number of U-turns.”  In the past year, Najib has backtracked on several
initiatives to boost the country’s fiscal position and
competitiveness. He delayed rolling back state subsidies on
essential items and implementing a goods and services tax. He
also dropped a proposal to make civil servant salaries more
merit-based.  The ruling coalition won its lowest-ever share of the vote
in 2008, when former Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi led
the country. Najib told reporters in March that winning back the
two-thirds majority that BN held from 1969 until the last
election would be “challenging.”  ‘More Popular’  UMNO’s main coalition partners -- the Malaysian Chinese
Association, Malaysian People’s Movement Party and the Malaysian
Indian Congress -- have undergone leadership problems that have
weakened the alliance, Mahathir said. Still, he added, the
coalition is better off than it was in 2008.  “Najib is much more popular now,” said Mahathir, who won
five consecutive elections as prime minister. “Previously, the
people were not against BN, but they were more angry with the
previous prime minister, his family and son-in-law,” he said,
referring to his successor Abdullah and Khairy Jamaluddin, the
current leader of UMNO’s youth wing.  Najib last year unveiled a record 232.8 billion ringgit
($75 billion) budget that increased civil servant salaries by as
much as 13 percent and removed school fees for primary and
secondary students. Households with monthly incomes of 3,000
ringgit or less received one-time cash handouts of 500 ringgit.  The outlays contributed to negative fiscal pressures that
are unlikely to be addressed until after the election, according
to  Fitch Ratings .  Reform ‘Uncertain’  “Given the current domestic political context, Fitch does
not expect policy makers to address the underlying weaknesses in
the public finances before elections that must happen by end-
June 2013,” the credit-rating company said in a report
yesterday. “Prospects for fiscal policy management and
structural fiscal reform after the elections are uncertain.”  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  has gained 6.9 percent
this year, trailing benchmarks in the  Philippines ,  Indonesia ,
 Thailand  and  Singapore . The ringgit has gained 2 percent in that
time, fourth-most among  Asia ’s most-traded currencies.  The KLCI was little-changed at 1,636.24 at 10.25 a.m. in
Kuala Lumpur today, while the ringgit gained 0.3 percent.  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 4.7 percent
in the first three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the least
in three quarters, on weaker export growth, official data show.
Najib said on July 17 that annual expansion of 5 percent to 6
percent is essential to avoid “many problems.”  Corruption Scandals  Najib’s party and the ruling coalition have faced several
corruption scandals that have tainted its image. Malaysia ranked
60th out of 182 nations last year in Transparency
International’s corruption perceptions index, down four places
from 2010, when 178 countries were included.  Shahrizat Abdul Jalil stood down as minister for women,
family and community in April at the end of her term as senator
after her husband was charged with corruption. Two former
transport ministers in a coalition party were separately charged
over financial irregularities at an industrial zone, while Mohd
Khir Toyo, former head of Malaysia’s Selangor state, was
sentenced to one year in jail for graft in December.  Najib has sought to appeal to younger voters by appearing
on  radio stations  and maintaining accounts on Twitter and
Facebook. He is strategically distancing himself from the party
through a campaign “that is more presidential in nature,” said
Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at UCSI University.  “UMNO is a party that is seen as corrupt and that has a
lot of warlords with vested interests,” Ong said. “He’s
effectively saying come and vote for me even if you don’t like
these things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  