-- Make It Hard for Parents to Deny Their Kids Vaccines
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/make-it-hard-for-parents-to-deny-their-kids-vaccines.html
The U.S. this year is set to have
the  worst outbreak  of whooping cough since the 1970s. Already,
from January to mid-July, there have been 17,000 registered
cases and nine deaths.  Like the whoop that punctuates the cough, this number is a
warning that something is very wrong. The increase, researchers
suspect, is partly due to the  waning effect  of whooping cough
vaccines  introduced  in the 1990s to replace older formulations.
It’s also connected to the rising number of parents who refuse
to get their children immunized because of a dangerously
misinformed belief that vaccines are more harmful than the
diseases they prevent.  The problem is illustrated by  Washington  state, ground zero
of the outbreak. Overall, Washington has a good record of
vaccinating kids for whooping cough, also called  pertussis . Yet
performance  varies  by community. In San Juan County, in the
northwest of the state, only 52 percent of kindergartners and 4
percent of sixth-graders were up-to-date on their pertussis
shots for the 2010-2011 school year. Not surprisingly, the
incidence of the disease there is elevated.  This pattern is repeated across the country. Because the
U.S. has made great strides in making vaccines available and
inexpensive,  immunization rates  overall are at an all-time high.
You might think this would create the herd immunity for which
health workers aim: When a sufficient portion of a population
(generally, 90 percent) is vaccinated, the pathogen can’t easily
transmit in a community, so it dies off. What has happened,
however, is that holes in the protective cover have opened as
 geographic clusters  of parents, such as the one in San Juan
County or another around Boulder,  Colorado , have rejected
vaccines. These communities are disproportionately white,
educated and well-off.  Their children are at much  higher risk  of illness; they are
 35 times  more likely to get measles, for instance. Once
infected, they spread disease to others, including those who for
medical reasons can’t be vaccinated, those for whom a given
vaccine doesn’t work, and infants too young to be vaccinated.
Babies account for most of the pertussis deaths this year.  Pertussis and measles are the first of the childhood
diseases to make a comeback in the face of vaccination refusals,
probably because they are especially contagious. Last year, the
U.S. recorded 222 measles cases instead of the usual 60.  Since the early 1980s, every state has required children to
be inoculated against childhood diseases before they are
admitted to school, unless they have a medical exclusion. Forty-
eight states allow religious exemptions as well and 20,
philosophical ones. The use of these waivers  has grown  as more
parents are fooled by overhyped, inaccurate reports of vaccine
risks, most notoriously a bogus 1998 study -- since  retracted  by
its publisher -- linking the mumps, measles and rubella vaccine
to autism.  Some health experts  have argued  that states should abolish
all but the medical waivers. After all, courts have consistently
upheld vaccine mandates. Striking down a religious exemption,
the Mississippi Supreme Court said the state had an “overriding
and compelling public interest” to protect children, even when
it conflicts with the religious rights of parents.  With more than half of parents expressing concern about
vaccine safety in  one survey , however, abolishing all nonmedical
exemptions now could lead to a backlash. A better remedy would
be to make waivers more difficult to get. Today, in many
jurisdictions, a parent can simply sign a form to opt out.  Instead, parents -- two parents, if both are legally
responsible for the child -- should be required to visit a
pediatrician for counseling on the risks of vaccination versus
leaving a child unprotected. (Insurance policies and Medicaid
should be required to cover the visit.) Such counseling can be
persuasive. About 85 percent of parents who had withheld
vaccines changed their mind after group information sessions at
the  Vaccine Education Center  at Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia. States should require a new form and a new
counseling session every school year.  Studies  have  shown  that the harder it is to obtain an
exemption, the less parents use it. Some are motivated by
convenience. Others see the hurdles as a sign of how seriously
society regards immunizations.  One way or another, parents who eschew vaccination are
going to learn they’ve made a mistake. Smallpox, a great
affliction in early America, was almost defeated with a vaccine
in the 1800s. When the disease was forgotten and immunization
neglected, in the mid-1800s, it again became a mighty killer and
had to be fought all over again. It would be better not to
relive that experience with pertussis, measles, mumps,
diphtheria, polio or the 11 other  communicable diseases  that
today’s vaccines can prevent.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections don’t
predict future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not
economic) depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to lose ;
William Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China Sea ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ;  Steven
Greenhut  on the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff
investors ; Caleb Scharf on  future telescopes  that could better
explore black holes.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 