-- Talon Wins U.S. FDA Approval for Blood Cancer Treatment
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-08-09T20:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/talon-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-blood-cancer-treatment.html
Talon Therapeutics Inc. (TLON) ’s blood-
cancer treatment, Marqibo, won approval from U.S. regulators,
giving the company its first marketed product.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Talon’s medicine
for adults with a form of acute lymphoblastic leukemia who have
failed prior therapies, the South  San Francisco , California-
based company said today in a statement. Talon gained 1 percent
to close at 98 cents in  New York .  “Marqibo’s approval demonstrates the FDA’s commitment to
the development and approval of drugs that address serious,
unmet medical needs,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the Office of
Hematology and Oncology Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in a statement.  While acute lymphoblastic leukemia is more commonly
diagnosed in children, there will be an estimated 6,050 new
cases in adults this year and 1,440 will die from the disease,
according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Marqibo was approved for adult patients with a rare type of
the blood cancer that is negative for an abnormality known as
the Philadelphia chromosome. This rare version affects about
1,400 adults in the U.S. a year, with fewer than 500 people
failing two prior therapies, an FDA advisory panel said in its
March  report  on Marqibo. The median survival time for patients
who don’t respond to prior treatments is about three months.  Flower Derivative  Talon’s medicine is a liposomal formulation of vincristine
sulfate, a drug first developed by  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in the 1960s
based on a compound from the rosy periwinkle flower.
Vincristine, known commercially as Oncovin, is used in
combination with other drugs to treat non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and
acute lymphoblastic leukemia, though the side effects limit the
amount that can be given to patients.  Talon’s product is a nanoparticle encapsulated form of
vincristine and is designed to provide prolonged circulation of
the chemotherapy in the blood and accumulation at the tumor
site, the company said.  “This represents a transformational event for Talon and
fulfillment of our most important corporate goal to date,”
Chief Executive Officer Steven Deitcher said in the statement.  The company is considering selling the rights to Marqibo
outside the U.S., among other deals, Deitcher said in a July 26
interview. He declined at that time to identify any of the
potential buyers or partners. The company has access to $57
million in capital to market Marqibo, he said.  The FDA rejected Marqibo as a treatment for non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma in 2005 when it was being developed by Inex
Pharmaceuticals Corp. and  Enzon Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ENZN)  Talon,
formerly Hana Biosciences Inc., licensed Marqibo in 2006 from
Inex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  