-- AMR Pilot Leader Who Backed US Airways Merger Quits After Vote
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-09T15:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/amr-pilot-leader-who-backed-us-airways-merger-quits-after-vote.html
The American Airlines pilot union
leader who was one of the first and most visible proponents of a
merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  resigned, a day after pilots
rejected the  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  unit’s final cost-cutting contract offer.  David Bates  notified members of the  Allied Pilots
Association  of his decision in a message today on the union’s
website. He said he resigned, effective immediately, at the
request of the union board.  “Although I believe that ratifying the tentative agreement
would have been the best course for our pilot group, the
majority of our pilots signaled their preference for taking a
different path,” Bates said. “I concluded that continuing to
serve as your president was not in the interests of the pilots I
have been charged with representing.”  Bates joined Laura Glading, head of the  flight attendants 
union at Fort Worth, Texas-based American, and Transport Workers
Union International President  Jim Little  in April to publicly
support a merger bid by US Airways. He was at the US Airways
annual shareholder meeting and attended a National Press Club
speech in Washington last month by Doug Parker, the Tempe,
Arizona-based carrier’s chief executive officer.  Pilots rejected the proposed contract, with 61 percent
voting against it. The offer would have eliminated plans for 400
furloughs and given the group a 13.5 percent stake in AMR after
it exited bankruptcy. The pilots now face a possible court
ruling that would let American toss their existing contract and
impose terms to secure spending cutbacks needed to restructure.  American declined to comment on Bates’s resignation, said
 Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for the airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  