-- Man Ray’s Big Blond, Cindy Sherman’s Rich Dames: SF Art
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/man-ray-s-big-blond-cindy-sherman-s-rich-dames-sf-art.html
The huge red lips hover over the
landscape like a pair of sexy nuzzling blimps in Man Ray’s
“Observatory Time -- the Lovers.”  The lips are modeled after those of Ray’s student, muse and
lover Lee Miller, and they’re one of the highlights of an
intriguing show of both their work from the heyday of
surrealism.  Miller was tall and blond, a Vogue model, a favorite of
Edward Steichen and an aspiring photographer when she moved to
Paris in the late 1920s at the age of 22.  There, she single-mindedly attached herself to Ray, an
established figure who was almost old enough to be her father.
They moved in the artistic circles that included  Pablo Picasso ,
 Max Ernst , Andre Breton and  Alexander Calder .  “Man Ray/Lee Miller: Partners in Surrealism” at San
Francisco’s  Legion of Honor  museum features Ray’s elegant
solarized portrait of Miller in profile with her short hair
pulled back; the high contrast of the print makes the image
almost sculptural.  There are Ray’s studies of a nude Miller -- her torso, her
neck, her behind -- that make her look willowy and submissive.
There are also nude self-portraits by Miller in which she
appears strong, athletic, almost a woman warrior.  While Ray worked mostly in his studio, combining
photography into multimedia works such as a metronome that
incorporates a photo of Miller’s eye, the younger woman
photographed in the streets of Paris, creating spooky,
surrealist images of shop windows, carousel horses, rat tails.  The pair broke up in three years. Miller moved back to the
U.S. in 1932, and Ray followed later in the decade.  As a World War II photographer for  Conde Nast , she returned
to  Europe , where she documented the concentration camp survivors
and made a creepy series on Nazi officials and their families
who committed suicide at the end of the  Third Reich .  Sherman’s March  The big Cindy Sherman show from  New York ’s Museum of  Modern
Art  has come to town, and it’s a mixed bag. The elegant
installation at the  San Francisco Museum of Modern Art  devotes a
separate gallery to each series of the photographer’s self-
portraits, highlighting her progression from ingenue to grande
dame.  The exhibition includes all 70 black-and-white images of
Sherman’s amusing, almost amateurish “Untitled Film Stills” of
the late 1970s, in which she poses as a clueless Hollywood
starlet or a young damsel in distress. They’re inventive without
involving a lot of technical fakery.  Unhappy Women  By the 1980s she’s switched to color, and the prints in the
“Centerfold” series grow larger and more garish, the subjects
more troubled or unhappy.  In one, she’s wrapped in a red robe before a paint-
spattered wall, with darkened eyes and hair askew, looking like
the victim of domestic violence. In others she lies or kneels on
a wooden floor, as if waiting for a lover or an attacker to
arrive. Soon she’s shooting grotesques, making still-lifes out
of Halloween masks and vomit.  She jumps the shark completely in the 1990s with a series
of historical portraits based on Old Master paintings -- an
imitation Caravaggio “Bacchus,” an escapee from Holbein’s
“Ambassadors” in a fake beard and wig, a reclining French
aristocrat in a lacy, low-cut gown in the style of Francois Boucher.  More successful are the recent impersonations of rich
society women, the sort of Upper East Side matrons who might be
collectors of  Cindy Sherman  photographs. The pictures are
technically impressive and emotionally cold, a long way from the
wistful girls who populated her early work.  Photography 101  Money can’t buy you love, but it sure can buy you some nice
photographs. The  de Young  museum has put up a show from the
collection of Trevor Traina (the son of the museum board’s
president, DeDe Wilsey), and it offers an introduction to the
big names of the field without giving much context for any of
them.  The curators mix in a few classics like  Robert Frank ,  Diane Arbus  and Lee Friedlander -- “straight” black-and-white
photographers who specialized in the weird and banal -- though
the exhibition focuses more on big splashy images by recent
stars like  Andreas Gursky , Thomas Struth, Jeff Wall and Larry
Sultan.  Gursky’s “Dortmund” of 2009 places a strip of intensely
green grass across the bottom of a huge vertical print, with the
rest of the frame mostly filled by a soccer-stadium crowd
dressed in yellow jerseys.  The level of detail is jaw-dropping, in the same way that
Struth’s landscape of “El Capitan, Yosemite National Park” is
powerful, though in a much quieter way.  “Man Ray/Lee Miller: Partners in Surrealism” runs through
Oct. 14 at the Legion of Honor, Lincoln Park. Information: +1-
415-750-3600;  http://legionofhonor.famsf.org .  “Cindy Sherman” runs through Oct. 8 at the San Francisco
 Museum of Modern Art , 151 Third St. Information: +1-415-357-
4000;  http://www.sfmoma.org .  “Real to Real: Photographs from the Traina Collection”
runs through Sept. 16 at the de Young Museum, Golden Gate Park.
Information: +1-415-750-3600;  http://deyoung.famsf.org .  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  reviews and  dining  interviews.  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in  San Francisco  at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 