-- Manchester United Little Changed Following IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-10T20:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/manchester-united-raises-233-3-million-pricing-ipo-below-range.html
Manchester United Plc (MANU) , the English
 soccer club  with a record 19 championships, was unchanged in New
York trading after raising $233.3 million in its U.S. initial
public offering, less than first sought.  The shares traded at $14 as of 4:15 p.m. after the 134-
year-old team and the Glazer family that bought it in 2005 sold
16.7 million shares at the same price yesterday. They had
offered the shares, equivalent to a 10 percent stake, for $16 to
$20 apiece.  The IPO price gave the Glazer family’s team an enterprise
value of $2.9 billion, about $1 billion more than the value of
 Spain ’s Real  Madrid , according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Forbes. Increasing competition from other teams for fans and
corporate sponsorship and an expensive debt load may weigh on
earnings, said  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ’s Kenneth Perkins, who values
the stock at $10 a share.  The company “was asking investors to pay a pretty high
price and take on a lot of risk,” said Perkins, a Chicago-based
analyst who covers consumer companies. “It could work out, but
the risk is to the downside.”  The club is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol MANU. The Glazers will maintain almost 99 percent of the
voting control, according to the original terms of the
 prospectus , because the Class B shares they own carry 10 votes
apiece, compared to 1 vote each for the Class A shares being
sold in the IPO. The Glazers sold half of the shares offered,
while the company sold the rest, and planned to pay down debt
with the proceeds.  Fan Response  Fan groups have reacted with anger about the Glazers
profiting from the IPO while the team holds onto the debt from
their 790-million-pound ($1.2 billion) leveraged buyout in 2005.
A group called the  Manchester United  Supporters Trust has called
for a boycott of team sponsors.  “As long as Manchester United continues to produce the
best product from a fan standpoint, then I think the rest of it
will work itself out,”  Charlie Denson , brand president at
United’s apparel provider  Nike Inc. (NKE) , said in an interview in
London. “I’d rather have people being passionately mad at
something than not caring at all.”  Nike pays around 25 million pounds a season to United and
its contract runs through 2015. United’s commercial business has
grown 57 percent to more than 100 million pounds since 2009.
This month, United signed the biggest jersey agreement in soccer
with General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet brand. The agreement will
generate $559 million through 2021.  Real Madrid  Real Madrid, the Spanish soccer club founded in 1902 that
has a record nine European Cup/UEFA Champions League titles, is
the second-most valuable sports franchise at $1.88 billion,
according to  Forbes . The  New York  Yankees, which have won the
 World Series  27 times, are the world’s third-most valuable
sports franchise at $1.85 billion.  United, with about 70 million pounds of  cash  and 437
million pounds of borrowings as of June 30, sought an enterprise
value of about $3.8 billion at the top of the offering range,
according to United’s filings and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IPO price valued United at about 4.6 times estimated
sales of 317.5 million pounds in the 12 months through June 30,
according to filings. That compares with 0.6 times for
Copenhagen-based  Parken Sport & Entertainment A/S (PARKEN) , the owner of
F.C. Kobenhaven, and 0.5 for Italy-based  Juventus Football Club
SpA (JUVE) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At $14 a share, United has a market capitalization of $2.29
billion, according to calculations by Bloomberg.  U.S. Sale  Manchester United chose a U.S. sale after scrapping plans
for an offering worth as much as $1 billion in  Singapore . The
club might have fared better in  Asia , where it has a large and
growing fan base that would have been drawn to the shares, said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities, which oversees about $1.5 billion.  “U.S. investors are not as enthusiastic about soccer as
those in former British colonies like Singapore and  Hong Kong ,”
he said. “Market reactions might be slightly better if the deal
was done in Asia.”  The Glazers, who own the  National Football League ’s Tampa
Bay Buccaneers and First Allied Corp., the Batavia, New York-
based owner of 6.7 million square feet of U.S. shopping centers,
would have been worth at least $3.5 billion based on the
original offering terms, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Jefferies Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. led the U.S. offering for the soccer club, along
with Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp.  Separately, restaurant owner CKE Inc. postponed its IPO
yesterday. The operator of chains including Carl’s Jr. and
Hardee’s had planned to raise as much as $213.3 million,
according to regulatory filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  