-- Apple Can Seek Appeal of Kodak Imaging Patent Ruling
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-09T15:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/apple-can-seek-appeal-of-kodak-imaging-patent-ruling.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which lost part of a
court fight with  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  this month when a federal
judge denied its ownership claim of two digital image patents,
can seek an appeal of his decision, the judge said.  Bankrupt Kodak sued Apple in June, accusing the iPhone
maker of trying to disrupt an auction of more than 1,000 patents
that started yesterday. A judge in  Manhattan  ruled in favor of
Kodak on two of 10 patents claimed by Apple, which Kodak plans
to sell as part of its restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper told Apple yesterday in
an order that it can ask for a review of the ruling before it
becomes final, initiating a so-called interlocutory appeal. He
declined to authorize an immediate appeal because federal policy
was against “piecemeal appeals.”  Apple was free to try to get a district judge to take the
case, he said.  In a letter to Gropper, Apple had asked him to facilitate
an immediate appeal. “Apple believes it is in all of the
parties’ interests to resolve all potential appeals on these
issues as soon as possible,” the company said.  Apple has been trying to move the Kodak lawsuit from
 bankruptcy court  to U.S. District Court so another judge can
review the merits of its “inventorship and ownership claims,”
it has said.  Renewed Effort  It renewed its effort to move the case on Aug. 2, a day
after Gropper’s ruling in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. It
might be “appropriate” if the judge’s order included a
qualification that his decision can be reviewed by a district
judge, Apple said.  In an Aug. 2 letter to U.S. District Judge George Daniels,
Apple noted that Gropper ruled against Kodak on eight of the 10
patents. Daniels invited Apple to come back to him after Gropper
had ruled on the case, according to the letter.  The Apple lawsuit is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-
01720, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 