-- Artnet Founder Wards Off Hostile Takeover by Redline
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-08-09T11:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/artnet-shareholders-mull-takeover-as-ceo-neuendorf-quits.html
Artnet AG (ART)  founder Hans Neuendorf and
his son Chief Executive Officer Jacob Pabst fended off a hostile
takeover bid for the art-market-data provider from Luxembourg-
based Redline Capital Management SA.  In an annual general meeting yesterday that stretched until
midnight, shareholders backed the management’s proposals,
approving changes to the company statutes that strengthen
Neuendorf’s position in defending Artnet from takeover bids, the
company said in a statement sent by e-mail. The shares fell as
much as 12 percent today, decreasing the company’s value to 24.4
million euros ($30 million).  “Redline’s attempt to take over a majority of Artnet has
failed, at least for the time being,” the company said in the
statement. “We do not need investors who are interested in
raising their profile and profit instead of in art,” the
statement quoted 74-year-old Neuendorf as saying.  Berlin-based Artnet operates a widely used database of
auction prices, and offers analytic reports and a platform for
online art auctions. Redline, which says it controls more than
10 percent of the company, had offered financing support to
counter what it described as Artnet’s “chronic lack of
capital.”  Russian Billionaire  Redline’s chairman is Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov, who controls Moscow-based investment company
 Sistema JSFC. (AFKS)  Sistema owns majority shares in OAO Mobile
TeleSystems,  Russia ’s largest mobile-phone operator, and the oil
producer and refiner  OAO Bashneft. (BANE)  Sistema also controls about
49 percent of Russian oil producer OAO Russneft.  Galerie Neuendorf AG owns 26.5 percent of Artnet shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shareholders yesterday
approved limits to their rights, meaning in the future, changes
to the company statutes will require the backing of stock-owners
representing three-quarters of the company’s capital.  Redline is obliged by law to make a detailed takeover offer
this month after announcing its intention to do so, Hans
Obermeier, a spokesman for the company based in  Frankfurt , said
in a telephone interview. Shareholders last night said they plan
to initiate legal proceedings against Artnet’s management and
Redline is considering similar steps, Obermeier said.  “The company could now face a legal blockade,” Obermeier
said. Shareholders accused Neuendorf and one of his employees of
“acting in concert,” pushing their share of the votes above 30
percent, he said. Under German law, that would require them to
make a takeover offer to other shareholders, he said. Pabst
dismissed the accusations at yesterday’s meeting.  Pabst, 40, replaced his father as CEO on July 1. He said
Artnet is seeking to increase sales and profits in 2013. Artnet
said its online auction business is growing 23 percent annually,
with as many as 70 sales a week.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 