-- Asian Currencies Rise as China CPI Adds to Monetary Easing Odds
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-09T09:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/asian-currencies-rise-as-china-cpi-adds-to-monetary-easing-odds.html
Asian currencies strengthened as
 China  reported inflation eased for a fourth month in July,
adding to speculation policy makers will take more measures to
stimulate growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Consumer prices in China, a key export market for many
Asian nations, rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier after a 2.2
percent increase the previous month, the National Bureau of
Statistics reported today. The  Bank of Korea  and  Bank Indonesia 
left  interest rates  unchanged as the MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of
shares advanced for a fourth day, taking its gain this week to
3.4 percent.  “China’s low consumer prices gave the currency and stock
markets a boost,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “It’s good news for the markets
because it’ll give the central bank more room to cut rates.”  India’s rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 55.2663 per
dollar as of 2:34 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Korea’s won appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,125.48,
Indonesia’s rupiah added 0.2 percent to 9,471 and China’s  yuan 
advanced 0.04 percent to 6.3590. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index rose by the most in almost a week and touched the
highest level since May.  China is the largest export market for South Korea, Taiwan
and  Thailand . Overseas sales account for about two-thirds of
Taiwan and Thailand’s economies and about half of Korea’s. The
moderation of inflation may promote further monetary policy
easing, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing Li
Kai, deputy director at the State Information Center.  Rallying Ringgit  “Growth is the government’s priority and easing inflation
definitely allows policy makers to be more aggressive,” said
Banny Lam, chief economist at CCB International Securities in
 Hong Kong . “That’ll hold a weakening bias for the yuan for now,
while investors are still looking for more signals to confirm
the effectiveness of China’s stimulus measures.”  The ringgit approached a 12-week high after Malaysia
reported yesterday that exports rose 5.4 percent in June, more
than the median estimate for a 3.1 percent gain in a Bloomberg
survey. Official today showed factory output climbed 3.7 percent
in June, an 11th monthly increase. The ringgit added 0.1 percent
to 3.1042 per dollar, taking its rally in the past month to 2.7
percent, the best performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies.  “Yesterday’s export numbers showed that the economy has
held up pretty well and that helps to support the ringgit,”
said Choong Yin Pheng, manager for economic and bond research at
Hong Leong Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Korean Stocks  The won strengthened as foreign investors pumped the most
money into South Korean stocks in more than a year. Overseas
funds bought 1.57 trillion won ($1.4 billion) more local
equities than they sold, according to preliminary data from
Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from the Korea
Exchange Inc. That was the most since July 8, 2011.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso strengthened 0.1 percent to
41.762 against the greenback. Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.2 percent
to NT$29.940, Thailand’s baht climbed 0.1 percent to 31.49 and
Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,855.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  