-- Asia Dollar Note Sales Slow to Least in 5 Weeks, Bond Risk Falls
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-08-09T04:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/asia-dollar-note-sales-slow-to-least-in-5-weeks-bond-risk-falls.html
Companies in the Asia-Pacific region
slowed dollar bond sales to the least in five weeks amid
economic data from  China  that may encourage policy makers to
boost stimulus measures. Bond risk fell in Asia.  Issuers sold $1.9 billion of notes since Aug. 6, set for
the slowest period since the week beginning July 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. No companies have sold bonds since
Aug. 6, when  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , China Petrochemical Corp.
and  Sound Global Ltd. (SGL)  priced notes.  Inflation in China, the world’s second-biggest economy,
cooled for a fourth straight month in July, rising 1.8 percent
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today in Beijing. Consumer prices rose 2.2 percent in June. The
deceleration provides more room for authorities to lower
 interest rates  and combat an economic slowdown that’s lasted six
quarters. Data in Australia meanwhile showed employers boosted
payrolls in July, the fourth gain in five months. Markets in
 Singapore  were closed for National Day.  “We’re right in the middle of a summer lull but Asia bond
sales are on track for the busiest year ever,”  Viktor Hjort ,
the head of Asia fixed-income research at Morgan Stanley, said
in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “The consumer price data
confirms inflation is not a problem in China any more. It’s now
easy for policy makers to continue to ease policy as they have
been doing all year.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia  index  of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 1 basis point to 148.5 as of 8:20
a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The index is on track for its lowest close since March 27,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Bond Risk  The number of people employed in  Australia  rose by 14,000
last month versus a median estimate for a 10,000 increase in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 strategists. Stocks in Asia rose,
extending gains the previous three trading sessions.  The Markit iTraxx Japan  index  decreased 1.5 basis points to
196 basis points as of 9:48 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The measure dropped 9.3 basis points yesterday, its
biggest one-day fall since June 11, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia  index  rose 0.5 basis point to
158 basis points as of 10:28 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show. The gauge touched a three-month low of 155.9
basis points on Aug. 6, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  