-- Assurant Cited Most by U.S. for Health Premium Increases
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-08-09T20:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/assurant-cited-most-by-u-s-for-excessive-health-premium-rates.html
Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , the insurer adjusting
rates for New York homeowners after regulators challenged its
prices, has been cited by the U.S. for “unreasonable” health
premium increases more times than any competitor.  Assurant  units  raised premiums in excess of 10 percent on
individual health plans 31 times in 12 states since October,
according to documents provided by the U.S. Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight. The greatest increase was
24 percent on plans covering 17,666 people in Wisconsin in May.  Assurant is the only publicly traded health insurer cited
by the agency this fiscal year. The health data may spur
Congress to grant more power to force rescissions in premium
increases or impose punishments for pricing deemed unreasonable.  “If you see enough of this, given a certain landscape of
politics, there may actually be teeth put into some of these
laws,” said  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  who focuses on the
health-care industry at New York-based Poliwogg. “Insurers
aren’t exactly a public fan favorite. They’re sort of an easy
target for Congress, if it’s so inclined.”  Assurant said in an e-mailed statement that its “recent
rate filings are actuarially justified and appropriate.” A
spokeswoman, Sue Pierman, wouldn’t make any company executives
available for an interview.  A committee of the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners , which represents state regulators, plans a public
hearing on lender-placed insurance today in Atlanta.  Distressed Homeowners  Assurant, which gets about 22 percent of revenue from
health insurance, has been stung by scrutiny of its larger
business that sells policies for mortgage lenders when
distressed homeowners let their original coverage lapse. The
company is the second-worst performer in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  this year and fell  17 percent  in May,
following a call by New York regulators for hearings on the
lender-placed home insurance business.  Assurant rose less than 1 percent today to close at $36.23.  The 2010 health law gave the federal government the power
to review health-premium increases in states that don’t police
rates adequately. There were 10 such states a year ago, and
seven now. More than 70 percent of unreasonable determinations
issued since 2010 involved three Assurant subsidiaries: John
Alden Life Insurance, Time Insurance and Union Security
Insurance, according to the insurance oversight center.  Assurant said it didn’t withdraw or reduce any increases
after the government objected. “In some instances, we have
reviewed filings with state Departments of Insurance and have
made changes as appropriate if actuarially justified,” it said.  Pricing Power  Premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance, the most
common type in the U.S., rose an average of 9 percent for family
plans in 2011, the most recent data available from the nonprofit
 Kaiser Family Foundation , based in  Menlo Park ,  California . The
31 Assurant rate increases cited by the Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight ranged from 12 percent to 24
percent, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Assurant’s health insurance companies focus on covering
individuals and very small businesses, carving out a niche
“where they don’t really have to face the big boys every day”
such as industry leader  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , said  John Nadel , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York.  “The bigger companies are not going to really bother with
a 5- or 10-person company,” he said.  Mennonite Church  The government has declared rate increases proposed by four
providers other than Assurant to be unreasonable. They include:
three plans in Washington owned by Group Health Cooperative, a
nonprofit insurer; six plans in  Alabama ,  Arizona ,  Nebraska ,
 Pennsylvania ,  Virginia  and  Wyoming  owned by Trustmark Mutual
Holding Co.; one plan in Arizona owned by J&P Holdings Inc. of
Bedford Park,  Illinois ; and an insurance company in Pennsylvania
founded by the Mennonite Church.  Health plans covering more than 3 million people proposed
premium increases of 10 percent or more since September, when
the rate-review program began, Mike Hash, the acting director of
the consumer and insurance center, said in an e-mail sent
through a spokesman, Jason Young.  The reviews have provided consumers “unprecedented access
to information from their insurance companies as to why the
companies believe an increase is necessary, as well as to the
reasoning of states and CMS as to whether the companies’
regulators agree with the companies’ request,” Hash said, using
an acronym for his office’s parent agency, the U.S. Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Consumer Rebates  Assurant’s premium increases were labeled “unreasonable”
because they would result in the insurer spending too little of
its premium revenue on medical claims, according to reports the
government posted in an online database.  Under the health law, insurers are required to spend at
least 80 percent of the revenue they collect in premiums on
medical care, known as the medical loss ratio. They can keep 20
percent for profit and administrative costs; any excess must be
rebated to customers.  In  Wisconsin , where two Assurant units proposed 24 percent
increases, the medical loss ratio would be as low as 58.8
percent for one plan, the government data show. An Assurant
program in Pennsylvania that covers 67 small-business workers
would have a medical loss ratio as low as 46.1 percent after a
15 percent rate increase it proposed, the government said. That
was the lowest ratio of any Assurant plan reviewed.  Insurers paid about $1.1 billion in rebates to about 12.8
million people for policies that didn’t meet the government’s
medical loss requirement in 2011, according to the U.S. Assurant
said it issued 192,237 rebates totaling about $44 million.  Even if Assurant pays rebates, it may benefit the company
because “you get to carry that extra cash for a year,”
Poliwogg’s Funtleyder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  