-- Astronomy’s Quest to Peer Into an Event Horizon
-- B y   C a l e b   S c h a r f
-- 2012-08-09T22:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/astronomy-s-quest-to-peer-into-an-event-horizon.html
Of all cosmic phenomena, the most
extreme hold a particular fascination, and black holes are the
ultimate extreme. Fantastical, even mythological in stature,
they are a vital part of all we see around us.  There is good reason to think that hundreds of billions,
perhaps trillions, of black holes are scattered throughout the
universe. Imagine that we could sense directly the curvature and
distortion of space-time as if it were a simple three-
dimensional landscape. We would find a universe of gently
undulating hills, valleys and small indentations -- peppered
with the sharpest little pinholes, so fathomless that the walls
plunge out of view as we peer in -- holes that flood the cosmos
with radiation and particles.  Why does our universe make black holes? The laws of physics
show us, first, how gravity builds dense structures out of
normal matter. In some cases such gatherings of matter get hot
enough to ignite nuclear fusion: A star is born. Eventually a
few of these objects, stockpiling mass and succumbing to
gravity, reach a density that distorts space and time. They
drop, sink, burrow and implode all the way out of what we
consider to be normal existence, leaving behind fearsome trails,
like unplugged drains into the underworld, from which even light
cannot escape.  Spewing Energy  The energy that these black holes spew back into the cosmos
affects almost everything we see, including our own quite
special Milky Way galaxy. Breaking just one of the crisscrossing
strands of cosmic history and energy that connect us to black
holes could subvert the entire pathway to life here on Earth.  We have much still to learn about the workings of black
holes and the reasons for their existence. The laws of
relativity, quantum mechanics and even thermodynamics are at
play, but it is their complex manifestations that will explain
black holes’ actual influence on the character of galaxies,
stars and the matter within them.  Astrophysicists have struggled to understand how matter
descends toward black holes, moving against the outpouring of
radiation. Looking inside these systems, we have seen strange
pulsations of energy. The rhythmic patterns of outflowing
photons betray the ongoing fight between matter and radiation.  Scientists have also tried to figure out whether there is a
maximum size for black holes. As they grow, they may simply
become so good at generating energy that they push away new
incoming material, limiting their own size. It’s like trying to
feed a roaring bonfire. The more fuel you manage to throw on,
the farther you need to back away. Such an impasse might occur
when a black hole reaches 10 billion times the mass of the sun,
roughly the size of the largest holes yet scrutinized. Pushing
yet another limit, some of the most massive black holes appear
to spin at close to the maximum rate allowed by physics.  Some data and theories hint at opportunities for stars to
be born within the disk of material accreting into a hole. What
a strange and alien environment this might be for the birth of a
stellar system. Could there be planets around stars made there?
If so, we can only imagine what their night skies might be like.  Intriguing new evidence also suggests that some black holes
have been flung from their parent galaxies. Ejected during the
final stages of merger between black hole pairs, they race out
into intergalactic space.  Incomplete View  Astronomers have not yet managed to look at a black hole up
close. Is that even possible? The cleverest techniques still
offer an incomplete view, but one that that can at least tell us
about black hole mass, spin and the nature of the surrounding
disk. What we see is not an image but a collection of the
energies of these battered photons.  Physicists and astronomers have been devising systems to
detect gravity waves, emanating from pairs of neutron stars or
black holes that come to orbit each other closely enough to
merge in a spectacular crescendo. Experiments such as the Laser
Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory try to detect
changes in the underlying fabric of space as light traverses it,
changes that reflect the influence of a passing gravity wave. A
planned space-based gravity-wave detector -- currently on hold
because of budgetary constraints -- would hear the deep rumbles
of supermassive black holes merging in distant galaxies.  The ultimate goal is to observe the event horizon, the
final gateway from our familiar universe to the one that is lost
to the tremendous gravity within a black hole. We think that the
event horizon is effectively dark nothingness. Nevertheless, the
space immediately outside it is aglow with the final gasps of
matter. And some astronomers, led by NASA scientist Keith
Gendreau, hope it might be possible to observe a black hole by
making an image of the intense X-ray light flooding out.  The catch is that for even a supermassive black hole, that
innermost disk is perhaps only a few light-days across. If you
want to look at the event horizon of the 4 million-solar-mass
black hole at the center of the Milky Way, thousands of light-
years away, you need to be able to see with extraordinary
resolution. It’s like taking a photo of a coin on the surface of
the moon with a camera here on Earth.  Building a telescope to do this is a phenomenal challenge.
The physical properties of light are such that it is diffracted
as it passes into apertures and lenses. The smaller a
telescope’s diameter, the blurrier the image. This is why
astronomers love to build big telescopes -- to make crisper,
sharper pictures. Creating an image of a distant event horizon
is going to require an enormous telescope.  Closer Look  The small wavelength of X-ray photons presents an
additional obstacle. The kind of telescopes that can handle
skittish X-rays cannot be built very large. The solution is to
make many small telescopes that work together. We could place
dozens of them in space, forming an array many tens of miles
across. Each one would gather X-ray photons and beam them to a
single detector, which would form an image of incredible
resolution.  One design for such a system calls for two dozen small X-
ray mirrors called periscopes to hover in a mile-wide swarm. The
detector would sit in space 12,000 miles away and house a
sensitive digital camera. The detector would need to be
positioned precisely, and braced against the forces of solar
radiation and gravity from other planets. But these hurdles
would not be insurmountable. Spacecraft engineering and
technology have come a very long way. In fact, it is
breathtaking to think that such an observatory is within our
reach, should we choose to place resources into it. The Black
Hole Imager, as the proposed system is now called, would let us
see through the dust and gas cloaking the core of the Milky Way,
to peer into the very workings of a black hole.  Scientists have already found matter’s starting point. In
the mottled haze of cosmic-background photons and the faintest
recesses of electromagnetic radiation, we see the imprints of
the primordial cosmos. And in our great particle accelerators we
are re-creating the conditions of the universe mere instants
after the Big Bang. Now, staring into the twisted chasms the
universe has made in itself, we see the same matter leaving us
behind. For all intents and purposes it is sinking into, but
also out of, this cosmos. With a final glimmer, the particles
are passing across the event horizon and releasing themselves to
eternity. Yet just before the end, they give up what energy they
can, and it surges back to sculpt and color the universe.  (Caleb Scharf, an astrophysicist, is the director of
Columbia University’s Astrobiology Center and author of the blog
Life, Unbounded. This is the last of five excerpts from his new
book, “ Gravity’s Engines: How Bubble-Blowing Black Holes Rule
Galaxies, Stars and Life in the Cosmos ,” which will be published
on Aug. 14 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions expressed
are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls  and on parents who refuse to have their  kids
vaccinated ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections don’t predict
future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not economic)
depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to lose ; William
Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China Sea ;  Jonathan Weil 
on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ;  Steven Greenhut  on
the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff investors .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caleb Scharf at  caleb@astro.columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  