-- Atlantic City Mall Sparks ‘Macabre Fascination’ in CMBS Market
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-08-09T22:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/atlantic-city-mall-sparks-macabre-fascination-in-cmbs-market.html
The Pier Shops at Caesars, the mall
on  Atlantic City ’s boardwalk, failed to attract the minimum bid
at an auction, potentially triggering the first-ever loss in a
commercial-mortgage bond assigned top ratings during the
market’s peak.  C-III  Capital Partners , the loan servicer handling the
property since the owner defaulted on an $80 million mortgage,
canceled the auction yesterday conducted online by Auction.com.
The final bid was $25 million, compared with an appraisal of
$56.6 million in January 2011, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
The property was estimated to be worth $210 million in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was a kind of a macabre fascination,” said Lea Overby, a debt strategist at Nomura. “People were surprised the
bids were coming in so low. People had it in their heads that it
was going to come in closer to the appraised value.”  The auction result implies a $68 million hit to
bondholders, incurring the first principal loss ever on a so-
called AJ class of bond referenced in a benchmark index,
according to Nomura. Many AJ securities have been cut to
speculative-grade after being assigned AAA grades when they were
issued.  The loan is the largest in a $1 billion commercial-mortgage
bond deal issued by Morgan Stanley in December 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  C-III intends to keep marketing the asset, according to
 Michael Geller , a spokesman for C-III. The auction helps to make
clear the true value of the building, Overby said.  “Most people in the CMBS market have gotten the sense that
this asset really is near worthless,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  