-- Aviva Has Loss on $1.4 Billion U.S. Writedown; Costs to Rise
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-09T08:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/aviva-posts-loss-on-1-4-billion-u-s-writedown-costs-to-rise.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, swung to a first-half loss after
writing down its U.S. arm by 876 million pounds ($1.4 billion)
and said restructuring costs will increase.  The net loss from continuing operations was 745 million
pounds in the six months to June 30, compared with a 125-
million-pound profit in the same period a year earlier, the
London-based insurer said in a statement today.  Executive Chairman John McFarlane said costs to revamp
Aviva will rise in the second half as he executes a plan to sell
or exit at least 16 businesses and turn around at least 27
others. The U.S. writedown may presage a sale of the business,
according to Eamonn Flanagan, an analyst at Shore Capital Group
Ltd. Aviva bought  Des Moines , Iowa-based Amerus Group Co. for
$3.1 billion in 2006.  “There are still too many issues both on the operational
level and in the macro environment for earnings to bounce,”
said Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a London-based  money manager  at Artemis
Investment Management LLP who oversees about $100 million,
including Aviva shares. “This is a long, grinding corporate
turnaround. Asset sales and restructuring can turn this business
into something that should not trade on such a depressed
multiple.”  Aviva  rose  0.4 percent to 319.4 pence at 8:46 a.m. in
London trading, valuing the firm at about 9.3 billion pounds.
The stock is up 6.1 percent this year.  U.S. Writedown  The U.S. writedown “isn’t a statement of anything other
than good capital allocation and our expectation of future
profit streams,” Finance Director Pat Regan said on a call with
reporters.  The unit has a return on equity of about 4 percent,
compared with higher-performing divisions such as U.K. personal
property cover, which have a 22 percent return on capital, Regan
said. That means the insurer will give the division less capital
in the future, he said.  The U.S. arm specializes in annuities linked to equity
markets. A sale of the unit would help boost Aviva’s capital
position and reduce the volatility of its reserves, according to
analysts including Oliver Steel at Deutsche Bank AG.  “Who are the buyers for the various non-core businesses,
and what price will be acceptable for shareholders?” Shore’s
Flanagan, who is based in Liverpool,  England , wrote in a note to
clients today. The writedown “could smooth the path for a U.S.
disposal at a fraction of the purchase price,” he said.  Restructuring Costs  The company incurred 186 million pounds of restructuring
costs for the first half. That will increase as “we complete
the de-layering program, the removal of the regions” and other
elements of the restructuring plan, Regan said.  McFarlane took over from former Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Moss  in May after a shareholder revolt over executive
pay. The insurer has about 18 billion pounds of European
sovereign debt, more than any other U.K. insurer, and has lower
and more volatile capital reserves than competitors. Its share
price dropped 60 percent during Moss’s five-year tenure.  “Aviva was not built for a zero percent interest-rate
world, but that is to a large extent reflected in the
valuation,” de Tusch-Lec said.  Dividend Maintained  Operating profit, including earnings from its Dutch unit,
 Delta Lloyd NV (DL) , declined 2 percent to 1.12 billion pounds in the
first half, compared with the 1.14 billion-pound median estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings from  life
insurance  fell 7 percent in the period due to turmoil in the
Eurozone and a lower value of the euro against the pound, Regan
said. Profits from non-life insurance increased, he said.  Aviva will pay a first-half  dividend  of 10 pence per share,
matching last year’s payout and analysts’ estimates. McFarlane
didn’t rule out cutting the dividend to boost capital reserves
when he announced the results of a strategic review in July.  The insurer has an economic capital surplus of 4.5 billion
pounds, or 140 percent of its required reserves, Regan said.
That compares with 130 percent at the beginning of the year.
Half of the gain came from improving market conditions and half
came from reinsurance deals and a reduction in corporate bond
investments, Regan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 