-- Libor Reform Risks Invalidating Mortgages, Financial Contracts
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-08-10T13:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/banks-seek-scientific-libor-rate-process-fsa-s-wheatley-says.html
The U.K.’s chief markets regulator
said that material changes to the way Libor is calculated risks
invalidating millions of financial contracts, covering products
ranging from mortgages to derivatives.  There needs to be certainty on what would happen to banks
and investors if another benchmark is adopted, said Martin Wheatley, the managing director of the Financial Services
Authority, who is conducting a review of the oversight and
setting of the  London  interbank offered rate.  “Any migration to new benchmarks would require a carefully
planned and managed transition in order to limit disruption to
the huge volume of outstanding contracts that reference Libor,”
Wheatley said following a speech at Bloomberg LP’s office in
London today.  Wheatley, 53, is conducting the review after  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined 290 million pounds
($453 million) by U.S. and U.K. authorities in June. Libor is
the most frequently utilized benchmark for interest rates
globally, referenced in transactions with a value of at least
$300 trillion.  Barclays admitted to attempting to rig rates to benefit its
own derivatives trades and to appear healthier during the
financial crisis. At least 12 banks, including  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Deutsche Bank AG, are being investigated
for manipulating Libor and related benchmarks around the world.  The banks “are very clearly apprehensive because of the
record fine that was pinned on Barclays,” Wheatley, who is
designated to become chief executive officer of the Financial
Conduct Authority when the FSA is split in two next year, said
in a separate interview yesterday. “They want as quickly as
possible to have a Libor that works and doesn’t expose them” to
regulatory and legal risks.  Osborne Legislations  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  called for
the review and said Wheatley’s report would form the basis for
amendments to legislation currently making its way through
Parliament.  In a discussion paper tied to the review, Wheatley proposed
that sanctions for manipulating Libor could be strengthened, a
code of conduct could be introduced for banks submitting figures
for the benchmark and that the process be overseen by a
regulator rather than the British Bankers’ Association.  “This discussion paper demonstrates that we will give
regulators the powers they need to prevent the manipulation of
key benchmark rates in the future,” said  Mark Hoban , Financial
Secretary to the Treasury. “The government is also working with
its international partners to inform the international work in
this area and work towards a globally consistent solution.”  Widened Definition  Regulators may need to combine actual data from interbank
transactions “with a widened definition of relevant funding to
include other products such as commercial paper or corporate
deposits,” Wheatley said in the speech today.  Wheatley has begun consulting with banks that submit Libor
rates and will seek input from the finance industry over the
next four weeks. He is scheduled to present his findings by the
end of September, the Treasury said.  Wheatley said banks that set the Libor interest rate are
seeking a “scientific” process that will limit future
liability from the scandal-ridden benchmark.  Lenders on the Libor panel, which include RBS and Barclays,
would prefer Libor be set “on a very clean basis that takes
their risk down,” Wheatley said. A “trade reporting
mechanism” to calculate the figure based on actual data is one
option he is considering as part of proposals to reform Libor
released today.  Seven Authorities  At least seven authorities, including the  Department of
Justice , European Commission and Canadian Competition Bureau,
are investigating whether banks manipulated  interest rates  to
benefit trading positions or appear more financially sound.  Dozens of traders have been caught up in the scandal,
either being fired or suspended by their employers or put under
investigation by U.K. or U.S. authorities. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. suspended a London-based employee, the
third in a month, the bank said yesterday.  “We’ve found quite a lot of bad behavior in this market
and we want to fix it,” said Wheatley, who was formerly the
chief executive officer of  Hong Kong ’s Securities and Futures
Commission and a deputy CEO of the London Stock Exchange. “We
want to make a credible benchmark.”  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the BBA in London. Lenders are asked how much it
would cost them to borrow from one another for 15 different
periods, from overnight to one year, in currencies including
dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After a set number of
quotes are excluded, those remaining are averaged and published
for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  