-- Bank of New York Mellon Wins Appeal on $312 Million Lien
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-09T19:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/bank-of-new-york-mellon-wins-appeal-on-312-million-lien.html
Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. won a
U.S. Appeals Court ruling affirming it’s entitled to a
$312 million lien on the holdings of the bankrupt suburban
Chicago cash management firm Sentinel Management Group Inc.  After Sentinel filed for bankruptcy in 2007, liquidation
trustee Frederick Grede sued the New York-based lender claiming
its employees knew the firm was improperly using investor assets
as credit-line collateral and sought to disallow or subordinate
its lien.  The Chicago-based appeals court today unanimously affirmed
U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel’s 2010 post-trial ruling
rejecting Grede’s claim that the bank’s actions enabled Sentinel
to deceive its clients and an earlier dismissal of the trustee’s
bid to invalidate the lien as illegal.  “Perhaps the bank should have known that Sentinel violated
segregation requirements,” U.S. Circuit Judge John D. Tinder
wrote for the panel, “but as the district court found, ‘such a
lack of care does not rise to the level of egregious misconduct
necessary for equitable subordination.’”  Grede, in a phone interview today, said he was disappointed
by the court’s decision and that he and his attorneys were
evaluating their options. More than $1.2 billion in claims have
been filed against the firm’s assets, he said.  “Given all of the things that are going on in the
industry, it doesn’t bode well for the protection of customer
funds,” he said of the appellate court ruling.  “We are pleased the appeals court has affirmed the
district court’s ruling in our favor,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman
for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Sentinel was based in Northbrook,  Illinois .  The case is In re Sentinel Management Group Inc., 10-3787,
10-3990 and 11-1123, U.S. Circuit  Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  