-- Bank of Korea Holds Rate Following Surprise Cut in July
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-09T03:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-following-surprise-cut-in-july.html
The  Bank of Korea  kept borrowing
costs at a 14-month low after a surprise cut in July as policy
makers await more data to gauge the fallout from  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board left the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3 percent. The decision
was unanimous, Kim told reporters, and was predicted by 10 of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, while the rest forecast a
25 basis point reduction.  The BOK has come under pressure to shore up growth in
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy after gross domestic product
expanded at the slowest pace in almost three years last quarter
and inflation eased to a 12-year low. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said this week that Europe’s woes are causing a global
contraction, a view bolstered by the  Bank of England  paring
forecasts for the economy yesterday and German industrial
production falling more than expected.  “The rate pause today raises the possibility of a cut next
month,” said Sun Yoo, an economist at Woori Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “There is a shared understanding that
the European fiscal crisis will be a lasting one and that a
slowdown in the domestic economy needs some policy support.”  The won reversed a decline after the decision, rising 0.1
percent to 1,127.43 at 10:40 a.m. in Seoul and the  benchmark
Kospi stock index  rose for a fourth day, gaining 1 percent.  ‘Slackening’ Growth  “Growth momentum, as reflected in domestic economic
activity, appears to be slackening, on the sluggishness of both
exports and domestic demand stemming from mounting external
uncertainties,” the BOK said in an English-language statement
today after the decision.  The BOK cut  interest rates  from 5.25 percent to a record-
low 2 percent between October 2008 and February 2009 to counter
fallout from the global financial crisis sparked by the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Then it raised the rate to 3.25
percent over a year starting in July 2010, as inflation breached
its target limit of 4 percent and household debt swelled to a
record.  “Even if the BOK opts to stay on the sidelines, it is
unlikely to remain there for long,” said Sukhy Ubhi, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The economy
grew at a sluggish pace and growth is unlikely to fare much
better in the third quarter.”  Indonesia, Japan  Indonesia  also decides monetary policy today and will
probably keep interest rates unchanged for a sixth month,
according to 25 of 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  Bank
of Japan (8301)  today may refrain from adding monetary stimulus for a
fourth time, according to all 22 analysts polled. The  State Bank 
of  Pakistan  is scheduled to decide on borrowing costs tomorrow.  Australia’s central bank kept interest rates unchanged at a
developed-world high this week, citing a domestic expansion
that’s weathering a global slowdown. A U.S. government report
last week showing the economy added more jobs than forecast in
July damped speculation the  Federal Reserve  will resort to a
third round of asset purchases.  Should South Korean central bankers reduce further, they
have “limited room,” said Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based fixed
income analyst at Eugene Investment & Futures. The 2 percent low
reached in 2009 was the lowest policy makers could go without
sparking unwanted consequences such as foreign-capital flight,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  