-- Banks Face Derivatives Margin Losses as Too-Big-to-Fail Ends
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-08-09T09:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/banks-face-derivatives-margin-losses-as-too-big-to-fail-ends-1-.html
Derivatives traders may take losses
on the margins they post at clearinghouses during a crisis, as
global plans to eradicate the dangers of too-big-to-fail
financial institutions gather pace.  Losses on so-called variation margin and conversion of
creditor claims into equity are among options proposed by a
group of regulators last week to protect taxpayers from future
financial catastrophes when other buffers are depleted.
Clearinghouses act as central counterparties in derivatives
contracts to spread the risk of default.  Central counterparties “are the nuclear power plants of
the financial system,” Jesper Berg, senior vice president at
Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank, said in a
telephone interview. “For the financial industry it’s
absolutely crucial we don’t have discontinuities” in their
functions. “You can’t stop the clock.”  The proposals are part of a global overhaul of rules
governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of central
counterparties by derivatives traders. Regulators have sought
tougher rules for over-the-counter derivatives since the
collapse in 2008 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders
of credit-default swaps.  Regulators won’t permit “the tragedy of central
counterparties becoming too big to fail,”  Paul Tucker , deputy
governor at the  Bank of England  and chair of the global
committee developing the standards, said in an interview with
Risk magazine last week.  Market Adapts  The market “will adapt” to the risk of haircuts on their
collateral for derivatives trading, Nicolas Veron, analyst at
Breugel, a Brussels-based advisory group, said in a telephone
interview.  Tucker has seen the consequences of a clearinghouse failure
first-hand, having worked on an overhaul of  Hong Kong ’s
securities market after its futures exchange collapsed during
the global stock market crash in 1987.  “The effects were devastating,” he said in a speech last
year. “The upshot was that Hong Kong’s main capital market shut
down.”  Members of a clearinghouse post margin to the central
institution, which can be cash, securities or other financial
assets, when trading derivatives. So-called variation margin
sees that amount change on a daily or intraday basis depending
on the price movements in the derivatives contracts.  LCH Clearnet  LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s biggest clearing house, raised
the extra margin it demands from clients to trade some Spanish
 government bonds  last month. The margin for trading  Spain ’s
securities maturing in seven to 10 years increased to 12.2
percent from 11.8 percent, the company said.  Losses imposed on creditors “should be no worse than they
would be in insolvency” if the clearinghouse’s creditor
hierarchies are respected in write-downs, according to the
proposals published by the Committee on Payment and Settlement
Systems and the International Organization of Securities
Commissions on July 31.  ‘Executive Power’  “What becomes extremely difficult is deciding who will
take decisions on resolution given that some of these firms are
global,” Veron said. “Allocating gains and losses is one of
the definitions of executive power.”  Madrid-based IOSCO brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information. The CPSS, which is part of the Basel,
Switzerland-based Bank of International Settlements, is made up
of central bankers from developed and emerging economies and
sets standards for payment, clearing and settlement systems.  The proposals mirror those in the pipeline for big lenders.
The European Commission proposed measures in June for creditors
to take losses in the event of failure to avoid the type of
taxpayer bailouts seen in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  Clearinghouses would also be required to submit so-called
living wills to regulators, much like banks, which outline how
the institution can be resolved in an orderly way in a crisis.  Low Capital  The CPSS paper “arguably misses the real issue” of low
capital, Patrick Fell, director at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said
in a telephone interview. “The volumes of business going
through clearinghouses are huge and the owners’ capital is very
small by comparison.”  Another regulator, the European Banking Authority, proposed
earlier this year that clearinghouses hold enough capital to
cover credit risk from their activities, as well as to cover
operational expenses during a wind-down.  Regulators can either impose losses, based on existing
creditor hierarchies at clearinghouses, or try to unwind
unmatched trades, Simon Gleeson, financial regulation lawyer at
Clifford Chance LLP, said in a telephone interview in  London .
“Of course, the third option is for the government to pony up
the cash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  