-- Barclays Appoints Ex-BOE Official David Walker as Chairman
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-10T07:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/barclays-names-morgan-stanley-s-david-walker-as-new-chairman-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the British bank fined
a record for interest-rate manipulation named former Bank of
 England  executive director  David Walker  as chairman, its first
move to replace leaders ousted in wake of the Libor scandal.  He will start on Nov. 1 and succeed Marcus Agius, the
lender said yesterday in a statement. Walker, 72, is a senior
adviser to Morgan Stanley and oversaw a review of the banking
industry for former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown .  Walker said his first task will be to find a replacement
for Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , who resigned last
month with Agius, 66, after the bank was fined 290 million
pounds ($453 million) in June by U.S. and U.K. regulators for
attempting to rig the  London  interbank offered rate.  “He’s very well-connected,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in London. “But it feels you
are going back a long way in your address book to find someone.
He’s had a great career. He’s a bit of a veteran, and this is
going to be a 24/7 job.”  Walker’s appointment may boost the chances of  Antony Jenkins , Barclays’s head of consumer banking, being named CEO,
Wheeler said. Jenkins’s background as an insider with  consumer
banking experience  would complement Walker’s investment-banking
career outside Barclays, he said.  A graduate of Queen’s College, Cambridge, Walker began his
career as a civil servant in the Treasury before moving to the
Bank of England in 1977.  Morgan Stanley  He was chairman of NatWest Financial Markets Group Inc.
from 1986 to 1992 before becoming deputy chairman of Lloyds Bank
Plc. He also served as chairman of the Securities and Investment
Board, a predecessor of the Financial Services Authority,
between 1988 and 1992. He joined  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in 1995.  In 2007, he developed a set of disclosure guidelines for
private-equity firms working in Britain as the industry sought
to fend off increased  government regulation  as buyouts boomed.  Two years later, he wrote a government-commissioned report
into corporate governance that recommended banks delay bonus
payments, increase the policing powers of risk committees and
bolster the responsibilities of chairmen to avert a repeat of
the financial crisis.  “Leading a review into corporate governance will tick a
big box, and he’s an investment banker, so has that knowledge
and he’s ex-Bank of England, so they’ll be happy with him,”
said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in
Liverpool with a hold rating on the shares. “Given the
governance and  Bank of England  angle it’s as sensible an
appointment as you’re going to get.”  Annual Pay  Walker will receive 750,000 pounds a year in salary,
including 100,000 pounds in Barclays shares, the same as his
predecessor, for a four-day week at the bank. He’ll get no bonus
or pension, according to the London-based lender’s statement.  Barclays climbed 1.2 percent to 181.15 pence as of 8:05
a.m. in London  trading . The shares are still 6 percent below
their June 26 close, the day before the record Libor fines were
disclosed. The bank is the third-worst performer this year in
the six-company FTSE 350 Banks Index, having gained 1.6 percent.  He takes over as regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  probe
more than a dozen banks worldwide over allegations they
manipulated Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more than
$360 trillion of securities. Investigators are examining whether
traders colluded to rig the rate for profit and whether banks
hid their borrowing costs to appear healthier than they were.  Criticism from lawmakers and the Bank of England forced the
resignation of Agius, Diamond and former Chief Operating Officer
Jerry Del Missier. Agius has been leading the bank in the
interim and the search for his own successor.  Agius Apologizes  Agius apologized last month for the lender’s role in the
Libor scandal as he reported a bigger-than-estimated 13 percent
increase in first-half pretax profit excluding one-time items to
4.23 billion pounds. The bank also opened a review into its
business practices presided over by Anthony Salz, executive vice
chairman at Rothschild. He will review past practices, publish a
report to the public and draw up a code of conduct for
employees, Barclays said.  The lender is still being investigated over the disclosure
of fees related to the bank’s fundraising in 2008. Four
employees, including Finance Director Chris Lucas, are being
probed, the bank said last month. The investigation is focused
on whether the bank adequately disclosed fees it agreed to pay
to the Qatar Investment Authority as it sought to raise money
from investors including the sovereign-wealth fund, a person
with knowledge of the situation said on July 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net  