-- Benjamin Heineman Sr., ‘Improbable’ Rail Innovator, Dies at 98
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-08-09T16:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/benjamin-heineman-sr-improbable-rail-innovator-dies-at-98.html
Benjamin W. Heineman Sr., a Chicago-
based corporate lawyer and businessman who helped modernize U.S.
railways and advised President  Lyndon B. Johnson , has died. He
was 98.  He died on Aug. 5 after suffering a stroke while visiting
family in  Wisconsin , the  Chicago Tribune  reported, citing his
daughter, Martha Heineman Pieper.  A leading business and civic figure, Heineman was a trustee
of the  University of Chicago , the Art Institute of Chicago, the
Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Lyric Opera. Avid art
collectors, he and his wife, Natalie, gave their collection of
contemporary studio glass, with an estimated value of $9.5
million, to the  Corning Museum of Glass  in New York in 2006.
Natalie Heineman died in 2010.  Heineman was chief executive officer of Northwest
Industries Inc., which he formed in 1968 as a holding company
for  Chicago  & North Western Railway Co., then for his other
business ventures, starting with insurance. He sold the railroad
to its employees in 1972 and retired as Northwest Industries CEO
in 1985, when the company was acquired by Farley Industries Inc.
for $1.4 billion.  Author Tom Murray, in his 2008  history  of the C&NW, said
“the Ben Heineman revolution” that began in 1956 included
transitioning the carrier to all-diesel locomotion, eliminating
steam; developing a computer-based system for keeping track of
freight cars; establishing a department to help shippers find
locations for new plants and warehouses; upgrading “worn-out”
commuter cars around Chicago; and cutting back on money-losing
intercity passenger routes.  ‘Lawyer’s Logic’  In his first involvement with railroads, Heineman was
credited with modernizing the Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway
Co. after leading a proxy battle to take it over in 1954.  Heineman “admitted going in that he knew little of
railroading, but he was a quick study, energetic, aggressive and
determined,” Don L. Hofsommer wrote in “The Tootin’ Louie,”
his 2004  book  on the Minneapolis & St. Louis. “He also was
impatient and apt to pace a room restlessly, talking rapidly,
developing ideas with a lawyer’s logic and fluency, constantly
challenging tradition.”  A 1965  New York  Times profile called Heineman “an
improbable rail executive,” an “outsider” who had “enhanced
the image of the entire industry.”  Benjamin Walter Heineman was born on Feb. 10, 1914, in
Wausau, Wisconsin, the son of Walter Benjamin and Elsie
Brunswick Heineman, according to a death notice in the New York
Times. His father, who went bankrupt in the Great Depression,
committed suicide,  according  to Crain’s Chicago Business.  Law Review  Heineman attended the  University of Michigan  from 1930 to
1933 and graduated from Northwestern Law School in 1936 as
editor of the law review, the death notice said.  During World War II, he served as assistant general counsel
in the Office of Price Administration and then as assistant
director of the North African Economic board. In 1951, Governor
Adlai E. Stevenson appointed him special assistant attorney
general to investigate cigarette-tax fraud in  Illinois .  Under President Johnson, he served as chairman of the White
House Conference on  Civil Rights  in 1966 and in other advisory
roles.  Survivors include his daughter Martha and his son, Ben W. Heineman Jr., a senior fellow at the Harvard Law School Program
on Corporate Governance and former senior vice president for law
and public affairs at General Electric Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  