-- Bharti Plunges to Six-Year Low on Goldman Downgrade
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-08-09T10:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/bharti-falls-to-two-year-low-on-goldman-downgrade-mumbai-mover.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, sank to the lowest price in almost six
years after brokerages including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
the stock’s rating on concerns the company’s expenses may rise.  Bharti slumped 6.4 percent to 256.75 rupees, the lowest
close since Oct. 26, 2006, and the  biggest loser  today on the
BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  and the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.
The stock slid 6.6 percent yesterday after reporting earnings
that  missed  analysts’ estimates.  Goldman Sachs and Standard Chartered Plc cut their ratings
on expectation the company will have to boost promotion costs as
it seeks to grow market share in India and Africa. Bharti,
controlled by billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal , said yesterday
that telecommunications revenue in India were depressed because
of “hyper-competition” and higher network costs.  “The disappointment was more on costs, than on revenue,”
Standard Chartered analysts Rahul Singh and Saurav Anand said in
a note dated yesterday. The brokerage lowered its rating to in-
line from outperform and reduced the price target to 274.35
rupees from 300 rupees.  Bharti’s net income will see an impact from competition for
the next 12 to 15 months, compared with the six to nine months
predicted earlier, the analysts wrote.  Price cuts and promotions offered by Bharti to regain its
market share locally will spur “aggressive responses” from
rivals, wrote Sachin Salgaonkar, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, in
a note to clients yesterday. He cut the rating to neutral from
buy, adding the “aggressive spend” will impact the company’s
profitability.  Bharti’s Nigerian unit invested $1.2 billion in the past
two years to expand its business in  Africa ’s most populous
country, the Lagos-based company said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  