-- MBIA Surges After Vow to Fight BofA on Mortgages: New York Mover
-- B y   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-08-09T18:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/mbia-surges-after-vow-to-fight-bofa-on-mortgages-new-york-mover.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI) , the bond insurer seeking
reimbursement from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  over faulty mortgages,
surged the  most in seven months  after pledging to carry on a
court fight to force the lender to repurchase the loans.  MBIA climbed 14 percent to $10.02 at 1:47 p.m. in New York,
the biggest intraday advance since Jan. 3 and today’s  second-
best performance  in the  Russell 1000 Index. (RIY)  Shares of the
Armonk, New York-based company had declined 24 percent this year
through yesterday.  “We are prepared to fight this all the way if we cannot
reach a reasonable and economic settlement consistent with what
we have achieved with all other counterparties,” Chief
Executive Officer Joseph B. Brown, 63, said today in a
conference call with analysts after the firm yesterday reported
a second-quarter adjusted pretax loss of $152 million.  MBIA’s “direct economic damages” from unpaid Bank of
America mortgage putbacks are almost $5 billion, Brown said.
MBIA is among firms that took losses on home loans tied to Bank
of America and are seeking to force the lender to repurchase the
mortgages.  Bank of America probably has set aside $1 billion to $2
billion for MBIA costs in litigation reserves, Charles Peabody,
an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New York , has said. That
amount should be adequate, he said.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  Bank of America made a “conscious decision to employ
aggressive delay tactics in the litigation and withhold the
billions of dollars they owe us in a way to pressure us to
accept a heavily discounted and non-economic settlement,” Brown
said in the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura J. Keller in New York at 
 lkeller12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  