-- Biggest 30-Year Rally Imperiled by Tax-Break Threat: Muni Credit
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/biggest-30-year-rally-imperiled-by-tax-break-threat-muni-credit.html
Municipal bonds maturing in three
decades are staging their best rally in five months. The gains
may be at risk as investors face federal deficit-cutting
proposals that also threaten local debt’s tax-exempt status.  Investors have been seeking to pad returns amid the  lowest 
municipal interest rates since the 1960s. They were willing to
accept as little as  1.15 percentage points  of extra yield last
month to lend to states and cities for 30 years rather than a
decade, Bloomberg Valuation data show. That gap was the smallest
since March and 25 percent below the average since 2008.
Investors typically demand a premium for taking on the
heightened risk of longer-dated debt.  “There’s not a lot of excess return left to be had,”
said Michael Zezas, head of municipal strategy at Morgan Stanley
in New York. “Barring further weakness in the economy, I don’t
think you’ll see that much more of a substantial rally” in
longer-maturity munis, he said.  There are signs of diminished demand. Investors added $307
million to long-term muni funds last week, a drop of about 40
percent from the prior period, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.
It was the steepest decline in a non-holiday week since May.  For all of 2012, funds focusing on debt due in more than 10
years have added about $9 billion, compared with $3.5 billion
for those concentrating on maturities of three to 10 years. The
trend is a reversal from the same period of 2011, when longer-
term assets fell about $16 billion, more than double the losses
of intermediates.  Deficit Debate  The tax status of munis is enmeshed in the debate over how
to reduce the federal deficit, a discussion that is set to heat
up after the November elections. The administration of President
 Barack Obama  last month forecast the imbalance at $1.21 trillion
this year. The exemption for local borrowings costs the U.S.
government $39 billion a year, according to the administration.  Obama, a Democrat, has proposed limiting the break for top
earners, and a deficit-cutting panel he appointed recommended
scrapping it as part of a tax-code overhaul. Neither plan
advanced in Congress. Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has suggested cutting income-tax rates, which may require
finding ways to make up for lost revenue to avoid swelling the
deficit. He hasn’t outlined specifics.  “We’ve seen some real concern that the exemption could get
capped or go away, and I think that is making it more
difficult” for the longest debt to extend its rally, said
Justin Hoogendoorn, a managing director at BMO Capital Markets
in  Chicago .  Market Beater  Long-term munis have beaten all other segments this year,
according to Barclays Plc data. Bonds due in more than 22 years
have earned about 9 percent, compared with about 4 percent for
the 10-year area.  Top-rated munis due in 30 years yielded about 2.99 percent
yesterday, compared with 1.74 percent for 10-year tax-exempts,
Bloomberg Valuation index data show. Last month, signs of a
slowing economy and speculation that European leaders would fail
to contain their debt crisis helped push yields on both
maturities to the lowest since the Bloomberg indexes began in
January 2009.  Zezas at Morgan Stanley in a research note last month
called seven- to 14-year maturities the “sweet spot” for
investors, rather than longer-duration debt. The longer a bond’s
duration, the more sensitive its price is to changes in  interest
rates .  Fed Efforts  Federal Reserve efforts to keep down borrowing costs to
spur the economy help explain the historically low interest
rates. The central bank has been swapping short-term debt in its
holdings for longer maturities as part of the so-called
Operation Twist.  “There’s some expectation that rates are going to stay low
for a while,” said Alan Schankel, a managing director of fixed
income at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. The Fed’s
moves have made investors less concerned about picking up
longer-maturity bonds than they might typically be, he said.  The yield spread between 10- and 30-year AAA munis has been
smaller than last month’s low on only  two occasions  since
October 2008. Each time, the gap widened an average of 0.56
percentage point in as little as a month.  Guy Davidson, who oversees $31 billion as director of
municipal investments at AllianceBernstein LP in New York, is
encouraging clients to shift into intermediates from high-grade,
long-term munis.  “Intermediate bonds have a lot less downside risk to
them,” he said.  Following are pending sales:  CALIFORNIA plans to issue $10 billion of revenue-anticipate
notes as soon as soon as next week. The notes are rated MIG 1,
Moody’s highest short-term grade. (Updated Aug. 9)  SAN FRANCISCO is set to sell $290 million of general-
obligation debt through competitive bid as soon as Aug. 14, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Fitch Ratings grades the bonds AA-,
fourth-highest. (Added Aug. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian White in  New York  at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  