-- LBO Mogul Creates Dream Baseball Musical
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-08-09T12:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/lbo-mogul-spends-200-000-on-dream-baseball-musical.html
Leveraged-buyout specialist Al Tapper
has nursed two dreams since the early 1950’s, when he was a 10-
year-old in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  “One was to play center field for the  Red Sox  and the
other was to write a Broadway musical,” Tapper, 70, said last
week. “I don’t think I’ll be trying out for the Red Sox any
time soon. But maybe I’ll get the other one.”  “ National Pastime ,” for which Tapper wrote music and
lyrics, began performances last night off-Broadway. With a book
by Tony Sportiello, it’s about a struggling small-town Iowa
radio station in 1933. The station manager plans to boost
ratings by airing imaginary games of a fictional minor-league
team.  “You couldn’t do that with TV or internet,” said Tapper,
who was wearing dark slacks, a blue dress shirt and Ferragamo
loafers at a recent rehearsal in  Manhattan ’s fashion district.
“Even if it’s silly and screwball comedy, it could
theoretically happen.”  Tapper grew up idolizing  Ted Williams  -- one of baseball’s
best -- and listening to vinyl LPs of cast recordings of “ My
Fair Lady ” and “ South Pacific .”  At  Boston University , he wrote a musical about college life
and played center field for the B.U. team. After enlisting in
the Army during the  Vietnam War , he got married.  “I had a baby right away,” he said. “I was 22 and I had
to make a living.”  Steel Wool  Tapper and his older brother, Charles, got involved in a
variety of businesses, from plastic cutlery and tumblers to
steel wool.  At their peak, the Tappers employed some 1,000 people,
generally financing acquisitions with debt. Jet Plastica and
Rhodes American Steel Wool are among the entities they created
by combining existing companies. (Both concerns still exist,
although the brothers sold their stakes.)  “Our philosophy was anything that wasn’t a hula-hoop --
something faddish,” he said. “Steel wool was around for 100
years and it would be around for another 100 years.”  “I was very good at what I did but I never liked it,” he
said. “Going to work was like having root canal done.”  Baseball Memorabilia  Stressful as business was, it paid for homes in Cape Cod,
Massachusetts,  Boca Raton ,  Florida  and a 4,000-square-foot
midtown Manhattan apartment Tapper put on the market for $5.5
million. (He plans to move to a smaller apartment at the  Pierre
Hotel .) It also funded an extensive baseball memorabilia
collection that he describes as a legacy for his four
grandchildren. It includes the original home plate from Yankee
Stadium, which opened in 1923, and cleats that Williams wore in
his last game.  Success subsidized his artistic endeavors, such as the
musical “Sessions,” originally titled “I Never Sang for My
Therapist.” It played both New York’s  Algonquin  and a theater 
in Guadalajara,  Mexico . Sportiello, who’s worked for Bloomberg 
Television, produced that show.  “National Pastime,” Tapper’s first about baseball,
premiered last year at  Washington ’s  Keegan Theatre . It includes
a catchy anthem, “We are America,” which Tapper wrote at his
piano days after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  Nelson Pressley in the  Washington Post  called the show
“ syrupy”  and bemoaned “the lack of an actual plot.” Tapper
and Sportiello said the tough reviews weren’t far off; they’ve
done extensive rewrites.  They’re not inviting critics to the two-and-a-half-week  New
York  engagement. They are charging $35 per ticket, which
probably won’t go far in recouping production costs of about
$200,000. Tapper and Sportiello both said they invested in it.  “I just want to make sure we have it right,” Tapper said.  Through Aug. 25 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://nationalpastimethemusical.com .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  