-- China Readies Verdict After Gu Doesn’t Dispute Murder
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-10T13:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/bo-s-wife-didn-t-contest-murder-charges-court-official-says.html
China prepared to deliver a verdict
in the case of Gu Kailai, the wife of ousted Chinese Politburo
member  Bo Xilai , after she failed to contest charges she
poisoned a British businessman in his hotel room.  The verdict in the case of Gu, who is accused along with an
orderly from her home of murdering Neil Heywood, will be
announced at a later date, after the trial was adjourned
yesterday, Tang Yigan, vice president of the Hefei Intermediate
People’s Court, told reporters in the eastern Chinese city where
the case is being heard. In a related case, four police officers
during a trial today admitted to involvement in covering up Gu’s
actions, Tang said.  “The accused Gu Kailai and Zhang Xiaojun did not dispute
the facts of the crime and the intentional homicide charge,”
Tang said. “During the process of the hearing, Gu Kailai was in
good physical condition, and was emotionally stable.” Zhang is
the orderly.  The trial is the most public part of a scandal that saw
Bo’s ouster as Chongqing party chief in March and triggered the
most serious political upheaval since the 1989  Tiananmen Square 
protests in 1989. China’s state-run media have said it will
strengthen people’s faith in the legal system, a message aimed
at bolstering the legitimacy of the ruling Communist Party
before a once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year.  “The fact that we have a defendant like this can be seen
as a step forward but just because this happened to them doesn’t
mean we have the rule of law,” said Yan Yiming, a Shanghai-
based trial lawyer. “The proceedings weren’t terribly
transparent. For a trial to be truly open, anyone would have to
be able to walk in.”  A Threat  Tang said that according to Hefei prosecutors, Gu felt that
Heywood was a threat to her son Bo Guagua’s personal safety
because of a financial dispute and decided to kill him. She
arranged for Chongqing government officials and Zhang to invite
Heywood to Chongqing from Beijing, Tang said.  On the night of Nov. 13, Gu went to Heywood’s hotel room
and “drank alcohol and tea with him,” Tang cited prosecutors
as saying. When a drunk Heywood vomited and needed water, Gu
“poured the poison into Heywood’s mouth, causing his death,”
Tang said. Chinese officials had originally told U.K.
authorities that Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  Jiang Min, a Hefei-based lawyer who the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper said was assigned by the court to represent Gu, didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone.  Death Sentence  By choosing not to dispute the evidence against her, Gu may
be trying to avoid a death sentence, said Zhang Ping, a Beijing-
based criminal defense lawyer. “Gu was a lawyer herself so this
process is not foreign to her,” he said.  The political context of the case and the manner in which
court proceedings are conducted in  China  all point to a
predetermined guilty verdict, Donald Clarke, a law professor at
George Washington University, said before the trial started.
Clarke said he expected Gu would be given a suspended death
sentence.  The trial is a climax of the drama that began in February
when the former police chief of Chongqing fled to the U.S.
Consulate in Chengdu with evidence implicating Gu in Heywood’s
murder, according to U.S. officials briefed on the matter. The
diplomatic furor sparked by the incident presaged Bo’s ouster as
Chongqing party chief.  There were more than 140 people present in the court,
including members of Heywood’s family and friends, as well as
British embassy officials, Tang said. Prosecutors produced
witness testimonies, audio visual materials and also summoned an
“expert” to give evidence in court, he said.  ‘Dominated by Politics’  Few will be convinced that politics haven’t played a role
in the case, said Beijing-based legal analyst Randy Peerenboom.  “The whole thing is already too compromised and dominated
by politics to persuade anybody,” said Peerenboom, an associate
fellow at the Oxford University Centre for Socio-Legal Studies.
“I don’t think there are many people who think this is going to
be handled fully in accordance with all of the legal
stipulations in criminal procedure without political
intervention.”  After the hearing concluded, footage was broadcast by
state-owned  China Central Television  showing the courtroom, with
three judges seated behind a wooden panel and Gu dressed in a
white shirt and black jacket.  Outside, about 30 security personnel stood in front of the
court in black raincoats in heavy rain. A dozen cameras were set
up behind the security cordon to film the event.  Court Security  A middle-aged woman with short gray hair and wearing
Bermuda shorts and a T-shirt was grabbed by security personnel
and driven away in an unmarked car after she shouted, “I’m a
normal Anhui, Hefei resident. I want to see fairness and
justice.”  Another woman who said she came to support Gu was turned
back after trying to enter the court.  Security personnel were in front of the court again this
morning, where the police officers were tried. The officers
admitted the “basic facts” of the charges, that they helped Gu
cover up her actions by means including hiding physical
evidence, the Hefei court’s Tang told a news conference today.
The court will deliver a verdict at a later date, Tang said.  Butcher’s Assistant  For the wife of a Politburo member to be tried for
murdering a foreigner is unparalleled in Chinese history, said
Minxin Pei, a government professor at  Claremont McKenna College 
in  California . Only the prosecution of Jiang Qing, Gang of Four
leader and the last wife of former leader  Mao Zedong , has any
similarities, he said.  Gu is the youngest of five daughters of a People’s
Liberation Army general, according to a Chinese-language website
affiliated with the Communist Youth League. She rose from a
butcher’s assistant during the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution to
become a lawyer who won a lawsuit in the U.S. and went on to
write a book about the experience.  The handling of her trial has triggered criticism from
international jurists. There’s no sign the authorities are
adhering to laws that give the accused the right to see their
lawyers, Jerome Cohen, a law professor at  New York  University,
said before the trial.  “Gu has been alone with her accusers for months,” said
Cohen. The case has shown “how limited the meaning of the rule
of law is in China,” he said.  Tang said prosecutors in Hefei filed the charges on July 26
and that the court informed the defendants and Heywood’s family
of their rights. The court also invited defense lawyers to meet
and read through the entire case file, “fully protecting Gu and
Zhang, and the victim’s family’s litigation rights,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  