-- BofA Can Pursue FDIC for Taylor Bean Fraud Losses, Judge Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-09T20:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/bofa-can-pursue-fdic-for-taylor-bean-fraud-losses-judge-says.html
Bank of America Corp . can proceed
with its 2010 lawsuit against the Federal Insurance Deposit
Corp. over $1.75 billion in corporate client losses stemming
from a mortgage-fraud scheme at failed lender Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Mortgage Corp., a federal bankruptcy judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Jerry Funk in Jacksonville,  Florida ,
who is overseeing the bankruptcy of Ocala Funding LLC, a
financing vehicle used and controlled by  Taylor Bean , ruled
today that the bank’s pursuit of the FDIC in a case in
 Washington  wouldn’t interfere with the Florida proceedings.  “In the interests of judicial economy and the expeditious
and economical resolution of litigation, the court finds cause
exists to lift the automatic stay for the purpose of permitting
Bank of America to prosecute the D.C. action to its
conclusion,” Funk said in the ruling.  Bank of America was trustee of Ocala Funding, an Orlando-
based company, which filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection 
on July 10 listing assets and debt of more than $1 billion.
Ocala Funding issued asset-backed commercial paper to financial
institutions including Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank,
and Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, according to court papers. Under
bankruptcy law, certain actions can be barred or “stayed” that
interfere with the proceedings.  Bank of America sued in federal court in Washington in
October 2010 after the FDIC denied the bank’s claims against
 Colonial Bank  and another financial institution in receivership
that bought fake mortgages from Ocala Funding, according to the
complaint.  Arguments Scheduled  A judge in Washington has scheduled arguments for Sept. 13
on the FDIC’s motion to dismiss.  From 2002 through August 2009,  Lee Farkas , while he was
chairman of Taylor Bean, directed the sale of more than $1.5
billion in fake mortgage assets to Colonial Bank and
misappropriated more than $1.5 billion from Ocala Funding,
according to court papers.  Farkas is serving a 30-year sentence after being convicted
in April 2011 of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
 securities fraud  in what prosecutors said was a $3 billion
scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala, Florida, was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages, including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans, when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank of
America, declined to comment on the ruling.  David Barr , an FDIC
spokesman, said the FDIC doesn’t comment on active litigation.  ‘Substantially All’  Bank of America, acting for noteholders who own
“substantially all” of Ocala’s assets, is seeking to pursue
recovery of monies from Colonial and Platinum Bank, which it
alleges were stolen from Ocala, Funk said in today’s ruling.  Under U.S. law, it is entitled to sue the FDIC for denying
its claims to the money, he said. Because Bank of America has
shown that it is “the party that can best enforce the debtor’s
rights” in the case, he was willing to remove a bankruptcy law
obstacle to its pursuit of the money for noteholders, he said.  Trustees often pursue claims on behalf of investors. In the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy, a trustee services
unit of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  acted for investors in
disputes over swap agreements they had with the defunct
investment bank. They settled the disputes.  The bankruptcy case is In re Ocala Funding LLC, 12-bk-4524,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville). The Washington case is Bank of America v. FDIC,
10-cv-01681, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 