-- BOJ Refrains From Easing Policy in First Meet With New Board
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-08-09T05:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/boj-refrains-from-adding-stimulus-in-first-meet-with-new-board.html
The  Bank of Japan  refrained from
loosening monetary policy at its first meeting with two new
board members as it assessed the effect on the economy of an
appreciating currency and Europe’s debt woes.  The central bank kept its asset-purchase fund at 45
trillion yen ($573 billion) and lending facility at 25 trillion
yen, according to a statement released in Tokyo today. All 22
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted no change.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board may not be
compelled to add stimulus unless the yen’s appreciation
intensifies. Reports in the past month have shown industrial
output and machinery orders missed analysts’ forecasts, an
indication the economy may be weaker than the BOJ anticipated,
according to economist Seiji Adachi.  “Further monetary easing will basically depend on the
yen,” said Adachi, a senior economist at Deutsche Securities
Inc. in Tokyo. “If the yen strengthens sharply, the BOJ may
pursue additional monetary stimulus.”  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  between
zero and 0.1 percent and monthly bond purchases at 1.8 trillion
yen. The BOJ’s main policy tool has been purchasing financial
securities ranging from government debt to exchange-traded funds
to bolster growth.  The yen traded at 78.50 per dollar at 2:37 p.m in Tokyo.
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was up almost 1 percent at
8,958.92, rising for a fourth day. Benchmark 10-year benchmark
bond yields at 0.795 percent.  New Members  Takahide Kiuchi and Takehiro Sato, formerly Tokyo-based
economists at Nomura Securities Co. and Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. respectively, participated in their first board
meeting this week. Both indicated last month that the central
bank should weigh pursuing more stimulus or alternative monetary
policy tools to help the nation overcome more than a decade of
 deflation .  “The next focal point will be whether the BOJ will revise
down its outlook for prices,” said  Koji Ochiai , chief market
economist at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo. “No one
believes consumer prices will develop as the BOJ predicts.”  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food dropped 0.2 percent
from a year earlier in June, government data showed last month.
The decline was in line with the average for the past ten years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank forecast last
month that  core inflation  would be 0.7 percent in the fiscal
year ending March 2014.  Weakening Recovery  Japan ’s recovery from last year’s earthquake is showing
signs of weakening as Europe’s debt crisis and slowdowns in
China and the U.S. take their toll on the world’s third-largest
economy.  Gross domestic product slowed to an annual 2.3 percent in
the three months ended on June 30 from 4.7 percent in the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Machinery orders, an
indicator of future  capital spending , rose 5.6 percent in June,
a government report showed today, missing economists’ estimates
for a 12 percent increase.  The yen has strengthened 1.4 percent in the past month
against the dollar while the Topix Index, Japan’s broadest
measure of stocks, has fallen 2.4 percent as of yesterday.
Yields for benchmark 10-year bonds dropped to 0.72 percent on
July 23, the lowest since June 2003, highlighting demand for
safe assets amid deepening European sovereign crisis.  Strong Yen  Japanese camera maker  Nikon Corp. (7731)  lowered its forecast for
annual profit yesterday, saying global economic growth may slow
and a stronger yen may erode overseas profit.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
 Sharp Corp. (6753)  also cut profit forecasts this month.  Shirakawa was summoned to testify in parliament 26 days so
far this year, the most for any governor since 2003, according
to the central bank, an indication of lawmakers’ resolve to have
the BOJ step up efforts to help the economy overcome deflation.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke , European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Bank of England’s  Mervyn
King  refrained from adding monetary stimulus last week, leaving
less pressure on Japan’s central bank, analysts say. The  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  also left the key rate unchanged on Aug. 7.  The bank did not remove the minimum bidding rate for bond
buying operations. More than a dozen failed operations to supply
funding and buy government notes since April prompted the BOJ to
scrap a 0.1 percent yield floor last month on purchases of notes
up to one year. Anticipating that the bank would get rid of the
limit on longer-term, investors have piled into three-year
Japanese debt, pushing the yields to the  lowest relative to
bills  on record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  