-- Bombardier Net Falls as Sales Decline in Train Division
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-08-09T20:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/bombardier-quarterly-profit-falls-as-transport-unit-lags.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  profit dropped 14
percent in the second quarter as lower sales of locomotives and
rail cars eroded growth generated by the aerospace business.  Net income dropped to $182 million, or 10 cents a share,
Bombardier said in a statement. Sales of $4.17 billion trailed
analysts’ average estimate of $4.6 billion as transportation
revenue fell 30 percent.  Bombardier blamed the decline in that business on the
completion of some contracts, mostly in the Asia Pacific region
and  Europe . Quarterly orders tumbled 26 percent to $2.9 billion,
and the business’s backlog slipped to $31.7 billion from the end
of last year as the U.S dollar strengthened against the
Brazilian real and the euro.  “Several new rolling stock contracts remained in the lower
margin and revenue conversion start-up phase,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said
in a note to clients. Bombardier is still winning “sizable
follow-on and new contracts” and benefiting from “resilient”
rail-industry markets, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin cited a “good
level of activity” with orders, especially in  North America  and
Europe, in the statement.  Companywide profit matched the 10-cent average of 21
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, and Bombardier
maintained its full-year sales forecast as revenue climbed in
its aerospace business, the world’s third-largest plane maker.  CSeries Schedule  Bombardier is working toward the entry into service late
next year of its largest jet, the CSeries, which will cost about
$3.5 billion to develop.  Guy Hachey , who runs Bombardier’s
aerospace unit, said in an interview last month that the goal of
a first flight this year was at risk as the company struggles
with developing electronic flight controls.  “The main risk on Bombardier shares is the company’s
ability to meet its tight development schedule for the
CSeries,”  Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at National Bank
Financial with an outperform rating on the shares, said in a
July 24 note. “A delay of up to three to six months is
certainly possible, but would by no means be a major issue for
the long-term success of the program.”  Bombardier declined 2.4 percent to C$3.67 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, trailing a gain in the S&P Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index. The shares previously fell 7.4 percent this
year.  Aircraft Deliveries  The company said today that the CSeries is making “good
progress” toward entry into service at the end of 2013.
Substantially all the main systems are up and running on
Bombardier’s on-the-ground test and certification craft, the
company said, allowing workers to ensure aircraft testing and
validation on the ground.  Revenue in aerospace climbed to $2.3 billion as total
aircraft deliveries increased 11 percent to 62. The division’s
backlog advanced 15 percent from the end of 2011 to $25.2
billion, Bombardier said.  Customers including  Warren Buffett ’s NetJets Inc. placed
146 net orders, up from 86 a year earlier. NetJets’ order for
100 Challenger aircraft has a catalog value of $2.6 billion,
which would increase to $7.3 billion if all options are
exercised, Bombardier said.  Bombardier switched to calendar-year reporting in 2011 from
a fiscal year that ended Jan. 31. That means this year’s second
quarter ended on June 30, while the year-earlier period ran from
May 1 through July 31, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  