-- Borg Seeks Higher Risk Weights on Swedish Banks’ Mortgages
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-08-09T11:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/borg-seeks-higher-risk-weights-on-swedish-banks-mortgages.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
called for risk weights on banks’ mortgage loans to be raised in
response to rising household indebtedness as the government also
pushes ahead with stricter capital rules than elsewhere.  “One can of course continue to discuss what needs to be
done but I would then rather prefer that we perhaps should look
at risk-weights and which liquidity requirements we have on the
banks in their financing,” Borg told reporters at a press
conference in  Stockholm  today. “That’s perhaps what I can see
in the foreseeable future we have reason to consider.”  Borg is pushing through tougher capital rules than the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and the European Banking
Authority, requiring Swedish lenders to target 10 percent core
Tier 1 buffers of their risk-weighted assets from January and 12
percent from 2015. At the same time, risk weights on mortgages
in Sweden are among the lowest in  Europe , standing at less than
10 percent, compared with about 35 percent in Spain and above 15
percent in Germany, according to a  June 1 report  from the
central bank.  While the low Swedish risk weights are due to historically
low loan losses on mortgages, they have “recently been called
into question as they do not take into account the increased
indebtedness among households,” the Riksbank said in the
report. As a result, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority
is looking at possibilities to increase the capital adequacy
requirement for mortgages in Sweden, which will probably lead to
higher risk weights for Swedish mortgages, said the Riksbank.  June Delay  “According to the Riksbank’s calculations, an increase in
the average risk weight for mortgage lending in  Sweden  to a
level of 10 to 20 percent would lead to the major banks’ common
equity Tier 1 capital ratios falling by up to 2.5 percentage
points, all else being equal,” the central bank said.  Sweden’s FSA said in June it delayed a proposal for new
risk weightings on mortgages that was originally planned to be
put forward this summer as negotiations in the European Union on
new capital requirements for banks dragged on.  The stricter capital rules for Swedish lenders, including
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  SEB
AB (SEBA) , compare with the Basel Committee’s core capital target of at
least 7 percent, while the European Banking Authority has set a
temporary 9 percent target for some banks.  “It’s necessary for us to proceed with tougher  capital
requirements  as our banks have large foreign funding, we have
indebted households and we have a big exposure to the Baltic
states,” Borg said today. The stricter rules “result in a more
responsible lending; it cuts liquidity risks and it also means
that we become more resistant to potential problems in the
Baltic states even if we don’t see any such right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 