-- Brazil’s Real Advances on Speculation Stimulus to Boost Growth
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-08-09T21:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/brazil-s-real-advances-on-speculation-stimulus-to-boost-growth.html
Brazil ’s real advanced for a third
day as speculation grew that the government’s efforts to fuel
faster growth in Latin America’s largest economy will take hold
in the second half of the year.  The real appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0132 per  U.S. dollar .
Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.77 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has pushed commercial
banks to reduce lending rates and enacted tax cuts for
industrial and consumer goods since the economy contracted in
last year’s third quarter. Investment into Brazil is growing now
on speculation the measures will begin to bolster growth, Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS Securities Inc.,
said by phone from Stamford,  Connecticut .  “There are foreign inflows coming into the Brazilian
equity market,” Cattan-Naslausky said. “There’s a positive
expectation for the government’s measures.”  Inflows into Brazil totaled $942 million in July, the most
since April, the central bank said yesterday.  Brazil’s central bank has cut borrowing costs by 450 basis
points since August 2011 to a record low 8 percent. Traders are
anticipating policy makers will reduce the Selic rate by 50
basis points at the Aug. 28-29 monetary policy meeting, and to
as low as 7.25 percent in October, according to rate futures
yields.  Stimulus Outlook  The government will announce additional stimulus moves in
coming weeks, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Aug. 6.  Brazil’s gross domestic product grew at an annualized 0.8
percent rate in the first quarter. Industrial output fell 5.5
percent in June from the year before, and retail sales in May
fell by 0.8 percent from April, the most in more than three
years.  Economic growth will accelerate in the second half of this
year, central bank director Aldo Mendes said at an event today
in Sao Paulo.  The real’s gains are being limited by speculation the
central bank will step in to prevent a strong appreciation, said
 Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos.  “The central bank won’t allow the real to strengthen
beyond 2 per dollar,” he said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  