-- California Bankruptcies Shield Retirees, Not Bondholders
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-08-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/california-bankruptcies-shield-retirees-not-bondholders.html
The recent  war of words  between the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and a Bermuda-
based bond-insurance company called  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  has
made it clear that  California  officials would rather stiff
bondholders than trim even the most generous pension benefits
promised to public-sector workers.  The debate centers on  Stockton , California, the largest
city in the nation to declare bankruptcy. In its initial
proposal to creditors, the city would fully fund its pension
system while walking away from $124 million in debt from
pension-obligation bonds it floated in 2007.  Stockton couldn’t meet its financial obligations to pay for
enhanced pension benefits five years ago, so it borrowed the
money. Rather than cut  unsustainable  benefit levels while it has
the chance to do so now, officials there would rather default on
the $103 million it owes  Assured (AGO)  Guaranty.  Stockton and other Californian cities have slashed public
services, thus putting the demands of public employees above the
concerns of taxpayers and residents who rely on public services.
Now we see that even bondholders don’t stand a chance when their
interests collide with those of public-sector unions.  It’s easier to take on an offshore firm than confront
CalPers, which had threatened to wage a protracted court battle
against another Californian city, Vallejo, if it decided to
reduce pension promises after its 2008 bankruptcy. Stockton
officials no doubt are aware of that threat.  Investor Warning  “Chapter 9 was not intended to be used as a sword to prefer
one class of similarly situated creditor over another,” said
 Assured Guaranty  in an Aug. 1  statement . “Stockton’s attempt to
transfer the cost of lucrative, above-market employee wages and
benefits granted when tax revenues were flush to  capital markets 
creditors by haircutting bond principal is unprecedented, a
contortion of the bankruptcy process and will foreclose
Stockton’s access to the capital markets for the foreseeable
future.”  CalPers’s general counsel, Peter Mixon, responded to
Assured Guaranty, with bravado typical of the retirement fund:
“The obligations owed to the public workers of the city have
priority over those of general unsecured creditors including
bondholders,” he said. “Unlike insurance companies, policemen,
firefighters and other public employees are not in a position to
evaluate credit risk of their employers. Assured Guaranty is in
the business of evaluating these risks.”  Stockton City Manager Bob Deis also took aim at the
company. He  told  the Stockton Record that Assured Guaranty is
only interested in getting its money and didn’t care if anarchy
reigned on Stockton streets, a reference to reports that 20 or
more police officers were leaving or thinking of leaving an
understaffed department. “Assured Guaranty wants more than
that?” Deis said. “If that’s not bad faith and whining, I don’t
know what is.”  Yet Assured Guaranty can’t be blamed for any anarchy on
Stockton’s streets. That’s largely the fault of city officials
there who have for years gone on a spending spree. Deis himself
 blasted  the health plan the city approved in the mid-1990s that
gave many city employees and their spouses “free” lifetime
health care -- something that created a $417 million unfunded
liability. Stockton officials also granted police and
firefighters a 50 percent pension  increase  in the early 2000s,
allowing them to retire at age 50 with 90 percent of their final
year’s pay.  When real-estate prices were soaring as commuters headed
east into the Central Valley to flee exorbitant Bay Area prices,
Stockton officials spent every dime of the increasing tax
revenue and more. They “invested” in taxpayer-funded arenas, a
waterfront park complex and other dubious redevelopment
structures now scattered throughout a downtown known mainly for
its high crime and vacancy rates.  Buffett’s Pullback  Some Stockton officials blame the economic decline for
their current mess. Housing prices have fallen almost 70 percent
from the height of the market, leaving a wake of foreclosures
and plummeting tax revenue. Had officials shown restraint during
the good years, however, they wouldn’t need to slash a quarter
of the police force and other services during these bad years.  Stockton’s and CalPers’s “tough luck” approach toward
Assured Guaranty could have troubling long-term consequences.
Writing in the Prop Zero blog, Joe Mathews  noted  that  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. -- which had played down
concerns about municipal bankruptcies -- dramatically cut its
municipal investments after the Stockton and San Bernardino
bankruptcy news.  A report released by the Securities and Exchange Commission
last month  called for  Congress to embrace new disclosure rules
so that investors are better informed of the risks involved in
municipal-bond investments. The insistence by CalPers that full
pension payments come above even bondholders’ investments should
provide impetus for those reforms, and could stoke SEC fears
that the public will lose confidence in bond markets.  Fortunately, just because CalPers claims that pensions take
precedence over everything else doesn’t resolve the issue.
Marcia Fritz, the president of  pension-reform group  California
Foundation for Fiscal Responsibility, claims this is the opening
shot in a long legal battle. She says CalPers is misconstruing
the state constitution, which requires agencies to make sure
there is money to pay for its pension obligations, but it
doesn’t mean pensions can’t be cut during a bankruptcy
proceeding.  If the CalPers argument holds, then “nothing is safe
anymore, except pension promises,” she said. “What Stockton is
exposing is the vulnerability of bond insurers in the pension
crisis. I’m concerned they may be undercapitalized to handle
major bankruptcies like  Los Angeles  if judges rule that pension
promises, no matter how outrageous, are senior to bond debt.”
Bond debt, she said, will be more expensive to handle because of
higher insurance premiums.  Offloading Costs  The unfolding battle reminds reformers that municipal
bankruptcy is no panacea for a city’s woes. If elected officials
don’t have the courage to confront existing pension obligations,
then such bankruptcies will do little more than offload the
costs onto bondholders and taxpayers.  Stockton reduced its overly generous retiree medical plan,
but the pensions of current employees remain an enormous
problem. If the courts allow Stockton to proceed on its current
path, then instead of helping cities fix their fiscal woes, a
coming wave of municipal bankruptcies might only encourage them
to continue foisting their troubles on others. Bondholders
aren’t the only ones who should be worried.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento , California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls  and on parents who refuse to have their  kids
vaccinated ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections don’t predict
future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not economic)
depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to lose ; William
Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China Sea ;  Jonathan Weil 
on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ; Caleb Scharf on
 future telescopes  that could better explore black holes.  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 