-- Canada July Housing Starts Slow as Builders Pare Back Condos
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-08-09T14:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/canada-july-housing-starts-slow-as-builders-pare-back-condos-1-.html
Canadian  housing starts  fell more
than expected in July on a decline in multiple-unit projects in
British Columbia.  Construction of new homes dropped 6.1 percent from June to
a 208,500 seasonally adjusted annual pace, Ottawa-based  Canada 
Mortgage & Housing Corp. said today. Economists had forecast a
reading of 213,000, based on the median of a Bloomberg survey
with 19 responses. The agency lowered its June estimate to
222,100 from a previous reading of 222,700.  The reports adds to recent data from real estate boards
that suggest Canada’s housing market is slowing, in part as
policy makers take steps to rein in household borrowing. The
value of purchases at eight major regional real estate boards
that have reported figures for July fell 2.6 percent from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There have been signs of moderation in existing home
sales in recent months and we expect further easing to occur
through the remainder of the year,” David Onyett-Jeffries, an
economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a note to
investors.  Canadian  home prices  will decline 10 percent over the next
two to three years, and the country’s housing market faces a
prolonged period of modest sales and price gains,  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  economists said in a report yesterday.  Record levels of  household debt  and moves by the federal
government to tighten mortgage rules should restrain housing
growth, Scotia said.  Tighter Rules  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage
regulations for a fourth time in June on concerns that some
families were taking on debts that will become unaffordable when
borrowing costs increase.  Multiple-unit starts, which include condominium projects,
decreased 7.6 percent in urban areas in July to 123,000 units,
the housing agency said in today’s report. Single-family urban
starts fell 4.0 percent to 64,300 units.  Canadian home building has been robust in recent months,
helping to drive the nation’s recovery. The pace of housing
starts has almost doubled from the low of 111,800 units in 2009
during the last recession, and starts in the April-June period
were the strongest since the third quarter of 2007.  While the decline in July housing starts was “fairly
broad-based,” CIBC World Markets economist  Peter Buchanan  said
in a research note sent by e-mail, “further data points will
likely be needed to confirm the start of a continuing slowdown”
in the housing market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  