-- Capitol Bancorp of Michigan Makes Chapter 11 Filing
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-08-09T23:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/capitol-bancorp-of-michigan-makes-chapter-11-filing.html
Capitol Bancorp Ltd., (CBCR)  a Lansing,
 Michigan , lender, filed for bankruptcy with a prepackaged
reorganization plan after a proposed restructuring failed.  Capitol Bancorp, in its Chapter 11 petition filed today in
U.S. bankruptcy court in Detroit, listed total assets of $112.2
million and debt of $195.6 million.  The company also reported today a net loss of $10.3 million
in the quarter that ended June 30, compared with a loss of $16.4
million a year earlier. The loss was due to “continued costs
associated with problem asset resolution.”  “Capitol continues to focus on liquidity to manage its
balance sheet in the face of ongoing economic challenges and
regulatory constraints,” the company said in its earnings
release today.  Capitol Bancorp announced in June a voluntary restructuring
plan in which debtholders were asked to exchange their debt for
preferred and common stock. Conditions for the offer “were not
met,” the company said today.  In the prepackaged plan filed today, current debt and
equity will be converted into new common stock representing 53
percent control of the company after it emerges from Chapter 11.
Capitol Bancorp said it’s also seeking as much as $115 million
in new equity financing, which would give the potential
investors 47 percent of the company.  The bank, founded in 1988, had announced plans to sell
controlling interests in several affiliated banks. Two  deals 
that closed in July and another now under agreement represent
$200 million in assets, the company said.  Capitol Bancroft said it reduced its operating expenses in
the second fiscal quarter, as well as its provision for loan
losses.  Capitol’s largest unsecured creditors are M&T Trust Co. of
Wilmington,  Delaware , with $44.4 million in trust preferred
securities, and US Bank of Boston with $22.5 million of similar
securities, according to court filings.  The case is Capitol Bancorp Ltd., 12-58409,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  