-- Cargill Must Pay Ex-Singapore Trader Bonus, Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-08-10T10:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/cargill-must-pay-ex-singapore-trader-bonus-judge-says.html
Cargill Inc., the biggest
agricultural company in the U.S., must pay a former Singapore-
based trader $1.74 million in deferred bonuses, the appeals
court in the Asian city ruled.  “The employee is entitled to the bonus,” Judges  Andrew
Phang , Chao Hick Tin and Andrew Ang wrote in a 49-page ruling
received yesterday.  Mano Vikrant Singh, who left Cargill in 2008, sued the
company claiming his bonus was wrongly forfeited. Singh, who was
paid a monthly salary of S$25,000 ($20,054), had a bonus of $3.2
million for the 2008 financial year, according to the ruling.  Cargill, which forbade some staff that left from continuing
a career within the financial or commodity-trading industries
for two years, sought to stifle competition with its
restrictions, Singh had said in his complaint.  Cargill, based in  Minneapolis ,  Minnesota , had demanded that
Singh return confidential information he took from the firm, and
said he breached his contract by setting up Xangbo Global
Markets Pte.  The company said in a statement today it will abide by the
decision.  Philip Jeyaretnam, Singh’s lawyer, said the judgment
established that the restraint of trade doctrine doesn’t only
apply to outright prohibition of post-employment competition.  Alain Monie  In a separate ruling, Singapore High Court Judge Lee Seiu
Kin said that  Ingram Micro Inc. (IM)  Chief Executive Officer Alain Monie should be paid $4.56 million in incentives and bonus from
his former employer Asia Pacific Resources International Ltd., a
pulp and paper maker.  Monie, who was recruited to be the CEO of the paper
company, was paid S$97,500 a month, according to the  Aug. 7
verdict . He quit in October 2011 after about 14 months and sued
the company for the payment owed under his employment contract.  “The source of the dispute lies in the poor manner in
which the agreement was drafted,” the judge wrote.  Asia Pacific Resources didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The cases are: Alain Monie v APRIL Management Pte.
OS946/2011. Singapore High Court and Mano Vikrant Singh v
Cargill TSF Asia Pte. OS103/2011. Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  