-- Carney Says Canada Differences May Necessitate Rate Rise
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-09T14:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/carney-says-canada-differences-may-necessitate-rate-increase-1-.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said his country is in a “very different place” than economies
such as the U.K.’s that are in crisis, and may require higher
borrowing costs.  “We had been growing above trend, and the extent to which
we continue to grow above trend, we may withdraw some of that
monetary policy stimulus,” Carney said in an interview with the
British Broadcasting Corp. in  London . “We have a financial
system that’s firing on all cylinders and so we will have to
adjust, we will adjust if it’s appropriate. That said, the
world’s a very dangerous place at the moment.”  Talk about increasing interest rates sets Canada apart from
central banks that are easing monetary policy, such as the U.S.
Federal Reserve, the  European Central Bank  and the People’s Bank
of  China . Investors have priced in a more than 40 percent chance
that Carney will raise rates by April, according to trading in
overnight index swaps.  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.25 percent versus its
U.S. counterpart to 99.18 Canadian cents at 10:30 a.m. in
Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0083.  Carney said slowing global growth has had a “knock-on”
effect on Canada by driving down commodity prices, which he said
still remain about 20 percent above “historic averages.”  “We’re still a net beneficiary of that but there is an
adjustment and a fairly synchronized deceleration of the global
economy at the moment,” he said in the interview, according to
a transcript provided by the Bank of Canada.  Carney also said there is no risk that rising  household
debt  levels could trigger a banking crisis in Canada because
mortgages are insured by the government, which has the most
sound fiscal position among Group of Seven countries.  CTV Interview  In a separate interview with CTV television from London,
Carney said Canada’s housing market has begun to ease and the
growth of household debt is slowing, in part due to recent
actions by the federal government and the country’s banking
regulator. Policy makers are prepared to take further measures
to stem increases in debt if needed, according to Carney.  “We’re watching obviously this very closely and if
additional steps are required, including by the bank, we will
take them,” he told CTV.  Carney also said the Canadian dollar has become a safe
haven for investors and the country needs to veer the incoming
capital to productive uses rather than housing.  The  Bank of Canada  wants to see the currency reflect the
country’s economic fundamentals, and “those fundamentals are
strong relative to the rest of the world but there is also an
element right now of a safe haven premium for the Canadian
dollar,” Carney said in the CTV interview.  “So our challenge as a country is how do we use that
capital that comes in,” he said. “We can use it to grow our
economy, invest it in new productive assets and industries, or
we can build houses. Our view is we should do the former.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  