-- Carney Signals He Isn’t a Candidate for Bank of England
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-09T09:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/carney-says-yes-to-never-considering-bank-of-england-chief-job.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
signalled he isn’t a candidate to succeed  Mervyn King  as the
next  Bank of England  chief.  Carney, asked yesterday on the BBC’s Hardtalk program in
London whether he would be interested in becoming governor of
the U.K. central bank, said he’s “very focused” on his current
posts and “interested in who they pick” to replace King.
Questioned on whether his answers meant “a no or a never
consider the job?” he said: “It’s both. How’s that?”  Carney’s name has been frequently listed among candidates
ever since the Financial Times reported in April that the
Canadian had been approached for the role by the Bank of
England’s court of directors, a claim refuted by its chairman.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the same month
that he would begin work in the autumn on a formal search to
replace King, who will retire in June 2013.  “It’s an extremely important post,” Carney told the BBC,
according to a transcript of the interview provided by the Bank
of  Canada  for release today. “I’m very focused on my post at
the Bank of Canada and the Financial Stability Board, and I look
forward to working with the new or the next governor of the Bank
of England. But until the end of June of next year, I will very
much enjoy working with Sir Mervyn.”  Carney, 47, currently combines his Bank of Canada role with
leading the Financial Stability Board, which oversees global
financial regulation for the Group of 20 nations. He has a
British wife, received his masters and PhD degrees from Oxford
University, and worked in London with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  One More Time  Asked once more if his replies meant “it’s a never,”
Carney said: “Yes.”  In a separate interview with CTV television, Carney said he
hasn’t been approached by the Bank of England’s court or spoken
to Prime Minister  David Cameron  on the matter. He said he
planned to “fulfill” his role as Bank of Canada governor,
which is due to last until 2015.  Other potential candidates for the job include  Gus O’Donnell , former head of the civil service, Financial Services
Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker , a three-decade veteran at the bank.  Turner said in a July 24 interview that he “would obviously
not rule myself out” of consideration for the post. O’Donnell
said in a June 27 interview that he was using a new job as an
adviser at a Canadian bank to learn about banks and regulation
as he considers whether to apply.  Asked by the  BBC  about King’s record, Carney said the Bank
of England “anticipated much of the softness” in the U.K.
economy and has “provided a tremendous amount of stimulus.”  Carney, who was appointed chairman of the FSB by G-20
leaders last November, also told the BBC that the world’s major
banks have increased their capital by more than 25 percent and
are “in a position” to meet new requirements set by global
regulators five years ahead of the 2019 required deadline if
they use their net income to shore up capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  