-- Carney Says Canadian Dollar Has Become Investor Safe Haven
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-08-09T02:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/carney-says-canadian-dollar-has-become-investor-safe-haven.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said the Canadian dollar has become a safe haven for investors
and the country needs to veer the incoming capital to productive
uses rather than housing.  Carney, in an interview with CTV television, said the
central bank wants to see the currency reflect the country’s
economic fundamentals. He declined to comment on a specific
level of the Canadian dollar.  “Those fundamentals are strong relative to the rest of the
world but there is also an element right now of a safe haven
premium for the Canadian dollar,” Carney said. “So our
challenge as a country is how do we use that capital that comes
in. We can use it to grow our economy, invest it in new
productive assets and industries, or we can build houses. Our
view is we should do the former.”  Canada ’s housing market has begun to ease and the growth of
 household debt  is slowing, in part due to recent actions by the
federal government and the country’s banking regulator, Carney
said, adding that policy makers are prepared to take further
measures to stem increases in debt if needed.  “We’re watching obviously this very closely and if
additional steps are required, including by the bank, we will
take them,” he said in the interview.  The key to the country’s growth will hinge on whether
Canada’s businesses increase investments to become more
productive and focus more on faster growing  emerging markets ,,
he said.  Asked whether he has been courted to replace  Mervyn King  as
governor of the  Bank of England , Carney said hadn’t been
approached for the job.  ‘Many Options’  “I have my job as the governor of the Bank of Canada and
absolutely intend to fulfill that role,” he said. “I look
forward to working with the next governor of the Bank of  England 
and I’m sure this government has many options to fulfill that
role.”  Carney, who is also chairman of the Financial Stability
Board, said the group that oversees bank regulation for Group of
20 countries is studying whether European efforts to bolster
 capital requirements  in the region are sufficient.  “One of the other problems in Europe may be that the way
they are designing their capital regime, maybe, is not as
stringent as we expect at the FSB,” he said, adding the group
will have a report by the end of this year on the matter. “That
will have implications for how the euro crisis is resolved. One
would expect Europeans will adjust policy accordingly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  