-- Cathay Pacific May Review Air China Cargo Fleet After Losses
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-08-09T10:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/cathay-pacific-may-review-air-china-cargo-fleet-after-losses.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  may
review the fleet at a cargo venture with Air China Ltd. after
losses at the operations contributed to the Hong Kong carrier’s
first unprofitable half since 2008.  Air China Cargo will have to assess which will be the right
aircraft to make it profitable in the long term, Cathay Pacific
Chief Executive Officer John Slosar said today. The venture is
taking four  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-400 freighters from Cathay, which the
Hong Kong-based airline is replacing with newer models.  “Old, fuel-inefficient airplanes is a tough business
model,” Slosar said in an interview in the city today. “We’ll
have to look at that to see what is the right way forward in
terms of the fleet.”  Cathay suffered a HK$300 million loss from its  Air China (753) 
Cargo stake in the first half as it slumped to a surprise HK$935
million net loss. The airline’s own business was also hit by a
slump in global freight shipments, rising fuel prices and
slowing demand for premium travel.  The carrier agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in Air China’s
cargo unit in 2010. It’s using the four 747-400 freighters,
which were converted from passenger planes, to help pay for the
investment. The new joint company began flights in March 2011.  Cathay rose 3.9 percent to HK$12.84 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong. Air China gained 0.6 percent. The two
carriers, which own stakes in each other, both fell 4.3 percent
yesterday.  Cathay has deployed 10 staff to Air China Cargo to help
develop networks, Slosar said. The carrier will stick with the
venture and does expect it to eventually make a profit, he said.  “It will take some time,” he said. “But, I think it’s
something we will be able to achieve.”  The airline is also seeing “early indications” of a
possible pickup in cargo demand in the second half, Slosar said.
The fourth quarter is traditionally the busiest for air freight
because of the holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  