-- China Repo Rises a 2nd Day as Reserve-Ratio Cut Seen Less Likely
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-09T08:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-repo-rises-a-2nd-day-as-reserve-ratio-cut-seen-less-likely.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose as the central bank used open-market operations to
alleviate a cash squeeze in the financial system, damping
speculation a cut in banks’ reserve requirements is imminent.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 50 billion  yuan  ($7.9
billion) of seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements today at a
yield of 3.35 percent, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. Consumer prices rose 1.8
percent from a year earlier in July, compared with 2.2 percent
in June, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing.  “The PBOC will probably continue to follow its prudent
fine-tuning of monetary policy,” said Kumar Rachapudi, a
strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . The market will
probably interpret the reverse-repo injection as an indication
that a reserve-ratio cut is unlikely in the near term, he said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased three basis points to 3.29
percent in  Shanghai , a weighted average compiled by the
Interbank Funding Center shows.  China may set new property controls as early as this month
after the central government’s inspection team returns to
Beijing, the official China Securities Journal reported today.
The PBOC will keep pursuing a “prudent” monetary policy and
the economy will maintain stable growth, according to the
monetary authority’s quarterly report published on its website
on Aug. 2.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo, fell eight basis points to 2.73 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the 3.14 percent
government bonds due February 2017 increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.84 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 