-- China’s Stocks Rise for 5th Day as Inflation Cools; Poly Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T07:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-s-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-before-data.html
China’s stocks  rose for a fifth day
after inflation cooled for a fourth month in July, allowing more
leeway for the central bank to ease monetary policy.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. climbed 1.6 percent after the
second-biggest Chinese developer reported a jump in sales last
month. Luzhou Laojiao Co. led an advance for a gauge of  consumer
staples  producers, after the liquor maker posted a first-half
profit.  China ’s consumer prices rose 1.8 percent last month,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain in June. Other data showed
producer prices sliding more than forecast and industrial output
growing less than estimated.  “Inflation isn’t a concern now,” said Dai Ming, a  fund
manager  at Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management Co. in  Shanghai ,
which manages $190 million. “Market expectations about policy
loosening is there and that’ll provide support to the market.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent to 2,174.10
at the close, the highest since July 19. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
climbed 0.9 percent to 2,411.70. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  gained 1 percent.
The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, slid 0.7 percent.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 12 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
deepening. The index is valued at 9.7 times  estimated profit ,
compared with the 17.5 average since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 2006. Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai index
was at 14.1 yesterday, compared with this year’s average of
17.6. About 7.3 billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 43
percent higher than the daily average this year.  Inflation Data  China’s consumer prices rose 1.8 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said. That compares
with the 1.7 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 33 economists. Producer prices fell 2.9 percent from a year
earlier, the fifth straight drop, a separate report showed.  A gauge of consumer staples producers jumped 2.9 percent,
tied with drugmakers for the biggest gain among 10 industry
groups in the CSI 300. Luzhou Laojiao rose 5.2 percent to 42.29
 yuan  after it said first-half profit advanced 42 percent on
sales that increased 46 percent. Sichuan Swellfun Co., which
also makes spirits, surged 6.4 percent to 28.69 yuan.  “Inflation remains tame,” Xianfang Ren and Alistair
Thornton, China economists at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a
report. “Nowhere more so than in producer prices, which
continue to highlight the severe deflationary pressure rippling
across the country. Not one of the 16 PPI sub-indexes registered
a positive month-on-month number. Deflation, not inflation, is
the greatest short-term threat to the Chinese economy.”  A gauge of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite rose
1.3 percent, the most among five industry groups. Poly Real
Estate climbed 1.6 percent to 10.92 yuan after sales volume
jumped 66 percent last month compared with a year ago, while
sales value surged 80 percent.  Developers Rally  China Vanke Co., the biggest developer, rose 0.8 percent to
9 yuan. Gemdale Corp. advanced 2.2 percent to 5.67 yuan.  China may set new property controls as early as this month
after the central government’s inspection team returns to
Beijing, the official China Securities Journal reported today.  The government has some room to issue more policies,
including raising the transaction tax on existing homes and
expanding a property tax trial, the newspaper reported, without
saying where it got the information. The policies will be based
on inspection results and likely be this month as the government
may want to avoid the traditional property sales season in
September and October, it said.  Industrial Output  China’s industrial output rose 9.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today.  The growth compares with the 9.7 percent median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 32 analysts and a 9.5 percent
increase in June.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households increased
20.4 percent in the January to July period from a year earlier,
a report from the Beijing-based agency showed. That compared
with the 20.6 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey and
a 20.4 percent rise in the first half of the year.  Retail sales in July grew 13.1 percent from a year earlier
after a 13.7 percent gain in June. The median forecast was for
an increase of 13.5 percent.  “There’s no surprise on industrial production which
signals slower growth in the economy,” Dai said.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 1.2 percent this year as
the economy grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the slowest
pace since 2009. The People’s Bank of China cut  interest rates 
twice since early June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirement
ratios three times starting in November as part of the
government’s efforts to spur credit growth and support the
economic expansion.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Leon Lazaroff in  New York .
Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  