-- China Factory Slowdown Raises Pressure for Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T08:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-july-consumer-prices-rise-1-8-vs-economists-est-1-7-.html
China ’s  industrial-output  growth
unexpectedly slowed in July to a three-year low while investment
and retail sales missed estimates, raising pressure on Premier
 Wen Jiabao  to step up efforts to support expansion.  Factory production increased 9.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing, below all 32 analyst forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Inflation cooled for a fourth month and producer prices
fell for a fifth month, separate reports showed.  Asian stocks pared gains after the industrial data
increased the risks that China’s economic- growth  slowdown will
worsen. Without a pickup in output in August and September, the
pace of expansion may slow further this quarter, Bank of America
Corp. said today, marking a seventh straight deceleration.  “The easing policies so far have not been fully passed
through to the real economy, and we expect the government to
focus more on implementation of already announced measures,”
said Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong. A cut in banks’ reserve requirement ratio may happen “any
minute now,” Yao said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks gained 0.8 percent as
of 5:30 p.m. in Tokyo after rising as much as 1 percent. China’s
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.6 percent.  Downside Risk  Lu Ting, Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America, said
in a note he sees “downside risk” to his 8 percent economic-
expansion forecast for the third quarter. If industrial output
growth stays around 9.2 percent this month and next, gross
domestic product may rise 7.4 percent or 7.5 percent for the
quarter, he said.  Barclays Plc today cut its 2012 growth forecast to 7.9
percent from 8.1 percent and its third-quarter prediction to 7.7
percent from 8.2 percent.  Japan ’s Komatsu Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest construction equipment maker, last week lowered
its earnings outlook as sales slump in China.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households increased
20.4 percent in the January to July period from a year earlier,
the same pace as the first half. That compared with the 20.6
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Retail sales in
July grew 13.1 percent from a year earlier versus a median
forecast for 13.5 percent.  Electricity output rose 2.1 percent in July from a year
earlier after unchanged production in June stoked concern that
the economy’s slowdown was intensifying.  Car Sales  China’s passenger-car sales to dealerships in July rose
10.7 percent from a year earlier to 1.12 million units, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said today. That
compares with the 1.16 million average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Soft domestic demand and deteriorating external demand
should keep the authorities on an easing bias,” Barclays
economists including Chang Jian in  Hong Kong  said in a research
note today.  The central bank cut  interest rates  in June and July, the
first reductions since 2008, and lowered the reserve ratio three
times since November as part of the government’s efforts to
boost lending and support growth.  Consumer prices rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said today. That compares with the 1.7 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and a 2.2 percent
gain in June. The drop in producer prices deepened to 2.9
percent.  Further Easing  “Slowing inflation opens the room for further and more
significant policy easing,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-
based chief Asia economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who
previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank .  Inflation will rebound in the next few months, said Joy Yang, chief China economist at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd.
in Hong Kong. Accelerating price gains means the window for
further interest-rate cuts has closed, assuming no further
deterioration in  Europe , she said.  A U.S. drought is boosting prices of soybeans and corn used
to feed China’s pigs, risking higher costs for pork, a staple
meat. Pork prices fell 19 percent in July from a year earlier,
dragging down inflation by 0.71 percentage point. In July 2011,
pork jumped 57 percent.  Consumer inflation was the lowest since January 2010. Food
inflation of 2.4 percent last month from a year earlier was the
slowest since October 2009.  Deflation Threat  “Deflation, not inflation, is the greatest short-term
threat to the Chinese economy,”  Ren Xianfang  and Alistair Thornton, analysts at IHS Global Insight in Beijing, said in a
note today. Even so, “the drag on headline CPI from a food
price slump could be coming to an end,” they said.  China’s GDP expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years, as Europe’s
debt woes crimped exports and Wen’s campaign to cool consumer
and property prices damped domestic demand. Expansion may slide
to 7.4 percent this quarter on weakness in overseas sales, Song Guoqing, an adviser to the central bank, said last month.  The government gives trade figures tomorrow and will
release lending data by Aug. 15.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Zhou Xin in Beijing, Lily Nonomiya in  Tokyo , Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and Rishaad Salamat
in Hong Kong. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  