-- Chins Car Sales Trail Forecasts as Buyers Seek Incentives
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T07:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-july-car-sales-trail-forecasts-as-buyers-await-incentives.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales
trailed analysts’ estimates for the first time in five months,
as demand slowed with the economy and some consumers held back
purchases in anticipation of government stimulus measures.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles, gained 11 percent to 1.12 million units last
month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in
a statement today. That compares with the 1.16 million average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Auto sales are slowing in the world’s largest vehicle
market as the economy expanded at the weakest pace in three
years. Consumers are postponing vehicle purchases in
anticipation that the government will introduce subsidies to
encourage demand, according to industry researcher LMC
Automotive.  “The slowing economy and logistics demand impacted sales”
of mini-commercial vehicles commonly used to transport people
and goods, said  John Zeng , Shanghai-based director of Asian
forecasting at LMC Automotive. “Since the government announced
it may introduce a possible subsidy policy, there has been no
solid policy. That has created a ‘wait-and-see’ attitude among
consumers.”  In the first seven months, passenger-vehicle deliveries
rose 7.5 percent to 8.74 million units, the association said.  SUVs Outperform  Total sales of vehicles, including trucks and buses,
increased 8.2 percent to 1.38 million units in July. Sport
utility vehicle deliveries gained 30 percent, the best-
performing segment tracked by the group.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest foreign carmaker in China,
said sales in the nation gained 15 percent last month to 199,503
units, led by demand for its Wuling-branded mini commercial
vehicles.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s July vehicle sales rose 1.3 percent
to 52,045 units, the company said.  Toyota’s China deliveries fell 5 percent in July to 78,400
units. Inventory is building up at carmakers in China and Toyota
cut back on production in the country around spring, Senior
Managing Officer Takahiko Ijichi said Aug. 3. At  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) , sales in China slid 2 percent last month to 98,100 units.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales growth will probably
accelerate in the second half, rising 15 percent to 8.48 million
units, driven by demand from first-time buyers and as the
economy rebounds, CAAM said last month. Full-year deliveries may
increase 11 percent to 16.09 million units, according to the
association.  Price Cuts  Intensifying competition in the Asian nation this year has
led to a buildup in inventory and steeper price cuts among
distributors.  Dealerships are offering as much as 25 percent off China’s
best-selling passenger vehicle, GM’s Buick Excelle, which starts
at 129,900  yuan , according to cheshi.com, a website that tracks
vehicle prices.  A measure of vehicle inventory rose to the highest level in
four months in June, a level considered “cautionary” by global
standards, the China Automobile Dealer Association said in an
Aug. 1 statement.  “The oversupply situation persists,” Cheng Xiaodong, head
of a unit that monitors auto prices at the National Development
and Reform Commission, said in an e-mailed statement July 16.
“Facing sluggish demand and rising inventory, dealers will
increase discounts and incentive offerings in the coming
months.”  Car Restrictions  Xi’an’s city government put out a draft plan that includes
a provision allowing it to “control the total volume of
vehicles and introduce restrictions on their use according to
traffic conditions,” according to its website. The proposal,
for which authorities are seeking public feedback until Aug. 15,
is one of 88 regulations listed in the document.  The northern Chinese city won’t limit the number of
vehicles in the short term, the National Business Daily reported
today, citing an unidentified person with the city government.  The southern city of Guangzhou on June 30 imposed a cap on
the number of new vehicle registrations at about half of last
year’s total. Beijing, Shanghai and Guiyang are the other
Chinese cities with restrictions on ownership.  “We are cautiously optimistic about China’s auto sales
this year,” Dong Yang, CAAM’s secretary general, said at a
briefing in Beijing today. “But if another three or five cities
pop up with such restrictions, it would be tough for auto sales
to reach our annual target.”  China should make available retail sales data to give the
industry a clearer picture of vehicle inventory levels, he said.  Unlike major car markets such as the U.S. and  Germany ,
China doesn’t release figures on private car registrations and
retail sales. Private car registrations are compiled by Chinese
police and include the buyer’s age, gender, zip code and vehicle
model.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Liza Lin in
Shanghai at   llin15@bloomberg.net ; Tian Ying
in Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  