-- China May Set New Property Controls Soon, Securities Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T07:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-may-set-new-property-controls-this-month-securities-says.html
China  may set new property controls
as early as this month after the central government’s inspection
team returns to Beijing, the official China Securities Journal
reported today.  The government has some room to issue more policies,
including raising the transaction tax on existing homes and
expanding a property tax trial, the newspaper reported, without
saying where it got the information. The policies will be based
on inspection results and likely be this month as the government
may want to avoid the traditional property sales season in
September and October, it said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the government will
“unswervingly” continue property controls it began introducing
in April 2010 to ensure housing remains affordable. China sent
eight teams to 16 provinces in late July to check on the
implementation of its property curbs, according to a statement
on the central government’s website on July 25. The nationwide
check is aimed at “firmly” restraining property speculation
and consolidating results of the curbs, it said.  “The report is more of guessing and speculative; it’s very
unlikely for the government to rush new property policies this
month,” said  Eric Zhang , a Beijing-based property analyst at
China International Capital Corp., the country’s biggest
investment bank. “But the central government is likely to set
an accountability system with local governments on home
prices.”  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose to the highest in a week, adding 1.3 percent at the
local close, the most among five industry groups on the
 benchmark .  Provinces Criticized  Private data is signaling a turnaround in the real estate
market. Home prices in July posted the biggest gain in more than
a year, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest
real estate website owner. They rose 0.3 percent from June.  New  home prices  in June climbed in the most number of
cities in 11 months as buyer sentiment improved after the
central bank cut  interest rates . Prices gained in 25 of the 70
cities the government looks at, the most since July last year.  The inspection team criticized four provinces -- Hubei,
Hunan, Hebei and Shandong -- for not “strictly” implementing
property control policies, Caixin Online reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information.  China won’t relax housing curbs until the industry becomes
“healthy” again, Yu Liang, president of  China Vanke Co. (3333) , the
country’s biggest developer by market value traded on the
nation’s exchanges, said yesterday.  “For the central government to begin relaxing the measures,
the industry must first return to a healthy state,” said Yu.
“When that will happen, I don’t have a definite answer.”  China’s home purchase restrictions are part of a long-term
plan to control the  property market  and the government is
unlikely to scrap policies within the next two years, Shanghai
Securities News reported today, citing Wang Juelin, a researcher
at the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  