-- China Increases Fuel Prices for First Time in Five Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-10T03:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-increases-fuel-prices-for-first-time-in-five-months.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, increased gasoline and diesel prices for the first
time since March after global crude costs climbed.  The maximum at which gasoline can be sold to motorists will
rise by 390  yuan  ($61) a metric ton and diesel by 370 yuan
starting today, the National Development and Reform Commission
said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. The pump price of
90-RON China III gasoline in Beijing will increase about 4.3
percent to 9,490 yuan a ton, or $4.27 a U.S. gallon, according
to Bloomberg calculations from NDRC data. The China III
specification is similar to the Euro III fuel standard.  China is raising fuel prices for the first time in five
months in response to rising crude costs even as it faces
economic growth that slowed to 7.6 percent in the second
quarter, the weakest pace in more than three years. The nation
cut fuel rates three times between May and July, helping
truckers and motorists with the lowest pump prices since
December 2010. Inflation cooled for a fourth straight month in
July to 1.8 percent, data from the National Bureau of Statistics
showed yesterday.  “This is the first time the NDRC increased fuel prices in
a timely fashion once the threshold for doing so was reached,
probably because August is not a month of peak consumption and
inflation pressure has eased,” C1 Energy, a Shanghai-based
commodity researcher, said on its website.  Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the NDRC under a
system that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of
crudes, including Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The price
of Brent futures in  London  rose 7.3 percent in July.  Refiners’ Losses  PetroChina Co. (857)  and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the
nation’s biggest fuel producers, each reported wider refining
losses in the first quarter because of state-capped pump rates.
China plans to revise its pricing system so domestic rates can
better track crude. The new system may shorten the pricing cycle
to 10 days, China Petrochemical Corp. said March 28.  “While the timely upward move should be welcomed this
time, the bias of NDRC is still towards lower gasoline and
diesel prices,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based senior
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a note today.
“High  oil prices  and inflation appeared to scupper reforms.”  Chinese refiners will need a further price increase of 600
yuan for gasoline and 700 yuan for diesel if they are to produce
the fuels profitably with international crude prices are around
$100 a barrel, Scott Darling, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Barclays Plc said in an e-mail today.  “At these fuel price levels, we believe that most Chinese
refiners still are unlikely to break even,” Darling said. “We
now see partial fuel price reform in China as a 2013 event,
especially considering the upcoming premiership change and the
country’s economic growth outlook this year.”  Shares in Sinopec, as  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  is
known, rose as much as 1.2 percent to HK$7.48 today and were at
HK$7.43 at 10:41 a.m. on the Hong Kong stock exchange.
 PetroChina shares  slid 0.1 percent to HK$9.80.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  