-- China July Home Sales Decline as Wen Vows Curbs to Stay
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T07:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-july-home-sales-decline-as-government-vows-curbs-to-stay.html
China ’s home sales transaction value
dropped 14.5 percent in July from the previous month as the
government vowed to maintain curbs on the  property market .  The  value of homes  sold fell to 454.4 billion  yuan  ($71.5
billion) from 531.3 billion yuan in June, based on the
difference between the National Bureau of Statistics’ data for
the first seven months and first half of the year. Housing sales
from January to July declined 1.1 percent to 2.4 trillion yuan
from a year earlier, according to the data.  China sent eight teams to 16 provinces last month to check
on the implementation of its property curbs, and the nationwide
check is aimed at “firmly” restraining property speculation
and consolidating results of the curbs, the central government
said on its website on July 25. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the
government will maintain the curbs it began introducing in April
2010 to ensure housing remains affordable.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty at the government’s
policy level, but today’s data is not strong enough to trigger
new tightening measures,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Industrial Securities Co., in a phone
interview. “Developers still need to de-stock many completed
homes, so it’s difficult for new housing starts to improve
soon.”  Investment in homes, office buildings, malls and other real
estate gained 15.4 percent to 3.7 trillion yuan in the first
seven months, slower than the 33.6 percent gain a year earlier,
according to the statistics bureau statement on its website
today. New property construction declined 9.8 percent to 1.04
billion square meters (11.2 billion square feet).  Slowing Inflation  Seasonally adjusted factors accounted for the slowdown in
sales in July, usually a low season for property sales, said
 Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets. The value of home sales rose 41 percent in
June, the most in a year, as the government eased monetary
policies.  China’s  inflation  cooled for a fourth month in July, up 1.8
percent from a year earlier, providing more room for Wen to
loosen policies to stem a growth slowdown in the world’s second-
biggest economy.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose to the highest in a week by 1.3 percent at local
closing, also the biggest advance among five industry groups on
the benchmark, which added 0.6 percent.  Home sales volume dropped 7.5 percent in the first seven
months from last year to 430.8 million square meters, the
government data showed today. Property sales value, including
office buildings and retail space, fell 0.5 percent to 2.9
trillion yuan from a year ago.  Declining Sales  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, said July
sales fell 22 percent from a month earlier.  Glorious Property
Holdings Ltd. (845) , a developer controlled by Chinese billionaire
Zhang Zhirong, said sales dropped 20 percent last month from
June.  China may set new property controls as early as this month
after the central government’s inspection team returns to
Beijing, the official China Securities Journal reported today.
The government has some room to issue more policies, including
raising the transaction tax on existing homes and expanding a
property tax trial, the newspaper reported, without saying where
it got the information.  “In general the housing market is improving, but it won’t
improve very fast,” said CLSA’s Wong. “The property policies
are unlikely to ease any time soon. Neither will further
tightenings.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  