-- China Adds Scope to Cut Rates as Japan, S. Korea Hold
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T09:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/china-adds-scope-to-cut-rates-as-japan-s-korea-hold-economy.html
China ’s  inflation  and industrial
production growth cooled in July, and central banks in  Japan  and
South Korea saw little sign of price pressures, underscoring the
scope for monetary stimulus should the European crisis deepen.  Consumer prices in China rose 1.8 percent in July from a
year earlier and factory output increased the least since 2009,
the National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing. The
 Bank of Korea  said inflation will stay subdued, and the Bank of
Japan anticipated that its benchmark gauge of prices will remain
unchanged “for the time being.”  The reports from three of  Asia ’s four largest economies
signaled that the jump in price of commodities from wheat and
soybeans to corn in recent weeks has yet to constrain the
consideration of further monetary stimulus. The BOK and BOJ
stopped short of easing today, while reiterating that they are
taking steps to strengthen demand.  “Inflation isn’t a major issue for Asian central bankers
right now,” said Satoshi Osanai, an economist at the Daiwa
Institute of Research in  Tokyo . “Compared with advanced nations,
Asian countries and emerging nations have more scope to cut
interest rates or apply monetary easing.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks gained 0.8 percent as
of 4:48 p.m. in  Hong Kong , while China’s benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.6 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi stock
index  rose for a fourth day, gaining 2 percent, and Japan’s
Nikkei climbed 1.1 percent.  India Slump  Stocks in  India  slid after a government report showed that
industrial production in Asia’s No. 3 economy fell for the third
time in four months, with output of capital goods plunging the
most on record. Production declined 1.8 percent from a year
earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 0.4 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The Sensitive
Index of equities was down 0.2 percent as of 2:18 p.m. in Mumbai.  Meantime, Australia’s economic resilience continues, with
employers there boosting payrolls in July, sending the
 unemployment rate  down and the local dollar to near a 4 1/2-
month high. Neighbor New Zealand saw its jobless rate increase
to a two-year high last quarter.  Indonesia  also decided to hold its benchmark interest rate
today. The  State Bank  of  Pakistan  is scheduled to decide on
borrowing costs tomorrow.  Europe Inflation  In  Europe , the Czech Republic and Netherlands are both
forecast to report consumer inflation slowed in July, based on
the median estimate in analyst surveys. The U.K.’s trade deficit
may have widened in June from May, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The U.S.’s  trade gap  probably narrowed to $47.5 billion in
June from $48.7 billion in May, while Canada’s housing starts
slowed in July, based on separate surveys. Mexico’s consumer
inflation may have picked up in July to 4.42 percent from 4.34
percent in June.  In China, leaders of the ruling Communist Party last week
pledged to keep adjusting policies to ensure a stable expansion
this year.  The gain in Chinese industrial production in July was less
than forecast by all 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Passenger-vehicle sales also trailed analysts’ estimates for the
first time in five months. Wholesale deliveries, including
multipurpose and sport utility vehicles, gained 11 percent to
1.12 million units last month, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said in a statement today. That
compares with the 1.16 million average estimate of 10 analysts.  China’s Prices  China’s consumer inflation was the lowest since January
2010. Food inflation of 2.4 percent last month from a year
earlier was the slowest since October 2009.  The slowdown shows China has yet to register an impact from
a U.S. drought that’s boosting prices of soybeans and corn used
to feed China’s pigs, risking higher costs for pork, a staple
meat. Pork prices fell 19 percent in July from a year earlier,
dragging down inflation by 0.71 percentage point. In July 2011,
pork jumped 57 percent.  “Slowing inflation opens the room for further and more
significant policy easing,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-
based chief Asia economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who
previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank . Shen forecasts one more rate reduction
and at least two more cuts in banks’ reserve requirements this
year, including one this month.  Korean Surprise  The BOK today kept borrowing costs at a 14-month low after
a surprise cut in July, with Governor Kim Choong Soo and his
board leaving the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged
at 3 percent. The decision was unanimous, Kim told reporters,
adding that policy will focus on boosting domestic demand.  “Growth momentum, as reflected in domestic economic
activity, appears to be slackening, on the sluggishness of both
exports and domestic demand stemming from mounting external
uncertainties,” the BOK said in an English-language statement
today after the decision.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said this week that Europe’s
woes are causing a global contraction, a view bolstered by the
 Bank of England  paring forecasts for the U.K economy yesterday
and German industrial production falling more than expected.  “The rate pause today raises the possibility of a cut next
month,” said Sun Yoo, an economist at Woori Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “There is a shared understanding that
the European fiscal crisis will be a lasting one and that a
slowdown in the domestic economy needs some policy support.”  BOJ Newcomers  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from loosening monetary policy
at its first meeting with two new board members as it assessed
the effect on the economy of an appreciating currency and
Europe’s debt woes.  The BOJ kept its asset-purchase fund at 45 trillion yen
($573 billion) and lending facility at 25 trillion yen,
according to a statement released in Tokyo today. Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa and his board won’t be compelled to add
stimulus unless the yen’s appreciation intensifies or
politicians step up calls for easing like they did earlier this
year, according to Kiichi Murashima, chief economist at
Citigroup in Tokyo.  In Indonesia, Governor Darmin Nasution and his central bank
board kept the  reference rate  unchanged at a record-low 5.75
percent. The decision was predicted by all but one of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Growth in Southeast Asia’s largest economy unexpectedly
accelerated last quarter as rising investments helped the nation
withstand Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has hurt more
export-dependent neighbors from  Singapore  to  Taiwan .  “There’s no urgent need to lower  interest rates  this
month,” David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in
Jakarta, said before the decision. “Cutting rates can trigger
asset bubbles in certain sectors, and the current rate is
adequate to support the economy amid the global turmoil that
won’t be resolved in the short term.”  Indonesia’s gross domestic product rose 6.37 percent in the
three months through June, making the country the fastest
growing among the Group of 20 nations after China.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Zhou Xin in Beijing, Keiko
Ujikane in Tokyo, Ailing Tan in Singapore and Rishaad Salamat in
Hong Kong. Editors: Patrick Harrington, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  