-- Chu Told Obama Loans Were Sound Before Solyndra Bankruptcy
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-08-09T20:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/chu-set-to-tell-obama-loans-healthy-before-solyndra-failed-1-.html
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu told
President  Barack Obama  in mid-2011 that loans in the
department’s clean-energy program were sound, two months before
the bankruptcy of recipient Solyndra LLC.  A draft prepared by Energy Department officials for Chu to
brief Obama on June 27, 2011, also pushed to continue the
program, slated to expire three months later, according to
documents released today by the Republican-led House Committee
on Oversight and Government Reform.  The e-mails show Chu seeking to defend the program amid
objections by officials in the White House, Treasury Department
and Office of Management and Budget. Chu told aides in an e-mail
that the document for the briefing was “missing important
information” and needed to explain: “Why did the loans take so
long, and why was there so much interagency angst?”  Treasury and OMB officials worried that companies aided by
the program were getting excessive subsidies in the loan terms,
which allowed “Unjust enrichment,” Chu wrote.  The documents “show how many people in the administration
had serious doubts” about the program, Frederick Hill, a
spokesman for the oversight panel, said today. Given the upbeat
presentation, were the program’s risks “kept away from the
president?” he asked.  ‘Deep Trouble’  Solyndra, a solar-panel maker in Fremont,  California , that
received a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, sought  bankruptcy
protection  in September and fired its 1,100 workers. The Energy
Department restructured terms of its loan in early 2011, as the
company’s finances began to wobble.  None of the information released today mentioned Solyndra.
Chu told lawmakers in November that by June 2011 he was aware
that Solyndra was “in deep trouble.” The draft presentation,
which said “all loans will be repaid,” was reworked to show
that “most of the loans” would be repaid,  Damien LaVera , an
Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The U.S. program also backed  Beacon Power Corp. (BCONQ) , an energy-
storage company that sought bankruptcy protection in October,
with a $43 million loan guarantee in August 2010. Abound Solar
Inc., a solar-panel maker, shut after borrowing $70 million on
the U.S. loan.  Congressional Democrats and the White House have repeatedly
said the loans were made on the merits, and not as a result of
political pressure. The latest e-mails underscore that point,
according to LaVera.  On Merits  “Everything in the more than 900,000 pages of documents we
have voluntarily provided to Congress validates what we have
said from day one: All decisions on loan applications were made
on the merits after careful review by career officials and
technical experts in the loan program,” LaVera said in an e-
mail.  The briefing by Chu for Obama was scheduled because “at
official events and political events he interacts with business
community and Congressional members” who have “affiliation or
interest” in applications for backing in the program, according
to an e-mail to Chu on June 24 from Brandon Hurlbut, Chu’s chief
of staff. “The president has likely heard a wide range of
feedback on the program and wants to know its status.”  White House officials asked Chu to discuss two projects in
particular, the Cape Wind Associates LLC wind farm project off
the coast of Nantucket in  Massachusetts  and  USEC Inc. (USU) ’s bid to
build an enrichment plant for uranium in Piketon,  Ohio . The
governor of each state -- Democrat  Deval Patrick  in
Massachusetts and Republican  John Kasich  in Ohio -- had pressed
Obama on the projects, Hurlbut wrote.  Neither project has been approved for a government-backed
loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  