-- Cocoa Butter Ratios Said to Climb on Grinders' Purchases
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-09T15:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/cocoa-butter-ratios-said-to-climb-on-grinders-purchases.html
The cost of cocoa butter relative to
the price of beans climbed in  Europe  this week as processors
bought the ingredient to avoid grinding more supplies, according
to three traders with direct knowledge of the sales.  The butter, which accounts for as much as 20 percent of the
weight of a chocolate bar, trades at a ratio to cocoa futures on
the NYSE Liffe exchange in London. The ratio was at 1.35 to 1.4
this week, said the traders, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. It was 1.3
to 1.35 last week, three traders said then.  The butter ratio in the European market has been climbing
since at least June 1, when it was at 1.08, according to data
from  Commodities Risk Analysis LC , a Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based cocoa research company. Grinders started buying butter
after a decline in prices for cocoa powder, another by-product
of bean processing.  Powder prices in Europe were at 3,122 euros ($3,840) a
metric ton on Aug. 3, Commodities Risk Analysis data showed. The
price reached a high of 4,100 euros a ton last year, according
to founder Steven Haws. That reduced margins for processors and
made cocoa grinding less attractive.  Cocoa processing in Europe fell 18 percent in the second
quarter, according to the Brussels-based European Cocoa
Association. In  North America , grindings dropped 9.8 percent in
the same period, according to the  National Confectioners
Association  in  Washington .  Singapore-based Petra Foods Ltd., which supplies cocoa
products to Nestle SA, Mars Inc. and Barry Callebaut AG, said in
an earnings statement this week it had reduced production and
sales to the “price sensitive segment” and some markets
including Eastern Europe. It also said chocolate consumption
will be weak globally this year and commodity prices will show
“volatility.”  Cocoa for December delivery was down 0.5 percent at 1,661
pounds ($2,595) a ton on NYSE Liffe in London as of 4:29 p.m.,
after earlier today climbing to 1,675 pounds, matching
yesterday’s nine-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 