-- Colombia Peso Declines on Bets for Increased Dollar Purchases
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-09T18:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/colombia-peso-declines-on-bets-for-increased-dollar-purchases.html
Colombia ’s peso fell as speculation
mounted that the central bank will increase dollar purchases to
stem the local currency’s rally.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 1,788.78 per  U.S. dollar ,
paring its gain this year to 8.4 percent, the best performance
after the Chilean peso among the most traded currencies in  Latin
America .  Colombia’s central bank is discussing the need to increase
daily dollar purchases to damp a rally in the peso that
threatens to undermine local industry and farmers, Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters yesterday.
Echeverry said he has asked the central bank to increase its
daily intervention in the  currency market  to a minimum of $40
million from the current $20 million.  “The peso has been trading in a range as the risk of
intervention keeps investors from” betting on further gains in
the peso, said Andres Munoz, the head currency trader in Bogota
at Corp. Financiera Colombiana. “There is room to increase
dollar purchases and we’ll see that happen as the peso
approaches 1,770.”  Echeverry said in an Aug. 3 interview that increased daily
dollar purchases and higher spending on infrastructure in the
second half will help Colombia achieve his growth target of as
much as 4.8 percent this year.  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe reiterated July 27 that
Banco de la Republica will keep buying a minimum of $20 million
daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2. In a speech in
Cartagena today, Uribe said intervention by central banks can
correct moves caused by speculation.  Dollar Purchases  Munoz predicts policy makers will increase dollar purchases
to as much as $50 million a day as the peso strengthens toward
1,770. He forecasts the currency will slide to as weak as 1,830
within the next two to three months.  Expectations for lower dollar inflows as rebel attacks on
Colombia’s oil pipelines cut production are also helping pare
gains in the peso, according to Munoz.  Sabotage of pipelines owned by Ecopetrol SA led the state-
run oil company to cut this year’s crude output target. Rebel
groups more than tripled assaults on pipelines to 67 in the
first half of this year, according to government figures.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
debt due in 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 6.68 percent, according to the central bank. The price fell
0.082 centavo to 126.736 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  