-- Commerzbank Forecasts Second-Half Net Below First Half
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-08-09T11:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/commerzbank-exceeds-eba-capital-target-by-3-5-billion.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest bank, said profit will fall “significantly” in the
second half of 2012 as slowing economic growth results in higher
loan-loss provisions and mutes clients’ demand for services.  The shares  tumbled as much as 4.9 percent. Net income in
the first half totaled 644 million euros ($796 million), the
Frankfurt-based bank reported today, as it set aside 616 million
euros for doubtful loans. Commerzbank called its target for 1.7
billion euros of loan-loss provisions this year “increasingly
ambitious” considering current market conditions.  “Profit in the second half of this year will be
significantly lower than in the first half,” Chief Financial
Officer Stephan Engels said on a conference call with
journalists. “We still do not expect the macroeconomic and
market environment to stabilize in the second half of 2012,”
Engels said in the statement.  The bank also said it was less likely to pay a  dividend 
soon and will cut more costs. Commerzbank, once the world’s
third-largest ship lender and  Europe ’s biggest real estate
financier, said in June that it would exit those businesses as
it conducts a “rigorous review” of its operations amid
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis. The lender is building capital
by selling assets and cutting back on business which demands
higher reserves under new regulations known as Basel III.  Shares Fall  The effects of the debt crisis have spread to Germany by
eroding demand for the nation’s exports, hurting earnings at
companies including Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
 Siemens AG. (SIE)  While the Bundesbank last month estimated moderate
growth in the second quarter, aided by domestic spending,
manufacturing industry orders are contracting and business
confidence fell for a third straight month in July.  “The outlook isn’t so good,” said  Andreas Plaesier , a
Hamburg-based analyst at M.M. Warburg who has a hold rating on
Commerzbank. “They pushed cost cuts in the first half, and
that’s impressive, but costs may rise in the remainder of the
year.”  Commerzbank  declined  4.4 percent to 1.23 euros at 1:54 p.m.
in  Frankfurt , giving the lender a market value of 7.2 billion
euros. The stock is down 5.8 percent since the beginning of the
year, compared with a 2.2 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index , which tracks 38 stocks.  Second-quarter net income rose to 275 million euros from 24
million euros in the year-ago period, the lender said in a
statement today. That was more than the 270 million-euro average
 estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Strategic Review  Operating profit from corporate clients, known as the
Mittelstandsbank, fell to 390 million euros from 515 million
euros a year earlier. Earnings at the unit, Commerzbank’s
biggest profit contributor, trailed analysts’ estimate of 422
million euros. The bank said the weakening German economy will
result in higher loan-loss provisions for that division.  Operating profit at the private-client unit slumped to 14
million euros from 79 million euros on lower interest and
commission income. That result was “not satisfying” and
Commerzbank will “advance strategic development” of the
division, Engels said in the statement, without further detail.  Cost Cuts, Dividend Outlook  Commerzbank will “subject the cost base to a critical
review,” the bank said. It’s scheduled to present a strategic
review on Nov. 8 focusing on the consumer banking unit and a
strategy for portfolios it’s running down, including public
finance, commercial real estate and ship finance.  That so-called non-core assets unit comprised 67.5 billion
euros of risk-weighted assets at the end of June, the highest of
six divisions Commerzbank provided figures for and 32 percent of
the company’s assets weighted according to risk, according to a
presentation the company published on its website.  The lender said circumstances for making a shareholder
payout have become “more difficult.” At the annual shareholder
meeting on May 23, the bank said it plans to pay a dividend for
2013, which would be its first payout since 2008.  Commerzbank said its asset-based finance unit, which
comprises commercial real estate and lending to shipping
companies, will drive a “significant” increase in the funds
the firm needs to set aside for risky loans in the second half.
The bank’s second-quarter loan-loss provisions rose to 404
million euros from 278 million euros, while the ABF unit set
aside 300 million euros in the period compared with 233 million
euros a year earlier.  Commerzbank surpassed the European Banking Authority’s
target of raising 5.3 billion euros of capital, the biggest
amount assigned to a German lender, by 2.8 billion euros at the
end of June. European banks are reducing risk-weighted assets,
retaining profits and selling assets to bolster their capital.  “Sustainable  capital management  and the further reduction
of risks will clearly continue to be a priority in the future.”
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  