-- CP All Plans 10,000 7-Elevens to Sustain Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-09T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/cp-all-plans-10-000-7-elevens-to-sustain-growth-southeast-asia.html
CP All Pcl (CPALL) , the world’s third-
biggest operator of  7-Eleven   convenience stores , said it plans
to expand its network in  Thailand  to 10,000 outlets by 2018 to
maintain annual profit growth at 15 percent.  “There is vast potential for Thailand’s retail market,”
CP All President Piyawat Titasattavorakul, 58, said in an
interview yesterday at his office in Bangkok. “We are still in
the early stages of a  consumer-spending  boom.”  CP All and biggest competitor  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  are adding outlets
in the nation of 67 million people after the government raised
minimum wages and introduced price guarantees for rice and
rubber to boost rural incomes. Piyawat said he also wants to
expand outside of  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy, and
may open 7-Eleven stores in southern China and  Vietnam  to help
meet the Bangkok-based company’s long-term profit target.  “CP All has delivered spectacular earnings growth for
investors because of its dominance and aggressive store
expansion,” Jitra Amornthum, head of research at  Finansia Syrus
Securities Pcl (FSS)  in Bangkok, said by phone. “The company will
inevitably face higher risk when expanding in Thailand’s
provinces because sales at those stores will be much lower.”  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has moved to insulate
Thailand’s economy from a global slowdown by lifting incomes of
farmers and poorer Thais. About 35 percent of Thais make their
living growing crops, according to data from the Office of
Agricultural Economics.  Billionaire Dhanin  CP All opened its first 7-Eleven outlet in 1990, and lags
behind only its U.S. parent and Tokyo-based  Seven & I Holdings
Co. (3382)  in terms of store numbers, according to its website.  The company, controlled by 73-year-old Thai billionaire
Dhanin Chearavanont, plans to add 3,300 stores to its existing
6,700 in the next six years, Piyawat said. About 500 outlets
will open each year, more than half outside Bangkok. Stores in
provincial cities and rural areas will account for 60 percent of
the company’s total, from about 50 percent, he said.  “Expanding urbanization should help boost spending in
convenience stores where size and location are matched to
people’s lifestyles,” KGI Securities (Thailand) Co. said in a
research note last week.  Shares of CP All jumped more than fivefold over the past
five years and have rallied 28 percent this year, outstripping
the benchmark SET Index’s 19 percent gain, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Dhanin’s family, the country’s richest,
has seen its wealth increase as profits climb at companies they
control, including CP All and  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) , the
nation’s biggest meat and animal-feed producer.  Consumer Spending  CP All’s  profit  jumped 20 percent to 2.6 billion baht ($83
million) in the second quarter as consumer spending rebounded
after devastating floods receded at the end of last year. Profit
has climbed more than fivefold over the past five years.  While higher incomes have helped spur a recovery in
consumer spending, they’ve also boosted costs for companies
including CP All, which employs 100,000 people in Thailand.  “Rising labor costs are a threat to the company’s
profitability,” Sirinattha Techasiriwan, an analyst at Kasikorn
Securities Co., said on Aug. 8. “Net profit margin declined as
a result of rising wages.”  The government raised minimum daily wages by at least 40
percent in April, and wages nationwide will rise to 300 baht a
day in 2013 from as low as 222 baht, according to the labor
ministry’s  website .  Earnings may also come under pressure after  consumer
confidence  in Thailand fell for the second time in three months
in July on concern the deepening debt crisis in  Europe  may pare
demand for exports. The Bank of Thailand last month cut its
growth forecast for the year to 5.7 percent from 6 percent.  China, Vietnam  Piyawat plans to bolster profit  margins  by increasing sales
of ready-to-eat meals such as sandwiches and baked goods, adding
products such as over-the-counter medicine and by introducing
online shopping, he said. Future revenue growth may come from
outside the country, he said.  “ China  and Vietnam have large populations and strong
economies that will offer opportunity for us,” Piyawat said.
The company has applied for the rights to operate 7-Eleven
stores in China’s southern provinces, he said, declining to name
specific cities. Approval may be given within two years, he
said.  “For Vietnam, we have been exploring the market for
several years,” he said. “The country’s high inflation rate
and economic crisis has delayed our plans. We will begin looking
at it seriously again after the crisis has subsided and the
economy is growing again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  