-- Danish Banks Cornered Without Funds to Pay Subordinate Debt
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-08-10T05:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/danish-banks-cornered-without-funds-to-repay-subordinate-debt.html
Denmark’s regional banks face a
repayment deadline on subordinated debt sold before the
financial crisis that now threatens to leave them insolvent
unless they deleverage or divest.  “The central bank can’t give them capital,” Torben Jensen, chief dealer at debt  capital markets  at Nykredit A/S in
Copenhagen, said in an interview. “They have three options:
reduce their balance sheets, merge or make more money. But
that’s probably the hardest option.”  Banks need to refinance about 400 billion kroner ($66
billion), with maturities concentrated in 2012 and 2013, the
financial regulator estimates. About 12 percent of that is
subordinated debt. Refinancing is unlikely to be an option for a
number of banks as capital markets roll over only the safest
credit, said Kristian Vie Madsen, deputy director general at
the Copenhagen-based Financial Supervisory Authority.  “The market is not very friendly to issuing new
subordinated debt,” Vie Madsen said in an interview. “At the
same time, it’s also not the right way to go ahead, in light of
new regulations.”  Denmark’s regional banks are still struggling to emerge
from a funding crisis spawned by  Europe ’s toughest resolution
laws, which require  senior creditors  to share losses in the
event of insolvency. The industry is also fighting to recover
from a burst housing bubble and a recession that caused two
thirds of the country’s medium-sized banks to lose money last
year, central bank data show.  Padding Buffers  “Earnings haven’t been high, so many of them need to be
refinanced and they’re coming up now,” Jensen at Nykredit said.
“It’s not a good time. The appetite for risk is a lot smaller
than it used to be.”  Investors buying subordinated debt from Danish lenders had
been accustomed to getting the loans repaid after five years,
three years before the standard maturity expires, according to
Thomas Hovard, head of credit research at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)  Now,
banks are holding on to the loans to pad their capital buffers,
he said.  “It is a trend that some smaller Danish banks are not
calling subordinated debt, in order to protect capitalization,”
Hovard said in an interview.  Repayment Cliff  The repayment cliff won’t hurt the country’s largest
lenders including Danske Bank A/S, the FSA estimates. Danske,
which this week reported a 27 percent surge in second-quarter
net income, said Aug. 7 it issued 20 billion kroner in junior
covered bonds in the first half, in addition to 17 billion
kroner in senior debt and 39 billion kroner in covered bonds.
Danske would be able to continue its operations even if it were
cut off from capital markets for more than 12 months, it
estimates.  Danske reduced the amount of outstanding  subordinated  debt
on its balance sheet by 13 percent last quarter to 62.6 billion
kroner from a year earlier.  “We have a divided market,” Vie Madsen said. “The large
banks can issue both senior and subordinated debt when the
European markets are open. For the smaller banks, it’s in
general probably harder to issue both.”  Danske also borrowed 24 billion kroner in subordinated debt
from the Danish state in May 2009.  State Loans  The refinancing pressure that banks face doesn’t include
such state-held debt, which is classed as hybrid tier 1, Vie
Madsen said.  “The state-held hybrid does not expire as it is perpetual,
there is therefore no need to refinance it,” he said. “It
should however be noted that if the Capital Requirement
Regulation is agreed, this type of government owned capital
cannot be counted after 2018.”  Banks looking for ways to refinance subordinated debt can’t
tap the central bank’s liquidity facility, which doesn’t provide
loans to replenish capital buffers.  The central bank offered its first three-year loans in
February, with banks taking a total of 19 billion kroner, 15
billion kroner of which went to Danske Bank. A second offering
is due next month. The facility was designed to help lenders
ease liquidity strains as they repay about 118 billion kroner in
state-guaranteed unsecured debt through 2013.  “Refinancing of long-term market debt remains a risk
factor,” the central bank said in a June report.  Sub-Zero  Adding to financial industry woes are negative central bank
rates. Nationalbanken Governor Nils Bernstein lowered the seven-
day deposit rate by a quarter point to minus 0.2 percent on July
5 as his bank tries to counter a capital influx that’s putting
pressure on the krone’s peg to the euro.  Official  rates below zero  are credit negative for Danish
banks, and may cost the industry as much as 315 million kroner
annually, making bank bonds unattractive to investors and
driving up funding costs, Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 6.  The industry faces a particular “challenge” as  capital
requirements  are toughened, Vie Madsen at the FSA said. Banks
may need as much as 39 billion kroner in fresh capital,
according to the central bank.  “The smaller banks are approaching a situation where they,
to a large extent, are funded by deposits and a large part of
the capital is based on core equity,” Vie Madsen said. “Still,
they’re in a transition period. There are some banks that will
have to explain to us what they’re planning with their capital
which will have to be repaid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  