-- Darty Said to Consider Disposals as Chairman Exits Early
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-08-09T10:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/darty-said-to-consider-disposals-as-chairman-exits-early-1-.html
Darty Plc (DRTY) , the owner of  France ’s
biggest consumer-electronics retailer, said its chairman will
leave more than a month earlier than planned following talks
with its largest investor  Knight Vinke  Asset Management LLC over
the “unacceptable” performance of the business.  David Newlands will step down immediately and be replaced
by Alan Parker, the former chief executive officer of Whitbread
Plc who had been due to succeed him on Sept. 13, according to a
joint statement today from Knight Vinke and Darty. Parker, 65,
started a review of the business in June.  Knight Vinke, which owns a 25 percent stake, said it
withdrew a resolution to have its founder Eric Knight appointed
to Darty’s board at next month’s annual meeting. To placate the
investor, Darty will consider selling underperforming assets and
listing in Paris as part of the review by the new chairman,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  “I am pleased we have agreed on many, if not most, of the
steps that need to be taken in order to restore  shareholder
value ,” Eric Knight, Knight Vinke’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement. “I proposed a number of steps that could
be taken to achieve this and Alan Parker has indicated that
there is broad agreement on many of these items.”  Knight Vinke didn’t ask that Newlands step down now, said a
Darty representative. The investor has voiced its frustration at
the speed and scale of changes at the London-based retailer.  Profit Slump  A potential listing in France would be considered if market
conditions improve, according to one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the matter is private.  The disposal of Darty’s unprofitable developing markets
unit will also be reviewed, the people said. The retailer, which
was known as Kesa Electricals Plc until it sold the U.K. Comet
chain in July, reported an increased loss at its developing
division of Spain, Italy and  Turkey  in the last fiscal year.  Darty said in June that full-year profit slumped 42 percent
and cut the dividend as difficult conditions across France, its
largest market, weighed on sales of televisions.  Following the withdrawal of Knight Vinke’s resolution,
Darty said it has agreed to appoint Eric Knight to the board
immediately should the investor request it at any time from mid-
December to September 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  