-- Deutsche Telekom Halts Profit Decline on U.S. Subsidy Cut
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-08-09T08:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/deutsche-telekom-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s
largest phone company, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as lower handset subsidies in the U.S. and a
stronger dollar helped offset declining sales in  Europe .  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and some items climbed 0.2 percent to 4.7 billion
euros ($5.8 billion), compared with the 4.58 billion-euro
average of 10  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit on
that basis at T-Mobile USA surged 19 percent in euro terms and
margins in Germany also rose, the company  said  today.  While the U.S. business almost completely accounted for
Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom’s profit gain, it has so far failed
to contain an exodus of subscribers following a botched sale of
the unit to  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year. Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said today he plans to increase spending in the U.S.
and Germany, a sign that profitability in the company’s two most
important markets may not hold up in the second half.  “There’s cause for optimism about the U.S. going
forward,” said Jacques Abramowicz, an analyst at Silvia Quandt
& Cie. in Frankfurt who has a neutral rating on the shares. “If
you consider the economic problems that we’re having in Europe,
Deutsche Telekom is holding up much, much better than all the
other guys.”  The former German monopoly confirmed its full-year
forecasts as well as a pledge to pay a dividend of at least 70
cents for 2012.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  slashed their
payouts in the past quarter to conserve cash.  T-Mobile USA  Faltering demand in European markets has pushed down shares
of the region’s phone companies, which were the worst performers
in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  this year through yesterday.
Deutsche Telekom has climbed 5.9 percent this year, while the
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index was little
changed.  The shares fell 2.9 percent to 9.12 euros at 10:41 a.m. on
the Frankfurt exchange, after rising as much as 1.1 percent.  T-Mobile USA lost 557,000 contract customers, more than
losses of 346,200 predicted by analysts. Still, adjusted Ebitda
at the division increased 5.7 percent in U.S. dollars. In euros,
the measure surged 19 percent to 1.06 billion euros. Handset
subsidy costs dropped 38 percent to $310 million in the quarter,
when market leaders AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless  also made
customers pay more for phone upgrades.  Net Income  The fourth-largest U.S. wireless carrier has lost 2.76
million contract customers, or more than 10 percent of its
subscriber base, in the past 8 quarters. With 33.2 million
users,  T-Mobile USA  is positioning itself as a more affordable
alternative to Verizon, AT&T and  Sprint Nextel (S)  Corp.  Former  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  executive Jim Alling has been
running T-Mobile on an interim basis since Philipp Humm left as
CEO in June to join  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   The unit faces higher costs on network spending and
marketing in the second half of the year, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts including Emmet Kelly wrote in a note.  Deutsche Telekom’s second-quarter  net income  was 614
million euros, compared with the 607 million-euro average
estimate by analysts. Sales slipped 0.7 percent to 14.38 billion
euros, lower than the average estimate of 14.43 billion euros.
The second-quarter increase in adjusted Ebitda followed a
decline of 0.1 percent in the preceding three months.  Greece, Netherlands  Revenue in  Germany  slipped 3.1 percent in the quarter,
while sales in the rest of Europe dropped 5.9 percent. Deutsche
Telekom sells mobile-phone services in  countries  including the
U.K., Netherlands and Austria. It also owns a stake in  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  in Greece.  Regulatory changes are poised to affect revenue. The
European Union said last month it won’t cut the prices Internet
network owners charge for access to copper lines, a move that
will prop up sales at former fixed-line monopolies such as
Deutsche Telekom. On the other hand, regulators are moving
toward eliminating fees that wireless carriers levy on
travelers.  Falling valuations of European telecommunications operators
has in the past quarter attracted investors including  Carlos
Slim ’s America Movil SAB, which acquired shares in KPN and
 Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   KPN, the biggest Dutch phone company, last month cut its
2012 dividend by 61 percent after reporting shrinking demand in
its home market. Telefonica of Spain, Europe’s largest
telecommunications operator, canceled its dividend and share
buyback to conserve cash for repaying debt.  Investors in German phone stocks will have one more choice
if a plan by Telefonica to hold an initial public offering of
its German unit proceeds in the final quarter of this year.  Deutsche Telekom is “developing well compared to its
industry peers,” Obermann said on a conference call. “That
even gives us room to invest more in the wireless market in
Germany, but also in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  