-- Dewey to Protect Some Partners From Liability, Retirees Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-09T17:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/dewey-to-protect-some-partners-from-liability-retirees-say-1-.html
Bankrupt Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP is
“rushing” to implement a plan that would largely free select
partners from liability for mismanagement while imposing burdens
on others at the firm, including retired partners, a group of
retirees said.  They made the statement in a federal court filing in
 Manhattan , asked for a trustee or an examiner to look into the
“gross mismanagement” that continues after the bankruptcy,
eroding assets, they said. Assigning an examiner to probe and
pursue or settle clawback or other claims related to the conduct
of Dewey and its executives also would be beneficial, they said.  Dewey before bankruptcy was run to provide
“disproportionate” benefits to select partners, who received
more than $250 million just in the year before the firm failed,
they said, citing a July disclosure of Dewey’s finances. The
pattern persists even after the largest  law firm  collapse in
history, they said.  Since its failure, Dewey has been proposing a settlement
seeking $90.4 million from more than 700 partners and former
partners, including almost 400 persons who left the firm before
the January 2011, they said. Partners in exchange wouldn’t be
sued, said the so-called ad hoc committee of retired partners.  Tort Claims  Faulting the proposed deal for its handling of Dewey’s
former executive committee members, they said it failed to
address “numerous potential tort claims against partners who
formally or informally managed or controlled the firm.”  “An independent review is necessary because the current
management of the estate is rushing to implement the PCP that
would impose significant burdens on retirees and other innocent
parties and shield the partners who took out huge compensation,
including in the months preceding the firm’s collapse,” they
said, referring to the so-called Partner Contribution Plan.  Albert Togut, Dewey’s chief bankruptcy lawyer, and
spokesman  Michael Sitrick  didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on the filing.  The product of a 2007 merger between  Dewey Ballantine  and
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, the firm at one point had more
than 1,300 attorneys spanning 12 countries. Dewey, based in  New
York , fell apart in a matter of weeks this year after ousting
its chairman and watching partners decamp to competing firms.  Chairman Ousted  Former chairman  Steven Davis  was removed from office in
April after Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. told the
firm he was investigating allegations of wrongdoing, Dewey has
said. Davis has denied wrongdoing.  In bankruptcy, Dewey has been criticized by the U.S.
trustee who supervises bankruptcies. The estate’s $700,000 bonus
plan and its retention plans may not be cost effective or
economically feasible for a liquidating law firm, the trustee,
Tracy Hope Davis, said. She also faulted nine of Dewey’s
proposals to hire advisers, including the law firm Togut Segal &
Segal LLP. A judge approved several of the hirings anyway.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  