-- Did We Just Find Someone to Take On the Banks?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-08-09T22:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/did-we-just-find-someone-to-take-on-the-banks-.html
To see how the federal government
has pursued money-laundering cases against big banks over their
dealings with  Iran  and other countries under U.S. trade
sanctions, consider what happened when  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the
 Justice Department  were required to file reports describing the
U.K. bank’s cooperation under a settlement in 2010.  The deadline came and went. Barclays and the Justice
Department failed to comply, infuriating U.S. District Judge
 Emmet Sullivan  of  Washington , who had ordered that the reports
be filed. “I am amazed that with all the legal talent before
the court that no one opened the order to read it,” he said. A
Justice Department attorney, Kevin Gerrity, told the judge he
couldn’t explain the lapse. Before approving Barclays’s
 deferred-prosecution agreement , Sullivan called it a
“sweetheart deal.” Barclays paid $298 million, its core
business was unscathed, and no executives were charged.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  can only dream of having such a
light touch for an adversary. This week, the  New York  State
Department of Financial Services threatened to revoke Standard
Chartered’s state banking license -- far more serious than a
mere fine -- after accusing the U.K. bank of using its New York
office to illegally launder $250 billion for Iranian financial
institutions, including Iran’s central bank.  Refreshing Change  Although it’s hard to imagine the department’s
superintendent,  Benjamin Lawsky , carrying out his threat, it’s
refreshing to see anyone in a position of authority even go
through the motions of fully enforcing the law against a big
bank. Lawsky, 42, has every bit as much standing to pursue such
a case as his counterparts in the federal government do.  Eight years ago, Standard Chartered  signed  an  agreement 
with the New York State Banking Department and the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , promising to correct deficiencies in
its anti-money-laundering policies and procedures. (Last year,
New York combined its banking and insurance departments to form
the  Department of Financial Services .) Lawsky took action after
determining that Standard Chartered violated the agreement. The
Fed chose not to, for reasons it has yet to explain.  Lawsky has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 15, when  Standard
Chartered  will be asked to show why its state banking license
shouldn’t be revoked. He minced no words. “Led by its most
senior management, SCB designed and implemented an elaborate
scheme by which to use its New York branch as a front for
prohibited dealings with Iran,” Lawsky’s  order  said. “By
definition, any banking institution that engages in such conduct
is unsafe and unsound.” The order accused Standard Chartered of
numerous violations of state banking laws, including falsifying
its books and records.  Standard Chartered has denied Lawsky’s allegations -- and
it has been fairly aggressive about it, which might not be so
wise. Although the department’s decisions can be appealed, the
 standard  for review that courts usually apply under New York
state law is whether a regulator’s decision was “ arbitrary and
capricious .” That’s a very high bar. You would think Standard
Chartered would be trying extra hard to show Lawsky respect,
rather than arguing with him in the press.  The company this week  accused  Lawsky of failing to present
“a full and accurate picture of the facts.” It claimed that
“99.9 percent of the transactions relating to Iran complied
with” U.S. regulations. The bank said it has been in talks with
the Fed, the Justice Department, the Treasury Department and the
Manhattan District Attorney’s Office -- and suggested that
Lawsky was out of bounds for acting without their coordination.  Political Backdrop  There’s a fascinating political backdrop to this case, too.
As superintendent, Lawsky serves at the pleasure of New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, whose name and photo are
plastered all over the Department of Financial Services website.
So here you have Cuomo’s administration jumping ahead of a
Democratic president’s administration and the Fed to take on a
big bank. That willingness to show an independent streak might
be a plus for Cuomo, 54, should he run for president in 2016.  If what Lawsky alleges is true, Standard Chartered deserves
to lose its state license. If that meant the bank couldn’t
process dollar payments for clients that have operations in New
York, so be it. Just because a bank has $624 billion of  assets 
shouldn’t make it immune from the law.  Since 2009, the Justice Department has entered deferred-
prosecution agreements with six banks, including Barclays and
 Credit Suisse Group AG , over transactions with Iran and other
banned nations in violation of U.S. sanctions. Most violations
involved stripping information from wire-transfer documentation
to hide the role of a prohibited person or country. Lawsky’s
order against Standard Chartered shouldn’t jeopardize other
agencies’ investigations. If anything, it should make Standard
Chartered more eager to settle with them.  Federal regulators and prosecutors are the ones who created
the power vacuum here, by going so soft on the banking industry
for so long. Lawsky is filling it in, and evoking memories of
how  Eliot Spitzer  challenged the securities industry a decade
ago when he was New York attorney general. We’re about to find
out whether Lawsky has the chops or the stomach for the role.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls  and on parents who refuse to have their  kids
vaccinated ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections don’t predict
future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not economic)
depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to lose ; William
Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China Sea ;  Steven Greenhut 
on the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff investors ; Caleb
Scharf on  future telescopes  that could better explore black
holes.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Weil  in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  