-- Dow’s Liveris Says Europe Suffering Beyond Usual Summer Slowdown
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-08-09T13:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/dow-s-liveris-says-europe-suffering-beyond-usual-summer-slowdown.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Liveris  said the world’s biggest producer of
chlorine, is suffering a drop in European demand that goes
beyond normal slowdowns during the summer vacation period.  Dow will get a clearer idea of the extent of the slowdown
by mid-September when demand normally rebounds after the August
holiday period, Liveris told journalists at a briefing in  London 
today. For now, the Midland, Michigan-based company’s factories
are running at about 81 percent capacity, taking into account
scheduled maintenance shutdowns.  “It’s not just a normal weak European vacation season,”
Liveris said. “There’s a lot of stuff out there that’s not only
not running hard but is running at cash margins, not ours.”  The ability to export to eastern  Europe  and the nearest
Middle Eastern nations has helped bolster Dow Chemical’s sites
in the region. Liveris said he’s assessing the situation on a
daily basis and will be paying “close attention” to the
European footprint as assets remain more evenly balanced between
commodity and specialty chemicals than elsewhere, where higher-
margin products account for a higher percentage of sales.  Dow Chemical’s strategy is centered on moving toward
specialty chemicals from a low-cost raw material position, and
having the complete chain to convert a gas like propane into
polyurethane-based insulation foams. Liveris said he’s not as
big of a believer in industrial biotechnology as some of his
peers because of the long-conversion rates on enzymes and
catalysis.  Labor reforms across Europe will be a decisive factor as
Dow Chemical assesses its plants there, according to the CEO.
The 18 sites in  Germany  “tend to be very competitive but there
are lots of factories in Europe that are not competitive on
labor costs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  