-- Downgrade Risk Rises as Drought Threatens Deficit: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-09T04:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/downgrade-risk-rises-as-drought-threatens-deficit-india-credit.html
The weakest monsoon since 2009 is set
to prevent Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  from reducing the
biggest budget deficit among the largest  emerging markets ,
increasing the risk of a downgrade of  India ’s debt rating.  All the seven economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
the government will overshoot its  deficit target  of 5.1 percent
of gross domestic product in the year to March 2013. Daiwa Asset
Management Co. expects the 10-year government bond  yield  to rise
as high as 8.40 percent by the end of this quarter, 28 basis
points more than today. Comparable yields are 1.69 percent in
the U.S., 3.33 percent in  China  and 9.64 percent in  Brazil .  Below-average rainfall is stoking farm prices and keeping
the  Reserve Bank of India  from cutting the highest  borrowing
costs  among major Asian economies even as the slowest growth in
almost a decade puts India’s investment-grade credit rating at
risk. Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s ,
forecasts the budget gap will widen to 6.2 percent as Singh’s
efforts to keep fuel and food affordable increase the
government’s subsidy bill.  “Everything that can perhaps go wrong is going wrong for
India,”  Gaurav Kapur , a senior economist at Royal Bank of
 Scotland  Plc in Mumbai, said in an Aug. 7 interview. “The
deficit target was challenging from the beginning, and now a
weak monsoon and slowing growth are making it much more
difficult. This points to a genuine risk of a rating downgrade
in the next two to three quarters.”  Monsoon Season  The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of the
nation’s annual rainfall, was 17 percent below a 50-year average
in the last two months, the weather bureau said Aug. 7. Farm
minister  Sharad Pawar  has said India may be facing its worst
drought since 1972, the Indian Express reported Aug. 5.  The yield on benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds jumped 14
basis points to 8.26 percent last week after the central bank on
July 31 held its benchmark repurchase rate at 8 percent. The
yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.12 percent in Mumbai
today, according to the  Reserve Bank ’s trading system. Royal
Bank of Scotland expects it to remain between 8 percent and 8.40
percent in the coming two quarters.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left  interest rates  unchanged for
the second straight meeting, citing risks to prices from
inadequate rains. He raised the RBI’s inflation forecast for the
fiscal year to 7 percent from 6.5 percent, and slashed its
economic growth estimate to 6.5 percent from 7.3 percent. The
revised GDP prediction matched the previous year’s expansion,
which was the slowest in nine years.  Revenue Shortfall  “The weak monsoon, through its impact on food production
and prices, will make it harder for the government to narrow its
food subsidy bill,” Taimur Baig, director of Asian economics at
Deutsche Bank AG in  Singapore , said in an Aug. 7 interview.
“Chances of achieving the deficit target also decrease due to
the increasing risk of an expenditure overshoot related to fuel
subsidies and revenue shortfall due to weakening growth.”  Citigroup Inc. on Aug. 7 revised its forecast for India’s
 budget deficit  to 5.9 percent from an earlier estimate of 5.5
percent, and cut its growth forecast to 5.4 percent from 6.4
percent. The economy may expand as little as 4.9 percent, the
slowest pace since 2004, should drought conditions worsen, the
bank said in a report.  Bond Risk  Standard & Poor’s lowered India’s sovereign credit outlook
to negative from stable on April 25, saying the move reflects a
one-in-three likelihood of a rating downgrade to junk status
because of slower investment and economic growth.  Fitch Ratings 
cut its outlook on June 18, citing limited progress in paring
the budget deficit. Both companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the
lowest investment grade.  Moody’s Investors Service, which has maintained a stable
outlook on its Baa3 rating, said Aug. 2 that widespread power
outages last month underscore India’s infrastructure gaps and
have a “credit negative effect” on economic activity. The
blackouts on July 30 and July 31 were India’s worst.  Bond risk has risen. Credit-default swaps on  State Bank of
India , which investors consider a proxy for the sovereign, have
climbed 92 basis points in the past year to 312 in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The rupee, which declined 8.8 percent in the quarter
through June in the worst performance in the region, rose 0.5
percent to 55.1375 per dollar today.  Subsidy Target  In its budget presented in March by the then Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , the government pledged to limit
subsidies to 1.9 trillion rupees ($34 billion), or 2 percent of
GDP, this fiscal year. In the previous year, handouts on fuel,
foods and fertilizers overshot the government’s estimate by 51
percent to 2.16 trillion rupees, widening the budget deficit to
5.76 percent of GDP, compared with the target of 4.6 percent.  The government plans to boost debt sales by 12 percent to a
record 5.69 trillion rupees this year to bridge the shortfall in
its finances. It also proposes to raise funds by selling stakes
in state-owned companies and auctioning mobile-phone licenses.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, making his first
statement after taking charge of the ministry last week, said he
will seek fiscal consolidation and work to revive investment.  ‘Path of Consolidation’  “The economy is challenged by a number of factors,”
Chidambaram said on Aug. 6. “Uppermost in my mind is the duty
to regain the confidence of all stakeholders. We intend to
unveil, shortly, a path of fiscal consolidation.”  The extra yield on India’s 10-year bonds over similar-
maturity Treasuries widened 10 basis points this fiscal year to
643. Rupee-denominated sovereign notes returned 6 percent this
year, trailing the 7.2 percent earned by Indonesian securities
in  Asia ’s best performance, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.  “If the government doesn’t do anything about deficit and
reforms in the next six months, you are going to see growth
collapsing severely,” said Jahangir Aziz, the Washington-based
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who previously worked
at the  International Monetary Fund . “Things aren’t that bad
that the ship can’t be turned around. But the ship needs to be
turned around now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  