-- E*Trade CEO Freiberg Ousted, Broker Seeks New Leader
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-08-09T17:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/e-trade-ceo-freiberg-leaves-broker-seeks-new-leader.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC) , the
brokerage that came under pressure from its biggest shareholder
to seek buyers, ousted Chief Executive Officer Steven J. Freiberg and said its board is looking for a new leader.  The shares rose 6.6 percent to $8.55 as of 1:28 p.m. in  New
York . Freiberg, 55, was the company’s third CEO in four years.
Chairman Frank J. Petrilli will hold the post while the company 
seeks a permanent replacement, E*Trade said in a statement. A
board committee which includes the head of its biggest
shareholder, Citadel LLC’s CEO  Ken Griffin , will lead the
search, the company said.  “This change could provide a positive catalyst,” David Chiaverini, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note
today. “E*Trade’s board may have run out of patience as the
company has materially underperformed peers and financial stocks
over the last two years. Frank Petrilli has the appropriate
experience and background to lead E*Trade.” BMO has a “market
perform” rating on the stock.  Citadel last year called on E*Trade to hire a bank to
review strategic alternatives and take immediate action to
maximize  shareholder value  after “catastrophic losses” that
had driven the shares down 97 percent since 2007. E*Trade in
November rejected putting the company up for sale and Petrilli
joined the board in January.  Strategic Review  E*Trade Chief Financial Officer Matthew Audette said in
November that the company never contacted potential buyers as
part of its strategic review. E*Trade saw “no reason to proceed
down the path” of starting a sales process, he said, citing
economic uncertainty and the interest-rate and credit
environment in explaining why the company didn’t reach out to
potential suitors.  Citadel, a Chicago-based hedge fund, invested $2.55 billion
in E*Trade in November 2007 to help the company survive mortgage
losses. The retail broker posted four years of losses through
2010, partly because of the subprime mortgage market collapse.  “The company recently implemented a refined business
strategy, centered on strengthening the firm’s financial
position,” Petrilli said today in the statement. “The board
believes it is an appropriate time to transition the role of CEO
to a new leader to guide the company through the next phase of
its evolution.”  Freiberg joined E*Trade in March 2010, two weeks after the
company said its preferred candidate was no longer a
possibility. The executive came from Citigroup Inc., where he
had worked for three decades.  His departure comes days after Citadel sought to acquire a
stake in  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  The trading firm rejected a
last-minute, $500 million rescue-loan offer from Citadel on Aug.
5 as it worked on a competing plan from a group of investors,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  