-- Leap Jumping at Sale Is Seen as Best Option: Real M&A
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-08-10T20:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/leap-jumping-at-sale-seen-as-best-option-for-carrier-real-m-a.html
As  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) 
pledges to consider all possible strategy changes, a sale would
be the mobile carrier’s best shot at turning around the
industry’s lowest valuation.  Net  losses  every year since 2006 and $3.2 billion in long-
term debt pushed Leap’s shares down to 0.6 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s the
cheapest among all U.S. telecommunications carriers trading at
$100 million or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock has fallen despite Leap’s ownership of wireless
spectrum the $393 million company says should fetch $3 billion.  Leap  sank  19 percent on Aug. 7 as subscriber defections
overshadowed its plan to mull options including a sale, almost
five years after rejecting a $5.5 billion bid from  MetroPCS (PCS) 
Communications Inc. Falcon Point Capital LLC says shareholders
could see the value of their stakes doubling in a takeover from
$4.96 a share yesterday, while Pivotal Research Group sees a
deal driving the stock to $16.  AT&T (T)  Inc.,  Verizon Wireless ,
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  T-Mobile USA  may all covet Leap’s
spectrum, said  Chetan Sharma , a wireless industry analyst.  “The best hope is for it to be sold,”  Michael Mahoney , a
senior managing director at Falcon Point in  San Francisco , said
in a telephone interview, referring to a sale of the entire
company. “Their greatest value is in their spectrum. Because
they have a lot of debt, the No. 1 way for shareholders to make
money here is to do a deal.”  Eliminate Nothing  “While we won’t comment on speculation regarding a
possible sale of the company, we are taking specific and
significant actions to increase our margins, put the company on
a clear path to free  cash flow , realize the value of our assets
and return to growth over time,” said Gregory Lund, a spokesman
for Leap.  When asked on an Aug. 6  conference call  with analysts
whether Leap’s options include selling assets or the entire
company, Chief Financial Officer Jerry Elliott said, “There is
nothing that you can think of that you should eliminate right
now from the list of possibilities,” according to a transcript.
The CFO joined the company in May.  After retreating 20 percent to $4.42 in the two days after
Leap reported quarterly results, the shares  surged  12 percent
yesterday for the biggest gain since November.  Today, Leap shares rose 9.9 percent to $5.45.  The company’s focus on offering low-cost wireless plans
through its Cricket brand has faced increased competition from
rivals such as Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint. Leap, which
fired Chief Operating Officer Raymond Roman last month, lost
more than 289,000 customers during the second quarter, almost
triple the amount a year earlier. That left the company with 5.9
million subscribers at the end of June.  95% Retreat  The stock has plunged 71 percent from last year’s peak and
95 percent since an all-time high in 2007. Leap’s  long-term debt 
has risen from $588.3 million at the end of 2005 amid an
expansion into new markets and the purchase of spectrum
licenses.  While the company is counting on sales of Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, which it began offering in June, to win market share
from AT&T, Verizon and Sprint, Leap is selling the device
without the same subsidies as its rivals. The challenge is
finding customers undaunted by the phone’s price tag, said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York .  Leap’s assets would be valued at $5.25 a share if the
company were liquidated, or 5.8 percent higher than yesterday’s
close, according to Steve Sweeney, an analyst at Pivotal.  Takeover Value  The payoff would reach $16 a share if a buyer purchased
Leap and kept its operations running, he said. Sweeney arrived
at that by using Leap’s estimate that its spectrum should be
valued at $3 billion and applying a 1.5 multiple to the
company’s Ebitda. Including net debt, a purchase at that stock
price implies a total deal value of almost $4 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Leap management has made it clear from their comments on
the conference call that they would be willing to come to the
table and examine all options including a sale,” New York-based
Sweeney said in an interview. “Eventually, yes, I think Leap
gets acquired.”  While NCM Capital Management Group Inc. says a deal will
probably happen at some point, the firm gave up waiting and
completed the sale of its entire  stake  this week, Deputy Chief
Investment Officer Michael Custer said in an interview. NCM
owned more than 600,000 shares at the end of June.  ‘Selling Out’  “We are actually selling out,” said Custer, who helps
oversee about $1 billion at NCM in Durham,  North Carolina . “The
stock where it is, it’s kind of dead. We were disappointed when
a deal wasn’t announced. We were hoping that would have been the
end game and think that eventually it will be.”  Christopher Larsen, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in New
York, cut his share-price  estimate  for the company to $3.50 on
Aug. 7, saying in a report that “there is a lot to be concerned
about with Leap.” Still, he said takeover speculation may help
limit losses in the shares.  MetroPCS, based in Richardson, Texas, offered to buy Leap
in September 2007 in an all-stock bid valued at $75.05 a share
when announced. Leap’s board rejected the proposal, and MetroPCS
walked away two months later. Leap shares had peaked at $98.33
in July 2007.  Sharma, the independent wireless analyst, said potential
acquirers could now include any of the four largest U.S.
carriers: AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile. Leap’s Cricket
service operates in cities including  San Diego , Baltimore and
 Seattle , and the spectrum it owns covers frequencies similar to
the ones used by the largest phone companies.  Bandwidth Demand  Roni Singleton, a spokeswoman for Sprint, declined to
comment on speculation the company might acquire Leap. So did
AT&T’s  Mark Siegel , Verizon Wireless’s  Brenda Raney  and Ron Low,
an outside spokesman for T-Mobile.  Carriers need more wireless airwaves to keep up with
escalating customer demand for mobile-data services, such as
video and social networking on mobile phones and tablets.
Worldwide mobile-data traffic will soar 18-fold by 2016,
according to Cisco Systems Inc. To keep up, carriers are beefing
up their networks.  A deal for the entire company, not just spectrum, is more
likely, said John Stone, a partner at telecom investment bank
Near Earth LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  “Why on earth would you buy spectrum, when you can buy a
business that has spectrum, and you get customers, towers,
infrastructure, store fronts?” he said in a telephone
interview. “It’s much smarter.”  ‘Very Complementary’  Stone said MetroPCS remains a good fit for Leap.  “Their spectrum is very complementary,” he said. “A
buyer who bought Leap could be interested in both. They’d make a
great combination.”  Drew Crowell, a spokesman for MetroPCS, declined to comment
on takeover speculation.  America Movil (AMX)  SAB, the wireless carrier owned by Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim , may wish to expand its U.S. business
and could accomplish that by purchasing Leap,  Walter Piecyk , an
analyst at BTIG, wrote in an Aug. 7 report. An America Movil
representative declined to comment on takeover speculation.  Several outside factors affect the timing of a potential
bid for Leap, according to Sharma. Verizon is working to close a
$3.6 billion acquisition of spectrum from cable companies.
Sprint is distracted with its network expansion, and may wait to
do acquisitions next year, Pivotal’s Sweeney said.  “Depending on how the different chess pieces move, a Leap
acquisition could happen sooner or later,” Sharma said. “It
may be a 2013 event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  