-- ECB’s Demetriades Says Cyprus Must Be Realistic on Economy
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-08-09T17:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ecb-s-demetriades-says-cyprus-must-be-realistic-on-economy-1-.html
European Central Bank  council member
Panicos Demetriades said it was important for Cypriots to accept
the need to take prompt fiscal and economic measures as talks
continue on the country’s rescue package.  “It’s important for us to be realistic,” said
Demetriades, who is also governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus,
in excerpts of an interview with Nicosia-based state broadcaster
CyBC. “We try to project this to the troika. We need the
uncertainty that we have over us to end.”  Cyprus on June 25 became the fifth of the euro area’s 17
member states to seek external aid. Euro-area finance ministers
agreed to begin talks on a bailout for the eastern Mediterranean
island two days later. No amount was specified for the rescue,
which will encompass the public sector as well as banks. Cyprus
also sought assistance from the  International Monetary Fund  and
 Russia .  Cyprus’s government is continuing talks with officials from
the European Commission, International Monetary Fund and
European Central Bank over the next weeks on a bailout which
will include fiscal adjustment and growth measures. Demetriades
said he hoped an agreement with the so-called troika of
creditors would be signed by the end of September. “We want to
close this matter”, he said.  Rating Cut  Standard & Poors cut its rating on Cyprus to BB from BB+
last week, saying that the bailout, which it predicts at 11
billion euros ($13.5 billion), will increase the country’s debt
to more than 105 percent of gross domestic product in 2013. Debt
amounted to 72.7 percent of GDP at the end of the first quarter,
according to government data.  Cyprus’s banks sustained losses on their Greek government
bond holdings in  Greece ’s debt swap, the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history. The island’s government had to rescue
the second-largest lender,  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , in May by
underwriting a 1.8 billion-euro capital increase. On June 27,
Bank of Cyprus Pcl requested 500 million euros in temporary aid
to meet regulatory requirements. Demetriades said the exact
figure for how much funding Cypriot banks will need won’t be
known until an audit is completed by the end of October.  The central bank plans to conduct an independent study on
the nation’s banks to detect any irregularities, Demetriades
also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  