-- ECB Says It May Buy Bonds If Strict Conditionality Ensured
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-09T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ecb-says-it-may-buy-bonds-if-strict-conditionality-ensured.html
 The  European Central Bank  said it
may intervene in bond markets in tandem with  Europe ’s bailout
funds if troubled nations commit to improving their economies
and fiscal positions.  “The adherence of governments to their commitments and the
fulfilment by the European Financial Stability Facility/European
Stability Mechanism of their role are necessary conditions,”
the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its monthly bulletin today,
echoing President  Mario Draghi ’s remarks on Aug. 2. The central
bank “may undertake outright open market operations of a size
adequate to reach its objective.”  The ECB is stepping up its crisis response after Spanish
and Italian bond yields surged, exacerbating a sovereign debt
crisis that has forced five of the 17-euro members into seeking
external aid. Draghi last week justified any potential
intervention, saying rising borrowing costs in “several
countries and financial fragmentation hinders the effective
working of monetary policy.”  Still, “in order to create the fundamental conditions for
such risk premia to disappear, policy makers in the euro area
need to push ahead with fiscal consolidation, structural reform
and European institution-building with great determination,”
the ECB said. “Governments must stand ready to activate the
EFSF/ESM in the  bond market  when exceptional financial market
circumstances and risks to financial stability exist -- with
strict and effective conditionality.”  Market Tensions  A further worsening of the crisis is likely to hurt
economic growth in the euro area, “with the ongoing tensions in
financial markets and heightened uncertainty weighing on
confidence and sentiment,” the report said.  Today’s bulletin also contains the quarterly survey of
professional forecasters. Their estimate for 2012 inflation
remained unchanged at 2.3 percent. For 2013, they expect annual
price gains to average 1.7 percent, down from 1.8 percent
previously estimated, and for 2014 they predict 1.9 percent. The
longer term inflation forecast remained at 2 percent.  On growth, the forecasters predict a 0.3 percent
contraction for 2012, down from a 0.2 percent contraction
expected last quarter. For 2013, they anticipate growth of 0.6
percent, down from a previous estimate of 1 percent. For 2014,
they see the economy expanding 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  