-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for August (Text)
-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2012-08-09T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-august-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s August monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 2 August to keep the
key ECB  interest rates  unchanged, following the decrease of 25
basis points in July. As stated in July, inflation should
decline further in the course of 2012 and be below 2% again in
2013. Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains subdued. Inflation expectations for
the euro area economy continue to be firmly anchored in line
with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time,
economic growth in the euro area remains weak, with the ongoing
tensions in financial markets and heightened uncertainty
weighing on confidence and sentiment. A further intensification
of financial market tensions has the potential to affect the
balance of risks for both growth and inflation on the downside.  The Governing Council extensively discussed the policy options
to address the severe malfunctioning in the price formation
process in the bond markets of euro area countries.
Exceptionally high risk premia are observed in government bond
prices in several countries and financial fragmentation hinders
the effective working of monetary policy. Risk premia that are
related to fears of the reversibility of the euro are
unacceptable, and they need to be addressed in a fundamental
manner. The euro is irreversible.  In order to create the fundamental conditions for such risk
premia to disappear, policy-makers in the euro area need to push
ahead with fiscal consolidation, structural reform and European
institution-building with great determination. As implementation
takes time and financial markets often only adjust once success
becomes clearly visible, governments must stand ready to
activate the EFSF/ESM in the  bond market  when exceptional
financial market circumstances and risks to financial stability
exist - with strict and effective conditionality in line with
the established guidelines.  The adherence of governments to their commitments and the
fulfilment by the EFSF/ESM ECB of their role are necessary
conditions. The Governing Council, within its mandate to
maintain price stability over the medium term and in observance
of its independence in determining monetary policy, may
undertake outright open market operations of a size adequate to
reach its objective. In this context, the concerns of private
investors about seniority will be addressed. Furthermore, the
Governing Council may consider undertaking further non-standard
monetary policy measures according to what is required to repair
monetary policy transmission. Over the coming weeks, the
Eurosystem will design the appropriate modalities for such
policy measures.  With regard to the economic analysis, on a quarterly basis, euro
area real GDP growth was flat in the first quarter of 2012,
following a decline of 0.3% in the previous quarter. Economic
indicators point to weak economic activity in the second quarter
of 2012 and at the beginning of the third quarter, in an
environment of heightened uncertainty. Looking beyond the short
term, the Governing Council expects the euro area economy to
recover only very gradually, with growth momentum being further
dampened by a number of factors. In particular, tensions in some
euro area sovereign debt markets and their impact on financing
conditions, the process of balance sheet adjustment in the
financial and non-financial sectors and high unemployment are
expected to weigh on the underlying growth momentum, which is
also affected by the ongoing global slowdown.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. They relate, in particular, to
the tensions in several euro area financial markets and their
potential spillover to the euro area real economy. Downside
risks also relate to possible renewed increases in energy prices
over the medium term.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.4% in July 2012, according
to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged from the previous month.
On the basis of current futures prices for oil, inflation rates
should decline further in the course of 2012 and be below 2%
again in 2013. Over the policy relevant horizon, in an
environment of modest growth in the euro area and well-anchored
longterm inflation expectations, underlying price pressures
should remain moderate.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes, owing to the need for
fiscal consolidation, and higher than expected energy prices
over the medium term. The main downside risks relate to the
impact of weaker than expected growth in the euro area, in
particular resulting from a further intensification of financial
market tensions. Such intensification has the potential to
affect the balance of risks on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remained subdued. The annual growth rate of
M3 stood at 3.2% in June 2012, slightly higher than the 3.1%
observed in the previous month and close to the rate observed at
the end of the first quarter. Overall, inflows into broad money
in the second quarter were weak. Annual growth in M1 increased
further to 3.5% in June, in line with the increased preference
of investors for liquid instruments in an environment of low
interest rates and high uncertainty.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) declined to 0.3% in June
(from 0.5% in May). As net redemptions of loans to non-financial
corporations and households (both adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) were observed in June, the annual growth rates
of loans to both non-financial corporations and households
(adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) decreased further
in June, to -0.3% and 1.1% respectively. To a large extent,
subdued loan growth reflects the current cyclical situation,
heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing adjustment in the
balance sheets of households and enterprises, all of which weigh
on credit demand. A considerable contribution of demand factors
to weak MFI loan growth is confirmed by the euro area bank
lending survey for the second quarter of 2012. This survey also
shows that the net tightening of banks’ credit standards at the
euro area level was broadly stable in the second quarter of
2012, as compared with the previous quarter, for loans to both
enterprises and households.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience where this is needed. The soundness
of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating
both an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalisation of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with  price stability  over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  While significant progress has been achieved with fiscal
consolidation over recent years, further decisive and urgent
steps need to be taken to improve competitiveness. From 2009 to
2011, euro area countries, on average, reduced the deficit-to-
GDP ratio by 2.3 percentage points, and the primary deficit
improved by about 2.5 percentage points. Fiscal adjustment in
the euro area is continuing in 2012, and it is indeed crucial
that efforts are maintained to restore sound fiscal positions.
At the same time, structural reforms are as essential as fiscal
consolidation efforts and the measures to repair the financial
sector. Some progress has also been made in this area. For
example, unit labour costs and current account developments have
started to undergo a correction process in most of the countries
strongly affected by the crisis. However, further reform
measures need to be implemented swiftly and decisively. Product
market reforms to foster competitiveness and the creation of
efficient and flexible labour markets are preconditions for the
unwinding of existing imbalances and the achievement of robust,
sustainable growth. It is now crucial that  Member States 
implement their country-specific recommendations with
determination.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article reviews the sources of heterogeneity in financial
conditions, discusses the related challenges for the single
monetary policy and clarifies the role of other policies in
overcoming structural imbalances and divergences. The second
article assesses the financing conditions of the euro area
private sector during the sovereign debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Evans  in London at   mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  