-- Education Management Slides After $1.2 Billion Loss
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-08-09T20:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/education-management-slides-after-1-2-billion-loss.html
Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
second-largest for-profit college chain by enrollment, fell the
most in almost two years, a day after posting a $1.2 billion
loss in the fiscal fourth quarter.  The company, 43 percent  owned  by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
funds, sank 19 percent to $3.24 at the close in  New York , the
biggest drop since October 2010.  During a conference call with investors today, executives
blamed the quarterly results on students’ reluctance to take on
debt in a weak labor market. Last week,  Tom Harkin , the Iowa
Democrat who heads the U.S. Senate education committee, issued a
report that attacked the for-profit college industry’s academic
outcomes and student recruitment.  “Pervasive unemployment” has become “a significant
barrier to higher education as individuals find it more
challenging to fund their education,” Chief Executive Officer
Todd Nelson said on the call.  The loss of $9.51 a share in the period ended June 30,
compared with net income of $34.8 million, or 26 cents, a year
earlier, Pittsburgh-based Education Management said yesterday in
a statement. It reported a non-cash writedown of $1.25 billion
primarily because of the diminished value of its Art Institute
chain as enrollment falls.  For the current period, the company  forecast  a loss of 8
cents a share, compared with a 4-cent loss average of analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Justice Department  has sued Education Management,
alleging the company used fraud to secure federal financial aid
-- allegations the company denies.  Enrollment Drops  Education Management had enrollment of 124,600 as of July,
down 11 percent from a year earlier. Along with the Art
Institutes, it owns Argosy University, Brown Mackie College and
South University. In the industry, its enrollment trails only
University of Phoenix, owned by Phoenix-based  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL)   Earnings, excluding the writedown related to the Art
Institute chain and other items, were 10 cents a share. Analysts
on average had predicted 8 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Education Management has slid 88 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 