-- Egypt Sends Armored Units to Sinai After Security Revamp
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-08-09T15:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/egypt-s-mursi-overhauls-security-posts-after-sinai-attack.html
Egypt ’s military deployed additional
armored units to Sinai and closed smuggling tunnels into Gaza as
it stepped up efforts to rout militants following a bloody
border attack that afforded President Mohamed Mursi a chance to
revamp the country’s security apparatus.  The military sent several dozen more tanks and armored
vehicles into north Sinai, the state-run Ahram Gate reported,
citing witnesses in the area. The operation, now in its third
day, is the largest offensive by Egypt in the Sinai in decades.
The military also used Apache attack helicopters during
operations, state media reported.  Mursi, who had been struggling with myriad domestic
challenges and a continuing power struggle with the military,
used the Aug. 5 attack that left 16 soldiers dead to remove the
acting intelligence chief. The governor of the area and the
commander of the presidential guard were also fired. The
decrees, issued yesterday, were hailed by groups that had grown
disillusioned with the Islamist president, as secular parties
and others were concerned that he would cater to the Muslim
Brotherhood’s agenda.  The decision to replace the acting chief of the general
intelligence service was “revolutionary,” Ahmed Maher, co-
founder of the April 6 youth movement that played a key role in
last year’s uprising, said in an e-mailed statement. His group
is awaiting similar decisions to fire “incompetent officials
and purge state institutions,” he said.  Egyptian officials have not indicated if the militants
responsible for the border-post attack were affiliated with any
group and no one has yet claimed responsibility.  Tourist Destinations  The attack emphasized how far security had lapsed in the 18
months since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster, bringing unrest prevalent
elsewhere in the country to an area hosting some of Egypt’s
most-popular tourism destinations. Kidnappings of tourists have
picked up, while security forces have come under attack.  The trouble in Sinai comes at a difficult time for Egypt,
still seeking to revive its economy after the uprising.
International reserves resumed their drop in July after several
months of nominal gains, bringing its cash-cushion to $14.4
billion. Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 Index of stocks, which had
gained in seven consecutive days before the attack, is down 1.6
since Aug. 5, retreating in three out of four sessions since
then.  Compounding Mursi’s challenges were a litany of domestic
issues, including daily power outages that have left Egyptians
sweltering while they fast during the holy month of Ramadan.  Funeral Decision  The move to shake-up the security posts drew praise,
softening slightly the criticism that had come after the
president decided not to attend the funerals of the soldiers.
His office said he didn’t want to distract from public mourning.  Mursi also ordered Defense Minister Mohamed Hussein Tantawi
to appoint a new head of the military police. The head of the
 Interior Ministry ’s central security force -- a paramilitary
unit used for riot control -- was also dismissed.  The shakeup came amid the army’s efforts to purge north
Sinai of militants using attack helicopters, tanks and ground
troops. Citing an unidentified army official, the independent
Al-Shorouk newspaper said today that 20 militants were killed,
dozens more wounded and 15 captured in the security operation.  Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst at Durham University
in  England , say it was probably carried out by jihadis or
extremist Salafis.  ‘New Radical’ Groups  “We can’t make a link between Islamist radicals who
committed violent actions in the past and those conducting them
now,” he said. “These are totally new radical Islamist groups
that have nothing to do with the old Jihadists.” These included
groups aiming to embarrass Mursi and wound  Israel , al-Anani
said.  The attack also left Mursi under pressure to examine
Egypt’s peace accord with Israel, which he has pledged to
uphold, as well as its relationship with the Islamic Hamas
movement that rules the  Gaza Strip .  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil told reporters yesterday that
Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh had called him and voiced his support
for the crackdown in the Sinai. Hamas condemned the attack on
the border post, the worst in the region in years.  Amid concerns that the attacks would affect tourism, the
governor of south Sinai, home to the Red Sea resorts, declared a
state of emergency to secure tourists and cut off the road to
north Sinai.  Tunnels Closed  Mursi’s recent meetings with top Hamas officials had
signaled a shift in Egypt’s position toward the Islamist
movement labeled a terrorist organization by the U.S., Israel
and the European Union. Egypt appeared to be easing some
restrictions on Gazans in tandem with the meetings, a shift that
may be stymied after the Sinai attack. Authorities began closing
tunnels used to smuggle goods into Gaza, state media reported.  “Because of the reported Gaza connection, Mursi will
likely face internal pressure to distance himself from the Hamas
government in Gaza which, ironically, has faced its own battle
against Salafi militants,” Haim Malka, deputy director of the
Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  