-- El-Erian Says Be Wary of Steepening Yield Curve: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-08-09T14:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/el-erian-says-be-wary-of-steepening-yield-curve-tom-keene.html
Investors should be wary of a
steepening yield curve in the U.S. Treasury market, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  While yields on  government securities  due in eight years
and less are anchored by Federal Reserve monetary policy, bond
buyers should be wary of longer-maturity debt, El-Erian, the
chief executive officer of the world’s largest manager of bond
funds, said in a “Bloomberg Surveillance” radio interview with
Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  “What we would caution is rather than the level of the
rates, the shape of the curve,” El-Erian said. “The long end is
exposed to a lot more risk.”  The difference in yields between two- and 10-year
Treasuries widened to 1.44 percentage points, or 144 basis
points, the most since May. Investors often demand a bigger
yield premium on longer-maturity debt to guard against the risk
that inflation will erode the value of fixed payments from the
securities over time.  U.S. debt  extended losses today as a report showed fewer
Americans filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last
week, a sign the labor market may keep improving after
employment picked up in July. Corporate bonds have outperformed
government debt as investors sought higher yields after Treasury
rates dropped to records last month.  Yields Rise  The yield on the 30-year bond rose three basis point to
2.78 percent at 10:40 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Yields on Treasuries maturing in  10 years 
climbed three basis points to 1.72 percent, the fifth straight
daily increase, poised for the longest streak since March.  Treasury yields reflect Fed policy, capital flowing out of
the  Europe  amid the euro area’s crisis and “a sluggish
economy,” El-Erian said. Gross domestic product in the U.S. is
forecast to expand 2.1 percent this year and in 2013, compared
with 1.8 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The  bond market  is trying right now to reflect many
things,” he said. “All of that tends to anchor the 10 year.”  The U.S. central bank has held  interest rates  near zero
since 2008 to stimulate the world’s biggest economy. The Fed has
also bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt from
2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or
QE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  