-- Eli Broad Misses MOCA Payment in Museum’s Murky Finances
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/eli-broad-misses-moca-payment-in-museum-s-murky-finances.html
Billionaire philanthropist Eli Broad
hasn’t made scheduled payments to the  Museum of Contemporary Art 
in Los Angeles because the institution has $2.1 million in
grants it hasn’t put toward exhibitions.  “Once our unspent exhibition funds have been used, we will
make additional payments,” said Karen Denne, spokeswoman for
the 79-year-old founder of  KB Home (KBH) , in an e-mail.  The missed payments come at a time when concerns over
finances at the museum have resurfaced after four prominent
artists quit MOCA’s board last month.  Four other trustees recently wrote a letter to the Los
Angeles Times critical of how the museum has been managed under
Jeffrey Deitch, the former  New York  gallery owner who became its
director in June 2010. Older board members have criticized newer
ones for not being involved, partly reflecting a two-tiered fee
system for board membership.  A turnaround that began in 2008 with financial support from
Broad appears to have stalled under Deitch, 59, although
attendance has doubled to more than 400,000 last year.  While MOCA has added wealthy art collectors to the board --
including  Peter Brant ,  Steven Cohen , Victor Pinchuk and  Laurence Graff  -- contributions and grants to the museum fell 21.5
percent to $14.6 million in the fiscal year that ended June 30,
2011, the most recent full year for which data are available.  The museum’s operating profits have declined and matching
funds have gone unmatched while expenses rose 10.7 percent to
$17.5 million in the period.  Broad’s Gift  When MOCA’s endowment hit a low of $5 million in late 2008
Broad agreed to give $15 million to replenish it, provided
matching funds could be obtained. He has paid $6.25 million of
that, according to Denne, and the endowment currently stands at
$20 million. The museum hasn’t matched more of Broad’s funds.  “We made a conservative, near-term decision this year to
maintain maximum flexibility in our operations by keeping cash
in reserve rather than increasing the endowment,” said David G.
Johnson, MOCA board co-chairman, in a March statement.  Another $15 million of Broad’s pledge was to go toward
exhibitions. The billionaire agreed to give $750,000 per quarter
in 20 installments, according to the agreement. A January budget
update obtained by Bloomberg said Broad hasn’t made the October
and January payments.  Income Shrinkage  The museum has lowered its projected income and raised its
expense estimates in the past year, according to the January
budget update. MOCA was expected to show a $1.2 million deficit
for the 2012 fiscal year, based on income of $15.5 million and
costs of $16.7 million, according to the update. The museum had
a $5.4 million surplus for the fiscal year that ended June 2010.  An Aug. 6 letter from the board’s executive committee to
other trustees says the museum expects to secure more than $17
million in revenue for its 2012 fiscal year, approximately the
same as 2011.  “The newer members aren’t into what’s going on that
much,” said Audrey Irmas, one of the four trustees who wrote to
the L.A. Times. “They don’t know the blood, sweat and tears
that went into getting the museum to be so great. I used to
drive around and collect checks to fix the roof at the museum.
They are just there for the cachet of being a trustee.”  “I am here in New York,” said developer Edward J.
Minskoff, who joined the board in 2010. “I don’t get involved
with the daily minutia.” Cohen declined to comment, Brant
didn’t return calls for comment, and Pinchuk and Graff couldn’t
be reached.  New Directors  The museum will soon be naming two “significant” new
directors, Deitch told the  Los Angeles  Times.  MOCA has a two-tiered system for board member
contributions. Los Angeles residents pay a one-time fee of
$250,000 to join, and out-of-towners pay $150,000. The required
annual contribution for everyone is $75,000, according to Lyn
Winter, the museum’s communications director.  Broad’s $30 million pledge also has affected fundraising
because of the perception that he exerts too much influence on
the museum he co-founded in 1979. The spouses of four MOCA
trustees serve on the boards of Broad-related charities.  There has been speculation that Broad will merge MOCA with
a private museum he is building nearby. MOCA agreed to stay at
its present downtown location and not merge with another local
museum for 10 years, according to the funding agreement with
Broad.  Taking Control  “There’s a resistance,” said Frederick M. Nicholas, a
former chairman of the board and one of the four trustees who
wrote to the L.A. Times. “People feel that Eli has taken
control over the museum, over the exhibitions. Some of the
people who have pledged money aren’t giving it because they are
concerned about the future of the museum and how it’s being
directed.”  Unlike museums that can rely on government support or large
endowments, MOCA doesn’t have a steady source of funds,
according to Charles Young, former chancellor of the  University
of California , Los Angeles. An institution Moca’s size should
have a $100 million endowment throwing off income, he said. The
recent departure of artists and board members will hurt efforts
to build up the endowment.  “Mr. Broad stepped up when no one else would,” Denne
said. He “would like nothing but for others to step up and
support MOCA financially.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  