-- Greece’s OTE May Receive German Help to Pare $6 Billion Debt
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-08-09T16:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hellenic-telecom-may-receive-german-aid-to-pare-6-billion-debt.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO) , Greece’s largest phone operator, may get help
from parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  as it tries to ensure it can
repay 4.9 billion euros ($6 billion) of debt in coming years.  Deutsche Telekom may aid the unit, also known by its Greek
initials OTE, by taking over its Bulgarian business, Chief
Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said today. It would also
lend to OTE should the Greek company struggle to find funds from
next year onward, in exchange for collateral and at market
conditions, he said.  “Of course we could,” Hoettges said on a conference call
when asked whether Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom may buy Globul
from OTE. He added that one shouldn’t overstate OTE’s financial
troubles. “Asserting that OTE is up to its neck isn’t based on
reality and is polemic.”  Deutsche Telekom, which is 32 percent owned by the German
government, holds a 40 percent stake in OTE, includes the unit’s
earnings in its financial reports and determines its chief
executive officer. It has spent 4 billion euros on OTE shares
since 2008, and has since written down 2.6 billion euros on
their value as economies including  Greece  and  Romania  suffered
from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  OTE  today reported  second-quarter net income that beat
analysts’ estimates after the company cut operating expenses. It
said economic conditions and regulators mandating lower
interconnection prices in most markets will hurt financial
performance. Net debt fell 14 percent from a year earlier to
3.55 billion euros, helped by the sale of its stake in  Serbia ’s
former phone monopoly earlier this year.  Bulgarian Assets  The Greek phone company said in June that it is exploring
the sale of its Bulgarian assets, including Globul and
electronic goods retailer Germanos Telecom  Bulgaria . Proceeds
from the sale would help cover a refinancing shortfall of 800
million euros to 900 million euros next year, a person familiar
with the situation said at the time.  OTE shares have fallen about 90 percent in  Athens  since
Deutsche Telekom began acquiring the stock. They were unchanged
at 2.08 euros at the close of trading in Athens, after earlier
rising as much as 3.9 percent. The stock has declined 28 percent
this year valuing the operator at 1 billion euros.  Hellenic Telecom  repaid a 757 million-euro facility due in
early September, Chief Financial Officer Babis Mazarakis said in
a conference call today.  Financial Plans  “We’re working actively on a range of financial plans and
we are in discussions with Greek and international banks,”
Mazarakis said. “Despite the challenging environment in the
financial markets we believe that we will soon be able to make
announcements that will put at ease your concerns about our
refinancing needs.”  The company said it has a 900 million-euro revolving
credit, 600 million euros of which has been drawn and is due for
repayment next year if a one-year extension option isn’t
exercised.  OTE’s debt also includes a 1.25 billion-euro bond which
matures in August 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  