-- Sina Surges as Easing Bets Trigger ADR Advance: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-09T21:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/elong-surges-as-easing-bets-trigger-adr-advance-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in  New York 
gained and  Sina Corp. (SINA)  rose to a six-week high on prospects the
slowest industrial output growth in three years will prompt the
government to take further easing steps to boost the economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rallied 0.7 percent to 91.49
yesterday in New York. Social media company Sina jumped to the
highest since June 22 while  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , an Internet,
TV and mobile-news provider, surged the most in seven weeks.
 Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) , a circuit-chip
maker, soared to a two-month high after HSBC Holdings Plc
recommended buying the shares.  China’s statistics bureau said yesterday that  factory
production  increased 9.2 percent in July from a year earlier,
less than the estimate by all 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Inflation cooled for a fourth month and producer
prices fell for a fifth month, the bureau’s separate reports
showed. The People’s Bank of China has cut interest rates twice
since early June.  “‘We expect to see at least one more  interest rate  cut
this year,’’ Charlie Awdry, a portfolio manager of Henderson
Global Investors’ $800 million China Opportunities Fund, said by
phone from  London  yesterday. ‘‘That will benefit the banks,
which will help take equities up.’’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.1 percent to $35.29,
the strongest level in almost three months. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares was little changed
at 1,402.80 as data showing an unexpected decline in U.S.
jobless claims last week tempered concern about a worsening of
Europe’s economy.  Sina Earnings  Barclays Plc reduced yesterday its forecast for China’s
growth in 2012 to 7.9 percent from 8.1 percent, after July
industrial output growth fell to the slowest pace since May
2009. Consumer prices in  China  rose 1.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, the lowest since January 2010. The world’s second-
largest economy expanded 7.6 percent in the April-June period,
the least in three years.  Sina, which provides the Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, surged 5.8 percent to $52.51, the highest level since
June 22. The company is due to report second-quarter results on
Aug. 15 after U.S. markets close.  The company, which had 324 million users for its Weibo
social networking platform by the end of March, will probably
report a  second-quarter loss  of $3.9 million, compared with a
profit of $10 a year earlier, according to the average estimate
of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Bad Earnings’  ‘‘The Street is expecting bad earnings numbers but we may
get a bounce from Q3 guidance of better-than-expected Weibo
monetization,”  Adam Krejcik , an analyst at  Roth Capital   said
in by phone from  Newport Beach ,  California . “Things won’t get
much worse for online advertising or for  China’s economy , and
Sina may already have hit its low for the year.”  American depositary receipts of SMI, as the Shanghai-based
chipmaker is known, jumped 6.6 percent to a two-month high of
$1.94.  HSBC raised its recommendation on the stock to overweight
from neutral. SMI is headed toward “sustained profitability”
due in part to demand from customers such as  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Steven Pelayo, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC
wrote in an e-mailed research note yesterday.  SMI’s second-quarter sales rose 27 percent from the prior
three months and 20 percent from a year earlier to $421.8
million, it said in a Aug. 8 statement. Net income was $7.1
million for the quarter, from a loss of $42.8 million the
previous period. Gross margin also doubled to 24 percent from
the previous quarter, it said.  Phoenix Gains  Beijing-based Phoenix climbed 5.7 percent to $3.88, the
steepest gain since June 15. The media company is scheduled to
announce second-quarter results on Aug. 13.  Elong, China’s second-largest online travel agency whose
biggest shareholder is  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , increased 3.6 percent to a
two-month high of $13.66 in New York.  The Shanghai  Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.6 percent yesterday
to a three-week high of 2,174.10, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
advanced 1 percent to 9,962.17, the highest since May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  