-- Emerging Stocks Reach Three-Month High as China Inflation Slows
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-09T21:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/emerging-stocks-advance-to-3-month-high-as-china-inflation-eases.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
three-month high after U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly fell and
as  China ’s  inflation  cooled in July, providing policy makers
more room to stimulate the world’s second-largest economy.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  climbed 0.9 percent to
979.28, gaining for a fifth day to the highest since May 10.
South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index jumped 2 percent and Warsaw’s WIG20
gauge advanced 2.2 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell
with clothing retailer Lojas Renner SA and steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  among the biggest losers.
Circuit-board maker  Zhen Ding Technology Holding Ltd. (4958)  rallied 7
percent in Taipei.  China’s consumer prices increased 1.8 percent last month,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain in June. The  Bank of Korea  said
growth momentum is “slackening,” fueling optimism the central
bank will cut borrowing costs later this year after keeping its
 interest rate  unchanged today. Fewer Americans filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, with jobless
claims unexpectedly dropping by 6,000 to 361,000 in the week
ended Aug. 4, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington .  “As news gets worse in China, it provides more of an
excuse for any kind of Chinese stimulus,” Michael Gayed, chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC overseeing about
$160 million in assets, said by phone from  New York . “Any kind
of improving data from the U.S. has helped undo the bearish
sentiment and it reflects in rising stocks globally. This has
been a year purely of psychology.”  EM ETF Gains  The IShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased for a
fifth day, climbing 0.4 percent. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 0.7 percent.  The Bovespa dropped 0.3 percent, with Lojas Renner sliding
3.5 percent, the most in a week. Shares of Usiminas, as the  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil-based company is known, dropped 2.8 percent.  The median forecast of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an increase in U.S. jobless claims to 370,000.  Technology, consumer discretionary and industrial companies
led gains in the emerging-markets index. The gauge has advanced
6.9 percent this year, compared with an 8.1 percent advance by
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The emerging-
markets measure trades at 10.8 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13 for the developed-nations index, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  South Korea, Taiwan  South Korea’s Kospi jumped 2 percent, the most in  Asia , and
 Taiwan ’s Taiex Index added 1.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index rose for a fifth day, the longest winning streak since
February.  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark gauge increased 0.8 percent,
advancing to its highest since April 10, after Aldar jumped as
much as 4.1 percent on net income climbing to 418 million
dirhams ($114 million) from 127 million dirhams a year earlier.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the lender controlled by Abu Dhabi’s
ruling family, rallied 3.7 percent, the most in five months
after a 14 percent jump in second-quarter profit buoyed the
company’s outlook this year.  Taiwan’s Zhen Ding Technology rose the most since its
December trading debut, helping a gauge of technology stocks to
post the strongest gain among the MSCI Emerging Markets’ 10
industry groups.  Cooperation Deal  Taiwanese and Chinese officials meeting today are due to
sign an investment protection pact and a customs cooperation
agreement after an eighth round of talks.  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  jumped the most in a week,
surging 6.9 percent in  Hong Kong , after Kerry Group disclosed a
5.05 percent stake in the company, up from 5 percent reported
last week.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  rallied 3.4 percent,
leading South Korean builders higher. Mirae Asset Securities
Co., a Seoul-based brokerage, climbed 3.7 percent. The central
bank left its benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3
percent. The decision was predicted by 10 of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, while the rest forecast a 25 basis
point reduction.  “The rate pause today raises the possibility of a cut next
month,” said Sun Yoo, an economist at Woori Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul .  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile operator,
dropped 6.4 percent to the lowest in nearly six years after
brokerages including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the
company on concern about rising expenses.  Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd. (MM) , India’s biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles, added 2.8
percent, extending yesterday’s 3.7 percent advance after
earnings beat estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 314 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  