-- Lenders in Europe Will Need More Central Bank Cash, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-08-09T14:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/lenders-in-europe-will-need-more-central-bank-cash-fitch-says.html
European banks will need a fresh
injection of long-term central bank funding as their outlook
deteriorates,  Fitch Ratings  said, citing the results of its
quarterly investor survey.  A record 53 percent respondents said they expect credit
conditions for banks to worsen, up from 45 percent in the
previous quarter, according to Fitch. Eighty-two percent of
respondents said that within two years banks will need another
long-term refinancing operation similar to those in which the
 European Central Bank  pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.23
trillion) into the financial system, Fitch said.  “Many banks in southern Europe have become dependent on
ECB facilities as their only real source of wholesale funding,”
Fitch analysts led by Monica Insoll and James Longsdon in  London 
said in a statement. “If they are unable to de-lever in time,
they will likely need some assistance to be able to pay back
their LTRO take up.”  The ECB’s two refinancing operations made new cash
available to  Europe ’s banks to help them refinance maturing debt
and push down government bond yields as they invested in the
securities. The LTROs, which mature in three years, have
tightened the links between banks and their sovereigns and leave
unanswered the question of how borrowers will repay the loans at
maturity.  About 50 percent of those expecting a new LTRO predict it
will take place in 2013 or 2014, before the current LTROs run
out, while 33 percent say it will come before year-end, Fitch
said. Seven percent said it will take place sooner, while 18
percent said another is unlikely, according to Fitch.  The survey was conducted between July 2 and Aug. 2 and
represents the views of managers of an estimated $7.2 trillion
of fixed income assets, Fitch said. Fitch will publish the full
survey results in a report mid-August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  