-- German SPD Demands Merkel Backs More Crisis Burden-Sharing
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-09T13:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/merkel-s-spd-opposition-urges-more-german-crisis-burden-sharing.html
Germany’s main opposition Social
Democrats raised pressure on  Chancellor Angela Merkel  to agree
to more burden-sharing to stem the euro crisis, saying she must
assume greater risks to avert a breakup of the single currency.  Merkel, while rejecting joint euro-region bond sales, fails
to say that Germany is already exposed to losses from the debt
crisis through the  European Central Bank ’s bond purchases, SPD
floor leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in an interview with
the Rheinische Post newspaper posted on the SPD website today.  “The government should finally be honest about it to the
people,” said Steinmeier, who served as Merkel’s foreign
minister in her first-term government and is a candidate to face
her at next year’s federal election. “If we want to prevent the
breakup of the  euro zone , it won’t be without risks for
Germany.”  Merkel returns from her summer vacation to the crisis-
fighting front line next week after ECB chief  Mario Draghi 
unveiled proposals to help lower borrowing costs in Spain and
 Italy . The German government backed the plan, under which the
ECB would consider buying  government bonds  only in tandem with
 Europe ’s rescue funds and in return for strict conditions on
euro members that request help.  Italian Discussions  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet held “lengthy”
discussions on a possible request for the bailout funds to buy
Italy’s bonds, Education Minister Francesco Profumo said in an
interview today, adding that the government still has “some
time to discuss it.” Profumo said that he doesn’t expect Italy
to be subject to additional conditions in return for aid.  In Germany, the SPD has adopted a proposal by the council
of economic advisers to set up a so-called redemption fund for
euro government debt that would be backed by joint and several
liability. Members of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party
including Kurt Lauk, a former European lawmaker who now heads
the CDU’s industry wing, have also said that Merkel will have to
agree to a debt-sharing arrangement to save the euro.  “The government has so far rejected all proposals for a
limited and politically-controlled liability, be it euro bonds
or a debt redemption fund, and is secretly agreeing to the
interventions by the European Central Bank,” Steinmeier said.
“The  default risk  is the same, but I prefer the democratically
legitimized option.”  Bundestag Voting  Steinmeier said that he backs SPD chairman  Sigmar Gabriel ’s
push to introduce shared liability for the euro region’s public
debt that’s limited and under democratic control. He said Merkel
is hiding the mutualization of debt via the ECB from the public.  “Joint liability has long been happening,” Steinmeier
said. If southern euro members default, “our liability is
unlimited, without the Bundestag ever having voted on that.”
The Bundestag is Germany’s lower house of parliament.  Draghi’s Aug. 2 suggestion that the ECB might reactivate
its bond-buying program has provoked mixed responses in Germany.
While former ECB Chief Economist  Otmar Issing  said  price
stability  is “massively threatened,” Georg Streiter, Merkel’s
deputy spokesman, said the government backs Draghi since he
“clearly addressed the primacy of politics” during the crisis.  “Germany has to pay” should the ECB need a capital
increase after spending billions of euros to buy government
bonds, said Steinmeier, who was chief of staff under former SPD
Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder .  2013 Election  Merkel has signalled she’ll seek a third term at elections
due in the fall of 2013 that she has said will be fought on the
euro crisis.  Support for Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc held at 36 percent in a
weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine published yesterday, while
her Free Democratic coalition partner was also unchanged at 5
percent. The SPD dropped a percentage point to 26 percent, and
its traditional Green Party ally gained a point to 13 percent.
Those scores, if replicated at the election, would leave neither
camp with a majority.  Saving the euro is “in good hands” with Merkel, according
to 70 percent of respondents to a separate  Infratest dimap poll 
for ARD television released Aug. 1. Satisfaction with the
chancellor’s work rose 2 percentage points from July to 68
percent, the highest score since December 2009, the poll showed.  At the same time, 56 percent said they were worried about
the economy faltering next year, a level not seen since the
summer of 2008, ARD said. While 84 percent said the worst of the
crisis is still ahead, 76 percent said a breakup of the euro
would be bad for  Germany  and almost two-thirds, 64 percent, said
the euro will survive and still be around in several years.
Fifty-six percent said the government should “do everything”
to save the euro.  Infratest polled 1,004 voters on July 30-31. The results
have a margin of error of as much as 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  