-- Ernesto Goes Ashore as Depression Forms in Atlantic
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-10T00:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ernesto-goes-ashore-as-depression-forms-in-atlantic.html
Tropical Storm Ernesto moved onto
land and was pouring heavy rains across southern  Mexico  as the
season’s next system formed in the Atlantic.  Tropical Depression Seven developed about 1,155 miles
(1,858 kilometers) east of the Windward Islands with winds of 35
miles per hour, the National Hurricane Center said in an
 advisory  shortly before 5 p.m. East Coast time. The system may
become Tropical Storm Gordon tomorrow.  Ernesto, which spent a day moving slowly across the Bay of
Campeche, went ashore near Coatzacoalcos at about 2 p.m. East
Coast time. Its top winds fell to 45 mph as it dropped flooding
rains on the region and moved inland, an 8 p.m.  hurricane center 
advisory shows.  “Weakening is forecast during the next 48 hours,” the
center said in the 8 p.m. advisory. “Ernesto is expected to
dissipate over the high terrain of southern Mexico in a day or
two.”  At least two people were killed in the Mexican state of
Tabasco, according to the Tabasco Hoy newspaper.  Mexico’s state-owned oil company,  Petroleos Mexicanos , or
Pemex, closed three oil-export terminals, at Coatzacoalcos,  Dos
Bocas  and Cayo Arcas, because of the storm. Most of the
company’s oil production is in the Bay of Campeche.  Ernesto is about 90 miles west of Coatzacoalcos, moving
west at 11 mph, the hurricane center said. After the storm
breaks apart, there is a chance the remnants of it could re-form
in the Pacific in about three days.  Gilma Weakens  Tropical Storm Gilma in the eastern Pacific reached
hurricane status earlier today and is  now losing strength  about
715 miles west-southwest of the southern tip of  Baja California ,
where it isn’t a threat to land.  In addition to the tropical depression, which may follow
the Ernesto into the Caribbean, the hurricane center is tracking
the remains of Tropical Storm Florence in the Atlantic along
with a tropical wave that has just moved off the African coast.  The wave has about a 30 percent chance of becoming a
tropical system in the next two days. The remains of Florence
have a 10 percent chance of regenerating into a storm.  The U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  today increased its
seasonal Atlantic storm forecast to 12 to 17 systems, up from
nine to 15 predicted in May.  Part of the reason given for the increase was that
conditions between the Caribbean and  Africa  are ripe for storm
formation. The area is often called the main development region
and it is where Tropical Depression Seven and storms Florence
and Ernesto formed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  