-- EU Starts Probe of Automotive Wire-Harness Maker Cartels
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-08-09T12:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/eu-starts-probe-of-automotive-wire-harness-maker-cartels.html
Leoni AG (LEO)  and other makers of
automotive wire harnesses are being probed by the European Union
for possible collusion in multiple cartels.  The wiring unit of German wire and cable-maker Leoni is
cooperating with the European Commission, the company said
today. The antitrust investigation, announced by the regulator,
is part of a crackdown on price fixing in the auto-parts
industry.  The EU agency has previously raided makers of wire
harnesses, car safety systems, bearings and thermal systems. The
Brussels-based EU antitrust authority can fine companies as much
as 10 percent of yearly sales or require them to change the way
they do business if it concludes that they harmed competition.  The probe “is part of a wider effort to investigate
possible cartels in the automotive sector,” the commission said
in a statement today.  The commission didn’t name the companies it is probing.
Makers of automotive wire harnesses, which are electrical
distribution systems, include privately-held Draexlmaier Group,
Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd., and  Delphi Automotive Plc. (DLPH) 
Behr GmbH was among makers of car heating and cooling systems
raided by EU officials in May.  Leoni will cooperate with the EU probe and provide
information and documents to clarify the issue, Bernd Buhmann, a
spokesman for the Nuremberg-based company, said in a telephone
interview.  “We have not made any provisions for a possible fine,” he
said. “There were several inspections at our premises since
February 2010 and we do not know if they will continue or
intensify or are already completed.”  Officials at Sumitomo’s German wire-harness unit, weren’t
immediately available to comment and didn’t respond to an e-mail
request. Representatives of Delphi and Draexlmaier also weren’t
immediately available to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  