-- Yen Strengthens Versus Most Major Peers as Investors Seek Safety
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-10T21:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/euro-poised-for-weekly-drop-before-gdp-report-dollar-holds-gain.html
The yen rose against most major
counterparts as investors sought refuge after data showed
 China ’s export growth collapsed, fueling speculation the global
economy is slowing.  Sweden’s krona climbed to the strongest level against the
euro since 2000 amid demand for safety. The euro weakened as
 Germany ’s economy ministry said the outlook for faster growth
was fading amid the currency bloc’s debt crisis. The Australian
dollar fell versus most peers on concern the slowdown in China,
its top trading partner, will deepen.  “The weaker numbers raise questions about Chinese growth
momentum,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “It suggests Chinese growth is not yet
stabilizing.”  The yen gained 0.5 percent to 96.17 per euro at 5 p.m. New
York time, extending its weekly advance to 1.1 percent.  Japan ’s
currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 78.28 per dollar.  Europe ’s
17-nation currency fell 0.1 percent to $1.2289, after dropping
earlier as much as 0.5 percent. It lost 0.8 percent for the
week, its first five-day decline since July 20.  The Swedish krona advanced as much as 0.7 percent to 8.1784
per euro, its strongest since June 2000, before trading at
8.1821, up 0.6 percent. It appreciated 0.4 percent to 6.6575 per
dollar.  Sweden , one of only 12 nations ranked AAA at the three
biggest credit-rating companies, has seen its currency
strengthen after emerging as a haven from Europe’s debt turmoil.  Pound Rises  Sterling also gained versus the greenback, rising 0.3
percent to $1.5690. It weakened earlier after a report showed
U.K. producer prices stalled last month.  China’s exports rose 1 percent in July from a year earlier,
following an 11.3 percent increase in June, the customs bureau
said in Beijing. That compared with the median estimate of
economists for an 8 percent gain.  Australia ’s dollar fell from the strongest level in more
than four months as the Chinese report damped the outlook for
the South Pacific nation’s exports. The data outweighed the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s decision to raise its 2012 growth
forecast on stronger-than-expected consumer demand.  “A relatively hawkish RBA monetary policy report would
have typically driven a rally,”  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, wrote today
in a note to clients. “However, today this was overshadowed by
China’s data.”  The Australian currency slid as much as 0.8 percent to
$1.0497 before trading little changed at $1.0577. It rose
yesterday to $1.0613, the strongest since March 20.  ‘Fragile’ Outlook  The prospect of global recovery is “fragile,” Germany’s
economy ministry said in its report for August. The nation’s
economy “moderately” expanded in the second quarter compared
with the first quarter, it said.  Economists surveyed by the  European Central Bank  cut their
growth projection for the region next year to 0.6 percent from 1
percent, according to the institution’s monthly bulletin
released yesterday.  “There’s plenty of doom and gloom on the growth front,”
said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in  London .  The euro erased its decline against the greenback today as
 risk aversion  moderated. Stocks pared losses amid speculation
China might add monetary stimulus to its economy. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent after falling as much as 0.5
percent.  Bank Bets  “When you have data like what came out of China last
night, which is weaker than expected, markets are going to
anticipate that the central bank will come in and do more to
ease policy and support markets.”,” Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview.  The euro weakened 5.3 percent in the past six months, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 2.4
percent, and the yen gained 1.5 percent.  The Canadian dollar declined against the greenback for the
first time in six days, snapping its longest winning streak
since December, as payrolls unexpectedly shed 30,400 jobs in
July. The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
waterfowl on the one-dollar coin, fell as much as 0.6 percent,
its biggest intraday drop since July 23, before trading at 99.11
cents per  U.S. dollar .  “All of a sudden, you’ve seen numbers suggesting that
maybe growth is still decelerating,” Westpac’s Franulovich
said. “That would be a big disappointment for commodities,
particular for oil, which is a big deal for the Canadian
dollar.”  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, dropped as
much as 1.8 percent to $91.71 a barrel in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  