-- Hewlett-Packard’s Whitman Dismantles Hurd-Era Empire
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-09T20:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hewlett-packard-s-whitman-dismantles-hurd-era-empire.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman , in her drive to boost profitability, took
another step toward dismantling the computing empire former CEO
Mark Hurd built with $24.3 billion in acquisitions.  The company is writing down the value of its enterprise-
services business by $8 billion and shuffling management at the
top of the division, Hewlett-Packard said yesterday. That
follows an announcement in May that Whitman is eliminating
27,000 jobs, many of them from that unit.  The writedown reflects the dwindling value of Electronic
Data Systems Corp., bought by Hurd for $13.2 billion in 2008.
The deal pushed Hewlett-Packard into the low-margin business of
information-technology outsourcing, handled more efficiently by
rivals such as  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  It
left the company Whitman inherited ill-equipped for the shift
toward cloud computing, making it a laggard in services that
help clients deliver software over the Internet.  “She’s taking the company toward higher margin, more
strategic categories,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco. “If she does what she says
she’s going to do, services is going to be a smaller, more
profitable business. She’s talking about cloud, analytics and
security -- and not competing with the Wipros and Tatas of the
world.”  Whitman, CEO since September, is revamping the services
business after saying in December that Hewlett-Packard will turn
WebOS into an open-source project. That resolved a debate over
how to salvage assets from another Hurd acquisition -- the $1.2
billion purchase of Palm Inc. in 2010.  Visentin Departs  Among the moves announced yesterday,  Palo Alto , California-
based Hewlett-Packard said it’s replacing John Visentin, the
executive who’d been heading enterprise services, a year after
former CEO  Leo Apotheker  promoted him to the job. Mike Nefkens,
a services executive in  Europe , is taking his place on an acting
basis, and Jean-Jacques Charhon, chief financial officer for
enterprise services, becomes the unit’s chief operating officer.  Sales in Hewlett-Packard’s  services business  barely budged
last fiscal year, rising 1.2 percent to $36 billion. The
division grew less than 1 percent in fiscal 2010.  Within the services division, about 30 percent of sales
come from repairing and maintaining machines sold by Hewlett-
Packard, which according to Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in  New York , is a profitable business. More
than 40 percent of revenue is from lower-margin technology
outsourcing, the business bolstered by the EDS deal.  Unsuccessful Deal  “The EDS acquisition was not a success for the company,
because ever since it occurred we have not seen strong growth in
their services business, and margins have come down,” said
 Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst at FBN Securities in New York.  Hewlett-Packard was unchanged at $19.41 at the close in New
York, and has declined 25 percent this year.  Whitman’s bid to turn around the services business hinges
on Hewlett-Packard’s ability to build teams that can help
companies use modern programming techniques and deliver their
applications via cloud computing to become more efficient. At
the same time, Hewlett-Packard needs to lessen reliance on the
more conventional work of running customers’ IT operations.  Hewlett-Packard yesterday also raised its third-quarter
earnings forecast. Profit excluding some items will be $1 a
share, up from a prior projection of 94 cents to 97 cents. The
net loss will be $4.31 to $4.49 a share, Hewlett-Packard said.
That indicates a loss of $8.56 billion to $8.92 billion, the
biggest since at least 1989, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Writedown Coming  In the third quarter, Hewlett-Packard said it expects a
writedown of approximately $8 billion stemming from “business
trends within the services segment.”  The company also anticipates a pretax charge of $1.5
billion to $1.7 billion related to job cuts, up from a prior
projection of $1 billion.  Hewlett-Packard may report a profit margin of 23.1 percent
in the current fiscal year, down from the 23.4 percent  margin 
the company reported for its 2011 fiscal year, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’re making changes, but it’s going to be several
years before they get it right,” Seyrafi said. “The charges
are a recognition that the prior management strategy did not
succeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  