-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Aleynikov Arraigned in New York
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-09T22:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ex-goldman-programmer-aleynikov-arraigned-in-new-york.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer Sergei Aleynikov was charged under New York
law with stealing internal bank code after successfully fighting
similar federal accusations.  Aleynikov, 42, was arraigned today in  Manhattan  criminal
court on state charges of unlawful use of scientific material
and duplication of computer-related material, both felonies,
according to a statement from the office of Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. He was released on $35,000 bail
immediately after court.  “This code is so highly confidential that it is known in
the industry as the firm’s ‘secret sauce,’” Vance said.
“Employees who exploit their access to sensitive information
should expect to face criminal prosecution in New York State in
appropriate cases.”  Aleynikov was freed earlier this year after his conviction
in Manhattan federal court for stealing the bank’s high-speed
trading code was reversed by a  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New
York. He had been convicted in December 2010.  Federal prosecutors claimed that, on his last day of work
at New York-based Goldman Sachs in June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded
hundreds of thousands of lines of source code from the firm’s
high-frequency trading system.  Circumvented Security  The federal government alleged that he circumvented Goldman
Sachs’s security, sent the code to a server in  Germany ,
compressed and encrypted it, and took it with him to a meeting
with new employers in  Chicago .  U.S. prosecutors said Aleynikov made about $400,000 a year
developing computer code for Goldman Sachs from 2007 to 2009.
They said he wanted the code as a “cheat sheet” to start a
system at his new job with Teza Technologies LLC, a trading firm
in Chicago that had offered him $1.2 million including salary,
bonus and profit sharing. Teza suspended Aleynikov after his
arrest and subsequently fired him.  The state allegations are similar to the federal
accusations and are based on the “same basic set of facts,”
said his attorney,  Kevin Marino , of the firm of Marino
Tortorella PC in Chatham,  New Jersey .  “Mr. Aleynikov spent a year in prison for a federal crime
he did not commit,” Marino said in an interview before the
arraignment. “It’s hard to imagine the authorities would find
it appropriate to pursue state charges arising from the same set
of facts. But apparently that is what they’ve decided to do. We
look forward to defending him.”  Born in Russia  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Russia who
now lives in  West Orange , New Jersey, was serving an eight-year
prison sentence at the time his conviction was overturned.  A smiling, handcuffed Aleynikov appeared in court today
wearing a striped T-shirt, plaid shorts and sneakers. He
declined to comment to reporters after pleading not guilty to
the new charges before Judge Robert Mandelbaum.  Unlawful use of scientific material and duplication of
computer-related materials are both class E felonies, which
carry a maximum sentence of four years in prison, according to
the  New York  state  penal code .  Prosecutors asked the judge to impose $100,000 bail,
arguing that they secured an arrest warrant because they had
learned he was taking steps to recover his U.S. and Russian
passports that had been seized.  Defense Attorneys  Marino asked Mandelbaum to release Aleynikov without bail,
saying his client intends to appear in court to defend himself
against the new charges.  Aleynikov hasn’t been “gainfully employed” since he left
Goldman Sachs and ran out of money to defend himself before
trial, Marino, who said he’s representing Aleynikov
“voluntarily,” told the judge. Aleynikov’s marriage
“disintegrated” after his arrest and he sees his children
every other week, Marino said.  “It’s clearly a vindictive prosecution and we cannot wait
for the opportunity to first defend these charges and then
finally go on the offensive,” Marino said after the
arraignment. “Right now if you’re Sergei Aleynikov you’re
wondering, ‘Why would I ever leave  Russia  to come to the  United
States ?’”  Aleynikov is scheduled to return to court on Aug. 15, when
he will learn whether a grand jury has decided to indict him on
the new charges.  The federal case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 11-1126, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  