-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Faces State Case After Beating U.S.
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-09T18:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ex-goldman-programmer-faces-state-case-after-beating-u-s-.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer Sergei Aleynikov, who successfully fought
federal allegations that he stole internal bank code, will be
arraigned on related state charges, his lawyer said.  Aleynikov will face charges in  Manhattan  criminal court of
copying scientific material, a felony, and fraudulent accosting,
a misdemeanor, defense attorney  Kevin Marino  said today in a
telephone interview.  Aleynikov was freed earlier this year after his conviction
in Manhattan federal court for stealing the bank’s high-speed
trading code was reversed by a U.S. appeals court in  New York .
He had been convicted in December 2010.  “Mr. Aleynikov spent a year in prison for a federal crime
he did not commit,” said Marino, of the firm of Marino
Tortorella PC in Chatham, New Jersey. “It’s hard to imagine the
authorities would find it appropriate to pursue state charges
arising from the same set of facts. But apparently that is what
they’ve decided to do. We look forward to defending him.”  Last Day  Federal prosecutors claimed that, on his last day of work
at New York-based  Goldman Sachs in  June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded
hundreds of thousands of lines of source code from the firm’s
high-frequency trading system.  The federal government alleged that he circumvented Goldman
Sachs’s security, sent the code to a server in  Germany ,
compressed and encrypted it, and took it with him to a meeting
with new employers in Chicago. Prosecutors argued Aleynikov
wanted it as a “cheat sheet” to start a trading system at his
new job. Aleynikov pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York, which had ordered
Aleynikov freed from prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey , in February,
said the two laws federal prosecutors used to charge Aleynikov,
the National Stolen Property Act and the Economic Espionage Act,
didn’t apply to his case.  “We conclude that Aleynikov’s conduct did not constitute 
an offense under either the NSPA or the EEA, and that the 
indictment was therefore legally insufficient,” Chief U.S. 
Circuit Judge Dennis Jacobs wrote in the opinion, on behalf of 
two members of a three-judge panel. U.S. Circuit Judge Guido Calabresi filed a separate opinion agreeing that Aleynikov 
didn’t violate the laws.  Citizen  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in  Russia , was
serving an eight-year prison sentence at the time his conviction
was overturned.  The New York state scientific copying charge, a class E
felony under state law, carries a maximum sentence of four years 
in prison, while the accosting charge, a type of fraud allegation, 
is a class A misdemeanor and carries a maximum term of one year.  Ben Petok, a spokesman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., and  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 11-1126, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  