-- Ex-JPMorgan Banker Recounts UBS Dinner to Ease Desk Rival
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-09T23:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ex-jpmorgan-banker-wright-tells-of-ubs-dinner-to-ease-rivalry.html
A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker
told jurors at a bid-rigging trial about a dinner meeting at a
 Manhattan  restaurant where municipal derivatives executives from
his firm and  UBS AG (UBSN)  agreed not to compete with one another.  Alexander Wright took the witness stand in the criminal
trial of Peter Ghavami, the former head of UBS’s municipal
derivatives group, and told jurors about a dinner where bankers
from the two firms agreed to “forestall head-to-head
competition.” He said the meeting took place at Veritas,
possibly in early 2001.  They discussed “ways the competition could be dulled” and
how to “keep other competitors away,” Wright told jurors today
in Manhattan federal court.  Wright, 45, pleaded guilty last month to conspiracy to rig
bids on a bond deal and is testifying for prosecutors as part of
a plea deal for leniency. Two other men are also on trial: Garry
Heinz and Michael Welty, who were both vice presidents and
municipal reinvestment marketers. The three are charged with
conspiracy to defraud municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax
authorities by fixing prices on investing agreements.  The dinner meeting aimed to ease the tension between the
municipal derivatives desks of New York-based JPMorgan and
Zurich-based UBS following UBS’s acquisition in 2000 of  Paine
Webber , Wright said. Before then, JPMorgan had done deals with
Paine Webber, he said. That changed after UBS bought the smaller
firm.  ‘Walled Off’  Wright said he, Ghavami and Heinz met at Veritas to
convince Wright’s boss, who was also there, that “this was a
good relationship,” he testified. At the dinner, the bankers
discussed clients and ways they could share them. In those
instances in which the two firms did compete, “that should be
walled off from the rest of the relationship,” Wright said.  After recounting the dinner, Wright told jurors about
several transactions where, he said, JPMorgan and UBS disclosed
their secret bids to one another or agreed not to compete
against each other.  One deal involved an effort in 2001 by the Greater Orlando
Aviation Authority in  Florida  to unwind a transaction it had
earlier entered into with JPMorgan. Wright said his desk badly
wanted the new deal and was worried that rival firms would drive
down the potential profit with competitive bids.  “We very much wanted to win,” Wright said.  Recorded Lines  Prosecutors played phone conversations from the firms’
recorded telephone lines in which bankers at the two firms UBS
appeared to discuss bids.  “We’re gonna be coming in pretty aggressive,” one
JPMorgan banker says of his firm’s anticipated bid.  Jurors heard another call where Ghavami asks JPMorgan to
serve as a “check-away.” Wright testified that Ghavami wanted
JPMorgan to vouch to a UBS client that the price UBS was
charging in a transaction was fair.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  