-- EZchip Drops Most Since 2008 on Revenue Outlook: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-08-09T13:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ezchip-discount-widens-as-sales-miss-estimates-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  tumbled the
most in almost four years after the Israeli maker of processors’
revenue outlook missed analysts’ estimates by about 50 percent.  The shares sank 22 percent, the most since October 2008, to
118 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv . They tumbled 25
percent in New York yesterday to $29.31, or the equivalent of
117 shekels.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , which makes customized
chips, lost 13 percent to 36.30 shekels after it reported a loss
and said third-quarter sales will fall short of analyst
estimates.  EZchip, based in Yokneam, Israel, forecast third-quarter
sales of $8 million to $10 million, lower than the $17.9 million
mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company’s executives said on a conference call with investors
yesterday that the global economic slowdown reduced demand for
equipment from its three largest customers,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 ZTE Corp. (763) , and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  These developers
contributed 74 percent of sales in the second quarter, it said.  “EZchip is being hit by a perfect storm,” Gary Mobley, an
analyst at Benchmark Co., said by phone from  St. Louis 
yesterday. “In the past, one customer weakness was offset by
the other but this time all customers are going to be down. Each
of these customers can be quite volatile and we are not in an
ideal market.”  ‘No Influence Whatsoever’  EZchip’s revenue outlook was driven by lower  capital
spending  from telecommunication carriers, which in turn reduces
demand for the developer’s biggest customers, Chief Executive
Officer Eli Fruchter said in a phone interview yesterday.  ZTE,  China ’s second-biggest maker of telecommunications
equipment, warned last month that first-half profit may have
fallen as much as 80 percent due to reduced investment income,
foreign exchange losses and delayed network contracts.  “We have no influence whatsoever on their results,”
Fruchter said. “The company is very concentrated on that one
segment and that is a risk that we have. The reward is that we
have five of the seven biggest companies in that space as a
customer of ours.”  EZchip reported second-quarter adjusted earnings of 29
cents per share, surpassing the 26-cent mean estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company’s price estimate was lowered to $40 from $48 by
Barclays Plc analyst  Joseph Wolf , who cited a slowdown in the
sector.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  