-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Results May Ease Wind-Down Push
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-results-may-ease-wind-down-push.html
As  Fannie Mae  ends its second
straight quarter without requiring an infusion of aid from the
 U.S. Treasury , the Washington-based company’s executives
yesterday made the case that they’re running a viable long-term
business.  With  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , Fannie Mae’s sister company, reporting a
similar positive result Aug. 7, it’s possible lawmakers will
begin to lose their appetite to wind down the two government-
sponsored enterprises.  “To date, Congress has consistently only acted when faced
with imminent disaster,” said Isaac Boltansky a Washington-
based policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.
“If the GSEs are not a monster staring them in the face, it
doesn’t appear to me as though there’s any impetus for them to
act decisively in the near term.”  Fannie Mae this morning reported that rising home prices
helped push its net income to $5.1 billion in the second
quarter, enough to offset a dividend payment to the Treasury of
$2.9 billion.  Freddie Mac  reported net income of $3 billion in
the second quarter and made a dividend payment to the Treasury
of $1.8 billion. The company said it would not require U.S. aid
for the first time since the first quarter of 2011.  Republicans in Congress have called for an end to the two
taxpayer-owned companies, which now own or guarantee about 60
percent of U.S. home loans. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said he will propose a plan to overhaul housing
finance that could include dismantling or altering Fannie Mae
and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  $190 Billion  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have taken a total of almost
$190 billion in U.S. aid since they went into conservatorship in
September 2008 after investments in risky loans pushed them to
the brink of insolvency. The companies have paid back about $46
billion in the form of dividends.  Still, in a  statement  accompanying its second-quarter
earnings report yesterday, Fannie Mae Chief Executive Officer
Timothy J. Mayopoulos said the company eventually could benefit
the Treasury.  “With our high-quality new book of business and
diminishing legacy expenses,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  has strong potential
earnings power that can deliver considerable value to taxpayers
in the long term,” he said.  Earnings benefited from home-price increases, a decline in
single-family loans more than 90-days delinquent and improved
sale prices on the foreclosed homes the company owns, Fannie Mae
said in its earnings report.  At the same time, analysts and Fannie Mae’s own officials
caution that the recent reversal of fortune doesn’t mean the
housing market or the government-sponsored enterprises are
without risk.  CFO’s Caution  Fannie Mae Chief Financial Officer Susan McFarland said in
an interview that it was possible the company could need to draw
from the Treasury in future quarters when home-price increases
might not be as strong.  Still, she said, “We are probably in a place now where we
are more likely to make money than lose money.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s financial results probably
reflect the improved credit quality of the loans they own or
guarantee more than a housing market turnaround, said Clifford Rossi, a professor at the  University of Maryland  and former
managing director of Citigroup’s consumer lending unit.  “I think this is the kind of market where you’re going to
see a fair amount of volatility jumping along as the market
comes into equilibrium,” he said in a telephone interview.  Older Loans  Loans originated since January 1, 2009 now make up 59
percent of Fannie Mae’s book of business, the company said in
its report yesterday. The company’s losses largely stem from
loans originated before then.  “At some point, you would have expected there would have
been this turnaround effect due largely to the fact that these
older loans are starting to burn off of the portfolio,” Rossi
said.  Whatever the reason, Boltansky said, the results probably
will slow momentum for dismantling the companies even beyond the
end of the year.  “The performance of the enterprises to date show that
there’s really no impetus to act in 2012 or really in 2013,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  