-- Foreign Buying of Polish Bonds Credit-Positive, Moody’s Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-08-09T11:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/foreign-buying-of-polish-bonds-credit-positive-moody-s-says-1-.html
The surge of foreign investment in
Polish  government bonds  has reduced the cost of funding and is
“credit positive” for the country’s sovereign debt, according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  International investors boosted their holding of zloty-
denominated government debt by 6.6 billion zloty ($2 billion) in
June for the biggest monthly increase since February 2011, the
 Finance Ministry  said last week. They hold a record 32.3 percent
of the debt, data showed.  Bondholders dodging the euro-region’s debt crisis are being
lured by Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s budget-deficit cuts, a
higher  credit rating  than Italy and  Spain , and economic growth
projected to be the fastest in the European Union. The Finance
Ministry sold  five-year notes  at a record-low yield in an
auction on Aug. 1 and met 89 percent of this year’s funding
needs.  “A strong institutional framework and solid overall
economic fundamentals are factors that underpin the sovereign’s
credit profile and help attract foreign capital flows,” Jaime Reusche, a Moody’s analyst, and Bart Oosterveld, managing
director of sovereign risk in  New York , said in a report dated
Aug. 7 and released to media late yesterday. “Polish government
paper is benefiting from a flight to quality as funding
conditions for some non-core euro area sovereigns remain
volatile.”  The government will probably start raising funds for 2013
budget in the fourth quarter and the increased presence of
foreign investors will “continue to drive yields lower,
reducing interest costs for the sovereign and aiding in the
fiscal consolidation process,” according to Moody’s.  At the same time investment inflows “can pose risks if
they are speculative in nature” and “a funding pool dominated
by foreign investors adds an element of unpredictability to
rollover risk,” the rating company said.  “This risk is mitigated by the fact that much of the debt
in non-resident hands is longer-term and owned by investors like
foreign investment and pension funds with a lengthier investment
horizon,” Reusche and Oosterveld wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net 
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  