-- Foxconn to Resubmit Application for Sharp Deal by Month’s End
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-09T05:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/foxconn-to-resubmit-application-for-sharp-deal-by-month-s-end.html
Foxconn Technology Group said it will
re-evaluate the expected return on its planned purchase of a
stake in Sharp Corp. and resubmit an application to Taiwan
regulators by the end of the month.  Taiwan’s Investment Commission sent the original
application back to Foxconn, asking for more information on the
group’s forecast for profit from the deal. The regulator and
Foxconn were unable to provide details on the expected return.  “We will reflect on the regulator’s concerns, re-evaluate
and then resubmit after we’ve made a joint announcement with
Sharp about the transaction,” Simon Hsing, spokesman for
Foxconn’s Taipei-based flagship Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
said by phone today.  Foxconn said in March it agreed to buy 9.9 percent of the
Osaka-based company for 67 billion yen ($854 million). The value
of that proposed stake has fallen more than 65 percent as
Sharp’s shares declined, prompting the Taiwanese company to
write off more than NT$6.4 billion ($214 million) for the second
quarter before saying Aug. 3 it will renegotiate the price.  Foxconn plans to invest in Sharp through its two Taipei-
listed units, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the world’s
largest contract manufacturer of electronics, and Foxconn
Technology Co., a maker of computer cases.  “We asked them to provide more information on the expected
returns on the investment and other financial information,”
said Emile Chang, deputy executive secretary of the Investment
Commission at Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs. “This is
not a rejection of their application, they can provide more
information and resubmit.”  Sharp on Aug. 2  widened  its full-year loss forecast eight-
fold to 250 billion yen, prompting its shares to drop 28 percent
the following day to close at 192 yen, 65 percent below the 550
yen-per-share Foxconn agreed to pay for the stake.  Hon Hai dropped 3.8 percent and Foxconn Technology Co. fell
its daily 7 percent limit the same day in Taipei before
rebounding in the next session after saying it will renegotiate
the price and the writedown will no longer apply.  Hon Hai gained 4.4 percent today, while Sharp advanced 1.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 