-- Fredriksen’s Golar Receives Record Rate to Store LNG
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-08-10T12:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/fredriksen-s-golar-gets-record-to-store-lng-at-sea-correct-.html
(Corrects storage location in first paragraph of story
published Aug. 9. Company corrects rate in second.)  Golar LNG Ltd. (GOL) , a company controlled
by shipping billionaire  John Fredriksen , said it received a
record rate to store liquefied natural gas on one of its
carriers in the  Persian Gulf .  The $185,000 a day the vessel will earn for the 14-day
booking is the highest ever paid for a short-term charter, Tor Olav Troeim, a director of the Hamilton, Bermuda-based owner,
said in an interview in London yesterday. He declined to name
the company that booked the ship. Golar LNG advanced 45 percent
to $40.50 a share in  New York  trading in the past year, giving
the company a market value of $3.2 billion.  Shipping rates have risen to a record after an earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  in March last year shuttered almost all the
nation’s nuclear plants. That spurred unprecedented purchases of
LNG as an alternative power-generation fuel by the world’s
largest importer. The industry’s biggest bottleneck is a
shortage of vessels to deliver cargoes, according to the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency .  “Two years ago we would never have been able to do a deal
like that,” Troeim said of the storage transaction. “We had
four very tough years and we made nothing. Now we are making the
ships back in three years.”  Surging Rates  LNG carrier rates for periods of less than three months
have soared from as low as $20,000 daily in the first half of
2010, according to data HSBC Shipping Services Ltd., the
shipbroking and consulting firm that the bank is selling to its
management. There are two more ships to be delivered this year
out of a total fleet of about 370 vessels, according to  Clarkson
Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  The estimated deficit of LNG carriers expanded to 17 ships
this year from 10 in 2011, according to data from Pareto
Securities AS, an Oslo-based investment bank. The shortage will
narrow to 13 vessels in 2013 and become a surplus of 11 the
following year. Demand for LNG will rise by between 5 percent
and 7 percent a year through 2025, led by  China , it anticipates.  Golar is the largest investor in new LNG carriers with 13
ships on order worth about $2.6 billion, Troeim said. Companies
associated with Fredriksen account for 17 percent of all orders
for the vessels at Asian shipyards by capacity, figures from
Clarkson show.  Reduced Size  Natural gas is super-chilled into liquid form at about
minus 160 degrees Celsius (minus 256 degrees Fahrenheit),
shrinking the fuel to about 1/600th of its original size so that
it can be shipped.  World Shipholding Ltd., a company indirectly controlled by
trusts established by Fredriksen for the benefit of his
immediate family, owns almost  half of Golar LNG , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Fredriksen is also Golar’s chairman
and president.  Existing investment plans to add capacity for liquefaction
plants where natural gas is chilled show demand for between 180
and 370 new LNG carriers by 2020 if all the projects go ahead,
according to Pareto.  The projections for strengthening demand and rising
earnings spurred owners to accelerate ordering of new vessels.
There are 72 LNG carriers due to be delivered from ship yards
between 2013 and 2015, Troeim said. That won’t turn an under-
supply into a surplus as the new ships start trading, he said.  “If the market is bad in a half-year it means nobody will
order,” he said. “That will bring the market back into
strength again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  