-- FSA’s McDermott Named Enforcement Chief After Leading Libor Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-08-09T11:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/fsa-s-mcdermott-named-enforcement-chief-after-leading-libor-case.html
Tracey McDermott has been named the
U.K. financial regulator’s head of enforcement after leading its
investigations into attempted manipulation of interbank offered
rates and a push to prosecute  insider trading .  McDermott was named director of the Enforcement and
Financial Crime Division at the Financial Services Authority, a
role she’s performed in an acting capacity since April 2011, FSA
Managing Director Martin Wheatley told staff in an e-mail today.
She will head the enforcement unit at the Financial Conduct
Authority when the FSA is split in two next year.  “This is a particularly exciting time to be part of the
leadership of the FSA as we look towards the new regulatory
landscape,” McDermott said.  McDermott took over as acting enforcement chief when
 Margaret Cole  was appointed managing director last year, a post
she left in March to join the private sector. The enforcement
division has won 10 convictions for insider trading and levied
its largest fines ever against a firm and an individual since
McDermott took over, Wheatley said. She joined the FSA in 2001
as an associate in enforcement.  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest lender, was fined a
record 59.5 million pounds ($93.1 million) by the FSA in June
for attempting to rig the London interbank offered rate and
Euribor, its equivalent in euros, to benefit some derivatives
traders’ own positions and for the bank to appear more healthy
during the financial crisis. The fine was part of a 290 million-
pound penalty levied by the FSA and U.S. authorities.  McDermott, FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  and interim Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Bailey  testified on the Libor
investigation to a parliamentary committee on July 16. She told
the panel the FSA is investigating seven banks on suspicion of
submitting false  interest rates , and regulators in other
countries are looking into additional lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  