-- Ghosts of Elections Past Won’t Help Predict This One
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-08-09T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ghosts-of-elections-past-won-t-help-predict-this-one.html
For generations, political
operatives have revisited past presidential elections to try to
predict the outcome of their present-day campaigns.  History doesn’t repeat itself, but it does rhyme, as  Mark Twain  supposedly quipped. This year, Republicans are pointing to
1992, when a Democratic challenger won, and Democrats favor
2004, when a Republican incumbent prevailed.  In 1992, the incumbent president,  George H.W. Bush , lost to
Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton. That election, as I wrote at the
time in Newsweek, boiled down to “Trust vs. Change.” The
voters trusted Bush much more than Clinton, who had extramarital
affairs and dodged the draft. But they were hungry for the
change that Clinton represented.  This time, it’s trust versus change again. Polls show that
voters like and trust President Barack Obama more than Mitt Romney. But they give the presumptive Republican nominee the
edge when it comes to the economy -- the No. 1 issue by far. The
Romney camp in Boston points out that Clinton was running third
in June 1992 (behind Bush and billionaire  Ross Perot ) but came
back because of unease about the economy, which was hurting with
about 7.4 percent unemployment, though doing better than it is
now. Despite the personal respect he commanded and his foreign-
policy triumphs (the first Gulf War), Bush the incumbent won
only 37 percent of the vote in a three-way race --a good sign,
Republicans say, for Romney.  Real Change  One big difference this year compared with 1992 is that
Romney hasn’t convinced voters yet that he represents real
change rather than a default position (not Obama) or, worse, a
return to the failed conservative economic policies of the past.
And an awkward Romney has already proved he’s no  Bill Clinton  on
the stump. He might not even be a  Michael Dukakis  in 1988 or a
 Bob Dole  in 1996.  There’s no Perot this time, yet little-noticed third party
candidates could still determine the election, as  Ralph Nader 
did in 2000. Former Representative Virgil Goode, the nominee of
the right-wing Constitution Party, is at 9 percent in Virginia,
according to a  survey  by Public Policy Polling. Even if he drops
to 2 percent or 3 percent, Goode, who represented southern
Virginia in the House for six terms, could hand that state to
Obama. And Gary Johnson, the Libertarian Party candidate, may
siphon voters from the president in Colorado, where marijuana
legalization, which Johnson favors, is on the ballot.  At Obama’s campaign headquarters in Chicago, they like the
2004 analogy: Stiff Massachusetts rich guy with good hair and
lukewarm support in his own party comes up short against a
sitting president despised by the opposition but buoyed by a
strong get-out-the-vote effort with his base.  John Kerry , the
Democratic nominee, led President  George W. Bush  for months in
the polls. In the end, he couldn’t recover when he got “Swift-
boated” -- successfully attacked in a campaign of distortions
about what was supposed to be one of his greatest strengths, his
service in the Vietnam War.  Sound familiar? Kerry was outraged over those attack ads.
Now Romney thinks the assaults on his years at Bain Capital
Partners LLC -- which he touts as evidence of his job-creation
abilities -- are out of bounds. But they, too, have been
effective so far.  One big difference from 2004 that might favor Romney is
that Bush wasn’t running for re-election in a sagging economy.
And as the president was seen as standing up to terrorists after
the Sept. 11 attacks, he could hold a successful thematic
convention dedicated to championing his character. Killing  Osama bin Laden  helps Obama neutralize the usual Republican assaults
on national-security issues, but that won’t give him much of a
boost coming out of the Democratic National Convention in
Charlotte, North Carolina, next month.  Reagan Surge  Romney’s dream is to reproduce 1980. That year, President
 Jimmy Carter  and former Governor  Ronald Reagan  were neck and
neck until the end. Then the country broke sharply for Reagan
amid double-digit inflation and high interest rates. But as  Ed Rollins , an adviser to Reagan’s 1980 campaign, says, Romney
doesn’t hold a candle to Reagan as a candidate. And voters
deserted Carter partly because of the failure of a last-minute
deal to rescue the American hostages in Tehran. Memo to
Republicans: Obama won’t be your Carter.  The Obama team pines for 1984, when the economy turned up
enough for Reagan to proclaim that it was “morning in
America,” allowing him to crush  Walter Mondale , even though the
 unemployment rate  on Election Day was 7.2 percent. The recovery
this year has been too anemic for that kind of ad campaign and
landslide.  Democrats who read history can only dream of 1936. That
year,  Franklin Roosevelt  ran for a second term as the U.S. was
beset by double-digit unemployment, though it had been
significantly reduced since he was elected in 1932. Like Obama,
he moved left during the campaign, saying of the wealthy, “I
welcome their hatred.” His challenger, Alf Landon, campaigned
hard against a new program called Social Security. Even though
the benefits wouldn’t kick in for four more years (not unlike
Obama’s health-care law), voters trusted Roosevelt to have their
backs. The election seemed close to the end, partly because
Literary Digest sponsored a poll showing Landon with a big lead.
But it was a poll of telephone users and car owners and didn’t
reach millions of Americans who couldn’t afford either. FDR
carried every state but Maine and Vermont.  No one foresees a blowout in 2012, but some Obama backers
say that many polls understate his support by failing to reach
young voters who use only mobile phones. Alternatively, the
polls might overstate the president’s popularity because the
undecided (a smaller number this year than usual) usually break
for the challenger.  The point is, we don’t know. One of the fun things about
politics is that there are no reruns, only echoes that
reverberate in our historical imaginations.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls  and on parents who refuse to have their  kids
vaccinated ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not economic)
depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to lose ; William
Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China Sea ;  Jonathan Weil 
on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ;  Steven Greenhut  on
the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff investors ; Caleb
Scharf on  future telescopes  that could better explore black
holes.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 