-- Giants, Jets Suit Over Meadowlands Mall Project Dismissed
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/giants-jets-suit-over-meadowlands-mall-project-dismissed.html
The  New York  Giants and New York
Jets’ lawsuit seeking to block the American Dream Meadowlands
mall was rejected by a  New Jersey  judge who said the football
teams’ claims the project would worsen traffic around the
stadium where they play were premature.  Superior Court Judge Peter Doyne ruled yesterday that the
National Football League teams must wait until the New Jersey
Sports and Exposition Authority completes a review of the mall
project before filing such a breach-of-contract claim.  “Simply put, this case is not ripe for adjudication,”
Doyne ruled in state court in Hackensack, New Jersey. He let
stand a claim of tortious interference with contractual rights.  Triple Five Worldwide Development Co. is developing the
retail and entertainment complex in  East Rutherford , New Jersey,
next to MetLife Stadium, where the Giants and Jets play. The
project, formerly known as Xanadu, has been stalled since 2009.
Triple Five took over and has plans to create the largest mall
in the world and attract 55 million visitors annually.  The Sports Authority, whose commissioners are appointed by
the governor, gave conditional approval in October to the Triple
Five conceptual design, including an amusement park and a water
park. That plan would include 7.5 million square feet of space,
and would be open on Sundays, when the teams play home games.  ‘Access Permit’  The state Department of Transportation granted a “major
access permit” on May 10, finding modifications to the plan
wouldn’t result in a “significant traffic increase,” according
to the judge’s opinion.  The teams sued  Triple Five  and the  Sports Authority  on June
22, claiming the agency should have sought their consent for the
American Dream plan, which would reduce parking availability.
The Sports Authority countered that it hasn’t given the project
its final approval so the teams can’t rely on a 2006
“cooperation agreement” regarding their veto rights on changes
to the Xanadu project.  The teams argued that they spent $1.6 billion developing
MetLife Stadium and believed “their investment would be
protected by their ability to veto any proposed development at
the Meadowlands which would adversely affect them,” according
to the opinion.  “Crucially, and fatally to plaintiffs’ claim, it appears
the process for the approval of a major modification” has only
started, the judge ruled. “Without knowing what the final,
approved proposal will be, the court cannot decide whether it
will cause adverse effects to plaintiffs, thus triggering their
right under the cooperation agreement to consent to it.”  ‘Final Approval’  Doyne rejected the Giants’ and Jets’ claims that “final
approval is all but a foregone conclusion” and that the
proceedings before the Sports Authority are a “sham.”  Doyne said he saw no evidence of a “lack of meaningful
review,” and “no way to know what proposal -- if any -- will
be adopted.”  Triple Five said is “elated” by the decision and will
move ahead with the project, according to an e-mailed statement.  “We look forward to working with the teams through the
appropriate regulatory process before the NJSEA,” the company
said.  The teams said in an e-mailed statement they were pleased
with the opinion “and hope, as a result, the NJSEA will finally
address our and our fans’ concerns about Triple Five’s proposed
expansion.”  “In the meanwhile, the lawsuit against Triple Five
continues and if the NJSEA does not properly address those
concerns, we will look to this court to enforce our rights as
directed by the judge,” the teams said.  The case is New Meadowlands Stadium Co. LLC v. Triple
Five Group, BER-C-193-12, Superior Court of New Jersey, Bergen
County (Hackensack).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 