-- Gilead Pill Can Prevent HIV in Heterosexuals, CDC Guidelines Say
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-08-09T16:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/gilead-pill-can-prevent-hiv-in-heterosexuals-cdc-guidelines-say.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s anti-AIDS 
pill Truvada safely and effectively reduces the risk of HIV for
healthy people having sexual intercourse, according to the first
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines on
using the drugs for prevention in heterosexuals.  Daily use of the pills to prevent HIV infection, known as
pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, should only be used for
people who are uninfected and continue to use regular testing
and prevention methods, according to the interim guidelines. The
Atlanta-based agency plans to release comprehensive guidelines
by year-end, said  Dawn Smith , lead author of the guidance.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved Truvada on July
16 for use by healthy heterosexual or homosexual people who are
at high risk of being infected with the AIDS virus. The PrEP
method, meant for those with infected partners, requires a pill
each day and constant monitoring, Smith said.  “This provides another tool that providers can use for HIV
prevention,” said Smith, who is a biomedical interventions
implementation officer at the CDC’s National Center for HIV and
AIDS Prevention. “It will always need to be targeted at people
who are very high risk. It requires a lot of work.”  The daily pill had already been deemed safe and partially
effective for homosexual and bisexual men in a  January 2011  CDC
interim guidance, and the  World Health Organization  published
initial guidelines in July suggesting that couples with one
infected member could use the drug.  48,000 Infections  An estimated 48,000 HIV infections occurred in the U.S. in
2009 and 27 percent were among heterosexual men and women who
didn’t inject drugs, the guidance states. Though this could be
used to drive those numbers down, the prevention method still
needs development, said  Mitchell Warren , executive director of
AVAC: Global Advocacy for AIDS Prevention.  “It’s still very early days, he said. ‘‘It’s not as if
anyone is out there actively promoting it. Even with the FDA
approval, the most important next steps are the demonstration
projects, to really help us understand how to deliver PrEP, to
whom we can best deliver and motivate adherent use, and really
add public health impact.”  Two different studies cited in the guidance found that the
method, which prevents HIV from establishing a permanent
infection by making new viruses as it enters the body, is
effective for heterosexual people.  Still, the prevention method’s long-term safety in adults
and for pregnant users’ fetuses hasn’t yet been determined
conclusively, a main reason those taking the treatment should be
monitored closely, according to the guidance.  The guidelines also instruct physicians to tell patients
that the drug must be taken consistently and should be used in
conjunction with regular screening and prevention methods such
as condoms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  