-- Gilts as Haven Defy Economy Underperforming Spain
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-09T08:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/gilts-as-haven-defy-economy-underperforming-spain.html
Investors are turning a blind eye to
the U.K.’s faltering economy, which is shrinking faster than
 Spain ’s, as the value of the nation’s independent monetary
policy outstrips its deteriorating growth prospects.  U.K. government bond yields tumbled to all-time lows this
year as traders sought a haven from the euro-area’s debt crisis
and the  Bank of England  boosted its program of asset purchases,
or quantitative easing, to 375 billion pounds ($586 billion).
The U.K. economy contracted 0.7 percent in the second quarter,
while Spain’s shrank 0.4 percent.  While Prime Minister  David Cameron  has used the record-low
borrowing costs to justify maintaining the harshest austerity
program in British peacetime history, they have dropped despite
the economy rather than because of it, according to  Patrick Armstrong , who helps oversee $350 million at Armstrong
Investment Managers LLP in  London .  “Low gilt yields are a function of the U.K. being able to
print money, meaning there is no actual  default risk ,” he said.
“The weak economy is pushing down inflation, there is a zero
interest-rate policy and the BOE is buying all the available
bonds with QE. I think Cameron is trying to take credit where
none should be given.”  The  two-year gilt  yield fell to a record 0.03 percent on
Aug. 2 from last year’s high of 1.70 percent set on Feb. 9,
2011. The yield was at 0.15 percent at 9:31 a.m. London time
today. The 10-year dropped to an all-time low 1.41 percent on
July 23, and was at 1.58 percent today.  Europe’s Problems  While U.K. borrowing costs have plunged over the past year,
those in nations such as Spain and  Italy  have surged.  Spanish 10-year  bond yields  climbed to 7.75 percent on July
25, above the 7 percent level that triggered bailouts of  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal . Italian  10-year yields  reached 6.71
percent on the same day.  “The U.K. is still seen as a safe haven,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank Europe Plc. “If you take
money out of the U.K., where are you going to put it?”  Gilts maturing in a year or more have returned 3.7 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts. German bunds rose 3.3
percent, U.S. Treasuries gained 1.9 percent, while Spanish
securities slumped 4.3 percent.  The Bank of England increased its  bond-purchase program  by
50 billion pounds on Feb. 9, and another 50 billion pounds on
July 5. The central bank has also expanded its toolkit with a
Funding for Lending Scheme to unclog bank credit and help pull
the country out of recession.  Additional Purchases  The worsening economic outlook has prompted banks including
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to predict the Bank of England
will increase stimulus again this year.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its growth forecasts for
the U.K. last week and said the government will find it
difficult to meet its timetable for cutting its debt levels.  “Should the U.K.’s growth potential have weakened
significantly, then this would create a significant challenge to
the government’s debt-reduction efforts and would place downward
pressure on the country’s rating,” Moody’s said on July 31.
Still, “the U.K. government’s response to negative developments
late last year indicates it commitment to restoring a
sustainable debt position.”  Moody’s, which has a “negative” outlook on the U.K.’s Aaa
rating, lowered its 2012 estimate for the nation’s economic
growth to 0.4 percent.  Spending Review  “A downgrade would likely be down to a lack of growth,
which I don’t see impacting gilts, particularly as the Bank of
England would probably need to do more QE,” said Anthony O’Brien, a fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in London.
“There is a possibility the  ratings agencies  might take action
on the U.K. around the time of the Government’s spending review
in October.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s 2010 austerity
program, which was extended for two years to 2017 in November,
envisaged that the economy would be growing by 2.8 percent this
year. Instead, it is 0.9 percent smaller than in the third
quarter of 2010.  While a shortfall in  tax revenue  caused by the recession
has led many economists to question whether Osborne can meet his
goal of cutting the deficit to 120 billion pounds this fiscal
year, his opponents in the  Labour Party  say his fiscal plans are
too severe at a time when households and banks are weighed down
by debt.  Crucial Program  Even so, Osborne’s program have been crucial in keeping
U.K. borrowing costs down, said  Neil Jones , head of European
hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London.  “When you invest in bonds in the current environment, you
are looking for return of capital not return on capital,” he
said. “Austerity is a key differentiator and offers lower
chance of default and greater chance of return of capital.”  Britain’s economy will shrink by 0.5 percent this year,
causing Osborne to miss his budget-deficit target, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said on Aug. 3.  The deterioration has been “even more pronounced” than
previously forecast as private-sector retrenchment is made worse
by fiscal consolidation and a “dysfunctional” financial
system, the London-based research group said in a quarterly
report.  A faltering economy may convince the Bank of England to
increase its target for bond purchases once again, further
supporting gilts. The  European Central Bank  has resisted calls
for large-scale asset purchases due to concern over maintaining
its independence and a reluctance to provide direct monetary
finance to euro-area governments.  “The U.K. has its own currency and a fiscal and monetary
policy strategy that compliment each other,” said  Sam Hill , a
gilt strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The
inability of the ECB to conduct QE in anything like the form or
on the scale that the BOE has been able to, has been part of the
euro area’s problems, particularly in terms of investor
perception about the stability of bond yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  