-- Goldman Says SEC Closed Probe of Firm After Threatening Case
-- B y   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2012-08-09T14:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/goldman-says-sec-closes-probe-without-action-after-wells-notice.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said U.S.
regulators ended an investigation of its role in selling $1.3
billion of mortgage-backed securities and won’t sue the firm,
reversing course after investigators warned in February that
they intended to recommend legal action.  Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers told Goldman
Sachs on Aug. 6 that they no longer planned to pursue claims
against the bank, the New York-based company said today in a
regulatory  filing . The regulator had sent Goldman Sachs a so-
called Wells notice in February, which typically gives
recipients a chance to dissuade investigators from recommending
the agency authorize enforcement action.  The SEC’s investigation looked at disclosures during the
late-2006 offering of subprime residential mortgage-backed
securities underwritten by Goldman Sachs, according to the
firm’s filing. It didn’t elaborate on the SEC’s decisions.  David
Wells , a spokesman for the firm, declined to comment.  A separate SEC lawsuit in April of 2010, accusing Goldman
Sachs of misleading investors in the sale of securities that bet
on subprime mortgages, caused the firm’s stock to plunge 13
percent on the day it was filed and roiled the broader market.
The investment bank paid $550 million to settle the case in July
that year, saying it had made a “mistake” in omitting
disclosures.  Shares Rise  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
advanced 1.4 percent to $103.94 as of 10:34 a.m. in New York,
making it the second-best-performing bank in the Standard and
Poor’s 500 Financials Index of 81 companies including lenders,
brokerages and insurers. The shares have climbed 15 percent this
year.  Four years after mounting mortgage defaults prompted
unprecedented government bailouts of the financial system,
regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold home
loans to investors. The SEC is looking for evidence that firms
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses in mortgage
pools and delinquencies, Jason Anthony, special counsel for the
agency’s structured-products unit, said in February.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest U.S. bank, was warned by
SEC employees in January that they may recommend civil claims
from two inquiries, including one focusing on due diligence and
disclosures for two mortgage-backed securitizations.  The New York-based bank said today in a filing that it has
submitted responses to the agency’s proposed actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer in  New York  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  