-- Goldman Sachs Cut Italy Debt Holdings 92% Last Quarter
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-09T12:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/goldman-sachs-cut-italy-debt-holdings-92-last-quarter.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, cut its holdings of Italian
sovereign debt by 92 percent in the second quarter after
boosting them in the first three months of the year.  “Market exposure” to Italian  government bonds  fell to
$191 million at the end of June from $2.51 billion at the end of
March, the New York-based firm said in a quarterly regulatory
 filing  today. Goldman Sachs also increased its credit-derivative
positions on Italy in the quarter, pushing its total market
exposure to Italian government and non-government securities to
negative $977 million from positive $2.4 billion in March.  Goldman Sachs discloses the firm’s credit and market stance
for  Italy , Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain each quarter
because those five countries are viewed by investors as Europe’s
riskiest. The filing today showed that the firm’s total market
exposure to the five countries also swung to a negative $977
million as of June from a positive $2.68 billion three months
earlier as the bank reduced its position in bonds and stocks and
purchased more  credit derivatives .  “Credit exposure,” which measures the risk from a default
or credit deterioration of the counterparty or borrower,
increased to $3.35 billion for the five countries from $2.52
billion in March, the filing showed. The jump reflected a boost
in the firm’s credit exposure to  Spain  to $1.67 billion from
$639 million in March, mostly from an increase in non-sovereign
exposure, the filing showed.  Derivatives include credit-default swaps, which act like
insurance to reimburse a bondholder when a borrower fails to
meet its obligations.  Goldman Sachs disclosed that it had written a total of
$154.4 billion in notional credit derivatives for the five
countries as of June and had purchased $165.2 billion. The
company said that “substantially all” of the purchased
derivatives were from investment-grade counterparties that are
domiciled outside of those five European countries and are
collateralized with cash or U.S. Treasury securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 