-- Gonorrhea Needs to Be Treated by More-Potent Injections
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-08-09T17:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/gonorrhea-needs-to-be-treated-by-more-potent-injections.html
A growing strain of  gonorrhea  that’s
resistant to all available drugs should spur a change in how the
disease is treated in the U.S., where the type hasn’t yet been
seen, according to health officials.  Doctors now need to use more potent injections instead of
cefixime, the pill that was the standard of care, according to
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. Resistant gonorrhea was
reported in 17 European countries in 2010, an increase from
seven a year earlier, according to a survey released in June.  Treatment options have shrunk as every medicine starting
with penicillin loses effectiveness against gonorrhea, the
second-most commonly reported infectious disease in the U.S.
with about 700,000 new cases a year. The cefixime pill and the
more-potent ceftriaxone injection belong to the only class of
effective drugs left to use, the agency said in a report today.  “Action is urgently needed to prevent untreatable
gonorrhea from becoming a reality,” said  Gail Bolan , director
of the Atlanta-based CDC’s division of sexually-transmitted
disease prevention, in a telephone interview.  The CDC guidelines were last updated in 2007, when the
bacteria demonstrated resistance to the fluoroquinolone class of
medicines, and the agency recommended discontinuing their use.
Cefixime and ceftriaxone are members of a family of drugs known
as cephalosporins.  The increases in strains with less responsiveness to the
cephalosporins were most prominent in samples from the western
U.S. and from gay and bisexual men across the country. The same
pattern existed when resistance to fluoroquinolones increased.  Antibiotic Resistance  “Gonorrhea is very good at picking up antibiotic
resistance,” said  Carlos del Rio , a professor of medicine at
Emory University in Atlanta and a part of the CDC’s gonorrhea
surveillance program, by telephone. “In a way, it’s the canary
in the  coal mine  for antibiotic resistance in the STD setting.”  While gonorrhea infections often are symptomless, they can
lead to infertility and other serious conditions if untreated.
Screening is necessary because many infections are “silent,”
with few or no symptoms, Bolan said. Less than half of new cases
are diagnosed each year.  Reluctant Companies  Companies have been reluctant to invest in developing new
antibiotics because they are used sparingly, and often held in
reserve to prevent resistance, del Rio said. There’s little
incentive to develop new drugs because there isn’t as much
profit in them, he said.  “The industry doesn’t do work based on public health,”
del Rio said. “They work based on what’s going to benefit their
stockholders.”  In June, the  U.S. Senate  reauthorized the  Prescription Drug
User Fee Act  in June, adding a section called “Generating
Antibiotic Incentives Now,” to encourage drugmakers to develop
new antibiotics for life-threatening infections. Under the new
language, qualified drugs would receive an additional five years
of market exclusivity and a faster review.  The legislation “isn’t enough to fix the problem,” said
Robert Guidos, vice president for public policy at the
Infectious Diseases Society of America, based in Arlington,
Virginia. “It’s valuable, and it’s obviously sparked a lot of
attention in industry. But it isn’t enough.”  Other options that may help may be research and development
tax credit, or strengthening partnerships between public health
officials and private industry may also help, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 