-- Goodman Forms $890 Million Venture With Canadian Pension
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-08-09T19:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/goodman-forms-890-million-venture-with-canadian-pension.html
Goodman Group,  Australia ’s biggest
industrial real estate investment trust by market value, said it
formed an $890 million partnership with the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board to develop and buy property in North America.  Goodman will contribute 55 percent of the equity capital,
and Toronto-based CPPIB, Canada’s second-biggest public pension
manager, will invest the balance, they said in a statement
today. The Goodman North America Partnership plans to focus
initially on development, with acquisitions to be considered as
opportunities arise, Sydney-based Goodman Group said.  The partnership will be able to invest $1.5 billion to $1.8
billion, including debt, Chief Executive Officer Greg Goodman
said. The venture will invest in areas close to major ports,
railroads and highways, and in population centers where high-
quality  warehouse  space is in short supply, he said.  “The U.S. market is the largest industrial market in the
world, and it’s one we are not present in,” Goodman said in a
telephone interview. “We have demand from big users that want
to drive more efficiencies out of warehousing and save costs.”  The venture is part of an international expansion by
 Goodman Group (GMG)  as cargo shipments recover to pre-recession levels
in some markets. While capital for development remains
constrained following the financial crisis, demand from
retailers, manufacturers and logistics customers is strong, Greg
Goodman said.  Development Sites  Goodman Group said in June that it had secured four
development sites, with more than 9.8 million square feet
(910,000 square meters) of gross rentable space and a combined
value of more than $700 million. Two are in the Los Angeles
area, one is in Oakland on the east side of the San Francisco
Bay and one is in the  Lehigh Valley , north of Philadelphia.
Seattle is another area where the company is looking, Greg
Goodman said.  The company hopes to generate returns of at least 10
percent in  North America , he said. Development offers higher
yields than buying industrial properties, Goodman said.
Capitalization rates for prime industrial real estate, a measure
of yield that declines when purchase prices rise, have been
pushed down to 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent as  interest rates  at
historic lows drive investors to income-generating properties,
he said.  “The investment market in the U.S. is very strong,”
Goodman said. “We’d much rather develop” than buy.  Worldwide, Goodman Group plans to develop as much as $2.5
billion of industrial properties in the next 12 months, its CEO
said. The company developed a record 900,000 square meters in
 Europe  in the past year, he said. More than half of Goodman
Group’s European business is in  Germany .  Malaysia Venture  In June, Goodman Group said it formed a venture with
Malaysia’s Employees Provident Fund to buy industrial assets in
Australia. The company is pursuing other alliances in  Asia  as
well, Greg Goodman said.  “I suspect this year we’ll introduce another one or two
partners,” he said.  The North America partnership will be managed by a venture
90 percent owned by Goodman Group, with the balance owned by
 Irvine , California-based Birtcher Development and Investment
Co., Greg Goodman said.  Goodman Group and CPPIB already had joint investments in
Australia,  China  and Hong Kong. CPPIB is Canada’s largest public
pension manager after Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  