-- Google Said to Face Fine by U.S. Over Apple Safari Breach
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-09T19:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/google-said-to-face-fine-by-u-s-over-apple-safari-breach.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay $22.5
million, the largest fine ever levied by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, to settle allegations that it breached  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
Safari Internet browser.  The record fine is the FTC’s first for a violation of
 Internet privacy  as the agency steps up enforcement of
consumers’ online rights.  The FTC alleged that  Mountain View , California-based Google
deceived consumers and violated terms of a consent decree signed
with the commission last year when it planted cookies on Safari,
bypassing Apple software’s privacy settings, to track users’
Internet browsing behavior.  “The record-setting penalty in this matter sends a clear
message to all companies under an FTC privacy order,” said FTC
Chairman  Jon Leibowitz . “No matter how big or small, all
companies must abide by FTC orders against them and keep their
privacy promises to consumers, or they will end up paying many
times what it would have cost to comply in the first place.”  Google, operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, has drawn regulatory scrutiny and pressure from consumer
advocates for the way it handles personal information. The
company’s consent decree with the FTC settled allegations that
it used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
in introducing the Buzz social-networking service in 2010.  ‘Highest Standards’  “We set the highest standards of privacy and security for
our users,” Google said in an e-mail statement. “The FTC is
focused on a 2009 help-center page published more than two years
before our consent decree, and a year before Apple changed its
cookie-handling policy. We have now changed that page and taken
steps to remove the ad cookies, which collected no personal
information, from Apple’s browsers.”  Consumer Watchdog, an advocacy group based in  Santa Monica ,
 California , said the fine wasn’t big enough to teach a lesson to
Google, which reported net income of $9.7 billion last year and
is expected to generate profit of $13.7 billion this year,
according to the average estimate of 34 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  ‘Woefully Insufficient’  “While the $22.5 million penalty levied against Google is
a record for the FTC, it is woefully insufficient considering
that Google refused to admit any liability or wrongdoing,” said
 John Simpson , privacy project director for the public interest
group.  “The commission has allowed Google to buy its way out of
trouble for an amount that probably is less than the company
spends on lunches for its employees and with no admission it did
anything wrong,” Simpson said.  In addition to the penalty, the FTC ordered Google to
disable all the tracking cookies. Most of the tracking cookies
have been removed and all must be gone by February of 2014,
James Kohn, the FTC’s associate director for enforcement, said
on a conference call today with reporters after the
announcement.  Google shares rose less than 1 percent to $643.04 at 2:34
p.m. in  New York  trading. The stock has declined 0.43 percent
this year.  Cookies are small pieces of computer text that collect
information from computers about a user’s browsing behavior and
can be used to serve advertisements to consumers based on their
interests as shown by the websites they visit.  Browser Settings  Google specifically told users of Apple’s Safari that
because the browser is set by default to block third-party
cookies, as long as users don’t change their browser settings,
this setting effectively accomplishes the same thing as opting
out of online tracking, according to the FTC complaint.  Google exploited an exception to the browser’s default
setting to place a temporary cookie, the FTC said.  The Safari breach was first identified by Stanford
researcher Jonathan Mayer, who published a blog entry on his
discoveries Feb. 16. Google said at the time that it “didn’t
anticipate this would happen” and that it was removing the
files since discovering the slip.  The agency was investigating Google’s privacy violations
before Mayer’s report was published,  David Vladeck , director of
the FTC’s bureau of competition, said on the conference call
today. He also called Google’s response that it was unaware of
the breach “troubling.”  ‘Red Flag’  “Google’s defense waves a red flag to regulators,”
Vladeck said. “The social contract is if you are going to hold
on to people’s private data, you’ve got to do a better job of
honoring your commitments.”  The cookies allowed Google to avoid Safari’s built-in
privacy protections to aim targeted advertising at users of
Safari on computers, laptops, iPhones and iPads.  Marc Rotenberg , president of the Electronic Privacy
Information Center, which filed the initial complaint in
February 2010 that led to the consent decree, said “although we
had previously expressed concerns about the failure of the FTC
to enforce its own orders, we are pleased that the commission
has now taken action to protect the privacy of  Internet users .”  The FTC is charged with protecting consumers against
“unfair and deceptive” practices under the law that created
the agency. Last year’s 20-year settlement with Google bars the
company from misrepresenting how it handles user information,
and requires it to follow policies that protect consumer data in
new products and to submit to regular privacy audits.  Levy Fines  The FTC has the authority to levy fines for violations of
its consent decrees of as much as $16,000 a day for each
violation.  “Google is paying what we think is a heavy price for
violating our prior order,” Vladeck said. “We hope this sends
a clear message to Google that violations of the order and
failure to keep commitments on privacy is going to be punished
severely. This sends the message that the FTC isn’t kidding
around.”  Vladeck said that although the order didn’t involve a
statement of liability, Google didn’t contest the facts laid out
in the FTC complaint.  FTC Commissioner  Thomas Rosch  said in his dissenting
statement the agency should have gotten Google to admit
wrongdoing.  ‘No Question’  “There is no question in my mind that there is ‘reason to
believe’ that Google is in contempt of a prior commission
order,” Rosch wrote. “This scenario -- violation of a consent
order -- makes the commission’s acceptance of Google’s denial of
liability all the more inexplicable.”  Rosch, one of two Republican commissioners at the FTC, said
accepting the order without such an admission wasn’t in the
public interest and would make it easier for other, smaller
companies to do the same in the future.  Other public interest groups criticized the FTC action.
Berin Szoka, president of TechFreedom and Geoffrey Manne,
executive director of the International Center for Law &
Economics, said in a joint e-mail statement that the FTC order
amounted to “arbitrary regulation-by-settlement” that
“undermines the rule of law and harms consumers by deterring
privacy disclosures.”  The agency’s previous largest fine in a privacy-related
case was against data broker ChoicePoint Inc. in 2006 for
compromises of personal financial records of more than 163,000
consumers. ChoicePoint agreed to pay $10 million in civil
penalties and $5 million in consumer redress in a settlement
with the FTC.  The FTC has also entered into settlements on privacy
allegations with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Twitter Inc. and MySpace Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  