-- Griffin’s Overtures to Knight Were Hampered by Distrust
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   S t e v e   C h a m b e r s
-- 2012-08-09T03:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/griffin-s-overtures-to-knight-were-hampered-by-distrust.html
As time was running out,  Knight
Capital (KCG)  Group Inc. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce had three choices left -- accept a $500 million bailout
from his biggest competitor, take an offer from a group of
clients and others that would dilute owners, or go bankrupt.  The 57-year-old former Harvard University football star
chose the second, ceding most of the company to investors led by
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  The $400 million rescue staved off
insolvency as well as  Ken Griffin , the billionaire founder of
rival Citadel LLC whose overtures to Knight were never able to
penetrate the distrust between the two firms, people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  “It’s no secret that in the wholesale market-making space,
firms are extremely competitive with one another,” said
Christopher Nagy, president of broker consultant KOR Trading LLC
in Omaha,  Nebraska , who said he had no first-hand knowledge of
the talks. “It’s no different between Ken and Tom.”  The rescue of  Knight Capital  that unfolded over 48 hours
last weekend, as recounted by participants on all sides who
requested anonymity because the negotiations were private, was
fueled by competition, concern about job losses,
misunderstandings and exhaustion. The result saved Knight from
insolvency.  Still Alive  “As long as they are alive, that is better than being
dead, right?” Alan “Ace” Greenberg, the former chairman of
Bear Stearns Cos., which was taken over by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
as it battled for survival in March 2008, said Aug. 7 on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program. “Where there
is life, there is hope.”  Katie Spring , a Citadel spokeswoman, said the firm couldn’t
comment on any discussions that might have taken place.  “Knight explored a wide range of alternatives,” Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “After a thorough review, Knight determined that the
$400 million equity investment was the best and only alternative
for the company and its shareholders.”  Joyce was under  pressure  to make a deal after his company,
which executes about 10 percent of U.S. equity trades at its
market-making unit, lost $440 million through programming errors
on Aug. 1. While Knight received “dozens and dozens” of
inquiries, the agreement with Jefferies, Getco LLC,  TD
Ameritrade Holding Inc. (AMTD) , Blackstone Group LP, Stephens Inc. and
Stifel Financial Corp. “was clearly the best,” Joyce said in a
telephone interview Aug. 6.  Job Concern  Some Knight staff, concerned they would lose their jobs
after a design flaw in software spewed out millions of mistaken
equity orders, started speaking to Citadel and other potential
employers almost immediately, people familiar with the matter
said.  Citadel found Knight’s resistance to its offer hard to
understand, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter. On the other side, Joyce’s team faulted the suitor for a
lack of specifics and was concerned Citadel was trying to pick
up parts of the  business  inexpensively, said two people who
asked not to be named.  The CEOs’ first contact came the morning of Aug. 3, two
days after errant trades sent prices of 140 stocks into spasms
and left Knight with depleted capital. Citadel’s Griffin
telephoned Knight offering financing. Joyce called back an hour
later and declined the offer, instead accepting funding from
Jefferies into the weekend. Two days earlier, Jefferies CEO
 Richard Handler  had e-mailed Knight from a vacation in  France  to
see if he could help.  Electronic Trading  Griffin, whose Chicago-based hedge fund competes with
Knight’s market-making and electronic-trading business, had a
plan to bail out Knight for good, and wanted to bring it to
Joyce personally.  The 43-year-old executive and a team of nine advisers flew
in his private jet from Chicago. They arrived at Knight’s
headquarters in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , at about 6 p.m. Friday,
Aug. 3. The firm occupies six floors of a 25-story glass tower
wedged between Newport Centre mall and the Newport PATH train
station.  They had a 10-minute meeting with Joyce, and were shocked
to hear he was going home. For his part, the Knight chairman had
hobbled into work Wednesday on crutches, still recovering from
knee surgery, hadn’t slept that night and only for three hours
Thursday. Joyce told Citadel his people were exhausted and the
sides met for about an hour.  After dispersing to Jersey City hotels, they returned at 8
a.m. Saturday, Aug. 4, meeting two hours later with the Knight
finance team. The session ended at 11 a.m. when the Knight group
left for another meeting. That was the last the Citadel
officials would see of them.  Harvard Graduates  Joyce and Griffin, who both majored in economics at Harvard
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , didn’t know each other well and had
never socialized. Griffin gained insights into Knight’s business
when he hired Jamil Nazarali and Matt Cushman, managing
directors at Knight’s electronic-trading group, for quantitative
trading jobs last year.  As the depth of Knight’s  troubles  sunk in at the firm,
Nazarali received numerous calls from old colleagues. Some
executives at Knight were on guard for potential poaching from
Citadel and others, contributing to the mistrust.  “Citadel doesn’t like it when it happens to them, but they
don’t seem to have a problem going after other people’s
employees,” Dan Teed, who helps oversee about $100 million as
president of Wedgewood Investors Inc. in Erie,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a telephone interview. “They’re direct competitors,”
he said. “It’s not the main issue, but I guarantee that’s part
of the situation.”  Management Team  By not engaging with Griffin, Joyce may have sidestepped
the fate of Mitchell Caplan, the CEO of  E*Trade (ETFC)  Financial Corp.
who gave up his post after Citadel invested $2.55 billion in the
New York-based brokerage in November 2007. The offer from
Citadel was silent on Knight’s management team.  Knight executives dismissed the Citadel offer, having
talked to 90 different suitors, some offering loans, including
KKR & Co. and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Knight has diversified its business by offering trading
services to institutional investors and adding systems to trade
currencies and  fixed income . The company also expanded its
market making to options and futures and has built up its
European operations.  Citadel’s electronic-trading and market-making business is
a unit of Citadel Securities, which says it executes about 10
percent of U.S. equity  volume , according to its website, a
similar amount to that handled by Knight.  ‘Unacceptable Alternative’  “There would have been several redundancies had a deal
with Citadel happened, and in the best of environments, which is
a far cry from what we have today, significant job loss would
have been likely,” said  Mike Shea , a managing partner at Direct
Access Partners who worked at Knight from 1995 to 2002.
“Clearly, Knight decided this was an unacceptable
alternative.”  Griffin and his team were still waiting in Knight’s offices
Saturday afternoon when Griffin went out to find his
counterpart. At 2:45 p.m., he told Joyce, “We’re not getting
anywhere” and said he was going to leave, according to two
people.  Griffin voiced concern that rival investors were in the
building and his group was being denied access. He departed.  Citadel didn’t provide a specific term sheet or discuss
details with Joyce before flying back to Chicago, according to
the people.  Griffin was right about the opposing group. The Jefferies
team was also reviewing the trading firm’s books. Separately,
lawyers from Kirkland & Ellis LLP were preparing a bankruptcy
filing, in the event a deal could not be reached.  Gaining Urgency  After Citadel left, negotiations with the Jefferies team
intensified because Joyce knew his  options  were narrowing. He
slept four hours that night. On Sunday, Citadel came back at
about 4 p.m. with an e-mail from Chicago offering a $500 million
loan, said two people with knowledge of the matter. The loan
would have given Citadel a minority stake in Knight and an
interest in its HotSpot foreign-exchange unit, said the people.  By then, according to one of the people, Joyce was far
along with the rival deal and went with the convertible stock
offering being championed by Jefferies CEOHandler.  Knight’s new investors provided the $400 million cash
needed to stay alive and received preferred shares that will
represent 73 percent of the company once they are converted into
 common stock  in about a week. Joyce said in a telephone
interview with Bloomberg on Aug. 6 it was a permanent solution
to the solvency crisis that began with the errant trades.  Took Beating  While owners of Knight stock saw the value of their stake
diminish after a 61 percent  plunge  last week, the firms behind
the infusion are sitting on potential gains. The shares
represented by the convertible stock would be worth $843.7
million at yesterday’s closing price, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “As much as I don’t like it, the shareholders took a
 beating , which is what we’re supposed to do,” Jay Kaplan, a
 fund manager  at Royce & Associates LLC, which owned 11 percent
of Knight’s stock and was its second-biggest holder as of June
30, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Aug. 7. “Do we
like what happened? No. Is it a reasonable outcome in light of
what transpired? I suppose it is.”  On Monday afternoon, 20 minutes after trading had ended,
Jefferies’ Handler sent a memo to the staff noting the role the
company had played in saving Knight.  “A highly valued provider of stock market liquidity will
be given the chance to thrive once again -- great news for the
health of the global financial markets,” he wrote. “We are not
doing G-d’s work, but collectively we are making a difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in  New York  at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Chambers in New York at 
 Schambers18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  