-- Li & Fung’s Stock Plunges on Operating Profit Drop
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-08-10T08:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/li-fung-first-half-profit-jumps-33-on-acquisition.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s largest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, plunged in Hong Kong
trading by the most since listing in 1992 after slowdowns in
U.S. and  Europe  caused a slump in first half operating profit.  The supplier to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  fell
19 percent to HK$12.90 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong after
saying yesterday that core operating profit dropped 22 percent
to $221 million. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 0.7
percent.  Brokerages including HSBC Holdings Plc and Credit Suisse
Group AG cut their ratings on the stock as Chief Executive
Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said the macroeconomic environment is
“very difficult.” Sales growth in the U.S. trailed the
company’s expectations as waning job growth prompted consumers
to curb spending, while Europe’s deepening debt crisis also
weighed on demand.  “It continues to be a slow recovery” in the U.S.,
Rockowitz said in an interview today. “The macro environment is
very difficult, driven by a slowdown in Europe.”  Core operating profit margin decreased to 2.4 percent from
3.2 percent in the first half. The company, which traces its
beginnings to 1906 when parent Li & Fung Group was founded, has
supplied U.S., European and Asian retailers with increasing
amounts of Asia-made clothes, toys and furniture to boost
business.  Margins Sustainable?  “I question the long-term sustainability of Li & Fung’s
distribution margins,” said Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Credit Suisse, who cut his rating on the stock to
underperform from neutral after the results. “I think they will
have to sacrifice margins in order to defend against customers
from sourcing directly.”  Net income  rose to $312 million, from $236 million a year
ago, Li & Fung said in a statement to  Hong Kong ’s stock exchange
yesterday. The earnings reflected a writeback of $198 million in
the first half on estimated payouts for prior acquisitions.  The global outsourcer has relied on acquisitions to boost
growth, spending about $3 billion on deals from 2006 to 2011,
driving up both sales and profit in the five-year period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company now has the
“firepower” to spend as much as $1 billion on acquisitions,
Rockowitz said yesterday. First-half profit rose 33 percent amid
writebacks on acquisition payments.  During the first half of 2012, the group signed four
acquisitions to boost its trading business. Revenue and profit
before tax from the newly acquired companies were about $110
million and $24 million respectively for 2011, the company said.
Li & Fung said average cost of goods will drop in the second
half.  Li & Fung, whose  customers  include U.S. retailer  Kohl’s
Corp. (KSS) , in March raised HK$3.9 billion in its biggest share sale
since listing in 1992.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  