-- Libyan Council Hands Over Power to Elected Legislature
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l e h   S a r a r
-- 2012-08-09T00:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/libyan-council-hands-over-power-to-elected-legislature.html
Libya ’s National Transitional Council
handed over power to a newly elected interim legislature, the
next step in the country’s transformation after 10 months of
unrest since Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster and death.  The NTC, which headed Libya after Qaddafi was driven from
power in one of the bloodiest uprisings in the so-called Arab
Spring, passed authority to the National Congress in a ceremony
in Tripoli. The 200-seat legislature is charged with naming a
prime minister and a Cabinet before parliamentary elections
expected to be held in 30 days.  “The National Transitional Council hands over all
constitutional authorities in the country to the interim
legislature, which is considered from this historical moment the
only legitimate representative of the Libyan people,” Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the council’s chairman, said around midnight local
time in a televised address.  The audience in the conference hall cheered and some people
chanted, “The blood of the martyrs will not go in vain.”  In his remarks, Abdel Jalil acknowledged that the council
was unable to meet public expectations for dealing with issues
such as security, refugees and help for those wounded in the
revolution. “We were not able to establish security like we
wanted or in the manner that the Libyan people hoped,” he said.  The change in Libya has been far from smooth. The lack of a
clear victor in the elections that seated the new body, as well
as unrest, moves toward autonomous rule and the reluctance of
militias to disband, have left the incoming assembly with little
flexibility as its members seek to revive the economy and
restore security.  No Guarantee  “It’s easy to underestimate what has been achieved in
Libya,” Crispin Hawes, head of the Eurasia Group’s Middle East
program, said by phone from  London . “Yes, there’s been
considerable violence. However, if you go back to October last
year, there was absolutely no guarantee, or anything close to a
guarantee, that you’d be talking about anything called a Libyan
government.”  Since then, the NTC has managed to hold a national election
and the country has seen a rebound in external revenues and the
oil sector, he said. Still, “the next phase of this transition
is arguably at least as difficult.”  The new legislature takes over a country that remains
almost as divided as the one the NTC inherited after the eight-
month rebellion last year against Qaddafi. A secession bid in
the east has been echoed in the south, where African tribal
rivalries have pitted regional militias against each other, as
well as against the still weak national military.  Parties Jostling  Unlike in  Egypt  and  Tunisia , Libya’s Islamists came in a
distant second in the national vote for the new congress, with
the Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction Party winning
17 of the 80 seats reserved for party blocs. An alliance headed
by Mahmoud Jibril, Libya’s wartime rebel premier, won 39 seats,
falling short of a majority and leaving both groups jostling for
new alliances with the other parties or some of the 120
independents who won individual seats.  “There’s a lot of positioning going on as Jibril seeks to
achieve a majority through an alliance with the Muslim
Brotherhood, independents and Islamists,” Mohammed Ali
Abdullah, vice president of the centrist National Front Party
that won three seats in the assembly, said in an interview in
Tripoli. “Our main priority is making Libya secure with a
strong police and providing jobs.”  Broad Representation  As Libyan officials jockey for power in the new assembly,
much of the country’s future stability is likely to hinge on how
smoothly the handover of power goes, with some NTC officials
expected to be absorbed into the new government as advisers to
ministries.  Among the names touted in the Libyan media for the
premiership are current Deputy Prime Minister Mustapha
Abushaghur and former wartime Prime Minister Ali Tarhouni.  National Front president Mohammed Yussef Magariaf said the
consensus was that the prime minister and the speaker of the
assembly will not be from the same region, to provide broader
representation from across the country.  One of the main tasks facing a new government will be
reducing the economy’s dependency on oil. The  International
Monetary Fund  said in an April  report  that crude had typically
accounted for 70 percent of gross domestic product, more than 95
percent of exports and about 90 percent of government revenue.  Foreign investors have been slow to return. Oil and gas
companies, who have worked to develop  Africa ’s largest source of
proven crude reserves, have returned with skeleton crews and
lower budgets.  “Most of the companies that have returned thus far have
been in the country’s hydrocarbon sector,” said Jonathan Terry,
senior analyst with Maplecroft, a U.K.-based risk consultant.
“Outside the oil sector where risk margins are tighter, many
companies are still holding out until the 2013 elections take
place before they commit major  capital spending .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarar in Tripoli at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  