-- Woods Goes Into PGA Championship Second Day Three Shots Behind
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/tiger-woods-is-three-shots-off-lead-after-nine-holes-of-pga-golf.html
Tiger Woods  is three shots behind
leader Carl Pettersson of Sweden going into the second day of
golf’s  PGA Championship , the final major of the year.  With a clear sky and little wind during morning play at the
Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, South Carolina, yesterday, Woods
shot a 3-under-par 69. The four-time PGA Championship winner
said he was happy with a round that contained six birdies and
three bogeys.  “Anything in the 60s is going to be a good start in a
major championship,” Woods told reporters. “I’m right there.”  Pettersson, who lives in Raleigh,  North Carolina , is 6
under after finishing with six birdies and no bogeys. He’s one
shot ahead of a group of four players that includes 2011  U.S.
Open  champion Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland.  Woods, 36, began the tournament on the par-4 10th hole and
opened with two pars. That left him four shots off the lead as
others took advantage of the favorable scoring conditions and
rolled in birdie putts around the oceanside course.  “You look up on the board and some guy’s 4-under through
six; a bunch of guys are 3-under through five,” Woods said.
“But the wind kicked up a little bit and it changed things
quite a bit.”  Joost Luiten of the Netherlands led the tournament at 8-
under par through 14 holes before finishing with four
consecutive bogeys as increasing winds off of the Atlantic Ocean
began to send shots off line.  ‘Pretty Benign’  “If it had stayed pretty benign, I’m sure you probably
would have had to shoot 5-under par to be in the top 10,” Woods
said.  Woods, an American seeking his first major title since the
2008 U.S. Open, finished his opening nine holes with a 30-foot
birdie putt to reach 1 under. He followed with consecutive
birdies on the first and second holes. Before finishing his
round with a par, Woods added a bogey on the fourth and a birdie
on the eighth.  Defending champion Keegan Bradley, playing in Woods’s group
along with 2010 PGA Championship winner  Martin Kaymer , shot 4-
under 68 with five birdies, an eagle and three bogeys. Bradley,
who played college golf at St. John’s University in  New York ,
began his day with a birdie and an eagle. He then made three
bogeys over a six-hole stretch before adding three birdies over
the final nine holes.  The winner of 14 major titles, Woods entered the tournament
a 7-1 favorite to win, according to Las Vegas Hotel’s sports
book.  Luke Donald , the world’s No. 1-ranked golfer, was second
at 15-1 odds, followed by his English countryman  Lee Westwood  at
20-1.  Phil Mickelson , the 2005 PGA Championship winner who was
among those to play the first round in the afternoon, and
Masters Tournament winner Bubba Watson are in a 22-way tie for
66th place at 1-over par.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Kiawah Island,  South Carolina  at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  