-- India Industrial Output Slides in Sign Economy Is Faltering
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-09T12:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/india-industrial-production-falls-for-third-time-in-four-months.html
Indian industrial production slid in
June for the third time in four months, with output of capital
goods plunging the most on record, adding to signs of faltering
growth in Asia’s third-largest economy.  Production at factories, utilities and mines declined 1.8
percent from a year earlier, after a revised 2.5 percent rise in
May, the  Central Statistical Office  said in  New Delhi  today. The
median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.4
percent climb. Capital goods output, an indication of investment
in plants and machinery, slid 27.9 percent.  Indian manufacturing has been subdued in recent months as
 inflation  above 7 percent saps domestic demand and  Europe ’s debt
crisis crimps exports. Price pressures from a drop in the rupee
and the impact of a weak monsoon on crops forced the central
bank to leave  interest rates  unchanged in July, breaking with a
wave of cuts in borrowing costs from  China  to  Brazil  to Europe.  “The negative trend coming in between a looming drought-
like situation is very, very worrying,” said Brinda Jagirdar,
an economist at  State Bank  of  India  in Mumbai. “Our problems
are compounding. We need quick and decisive policy actions to
revive growth, otherwise we’ll see a severe collapse.”  The rupee, which has slumped about 18 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, strengthened 0.2 percent to 55.295
per dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai. The BSE India
Sensitive Index of stocks pared earlier gains and fell 0.2
percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due in
June 2022 was little changed at 8.14 percent.  Outlook Dims  Manufacturing fell 3.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
today’s data showed. Mining gained 0.6 percent and electricity
output rose 8.8 percent. A separate report in China showed that
nation’s industrial production advanced 9.2 percent in July from
a year earlier, less than analysts had estimated.  The drop in Indian capital goods production in June from a
year earlier is the steepest since at least April 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Forecasters from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Citigroup Inc.
this month lowered predictions for Indian economic expansion
while raising inflation estimates and scaling back expectations
for interest-rate reductions by the  Reserve Bank  of India.  Goldman cut its growth outlook for the 12 months through
March 2013 to 5.7 percent from 6.6 percent and said wholesale
prices may climb 7.2 percent, up from an earlier estimate of 6.5
percent. Citigroup said Indian gross domestic product may rise
as little as 4.9 percent in 2012-2013 if a drought takes hold.
India’s more than 235 million farmers depend on the rains.  Chidambaram’s Challenge  The Reserve Bank left the benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8
percent on July 31, while cutting the amount of deposits lenders
must keep in  government bonds  to spur lending. Headline
inflation was 7.25 percent in June, the fastest pace among the
world’s largest  emerging markets .  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who was appointed
last week, has said he intends to take steps to reverse the
slowdown in manufacturing. He has also pledged to clarify tax
laws and contain the  budget deficit  as he tries to assuage
concern that the nation’s outlook is deteriorating.  India will reassess its fiscal deficit goal for the 12
months that began April 1 after a mid-year review, Chidambaram
said today in a written response to questions from lawmakers.
Forecasters from Citigroup Inc. to Crisil Ltd., the local unit
of  Standard & Poor’s , predict the gap will widen from 5.8
percent of GDP in 2011-2012.  Development Agenda  Graft scandals, political gridlock over attempts to
liberalize the economy and below-average rains have set back
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s development agenda. Power
outages on July 30-31, India’s worst, have underscored gaps in
infrastructure as investment moderates.  Slower growth has affected companies such as steelmakers.
Production of the alloy by businesses including Tata Steel Ltd.
fell 0.5 percent in June from a year earlier after a 4.9 percent
gain in May, Commerce Ministry data shows.  Indian GDP rose 5.3 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the least since 2003. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have warned they may strip the nation of its investment-
grade credit rating, citing risks including fiscal and current-
account deficits.  Today’s factory output report is disappointing,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the Planning Commission,
told reporters in New Delhi. The commission may revise its
economic growth estimate for the current fiscal year in
September, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 