-- India’s Biggest Corporate Loss Shows Singh’s Deficit Dilemma
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-08-10T12:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/india-s-biggest-corporate-loss-shows-singh-s-dilemma-on-deficit.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  posted a record
quarterly loss after the government failed to compensate it for
capping fuel prices, showing the challenge facing Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  as he attempts to rein in the nation’s finances.  The state-owned supplier of about 40 percent of the fuels
consumed in India reported the biggest loss by any company in
the country after selling products including diesel and kerosene
below cost.  The pending compensation adds to the high inflation and
budget deficit that Singh is grappling with, along with sliding
industrial production, a failing monsoon, a declining rupee and
the  European debt crisis  that’s sapped demand for Indian goods.
The coalition government has refrained from increasing prices of
diesel, the most widely used fuel, for more than a year to
prevent protests from its allies and opposition parties gearing
up for national elections in less than two years.  “There’s a problem with inflation and we can’t increase
fuel prices, and the budgeted amount for subsidy is not
enough,” Indian Oil Chairman R.S. Butola told reporters in  New
Delhi  yesterday. “The problems are many, but something will
have to be done. The loss is huge.”  Indian Oil’s  loss  widened to 224.5 billion rupees ($4.07
billion) in the three months ended June 30 from 37.2 billion
rupees a year earlier, the nation’s largest company by sales
said in a stock exchange filing. Rivals  Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. (HPCL)  and  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  posted losses of a record 92.5
billion rupees and 88.4 billion rupees, respectively, in the
quarter.  Rupee, Crude  Indian Oil is yet to be compensated by Singh’s government
for a loss of 174.9 billion rupees from selling diesel, kerosene
and cooking gas below cost in the quarter, Butola said. The
rupee’s slump in the period increased the cost of purchases for
the refiner, which imports almost 80 percent of its oil needs,
while Brent crude’s 20 percent decline last quarter lowered the
value of its stockpiles by 40.6 billion rupees.  “The $4 billion loss is stunning and staggering,” said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC  Global
Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  in New Delhi. “The oil marketing policy is so
complicated that these companies have to live at the mercy of
cash compensation policy of the government.”  Indian Oil fell 0.5 percent to 250.35 rupees, the lowest
level since June 19, at the close in Mumbai. The stock has
declined 1.3 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent
increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   China , the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, increased
retail gasoline and diesel prices for the first time since March
starting today after global crude costs climbed. Brent crude oil
in London trading gained 7.3 percent in July, the first increase
in four months.  Necessary Pain  Indian Oil received 82 billion rupees as a government grant
a year earlier. The refiner had  debt  of 909 billion rupees as of
June 30, compared with 754.5 billion rupees on March 31, Butola
said.  “Increasing fuel prices will lead to some pain for the
people and this pain is a necessary medicine for reviving growth
and sustaining the economy,” said  Sonal Varma , economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “So far, political compulsions
have been dominating economic compulsions and it’s time for this
to reverse.”  India plans to cut the budget deficit to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ending March 31, after
missing a target of 4.6 percent last year.  High Inflation  Inflation in Asia’s third-biggest economy has stayed above
7 percent since February. Price pressures from a drop in the
rupee and the impact of a weak monsoon on crops forced the
central bank to leave  interest rates  unchanged in July, breaking
with a wave of cuts in borrowing costs from China to  Brazil  and
Europe.  The rupee fell 8.6 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the
quarter ended June 30, the worst performer among major
currencies in Asia Pacific. It has slumped about 18 percent
against the dollar in the past 12 months to 55.285 per dollar.  Manufacturing fell 3.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
according to India’s  Central Statistical Office  yesterday.
Mining gained 0.6 percent and electricity output rose 8.8
percent.  Fiscal Deficit  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who was appointed
last week, has said he intends to take steps to reverse the
slowdown in manufacturing. He also pledged to clarify tax laws
and contain the  budget deficit  as he tries to assuage concern
that the nation’s outlook is deteriorating.  India will reassess its  fiscal deficit  goal for the 12
months that began April 1 after a mid-year review, Chidambaram
said yesterday in a written response to questions from
lawmakers. Forecasters from Citigroup Inc. to Crisil Ltd., the
local unit of  Standard & Poor’s , predict the gap will widen from
5.8 percent of GDP in 2011-2012.  India’s GDP rose 5.3 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the least since 2003. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have warned they may strip the nation of its investment-
grade credit rating, citing risks including fiscal and current-
account deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  