-- Indonesia Holds Interest Rate a Sixth Month as Growth Quickens
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-08-09T06:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/indonesia-holds-interest-rate-a-sixth-month-as-growth-quickens.html
Indonesia kept its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged for a sixth straight month as faster economic
expansion and persistent inflationary pressure reduced the
central bank’s scope to resume monetary easing.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board kept
the  reference  rate unchanged at a record-low 5.75 percent, the
central bank said in a statement in Jakarta today. The decision
was predicted by all but one of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. One expected a 0.25 percentage-point reduction.  Growth in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy unexpectedly
accelerated last quarter as rising investments helped the nation
withstand  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has hurt more
export-dependent neighbors from  Singapore  to  Taiwan . Indonesia
has refrained from adding to a February rate cut even as policy
makers from  China  to the  Philippines  lowered borrowing costs, as
its currency weakened and inflation held above 4 percent.  “There’s no urgent need to lower interest rates this
month,” David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in
Jakarta, said before the decision. “Cutting rates can trigger
asset bubbles in certain sectors, and the current rate is
adequate to support the economy amid the global turmoil that
won’t be resolved in the short term.”  The rupiah rose 0.1 percent to 9,480 rupiah per dollar as
of 11:30 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It has dropped for six months, its
longest losing streak since 1998, and is the worst performer
this year among the 11 most traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Growth Quickens  Indonesia ’s gross domestic product rose 6.37 percent in the
three months ended June 30 from a year earlier, more than a
revised 6.32 percent gain for the first quarter. The country’s
growth is the fastest among Group of 20 nations after China, as
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono boosts investment more than a
decade after the Asian financial crisis that forced the nation
to seek an International Monetary Fund bailout.  Still, easing exports led to a June trade deficit of $1.32
billion, the widest in at least five years. Exports fell 16.4
percent in June from a year earlier, while imports rose 10.7
percent.  The crisis in Europe and growing imports have put pressure
on the rupiah,  Bank Indonesia  said last month, adding it will
develop foreign-exchange monetary instruments to support
stabilization of the currency to ensure it reflects fundamentals
and is in line with regional counterparts.  Bank Indonesia will focus on maintaining the external
balance for rupiah stability and inflation management, it said
July 12. The central bank will strengthen rupiah management,
supported by further measures in monetary policy and foreign-
exchange market deepening, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  