-- ING Direct Canada Sale Likely to Lure Big Banks
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-09T13:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ing-direct-canada-sale-likely-to-lure-big-banks.html
The possible sale of  ING Groep NV’s (INGA) 
Canadian bank, the biggest in the country in 13 years, may spark
a bidding contest among the world’s soundest banks including
Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of  Nova Scotia .  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, said Aug. 2
it’s “reviewing strategic options” for ING Direct units in the
U.K. and  Canada  as it seeks to repay government aid received
during the financial crisis. The Canadian online bank, which has
assets of C$40 billion ($40 billion), may sell for about 2
billion euros ($2.48 billion), said Cor Kluis, an Utrecht,
Netherlands-based financial services analyst at Rabobank
International.  “It’s going to be a very competitive process,” said Anil Tahiliani, head of North American equities at Calgary-based
McLean & Partners Wealth Management, which owns  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce shares among the
C$900 million the firm manages. ING Canada’s assets are
“considered safe money because it’s mostly deposits,  savings
accounts , the odd checking account and mortgages.”  The bank, the eighth biggest in Canada, could fetch 1.1
billion euros and has 900 million euros in excess cash, Kluis
said by telephone on Aug. 2. Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux, said the bank might sell
for 600 million euros to 800 million euros, a price-to-book
multiple of 1.5 to 2. Including excess cash of about 1 billion
euros, a buyer would have to pay as much as 1.8 billion euros,
according to his estimates, he said by e-mail on Aug. 2.  Rare Sale  Carolien van der Giessen, an ING spokeswoman, declined to
comment on a possible sale.  Canada’s six largest banks hold about 94 percent of the
nation’s C$3.79 trillion in assets, according to statistics from
the  Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions ,
Canada’s bank regulator. The S&P/TSX Banks Index was little
changed at 19,45.81 at 9:40 am, and has gained 1.46 percent this
year.  Domestic bank sales are rare in Canada,  John Reucassel, a
bank analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note on Aug. 2.
Reucassel identified  Toronto-Dominion (TD)  and Scotiabank,
respectively the country’s second- and third-largest banks by
assets, as finding the unit of “greatest strategic interest”,
as well as No. 6  National Bank of Canada .  Scotiabank, which has expanded mostly in  Asia  and  Latin
America  over the past decade, had C$659.7 billion in assets at
the end of April. Montreal-based National Bank, which does most
of its business in  Quebec , had C$176.5 billion in assets.  Branchless Bank  A sale of ING Direct would be the biggest in Canada since
Toronto-Dominion Bank bought Canada Trust for C$8.0 billion in
1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of Nova
Scotia acquired National Trustco Inc. in 1997 for C$1.21
billion, and Toronto-Dominion bought 57 branches from  Laurentian
Bank of Canada (LB)  in 2003 for C$112.5 million.  At about $2.5 billion, it would be the biggest in  North
America  since PNC Financial Services Group Inc. bought  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY) ’s U.S. unit for $3.5 billion in March.  “I think you would have to go back to TD buying Canada
Trust in 1999 for the last time a deposit base of this size was
available in the Canadian banking space,” said Sumit Malhotra,
analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto by phone.  “While I think all banks will kick the tires, the ING
business should mean more to those that have a larger retail-
funding gap,” said Malhotra. “In my view this puts Scotia and
National at the top of the list, with Scotia in particular
having demonstrated through its recent wealth management
strategy that it is willing to undertake acquisitions to address
areas of weakness in their domestic franchise.”  ‘Square Peg’  Joan Beauchamp, a spokeswoman for National Bank, declined
to comment.  Stephen Knight , a spokesman for Toronto-Dominion
declined to comment.  “As opportunities for growth become available we evaluate
each on a case-by-case basis, and as a matter of course we don’t
comment on market rumor or speculation,” said Ann DeRabbie,
spokeswoman for Scotiabank.  ING Bank of Canada is the largest foreign-based lender in
Canada after  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA) , according to data from OSFI.  ING started the Internet bank in Canada, its first
branchless venture, in 1997. It built the division through a
television advertising campaign in which Dutch actor Frederik de
Groot urged Canadians to “save your money” in accented English
and French and criticized fees charged by the nation’s
established banks.  The purchase “poses some problems for a bank” because it
doesn’t conform to a branch banking system, said  David Cockfield , managing director at Northland Wealth Management in
Toronto, which manages about C$200 million.  Savings Accounts  “I’m not sure how ING fits into that system without
competing with your normal deposit-taking,” Cockfield said.
“It is a bit of a square peg in the banking world of rounder
holes.”  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , the Canadian insurer that owns a
domestic bank operating without a branch network, may also be a
suitor, said McLean & Partners’s Tahiliani. Manulife spokeswoman
Laurie Lupton said the company has a policy on not commenting on
rumor and speculation.  Canadian banks have invested in online lenders before. CIBC
worked with grocer Loblaw Cos. in 1998 when it established
President’s Choice Financial, a branchless bank that offers
interest rates of 1.35 percent on customer balances of more than
C$1,000, according to its  Website . That’s the same rate as the
investment savings account  offered  by ING Direct Canada.  Insurance Business  “Some of these non-bank entities that are looking to grow
in banking do have a similar framework, where they don’t have
the bricks and mortar and they are looking for more of an online
presence,” Juliette John, who helps manage C$13.6 billion at
Bissett Investment Management, including Scotiabank and Toronto
Dominion shares. “This type of business could be absorbed
relatively easily and fit within the non-traditional type of
delivery of banking services.”  ING exited the Canadian insurance business in 2009, when it
sold its stake in the Toronto-based insurer now known as  Intact
Financial Corp. (IFC)   ING’s focus on the mortgage-broker market may make the
company less appealing to Royal Bank,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and CIBC,
since those Canadian lenders have exited or don’t use brokers,
Reucassel said.  Canada’s banking system was in September ranked the world’s
soundest for the fourth straight year by the  World Economic
Forum .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  