-- Hippie-Era Tune Sums Up Conflict in Tropical Seas
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-09T21:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hippie-era-tune-sums-up-conflict-in-tropical-seas.html
“Are you going to Scarborough
Shoal?  China , Phils, Vietnam and Brunei…”  Simon & Garfunkel sang different lyrics for their 1960s hit
“Scarborough Fair,” a song that had nothing to do with Asian
geopolitics. That didn’t stop one Filipino lounge singer from
turning it into a protest song about rising tensions in the
 South China Sea  on a recent evening in  Manila  for his martini-
sipping audience.  Such strains are anything but music to the ears of world
leaders, who already have enough to worry about. So how about
adding a little diplomatic and military tension in Asia to the
mix?  The brawl between China and the  Philippines  over ownership
of a reef known as the Scarborough Shoal -- the scene of armed
patrols and a source of a daily war of words -- is but the
loudest of the moment. Asia features various territorial
disputes involving Brunei,  Indonesia ,  Japan ,  Malaysia ,  South
Korea  and  Taiwan , with China at the center of almost all of
them. The South China Sea is now the scene of one of the more
serious feuds between officials in  Washington  and Beijing.  China views a number of islands and tiny rocks, some
believed to have vast energy deposits, as its own. Its vague
claims and assertive behavior are unnerving its Asian neighbors.
So much so that officials from  Hanoi  to  Tokyo  are surprisingly
receptive to President  Barack Obama ’s so-called pivot to Asia.
That infuriates China, which wants the U.S. to mind its own
business. For America, it’s an opportunity to regain a foothold
in the world’s most dynamic region and flaunt its bona fides as
a peacekeeper.  Getting Ugly  It is worth considering how ugly things could get very
quickly. Six months ago, it would have seemed hyperbolic to warn
of armed clashes on the  region ’s seas. Yet the steady
ratcheting-up of hostilities between China and other Asian
governments, fueled by a noxious nationalism, suggests this
“black swan” risk can no longer be ignored.  “While the likelihood of major conflict remains low, all
of the trends are in the wrong direction, and prospects of
resolution are diminishing,” the  International Crisis Group 
warned in a July 24  report .  All this threatens to overwhelm ties between the U.S. and
China at a time when cooperation between these two superpowers
has never been more important. This week, China’s state media
fired a new rhetorical salvo, telling the U.S. to “shut up”
and stop “fanning the flames.”  China is livid over comments by one of Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton’s deputies criticizing the Chinese government
for sending a “seriously wrong signal” to Asian nations. China
is establishing a city and military garrison in another group of
atolls, the Paracel Islands, and plans to physically block
foreign access to a disputed reef off the coast of the
Philippines. Taiwan and  Vietnam  also claim sovereignty over the
islands.  The question is how to keep these tensions from imperiling
the Asian Century. The only answer is a regional agreement. This
issue can’t be dealt with bilaterally. China isn’t about to give
up its claims and now has the economic and military power to
enforce them. Nor are officials in neighboring capitals about to
give in. The U.S. can huff and puff, but it has little direct
leverage in Asia these days.  What’s needed is a face-saving way to share resources
jointly and devise an enforceable code of conduct for the seas.
That’s only possible on a regional basis. China will only
respect a show of diplomatic force -- nations joining together,
with the backing of the U.S. if needed. A new forum is required,
as well. The 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  is
a multinational shop, but it is as toothless as it is
disjointed.  Fair Play  China doesn’t play fair on a bilateral level and probably
never will. Look no further than last month’s Asean meeting. For
the first time in 45 years, Asean couldn’t agree on a joint
communique. China, which isn’t an Asean member, objected to any
reference to territorial disputes.  Cambodia, which holds the bloc’s rotating chairmanship, did
China’s bidding by leaving the most important issue facing Asia
on the cutting-room floor.  Impoverished Cambodia relies on billions of dollars of
Chinese aid, and knows well China’s propensity for economic
blackmail. The Philippines’ firm stance against China in the
dispute, for example, has impeded trade between the nations.
China blocked shipments of rare-earth materials to Japan after a
Chinese fishing trawler clashed with Japanese ships in contested
waters. It threatened to scrap free-trade agreement talks with
 Norway  after the Nobel Committee honored jailed Chinese
dissident  Liu Xiaobo .  China may not know, or even care, that it is squandering a
decade of public-relations success in Asia. The country
skillfully exploited the U.S.’s distractions after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, pumping aid, economic growth and goodwill
into the void. Now ham-handed diplomacy is costing it
credibility and influence, prompting other nations to rally
around the U.S.  Asian leaders should join hands, put aside the anger and
find a collective solution. Forgive me, but it’s the only way
the region can build a bridge over troubled water.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls  and on parents who refuse to have their  kids
vaccinated ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections don’t predict
future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not economic)
depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to lose ; Jonathan
Weil on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ;  Steven Greenhut 
on the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff investors ; Caleb
Scharf on  future telescopes  that could better explore black
holes.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  