-- Syrian Fight Uproots 1.5 Million as Iran Urges Cease-Fire
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-08-10T13:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/iran-starts-meeting-on-syria-crisis-amid-aleppo-battle-correct-.html
About 1.5 million people in Syria
have been forced to flee their homes because of the conflict
raging between government forces and rebels fighting to topple
President Bashar al-Assad, said Chaloka Beyani, a United Nations
 human-rights  official.  The number of displaced persons and refugees fleeing to
neighboring countries has grown as the fighting has escalated,
with the government using artillery, aircraft and tanks to
attack rebels in places such as Aleppo, Syria’s largest city.
More than 21,000 people have died since the unrest broke out 17
months ago, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says.  “The intense fighting and use of heavy weaponry in densely
populated areas are a major concern,” Beyani, the UN’s special
rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement from Geneva.  Assad loyalists killed 83 people across the country today,
including 51 in Aleppo, according to the activist Local
Coordination Committees. The Obama administration is preparing
new sanctions on Assad’s government and its allies, the
 Associated Press  reported today, citing unnamed senior officials
traveling with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  In Tehran, a 27-nation conference on Syria convened by Iran
endorsed that nation’s call for a three-month cease-fire to
begin with Eid al-Fitr, the end of Ramadan, which falls around
Aug. 19.  ‘Dangerous Impacts’  The final communique called for discussing “political
solutions based on national dialogue,” while also warning of
the “dangerous impacts” if other nations continue to arm the
Syrian opposition. Participants in the conference included
Russia and China, which have blocked UN  Security Council  actions
against Syria, as well as Algeria,  Belarus , Cuba, India, Iraq,
 Nicaragua , Oman, Pakistan, Venezuela and  Zimbabwe .  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said the Islamic
Republic supports in principle the Syrian opposition demands for
a multiparty political system.  “The opposition is saying that it wants the Syrian regime
to leave, and this is where we disagree,” he said.  A U.S. State Department spokesman, Patrick Ventrell,
dismissed Iran’s assertion that it is seeking a solution given
how it has helped Assad “stage-manage this repression.”  “It’s just hard to imagine how they could be a
constructive actor in facilitating a political solution to the
crisis,” he told reporters in  Washington .  Mecca Meeting  The meeting was the latest effort by Iran to aid its ally
and emphasize what it describes as foreign interference in
Syria. It came five days before the start of an Aug. 14-15
“emergency summit” of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
called by  Saudi Arabia , which backs Syria’s rebels. Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  is scheduled to attend the meeting
in Mecca.  Assad appointed Wael al-Halqi as prime minister, state
television reported yesterday, following this week’s defection
to Jordan of Riad Hijab.  The government said a ground assault resulted in the
capture of key districts in Aleppo, Syria’s most populated urban
region, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  Much of the fighting has been in and around the Salaheddin
district.  Al Jazeera  cited rebel commanders yesterday as saying
they withdrew forces from parts of Salaheddin and the Associated
Press reported the rebels said they were low on ammunition.  Rebel Strength  The U.S. believes the opposition is gaining ground,
Ventrell said.  “Despite this onslaught, we think the army is increasingly
overstretched” and the economy is strained, he said at a
briefing. “We think the rebels are getting stronger, so they
may tactically retreat from neighborhoods here or there, but the
broader trend line is that the opposition continues to gain
strength as they hold large swaths of territory in the north.”  Clinton heads to  Turkey  to discuss ways to end the Syrian
conflict. She’ll meet tomorrow with Turkish Foreign Minister
 Ahmet Davutoglu  in Istanbul.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague today pledged an extra
5 million pounds ($7.8 million) in “non-lethal” assistance to
the rebels, possibly including medical supplies, communications
equipment and body armor.  In  New York ,  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN,
said the Security Council shouldn’t extend the unarmed observer
mission in Syria in its current form. The council is scheduled
to consider the question on Aug. 16, three days before the
mission is due to end.  UN Mission  “The extreme use of violence and heavy weapons by the
government do not permit the UNSMIS monitors -— or any monitors
at this point who are unarmed —- to do the job they were sent to
do,” she  said , using the acronym for the UN monitoring mission.  “That portion of UN activity is not able to function as
the council had hoped when it was authorized,” Rice told
reporters at the UN. “So that will not continue as far as we’re
concerned. We would certainly be willing to entertain other
conceptions of a UN presence. There will be a country team.
There will be a humanitarian presence. Perhaps there will be
recommendations that will be more political in nature that we
can consider favorably.”  Annan Successor  Rice said the U.S. is “open minded” about a successor to
special envoy  Kofi Annan , who resigned when his mediating effort
failed to stem the bloodshed. Veteran UN troubleshooter Lakhdar Brahimi may succeed Annan, diplomats said yesterday.  The former Algerian foreign minister served as special
representative and head of the UN Assistance Mission in
 Afghanistan  from 2001 to 2004. Before that, Brahimi was the
secretary-general’s special envoy for Afghanistan for two years,
until October 1999.  Members of the French government clashed publicly with
their predecessors after former President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met
with a Syrian rebel leader and said in a statement that the
situation in Syria “shared great similarities with the Libyan
crisis,” suggesting that  France  and its allies should intervene
militarily.  Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius told Le Parisien yesterday
that he was “stunned Sarkozy would be polemic on such a serious
issue” and he “expected otherwise from a former president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  