-- Spanish, Italian Notes Fall as ECB Debt-Purchase Optimism Wanes
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-09T15:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/italian-spanish-two-year-notes-decline-after-dbrs-downgrades.html
Spanish and Italian two-year notes
fell for a third day amid speculation the  European Central
Bank ’s plan to purchase the two nations’ securities won’t be
sufficient to stem the regional debt crisis.  The notes underperformed their regional peers after an ECB
quarterly survey of professional forecasters predicted the euro-
area contraction this year will be worse than previously
estimated. Spanish and Italian bonds jumped last week after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank may buy government
debt in unison with the region’s bailout funds. Greek bonds
dropped for the first time in four days as the jobless rate
climbed to the most on record.  “The market’s keeping a close eye on  Italy  and Spain,”
said  David Schnautz , a New York-based fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG. “The momentum since the ECB meeting is running
out of steam. Spanish bonds are under some pressure. The market
gets nervous when it sees double-digit increases in two-year
yields.”  Spain’s two-year note yield climbed 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 4.02 percent at 4:01 p.m. London time
after falling to 3.38 percent on Aug. 6, the lowest level since
May 9. The 4.75 percent bond due in July 2014 dropped 0.28, or
2.80 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,232) face amount, to 101.345.  The Italian  two-year note yield  climbed six basis points to
3.26 percent after rising 16 basis points during the previous
two days.  ‘Necessary Conditions’  The ECB said in its monthly bulletin today that it may
intervene in bond markets in tandem with  Europe ’s bailout funds,
only if troubled nations commit to improving their economies and
fiscal positions.  “The adherence of governments to their commitments and the
fulfillment by the European Financial Stability
Facility/European Stability Mechanism of their role are
necessary conditions,” the central bank said, echoing the
comments made by Draghi on Aug. 2. The ECB “may undertake
outright open market operations of a size adequate to reach its
objective,” it said.  Spanish two-year note yields dropped by more than those on
the nation’s 10-year bonds last week, pushing the so-called
yield curve steeper.  DBRS Inc., one of the four companies accepted by the ECB to
rate the securities it takes as collateral, yesterday downgraded
the credit ratings of  Spain  and Italy, citing a weakening growth
outlook in the countries and deteriorating funding conditions.  Germany ’s bunds swung between gains and losses. The 10-year
yield was three basis points higher at 1.45 percent after
earlier falling as much as two basis points.  Yield Curve  The difference between Spanish two- and 10-year yields
narrowed for a third day, shrinking 14 basis points to 287 basis
points. The spread reached a  record  343 basis points on Aug. 6,
up from 182 basis points on the day before Draghi spoke.  The  gap  between Italian two- and 10-year yields contracted
11 basis points to 258 basis points. It widened to 310 basis
points on Aug. 6, the most since March 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market has already tried to discount more ECB buying
in short-dated maturities,” Commerzbank’s Schnautz said. “With
two-year yields at these levels, it’s difficult to argue for
much more steepness in the curve.”  Greek 10-year bonds fell after the number of citizens
without a job increased toward a quarter of the total workforce.  The  jobless rate  rose to 23.1 percent from 22.6 percent in
April, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical Authority said.
That’s the highest level since the agency began publishing
monthly data in 2004.  The yield on Greek bonds due in February 2023 climbed three
basis points to 24.31 percent. The price dropped 0.03 to 19.81
percent of face value.  German  government bonds  returned 3.3 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Spanish bonds fell 4.3 percent, and Italy’s rose 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  