-- Liverpool Nears $23 Million Deal for Swansea’s Allen: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-09T06:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/liverpool-nears-23-million-deal-for-swansea-s-allen-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Allen Key  Brendan Rodgers  is close to making  Joe Allen  his second
signing as Liverpool manager after the club triggered the 15
million-pound ($23.5 million) release clause in the Swansea City
midfielder’s contract, the  Guardian reported .  Liverpool has exploited a technicality in Allen’s agreement
that allows him to join one of five specified clubs for 15
million pounds and the 22-year-old is now free to discuss a move
to Anfield, the newspaper added.  Agger Package  Liverpool wants Manchester City to loan  Adam Johnson  in
addition to paying 23 million pounds to sign defender  Daniel Agger , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Although City improved its initial bid of 13 million pounds
to 20 million pounds, that offer also was rejected by Liverpool,
the newspaper said. City officials remain confident they can do
a deal for Agger, who has two years left on his contract, the
Mirror added.  Van Persie Premium  Arsenal won’t sell captain  Robin van Persie  for less than
20 million pounds and will demand a premium fee of at least 25
million pounds for the Netherlands striker to join  Manchester
United , the  Mirror reported .  Juventus, which also been trying to sign the Gunners’
captain, claimed van Persie has said he will not move to Italy
and was signing for another team, the newspaper added.  Improved Offer  Chelsea is preparing an improved bid of about 20 million
pounds for Bayer Leverkusen striker Andre Schurrle, who is open
to a move to the Premier League, the  Daily Mail reported .  Schurrle, 21, remains a priority target for Chelsea, even
though Leverkusen hasn’t heard from the Blues since their
opening offer of 16 million pounds was rebuffed, the Mail added.  Spurs Approach Cesar  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas has held talks
with the agent of Inter Milan goalkeeper Julio Cesar as he bids
to boost his options in the position, the  Guardian reported .  Villas-Boas has turned to 32-year-old Brazil international
Cesar because Lyon’s  Hugo Lloris , his top target, may be too
expensive, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  