-- Japan Utilities Emit Record CO2 After Fukushima Disaster
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-08-09T00:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/japan-utilities-emit-record-co2-after-fukushima-disaster.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  and nine
other Japanese power companies emitted a record amount of carbon
dioxide in the year ended March 31 as the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
disaster spurred a surge in crude and  fuel-oil  consumption.  The regional power companies produced about 439 million
tons of CO2 for the year, up 17 percent from 374 million tons in
the year ended in March 2011, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data provided by the companies.  Kansai
Electric Power Co. (9503) , the Japanese utility that relied most on
nuclear power, discharged 65.7 million tons, a 40 percent
increase in CO2 emissions.  Japan  was forced to find alternative to nuclear power,
which produces virtually no greenhouse gas emissions linked to
 climate change , after last year’s earthquake and tsunami caused
the worst radioactive contamination since Chernobyl in the 1980s.
With all but two of the country’s 50 nuclear reactors offline
and no date set to restart them, Japan is using record amounts
of liquefied natural gas and sharply higher levels of fuel oil
and crude to generate power.  The increased use of fossil fuels, especially fuel oil and
crude, is making it harder for Japan to meet its target of a 25
percent reduction in  greenhouse gases  by the end of the decade.
Japan has pledged to reduce carbon dioxide by an average 6
percent from 2008 through 2012 from 1990 levels under the  Kyoto
Protocol , which limits releases by industrial countries.  The 10 regional utilities used about 30 million tons of
carbon credits to offset their emissions in the last fiscal year,
compared with 57 million tons a year earlier, according to
calculations based on the companies’ data.  Starting From Scratch  “Objectively speaking, there is no doubt that it is more
difficult to achieve the 25 percent reduction goal than
before,” Naomi Hirose, president of the utility known as Tepco,
said in a June interview before he was officially approved as
the new chief. Japan’s emission target was based on the premise
that the country would build more reactors, Hirose said.  The Japanese government decided to start from scratch on
its long-term  energy policy  after the magnitude-9 quake and
tsunami caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tepco’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. The government
previously called for increasing the ratio of electricity supply
from nuclear power to 45 percent from 26 percent by 2030.  Japan is considering three options for nuclear energy in
2030: zero percent, 15 percent and as much as 25 percent of the
country’s total electricity. About 70 percent of people at 11
hearings hosted by the government supported the zero-nuclear
option, the Asahi newspaper reported Aug. 4.  Combined Losses  Under the zero-nuclear scenario, Japan’s CO2 emissions
reduction from 1990 may be as little as 16 percent, a government
panel said in a June 29  report . The country can achieve a 23
percent reduction in emissions by 2030 without nuclear power if
Japan gets 35 percent of its electricity from renewable sources,
up from 10 percent now, and implements “strict regulations in
wide areas,”  and bans the sale of products that aren’t energy
efficient, the panel said.  While manufacturers of solar panels,  wind turbines  and
other renewable power equipment would benefit from the expansion
of clean energy, power companies, which have posted combined
losses of 3.6 trillion yen since the Fukushima disaster in March
2011, may not be able to afford enough carbon credits to help
the country meet the CO2 reduction target.  Tepco, in particular, can’t keep buying carbon credits as
the utility faces costs for compensating radiation victims,
decommissioning and clean-up costs stemming from the Fukushima
disaster, Hirose said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  