-- Japan Growth May Slow to Half Previous Pace as Exports Wane
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-08-10T01:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/japan-growth-seen-slowing-to-half-previous-pace-as-exports-wane.html
Japan’s economy probably grew last
quarter at half the pace of the previous three months, a
slowdown analysts predict is deepening as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and the yen’s gains erode exports.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 2.3 percent
in the three months through June, compared with 4.7 percent in
the first quarter, according to the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Cabinet Office will
release the report on Aug. 13.  The slump may deepen this quarter, with exporters from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  to  Canon Inc. (7751)  in the past month cutting profit projections
because of waning overseas growth. As Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  prepares to push a sales-tax increase through the Diet
today, pressure may rise on policy makers to consider a
supplementary budget and monetary stimulus to shore up demand.  “We need to be alert to the downside risks to the economy,
especially in the third quarter,” as the global slump spills
over to Japan, said Kohei Okazaki, an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s largest brokerage.
“There’s a possibility monetary and fiscal stimulus will be
implemented by the end of the year.”  A separate survey of analysts by Bloomberg News shows
growth will further cool to 1 percent this quarter.  Monetary Easing  The  Bank of Japan  refrained from easing policy at a board
meeting yesterday. Central banks around the world have been
supporting their economies as Europe’s woes deepen. The
 Philippines  unexpectedly cut  interest rates  a third time this
year to a record low on July 26, and the U.S. Federal Reserve
said on Aug. 1 that it will pump fresh stimulus if necessary.  Sony last week cut its profit forecast after gains in the
yen eroded overseas earnings and sales of consumer electronics
weakened. Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, also cut its
full-year profit estimate because of a stronger yen and
expectations for weaker growth in the U.S., Europe and  China .
Sony and Canon get about 70 percent and 80 percent of sales
revenue from outside Japan, respectively.  Adding to the woes of manufacturers is the yen’s 6.4
percent advance against the dollar since mid-March, which is
cutting profitability. The yen traded at 78.58 per dollar as of
9:54 a.m. in Tokyo, hovering close to last year’s postwar high
of 75.35. Exports slid for the first time in four months in
June, falling 2.3 percent.  Slowing Orders  A report yesterday showed that machinery orders, an
indicator of future  capital spending , missed analysts’
forecasts, rising 5.6 percent after falling in May the most in
more than a decade.  “It’s unavoidable that Japan’s recovery will lose steam
toward the end of the year,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management in Tokyo. “The
uncertainties over the global economy are increasing and there’s
a chance for the yen to strengthen further,” supporting the
case for further monetary easing.  Net exports, or shipments less imports, were probably
unchanged in the second quarter, failing to contribute to the
nation’s 0.6 percent quarter-on-quarter expansion, analysts said
in a Bloomberg News survey. Overseas demand added 0.1 percentage
point to growth in the first three months of the year, according
to a government report.  IMF Projections  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2013 global
growth forecasts last month on Europe’s debt crisis and slower
expansions in  emerging markets . Even with the slower growth,
 Japan ’s economy probably maintained the fastest expansion among
its Group of Seven peers in the April-to-June period as
rebuilding from last year’s earthquake and government incentives
to purchase fuel-efficient cars bolstered demand.  Mizuho Securities Co. expects the car subsidy program to
expire this month, which may increase the nation’s reliance on
overseas demand for growth. Noda said in parliament on July 9
that he will respond with measures including an extra budget to
help the economy if needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  