-- Jobless Claims Fall in Sign U.S. Job Market Mending: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-09T20:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fall-as-labor-market-mends.html
Fewer Americans filed  applications 
for  unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the labor market may
keep improving after hiring picked up in July.  Jobless claims unexpectedly dropped by 6,000 to 361,000 in
the week ended Aug. 4, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The  median  forecast of 43 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase to 370,000. Other reports
showed  consumer confidence  dropped to a two-month low and home
prices climbed by the most since 2006.  The decrease in firings indicates the job market continues
to mend after payrolls rose last month by the most since
February. The world’s largest economy needs bigger gains in
employment to prevent the lingering  European debt crisis  and
approaching U.S. fiscal cliff from derailing the economic
expansion.  “There’s a gradual improvement on the layoffs side,” said
 Peter Newland , an economist in  New York  for Barclays Plc, who
projected claims would drop to 360,000. There will be “a bit of
a rebound in the second half. It’s not going to be spectacular,
but it should be better than the first half.”  Most stocks rose, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
its longest rally since March. The  S&P 500  advanced less than
0.1 percent to 1,402.8 at the close in New York.  The economic slowdown in  Europe  curtailed Britain’s exports
in the second quarter, producing a record trade deficit, other
data today showed.  Asia Slowdown  Elsewhere, China’s inflation and industrial production
growth cooled in July, and central banks in  Japan  and  South
Korea  saw little sign of price pressures, underscoring the scope
for monetary stimulus should the European crisis deepen.  U.S. jobless claims estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 359,000 to 385,000. The Labor Department revised the
previous week’s figure up to 367,000 from an initially reported
365,000.  A Labor Department spokesman said last week that today’s
data should be clear of any influence from the annual auto plant
retooling closures that make it difficult to adjust the data for
seasonal variations. That would make it a truer reading of
underlying labor market conditions.  The employment report for July issued last week showed
163,000 workers were added to payrolls last month following a
64,000 increase in June.  Losing Confidence  Rising gasoline prices may be preventing Americans from
getting a lift from the improvement in hiring.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 41.9
in the week ended Aug. 5 from minus 39.7 as Americans became
more discouraged about the economy. The gauge hasn’t climbed
since the end of June. Americans’ view of the economy fell to
the lowest level since February.  “The American public is downright sour on their own
economic prospects and those of the nation as a whole,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York.  Nonetheless, there are signs that housing, the industry
that triggered the worst recession in the post-World War II era,
is stabilizing.  The median sales  price  for single-family homes was $181,500
in the second quarter, up 7.3 percent from the same period last
year, the strongest annual increase since the first quarter of
2006, according to a report today from the National Association
of Realtors. Values increased in 110 of 147 metropolitan areas
measured from the same time last year, compared with 74 in the
first quarter.  Trade Deficit  Another report today showed the trade deficit in the U.S.
shrank in June as imports dropped and exports climbed. The gap
narrowed 11 percent to $42.9 billion, the smallest since
December 2010, Commerce Department figures showed. Exports rose
to a record on demand for autos and industrial engines.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  of  Mountain View ,  California , the biggest
professional-networking website, is showing an increase in
activity among job-seeking customers.  “We’re about two times where we were last year in terms of
hiring happening through the LinkedIn products within our
customers,” Chief Financial Officer Steven Sordello said on an
Aug. 2 earnings call. “Given European weakness where job growth
has been slower, that rate is even higher.”  Reducing Headcount  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  is among companies announcing job cuts.
The biggest maker of computer-networking equipment plans to
eliminate about 1,300 jobs, or 2 percent of the workforce, as
Europe’s debt crisis and sluggish corporate spending threaten
sales.  Last week’s jobs report also showed the  unemployment rate 
climbed to a five-month high of 8.3 percent in July. Joblessness
has been above 8 percent since February 2009 -- the longest
stretch in the post-World War II era.  Fed officials, at the conclusion of a two-day meeting last
week, left unchanged their statement that economic conditions
would likely warrant holding the benchmark interest rate target
near zero at least through late 2014.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will closely monitor
incoming information on economic and financial developments and
will provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a
stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor
market conditions in a context of  price stability ,” it said in
a statement. The group “expects economic growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very
gradually.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  