-- JPMorgan Trading-Loss Days Most Since Financial Crisis
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-08-09T13:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/jpmorgan-trading-loss-days-most-since-financial-crisis.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  posted more
unprofitable trading days than any quarter since the depth of
the financial crisis as the largest  U.S. bank  struggled to
unwind credit-derivatives bets.  Traders lost money on 28 days in the second quarter,
compared with one day in the first three months of the year, New
York-based JPMorgan said today in a regulatory filing. That was
more than in all of 2011 and the most since 37 days of losses in
the fourth quarter of 2008, after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled global markets.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, ousted traders and
managers and overhauled the ranks of senior executives amid $5.8
billion in losses on a trading position at the chief investment
office in  London . The losses prompted the retirement of Chief
Investment Officer Ina Drew and spurred shareholder lawsuits and
probes by the U.S. Justice Department,  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and Securities and Exchange Commission.  The bank “appreciably reduced the risk profile” of the
derivatives portfolio during the quarter, JPMorgan said in the
filing. It said the portfolio “under certain extreme, simulated
scenarios” could lose as much as an additional $1.7 billion,
the same figure Dimon gave last month.  So-called value-at-risk, or VaR, which measures how much
the bank estimates it could lose on 95 percent of its trading
days, increased to $201 million during the second quarter from
an average of $94 million during the same period last year.  Exceeding VaR  Three of the daily losses during the second quarter
exceeded the firm’s VaR because of the synthetic credit
portfolio.  Traders in JPMorgan’s investment bank, chief investment
office and mortgage unit posted gains exceeding $200 million on
two days in the second quarter, compared with one day in the
previous period.  Morgan Stanley traders incurred losses on 15 days during
the second quarter, with none exceeding $50 million, the New
York-based company said in an Aug. 6 filing. Bank of America
Corp., the second-largest U.S. lender, recorded trading losses
on three days in the quarter, with the biggest at $11 million,
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  