-- JPMorgan Probes Expand to at Least 11 Agencies
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-08-09T14:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/jpmorgan-probes-expand-to-at-least-11-agencies.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is being
investigated by at least 11 state, federal and international
enforcement bodies as the bank struggles to contain damage from
a botched derivatives trade that cost it at least $5.8 billion.  Authorities in  Singapore ,  Germany  and  Japan  have joined the
list of agencies probing the largest U.S. bank’s trading errors,
the company said in a regulatory filing today. The U.S.  Justice
Department , Congress, Securities and Exchange Commission and
U.K. Financial Services Authority are among those examining the
bank, which could still lose as much as $1.7 billion more on its
credit derivatives portfolio, the company said. The bungled
trade may also make it more difficult to resolve other pending
reviews, the company said.  “The firm expects heightened scrutiny by its regulators of
its compliance with new and existing regulations,” the company
said. Regulators will more frequently bring “formal enforcement
actions for violations of law rather than resolving those
violations through informal supervisory processes.”  The bank reiterated it found “material weakness” within
its internal controls and financial reporting related to the
trade and, as a result, its initial first-quarter results
couldn’t be relied on.  Eight civil lawsuits have already been filed since the bank
initially disclosed problems in its synthetic credit derivatives
book on May 10, the bank said. It is “reasonably possible”
that JPMorgan’s legal troubles could exceed its litigation
reserves by as much as $5.3 billion as of June 30, the bank
said. The Justice Department and SEC are also among agencies
investigating the bank’s possible role in an international bid-
rigging scheme to manipulate the London interbank offered rate,
or Libor, the bank said.  Stock Slump  The company’s stock market value has declined by more than
$25 billion since Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that the
bank had amassed a large and illiquid position in credit
derivatives at its chief investment office in London. JPMorgan
was unchanged at $37.16 at 9:50 a.m. in  New York .  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, ousted traders and
managers and overhauled the ranks of senior executives after
initially disclosing trading losses in May. Chief Investment
Officer Ina Drew retired days later, voluntarily forfeiting as
much as two years of compensation, and the New York-based
company said it would seek to claw back pay of other executives.  The bank restated first-quarter results last month, paring
profit by $459 million, in part because an internal review
revealed that U.K. traders had priced their books
“aggressively,” Mike Cavanagh, who ran the investigation, told
analysts on July 13. Cavanagh, 46, was elevated in the shakeup
announced July 28 from head of Treasury and Security Services to
co-CEO of an expanded corporate and investment bank.  Credit Derivatives  The mispricing made losses on a portfolio of credit
derivatives look smaller than they were, and executives
concluded that traders may have sought to hide the “full amount
of losses,” JPMorgan said in a  presentation .  The decision to restate results was made one day before
JPMorgan reported second-quarter net income of $4.96 billion,
and after executives and lawyers interviewed employees, and
reviewed thousands of hours of calls and about 1 million e-
mails, Cavanagh said in the call last month.  JPMorgan ended synthetic trading at the chief investment
office and transferred the rest of the position to the
investment bank, executives said last month. The CIO retained an
$11 billion short position in “basically liquid indexes” to
hedge other credit assets, Dimon said during a July 13 meeting
with analysts. Positions in Series 9 of the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, a credit-swaps benchmark known
as IG9 that’s at the heart of much of the loss, were cut by 70
percent, he said.  ‘Down Substantially’  The bank transferred about $30 billion of risk-weighted
assets from the CIO to the investment bank, an amount that’s
“down substantially” from an earlier peak and back to levels
at the end of 2011, he said.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine said July 14 that he’s
seeking to lead a proposed class-action against JPMorgan after
state pension funds lost more than $27.5 million due to the
“alleged fraud.” Two funds for state employees held about 10.2
million JPMorgan shares as of March 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Dimon transformed the unit in recent years to boost profit
by buying higher-yielding assets such as structured credit,
equities and derivatives, Bloomberg News reported on April 13,
citing former employees.  Dimon dismissed initial news reports about the  London 
operation as a “tempest in a teapot” when the bank reported
first-quarter results April 13. He reversed course less than
four weeks later, disclosing a $2 billion loss that he said
could grow to $3 billion or more during the quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  