-- June Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Decrease as Sales Plunge
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-09T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/june-wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-decrease-as-sales-plunge.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers
unexpectedly dropped in June as distributors suffered the
biggest decrease in sales in three years.  The 0.2 percent decline in stockpiles, the biggest since
September, followed no change in May, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . Sales plunged 1.4 percent, the
most since March 2009.  Businesses may be cutting inventories in line with slowing
demand as wholesalers had enough goods on hand to last 1.2
months at the current sales pace, the most since December 2009.
Weak consumer spending and fiscal worries in the U.S. may be
making businesses cautious about growing stockpiles.  “Businesses are not going to want to be accumulating
inventories going into year-end,” Mike Englund, chief economist
at Action Economics in Boulder,  Colorado , said before the
report.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists
called for a 0.3 percent gain. Forecasts ranged from unchanged
to an increase of 0.6 percent.  Other reports today showed fewer Americans filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week and the trade
deficit shrank more than forecast in June.  Jobless claims dropped by 6,000 to 361,000 in the week
ended Aug. 4, Labor Department figures showed. The  median 
forecast of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
an increase to 370,000.  Trade Deficit  The trade deficit in the U.S. shrank to $42.9 billion in
June as imports dropped and exports climbed, according to
figures from the Commerce Department.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.1 percent in June, the Commerce Department
said on August 2. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest,
will be included in the August 14 business inventory report.  Wholesalers’ inventories of durable goods, or those meant
to last several years, increased 0.2 percent as sales dropped
0.7 percent, today’s report showed. Stockpiles of machinery
climbed 1.1 percent, reflecting a 2.8 percent decline in sales,
the biggest since October 2009.  Stockpiles of non-durable goods, which are often influenced
by swings in prices, decreased 0.8 percent in June while sales
slumped 1.9 percent.  Companies have added to inventories at a $64.6 billion at
an annual pace on average over the past three quarters, the most
over a similar period since the first nine months of 2006,
according to Commerce Department data released prior to today’s
report. That may make it difficult for additional stockpiling to
add to growth in the second half of 2012.  U.S. Growth  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.5 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, with inventories contributing
0.32 percentage point to gross domestic product, according to
data from the Commerce Department.  Today’s wholesale report will probably shave last quarter’s
contribution to growth from inventories.  Lumber companies, which were particularly stung by the
U.S. housing slowdown, are starting to report increased demand.  “We are beginning to see real improvement in housing
activities; excellent affordability, positive moves in home
values in many metro markets,” said Rick Holley, president and
chief executive officer of Plum Creek Timber Co. Inc. in
 Seattle , Washington. “As the economy and housing activity
continues to recover, this will ultimately translate into higher
prices for timber and growth in our income and cash flow.”  Holley, speaking on a July 30 earnings call, said
businesses remain worried about U.S. tax and spending policy.  ‘That’s kind of an overhang on business today, both of
those things, and until we see more certainty with either, I
think there will be some hesitancy of American business to
really make investments,” Holley said. “But clarity on those
two areas is going to help everybody in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  