-- U.S. Won’t Prosecute Goldman Sachs, Employees Over CDO Deals
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-08-10T18:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/justice-finds-no-viable-basis-for-charges-against-goldman.html
The U.S. Justice Department won’t
pursue criminal charges against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  or its
employees for allegedly concealing that the bank bet against
mortgage-related securities that it sold to investors.  The Justice Department, along with the U.S. attorney’s
office for the Southern District of New York, reviewed the
possibility of prosecution after the Goldman Sachs deals were
faulted in a Senate investigative panel’s report last year.  Prosecutors “determined that, based on the law and
evidence as they exist at this time, there is not a viable basis
to bring a criminal prosecution with respect to Goldman Sachs or
its employees in regard to the allegations set forth in the
report,” the Justice Department said yesterday in a statement.  The Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
concluded in April 2011 that Goldman Sachs had peddled the
securities to its clients while failing to disclose that the
firm had bet that those instruments would lose value. The
investigation pinned much of the blame for the credit crisis on
Wall Street banks that earned billions of dollars by enticing
clients to buy the risky bonds.  Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma ,
the panel’s Democratic chairman and senior Republican, referred
the report to the Justice Department to see whether criminal
charges were merited.  “We are pleased that this matter is behind us,”  David Wells , a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in a
statement yesterday.  Blankfein Testimony  The financial-crisis inquiry was the subcommittee’s longest
probe under Levin, lasting two years by the time the panel
completed its work. The staff amassed 56 million pages of memos,
documents, prospectuses and e-mails, Levin said last year.  As part of the investigation, Levin brought seven current
and former Goldman Sachs executives, including Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and Chief Operating Officer Gary D.
Cohn, before the panel for questioning about their actions
before the 2008 financial crisis.  Blankfein said in his testimony that the firm never bet
against its clients for its own profit.  When the panel’s 640-page report was released, Levin said
he wanted the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission to examine whether Goldman Sachs broke the law by
misleading clients who bought the complex securities, known as
collateralized debt obligations, without knowing the firm would
benefit if they fell in value.  ‘Deceptive and Immoral’  “Its actions did immense harm to its clients, and helped
create the financial crisis that nearly plunged us into a second
Great Depression,” Levin said in a statement today. “Whether
the decision by the  Department of Justice  is the product of weak
laws or weak enforcement, Goldman Sachs’ actions were deceptive
and immoral.”  Levin said in the statement the regulators implementing the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the financial-overhaul law responding to
the credit crisis, must resist efforts to weaken regulations and
enforce them strongly.  A separate SEC lawsuit in April 2010, accusing Goldman
Sachs of misleading investors in the sale of securities that bet
on subprime mortgages, caused the  company’s stock  to plunge 13
percent on the day it was filed and roiled the broader market.
The investment bank paid $550 million to settle the case in July
that year, saying it had made a “mistake” in omitting
disclosures.  ‘Exhaustive Review’  The  Justice Department  said yesterday it conducted “an
exhaustive review of the report and its exhibits, independently
gathered and scrutinized a large volume of other documents and
tenaciously pursued potential evidentiary leads, including
conducting numerous witness interviews.”  “If any additional or new evidence emerges, today’s
assessment does not prevent the department from reviewing such
evidence and making a different determination, if warranted,”
the department said.  The government’s announcement came the same day that
Goldman Sachs disclosed that U.S. regulators had decided against
filing suit against the firm over its role in selling $1.3
billion of mortgage-backed securities. The decision by the SEC
marked a reversal of course for the agency after its
investigators warned in February that they intended to recommend
legal action.  SEC lawyers told Goldman Sachs on Aug. 6 that they no
longer planned to pursue claims against the bank, the company
said yesterday in a regulatory filing. The regulator had sent
Goldman Sachs a so-called Wells notice in February, which
typically gives recipients a chance to dissuade investigators
from recommending the agency authorize enforcement action.  After gaining 1.1 percent yesterday, Goldman Sachs today
 fell  1.3 percent by 2:30 p.m. to $102.26 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  