-- Kinross Says Costs Review May Require ‘Tough Decisions’
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-08-09T20:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/kinross-says-costs-review-may-require-tough-decisions-.html
Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  Chief Executive
Officer J. Paul Rollinson, a week into his job after his
predecessor was fired, said he’s initiating a companywide review
to cut costs that may require “tough decisions.”  “Given rising costs, I believe we need to get back to the
fundamentals of our business,” Rollinson said yesterday in the
company’s second-quarter earnings statement.  Kinross has tumbled 32 percent this year in Toronto after
taking a $2.49 billion writedown on the Tasiast mine in
 Mauritania , which it bought as part of its C$8 billion ($8.07
billion) acquisition of Red Back Mining Inc. in September 2010.
Kinross said Aug. 1 that Rollinson, previously vice president
for corporate development, was replacing Tye Burt as CEO.  A change of leadership was needed to guide Toronto-based
Kinross through its “capital and project optimization
process,” the company said last week. Kinross, the third-
largest Canadian gold producer, said in February it would use
stricter criteria for spending and project approvals amid
industrywide cost inflation and would delay development of mines
in Ecuador and  Chile .  The company yesterday raised its 2012 forecast range for
the cost of sales to $690 to $725 per ounce of gold from $670 to
$715 previously.  Kinross  rose  2.4 percent to C$7.96 at the close in Toronto.
Gold futures increased 0.3 percent to settle at $1,620.20 an
ounce on the Comex in  New York .  ‘Serious Challenges’  The gold industry is facing “serious challenges” with
rising costs and project delays that have led to an erosion of
confidence from investors, Rollinson said today on the company’s
earnings conference call.  “We can leave no stone unturned in an effort to cut waste
and build free  cash flow ,” he said. “This value-driven
approach may lead us to make some tough choices.”  Kinross also said yesterday it’s studying a “staged
approach” to expanding Tasiast and will undertake a
prefeasibility study for an expandable mill with an ore-
processing capacity of about 30,000 tons a day. Existing studies
for a 60,000-ton option will continue, it said.  Kinross said it’s also considering smaller options at its
Lobo-Marte project in Chile.  ‘Unattractive Projects’  The new cost-reduction initiative “could raise the odds of
unattractive projects being shelved,” Alec Kodatsky, a Toronto-
based analyst at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a
note yesterday.  At Tasiast, “a staged approach appears the most prudent
means to improve the odds of delivering the project on time and
on budget and within the fiscal constraints of the company,”
Kodatsky said. “Market uncertainty regarding the project will
remain until greater clarity is gained,” he said.  Kinross’s second-quarter net income dropped to 13 cents
from 22 cents a year earlier. Profit excluding an inventory
impairment charge and other items was 14 cents a share, trailing
the 17-cent average of 20 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales climbed to $1.01 billion from $963.6 million. The
average of seven estimates was for $1.02 billion.  The company isn’t the only gold producer to change
leadership in the face of rising development costs. Canada’s
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest producer of the metal,
ousted CEO Aaron Regent and replaced him with Jamie Sokalsky in
June.  Barrick said last month its biggest development project,
the Pascua-Lama mine on the Chile-Argentina border, may cost as
much as 60 percent more than previously estimated. It also
pushed back the startup date by a year. Sokalsky said July 26
the company had begun a review of all its assets.  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  is the second-largest Canadian gold producer
ranked by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  