-- KKR Doubles Rescue Lending as European Banks Take Hard Line
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-08-10T11:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/kkr-doubles-distressed-lending-as-european-banks-take-hard-line.html
KKR & Co., (KKR)  the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , has almost doubled its
direct lending to troubled companies as  Europe ’s financial
crisis forces banks to retreat.  KKR’s special situations group, which focuses on European
distressed debt, increased its investments -- mostly in the form
of privately negotiated lending arrangements -- to $512.5
million in the first half, from $260 million in the first six
months of 2011 and a 23 percent increase over last year’s second
half, according to Nat Zilkha, co-head of the unit within KKR
Asset Management.  KKR, along with Blackstone Group LP and Carlyle Group LP,
have broadened their business beyond buyouts, which have fallen
32 percent globally to $116.2 billion this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm, which
started investing in debt in 2004, is stepping up its direct-
lending as stringent regulatory requirements makes it more
expensive for banks to extend credit.  “There is massive change in the behaviors of banks in the
last six months as they are really taking a hard line with
borrowers, demanding debt payment at maturity instead of
amending and extending,” London-based Zilkha said in an
interview. “We had often spent months and months on deals and
in the last minute banks just agreed to extend, but that’s not
happening anymore.”  Higher Rates  Banks provided $104.1 billion of high-yield loans to
borrowers in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  this year, down
from $139.4 billion a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. Lenders
in the region have pledged to cut more than $1 trillion of
assets to meet tougher  capital requirements  spurred by the
sovereign debt crisis.  “Given the challenges of lending across Europe, private
equity, mezzanine credit and venture capital investment managers
are likely to be the best equipped to adapt to the relationship-
oriented needs of borrowers in existing bank-loan portfolios, as
well as direct lending,” Moody’s Investors Service’s London-
based analyst Michael Eberhardt wrote in a report on Aug. 8.  The average interest margin banks charge non-investment-
grade borrowers has widened 11 percent to 401 basis points more
than benchmark rates this year, according to Bloomberg data. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Market Shift  KKR’s special situations unit took advantage of the
market’s shift in the first quarter of the year, profiting from
most of the $370 million debt it bought in the secondary market
during the third quarter when the yield for  junk bonds 
denominated in euros surged to as high as 11.8 percent last
year.  “The market is currently too bullish on the prospects of a
smooth landing,” Zilkha said in an interview from his office.
“Recent optimism feels overblown and most of the traded names
still feel too high to us.”  KKR Asset Management’s biggest business is its bank-loan
and high-yield debt funds, which have combined assets of about
$12.2 billion.  “Direct lending has a return potential of an additional
200 to 400 basis points of yield, compared with returns on
similar credits in the traded public-bond markets,” Moody’s
said in the Aug. 8 report.  Funding Petroplus  KKR, along with Morgan Stanley and energy investment firm
AtlasInvest agreed to provide short-term funding to the
insolvent Petroplus Holdings AG that allowed the company’s
Coryton refinery near  London  to continue to operate,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Petroplus’ U.K. administrators, said
on Feb. 15.  The special situations unit also provided debt in 2010 to
facilitate the restructuring of U.K. nursing-home operator Four
Seasons Health Care Ltd., which was sold to Guy Hands’ Terra
Firma Capital Partners Ltd. this year.  KKR has raised about $2 billion for special situations
funds, with $486 million left at the end of June, according to
its earnings report on July 27. The stock gained 10.8 percent
this year after finishing 2011 down 9.7 percent.  At least 25 percent of unrated European companies, owned by
private-equity firms, with debt due by 2015 may default as the
economy worsens and owners refuse to inject capital, according
to Moody’s. The default rate could more than double if companies
are shut out of the high-yield  bond market , according to
Moody’s.  Ireland, Greece  As Spanish 10-year government bond yields reached a euro-
era record in July amid a deepening sovereign debt crisis, KKR
has started to look for more investment opportunities in
distressed companies in Ireland and would consider lending to
Greek firms making staple consumer products or generating
significant revenue from other countries, according to Zilkha.  “When everybody is running for the exit that’s usually a
pretty good time to go in, even  Greece ,” he said. “We are
quite bullish on the long-term prospect of Ireland because they
have a highly educated work force and has a very good exports-
led economy that will emerge from the rubble of the property
boom that devastated the country.”  Funds investing in distressed securities generated an
average 4.7 percent return in the first seven months of the
year, according to an index compiled by Lyxor Asset Management,
a unit of Societe Generale SA.  Mezzanine Push  Blackstone bought Dublin-based Harbourmaster Capital
Management Ltd. in October, tripling its European loans under
management to 11.5 billion euros. Carlyle agreed last year to
buy AlpInvest Partners NV, a Dutch  money manager  that oversees
about 32 billion euros in private-equity and mezzanine funds, to
expand its asset-management business.  KKR is also among buyout firms increasing mezzanine
financing as junk bond sales fall. Companies in Europe raised
$59.7 billion from high-yield bonds this year, down from $103.6
billion for the same period of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  KKR has invested almost 40 percent of its first mezzanine
debt fund that closed at more than $1 billion in August 2011,
with about half of it allocated to the region. It is one of the
lead lenders in the 391.5 million-euro ($484 million) mezzanine
financing for EQT Partners AB’s acquisition of German bandage-
supplier BSN Medical, Bloomberg data show.  Higher Yields  “We prefer northern Europe including  Germany  to other
parts of the region because the macro environment is more stable
and creditor rights are more clear cut,” Marc Ciancimino, head
of KKR’s European mezzanine financing unit, said in a telephone
interview. “Holland and the U.K. are the two countries where we
spend the most time but Scandinavia and Germany also continue to
generate interesting ideas.”  About 4 billion euros of funds are being raised this year
to invest in mezzanine financing, according to CEPRES, a private
capital markets information provider. European mezzanine deals
pay an average 11 percent more than benchmark lending rates,
including 6 percent from pay-in-kind debt, according to Munich-
based CEPRES.  KKR’s mezzanine fund seeks to deliver an annual return in
the mid-teens, according to Ciancimino. The firm recently
relocated Alex Ramsay from  San Francisco  to London for its
private-debt business, and hired Amos Ouattara from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  “Mezzanine financing provides certainty and
deliverability, it’s like a precise rifle shot for situations
where you don’t want to take any chances on the public
markets,” Ciancimino said. “We are busier right now in Europe
than in the U.S because of this crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  