-- Knight Says Company May Suffer More Losses From Trade Error
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-08-09T20:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/knight-says-it-may-face-more-burdensome-costs-from-trade-error.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the market
maker that was driven to the verge of bankruptcy after a trading
error, said last week’s mishap may cause more losses.  Should its customers and trading partners lose confidence,
Knight’s reputation and business may suffer, The Jersey City,
New Jersey-based firm said in a government filing. Lawsuits and
regulatory probes may also cost money, it said.  “Just take it as the worst-case scenario where their
lawyers told them put out the worst case,” Bernard Donefer, a
professor of  information systems  in financial markets at  Baruch
College , part of the  City University  of New York, and New York
University’s Stern School of Business, said in an interview.  Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce estimated the
firm’s trading loss will be $270 million after taxes, according
to a letter to clients, compared with a previously reported
pretax loss of $440 million. Knight was saved from collapse on
Aug. 6, when it received a $400 million cash infusion through
the sale of convertible securities to a consortium of investors.  Risk Factors  The firm updated the “Risk Factors” listed in its annual
report with today’s filing to include a discussion of the Aug. 1
trading error and the harm it caused to the confidence of
customers and counterparties. Joyce told clients in the letter
that the company is in talks with outside advisers as it works
to prevent another mishap.  Getco LLC, Blackstone Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., as well as Stephens Inc.
and Jefferies Group Inc. invested in the rescue funding for
knight, according to the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company.
The investment will give the firms a 73 percent stake in Knight
once the shares are converted into common stock.  Joyce said in a telephone interview with Bloomberg on Aug.
6 it was a permanent solution to the solvency crisis that began
with the errant trades. Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for
Jersey City, New Jersey-based Knight, declined to comment today
beyond the filing.  Knight  fell  2.9 percent to $3.07 as of 3:25 p.m. in New
York. Shares have tumbled 70 percent since its $10.33 closing
price before the Aug. 1 software malfunction.  “They shored up the short-term concerns,” Sang Lee,
managing partner at Boston-based research firm Aite Group LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re well into the week and
happy to say they’re still in business, but questions remain
what is the long-term prospect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  