-- Kohl’s Swaps Jump After Retailer Cuts Forecast for 2012 Profit
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-09T21:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/kohl-s-swaps-jump-after-retailer-cuts-forecast-for-2012-profit.html
The cost to guard against losses on
the debt of  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  rose the most in four weeks after the
third-largest U.S. department-store company cut its fiscal 2012
profit forecast and said second-quarter  sales fell .  Credit-default swaps tied to  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-
based Kohl’s rose 6.8 basis points to a mid-price of 181.6 basis
points, the biggest increase since July 12, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Slowing economic growth has eroded U.S. corporate profits
as the  unemployment rate  held above  8 percent  for a 42nd month
in July. While 72 percent of the 449 companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index that have reported earnings beat analysts’
profit estimates, only 41 percent topped on sales.  “Our overall economy is definitely in a slowing mode,”
Robert Grimm, a trader at broker-dealer Odeon Capital Group LLC
in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. Firms
are “squeezing the last nickel out of everything, which doesn’t
really bode well over the long run for our economy because we’re
hiring fewer people. We’re not in an expansion mode.”  Kohl’s said today that profit excluding certain items will
be as much as $4.65 a share in the year ending in January, down
from a previous projection of $4.75, according to a statement
from the company. Second-quarter sales dropped 1 percent to
$4.21 billion, the company said. The company’s sales trail Sears
Holdings Corp. and Macy’s Inc. among U.S. department store
chains, Bloomberg Industries data shows.  Swaps Index  A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk was little changed as
U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly dropped last week, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-
default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increasing
0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 103 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure, which hasn’t shifted more than 1 basis point
in either direction any day this week, is hovering at about a
three-month low. Credit swaps typically rise as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves.  “Things are trading in what I call a no-news vacuum, which
is actually good because most of the news you could get right
now is bad news --  Europe  blowing up, something bad out of
China, Italy, France, Spain, Germany, Greece,” Marc Gross, a
 money manager  at RS Investments in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The market’s natural movement in the absence of bad
news is to go a little tighter, and that’s what it’s been
doing.”  Unemployment Claims  Labor Department data today showed U.S. applications for
 unemployment benefits  dropped by 6,000 in the week ended Aug. 4
to 361,000. Economists had called for an increase to 370,000
jobless claims last week, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The jobless claims data probably will not sway the Fed’s
decision on new stimulus measures, according to Gross.  “The Fed has been holding off at this point,” he said.
The central bank will pursue growth-boosting measures if “they
feel like they need to step in and really stimulate the  U.S.
economy  to make sure it doesn’t fall prey to the contagion”
from Europe.  Contracts tied to  Windstream Corp. (WIN) , a telecommunications
provider, also jumped, rising 14.6 basis points to 523.2,
Bloomberg prices show. Second-quarter net income fell 44 percent
to $54.2 million as  capital spending  rose to $276 million, the
 Little Rock , Arkansas-based company said today in a statement.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, climbed 3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 551.7 basis
points.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings decreased 1.4 to 147.5.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  