-- National Oilwell to Buy Robbins & Myers for $2.5 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-08-09T20:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/national-oilwell-to-buy-robbins-myers-for-2-5-billion-in-cash.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the
largest U.S. maker of oilfield equipment, agreed to buy  Robbins
& Myers Inc. (RBN)  for $2.54 billion in cash, its biggest acquisition
in more than four years.  Holders of Robbins & Myers will get $60 a share under the
agreement, Houston-based National Oilwell said in a statement
today. That’s a 28 percent premium to Robbins & Myers’s closing
price yesterday. The shares rose a record 27 percent to $59.63
at the close in  New York .  The acquisition will consolidate National Oilwell’s
position as a supplier of blowout preventers, which can shut off
wells in an emergency, said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC in Houston. Robbins & Myers, based in
Dayton,  Ohio , is the fourth-largest maker of blowout preventers
for drilling rigs on land, he estimated. National Oilwell is the
second.  The purchase is a departure for National Oilwell, which
“usually likes fixer-uppers,” Uhlmer, who rates both companies
a buy and doesn’t own the shares, said in a phone interview
today. Robbins & Myers “is pretty well fixed up. Not a lot to
improve and squeeze out.”  The purchase is the largest by National Oilwell since it
agreed to buy Grant Prideco Inc. for about $7.4 billion in 2007.
Before today, the company had spent $2.01 billion on nine
acquisitions this year, according to an Aug. 6 regulatory
report. The company is still hunting for more deals, Clay Williams, chief financial officer at National Oilwell, said
today in a telephone interview.  ‘Capital Available’  “We want to continue to work on opportunities,” Williams
said. He didn’t specify the size of deals still being
considered. “We have a lot of capital available to us. We’re
going to continue to look selectively for opportunities on a
number of strategic fronts.”  About 63 percent of Robbins & Myers’s sales in fiscal 2011
were to the oil and gas industry, according to a July 9 investor
 presentation . Chemical and pharmaceutical equipment sales made
up most of the remainder.  Beyond its blowout preventers, National Oilwell was also
interested in acquiring Robbins & Myers for its line of so-
called artificial-lift pumps, Williams said. The pumps boost oil
and natural gas to the surface months after a well is drilled.  Robbins & Myers is expected add to National Oilwell’s
profits next year, Williams said, declining to estimate the
increase.  ‘Sweet Spot’  “We feel that our combined manufacturing infrastructure
and portfolios of technology will further advance our presence
in the oil and gas markets we serve,” Pete Miller, chairman and
chief executive officer of National Oilwell, said in the
statement. National Oilwell’s shares rose 0.8 percent to $76.98.  National Oilwell said on July 26 it expects to continue to
buy companies in what Williams said was a “sweet spot” for
mergers and acquisitions.  “Sellers have the right mix of prosperity and fear, and we
have a high level of conviction in our outlook for oilfield
markets,” Williams told analysts and investors during a July
conference call.  The deal is expected to add 25 to 35 cents a share to
National Oilwell’s profit next year, Tom Curran, a New York-
based analyst for  Wells Fargo & Co ., wrote today in a note to
investors.  Both boards have approved the transaction, which the
companies expect to close in the fourth quarter. Citigroup Inc.
provided financial advice to Robbins & Myers, while Thompson
Hine LLP acted as legal counsel. National Oilwell’s legal
adviser is Fulbright & Jaworski LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  