-- Navy Delays Carrier’s Combat Tests, Weapons Tester Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/navy-delays-carrier-s-combat-tests-weapons-tester-says.html
The U.S. Navy is inappropriately 
delaying or scaling back $70 million in needed combat testing
of the USS Gerald R. Ford, an  aircraft carrier  that may cost
$14.2 billion, in the name of cutting costs, according to the 
Pentagon’s top weapons tester.  A test that would “rigorously evaluate the ship’s ability
to withstand shock and survive in combat” would be postponed
until a second carrier in the new Ford class is built and may
not be completed for seven years,  Michael Gilmore , the Defense
Department’s director of operational test and evaluation, told
Navy Secretary Ray Mabus in a July 12 memo obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Gilmore’s objections add to criticism of the carriers for
their increasing price tag as well as their potential
vulnerability to rival militaries with expanding arsenals of
ballistic and cruise missiles, undersea mines, submarines,
drones and cyber weapons.  “I recognize the need to expend resources wisely for all
purposes, including testing, in the existing constrained fiscal
environment,” Gilmore said in the memo. “I consider these test
costs well-justified, particularly when considered in the
context of the $27.8 billion cost to design and build the first
three of these new carriers, clearly one of the most expensive
combat systems the department has ever acquired.”  Once they’re fully equipped, the three carriers may cost
$42.5 billion. The price tag for the Ford, the first carrier in
the class being built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) ,
based in  Newport News ,  Virginia , has climbed about 18 percent in
four years to $12.3 billion, according to Defense Department
data.  Independent Office  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates the final cost
will be closer to $14.2 billion. The new carriers, the Navy’s
costliest vessels, will rise 20 stories above the water, be
1,092 feet (333 meters) long and move at 30 knots (35 miles per
hour) with almost 5,000 Americans on board.  Congress created Gilmore’s office in 1983 to independently
oversee weapons testing, including approving test plans or
disapproving them as needed. His office can influence spending
on weapons programs by rejecting plans, taking its concerns to
Congress or senior Pentagon officials, or finding that a weapon
is ineffective or can’t be maintained.  The dispute centers on the Navy’s decision to change the
agreed-upon test plan for the first carrier in the class without
Gilmore’s approval. The Navy wants to shift “full ship shock
trial” evaluations to the  John F. Kennedy , the second carrier,
in the move Gilmore says would delay conducting the tests and
gathering needed data for five to seven years.  Rescinding Approval  The tests, estimated to cost about $60 million, are
designed to evaluate a ship’s ability to perform its mission
after absorbing repeated shock waves from underwater explosions
using live ammunition detonated at a distance.  Gilmore rescinded approval of the test plan on July 12 and
that decision remains in place, he said in an e-mail through his
spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin . Gilmore also said he has informed
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s staff of his concerns.  Gilmore said in the e-mail that the delay “is not
appropriate” because the tests “provide information key to
assuring a ship’s survivability in combat.”  Captain Cate Mueller, a Navy spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement that “the Navy and test office are committed
to providing the most capable and survivable carrier.” The
service’s differences with Gilmore “are in the technical
aspects and phasing of the shock trials,” she said.  ‘High-Cost Event’  Conducting the full shock test “is a high-cost event with
schedule impact,” she said. The Navy also has been under
pressure due to environmental impact concerns “to identify
alternative means to validate ship shock design,” Mueller said.  The Ford carrier’s hull form “has been subject to
extensive survivability modeling and simulation, robust
equipment and system component testing,” she said, and the
Navy’s decision to delay the full shock testing “is fully
consistent with past practices for new ship classes.”  Gilmore wrote Mabus that postponing the full shock tests
until they can be performed on the Kennedy “would preclude
timely modification of subsequent ships of this class to ensure
survivability.”  Conducting the tests on the first ship as originally
planned would cause about a two-month delay in fielding the
carrier, according to Gilmore.  “The data to be gained and risk mitigated are, in my view,
clearly valuable enough to justify this delay,” Gilmore wrote
Mabus.  Survivability Trials  Gilmore wrote Mabus that he also disagreed with a second
Navy decision that would “limit the scope” of “total ship
survivability trials” on the first carrier. These tests, at an
estimated cost of $10 million, are designed to demonstrate the
ability of the ship and crew to control damage resulting from
simulated anti-ship weapons and continue fighting.  “I cannot accept elimination of key and essential
survivability analyses,” including proposals to eliminate
analysis of the carrier’s machinery spaces, “simply to satisfy
budget reductions,” Gilmore said.  The Navy’s carrier test plans seem similar to the “bind we
find ourselves in” with the F-35 being built by  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , Thomas Christie, a former director of Pentagon testing
from 2001 to 2005, said in an e-mail this week. The Joint Strike
Fighter is the Pentagon’s costliest weapon.  “We will have procured several hundred aircraft prior to
the completion of testing, all of which may require substantial
fixes and modification -- acquisition ‘malpractice’ as described
by a senior official,” Christie said.  In addition to disagreeing with the Navy’s carrier test
schedule, Gilmore said in February that the Navy lacks a target
needed to check its defenses against  China ’s new DF-21D
ballistic missile, which is designed to attack aircraft
carriers.  The Navy has an “immediate need” for a test missile able
to replicate the DF-21D’s trajectory as it descends, Gilmore
said in his annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  