-- Nestle First-Half Sales Beat Estimates on Higher Prices
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-08-09T10:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/nestle-sales-rise-6-6-faster-than-analysts-had-anticipated.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  reported first-half sales
growth that beat analysts’ estimates as the world’s biggest food
company outpaced rivals in  Europe  and raised prices in the U.S.  Sales gained 6.6 percent, excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency shifts, the Vevey, Switzerland-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. The average of 10
analysts’ estimates was for a 6.3 percent increase. The shares
rose as much as 3.4 percent to a record.  Higher prices led to sales gains of 5.7 percent in the
Americas and 2.4 percent in Europe as volume in the regions was
little changed. Nestle said U.S. revenue accelerated in the
second quarter as it added products such as DiGiorno Pizza
Dipping Strips, allowing it to beat sales growth of Danone, one
of its main European competitors. Developed markets will remain
difficult for the rest of the year, the company also said.  “Across the piste, it’s a pretty solid performance,” said
Julian Lakin, head of research at Mirabaud in  London . “Europe
is tough and not getting any easier, but Nestle is doing a bit
better there than expected, and in  North America  they’re getting
some forward momentum.”  The stock traded 3.3 percent higher at 61.60 francs as of
12:37 p.m. in Zurich. The shares have gained 32 percent in the
past year as Unilever advanced 27 percent and Danone 7.3
percent.  European Growth  Goods for lower-income consumers, which Nestle calls
popularly positioned products, and premium items helped drive
the growth in Europe during the first half, Chief Financial
Officer Wan Ling Martello said on a conference call.  “To be able to get the kinds of numbers in developed
markets where it’s very challenged from a macro perspective,
innovation is going to continue to be key,” said Martello, who
replaced Jim Singh in April.  Net income gained 8.9 percent to 5.1 billion Swiss francs
($5.3 billion), Nestle said. Total sales rose 7.5 percent to
44.1 billion francs. Nestle’s organic revenue growth was the
slowest since the second half of 2010, according to Nomura
estimates. The company doesn’t publish second-half growth rates.  Nestle reiterated its guidance for the year, saying it
expects organic sales growth to meet its target of 5 percent to
6 percent. The KitKat maker also has a goal to widen its profit
margin in constant currencies and boost earnings per share on
the same basis.  Rivals’ Sales  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer goods
company, said July 26 that underlying sales, which exclude
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations, gained 7
percent during the first half. Danone, the world’s biggest
yogurt maker, said the following day that revenue increased 5.9
percent during the same period.  Procter & Gamble Co . said Aug. 3
that fourth-quarter organic sales growth was 3 percent.  Nestle’s volume rose 2.9 percent, in line with estimates,
while price increases contributed 3.7 percent to sales growth,
beating estimates of 3.5 percent. The food company has forecast
raw-material price inflation at a “low to mid single-digit”
pace in 2012.  Nestle’s volume growth in its Americas unit dipped 0.1
percent after a 0.4 percent decline during the first quarter.
Volume growth in Europe was 0.1 percent after a 0.2 percent gain
during the first three months of the year.  The trading operating margin narrowed 0.1 percentage point
to 15 percent from the year-earlier period. The company said
that’s in line with its expectations that this year’s margin
improvement would be weighted to the second half.  Nestle has no plans for a share buyback at present, though
the company remains open to the possibility, Martello said.
While Nestle doesn’t plan to make any large acquisitions, it
will consider bolt-on acquisitions, she added.  Organic sales at Nestle’s nutrition unit, which makes
Gerber baby food and  Jenny Craig  weight-loss products, increased
5.7 percent in the first half. Nestle in April agreed to buy
Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition unit for $11.9 billion. The
acquisition is expected to close in early 2013, according to
Martello.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  