-- N.Y. Ironman Triathlon May Cancel Hudson Swim Due to Sewage
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-09T18:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/new-york-ironman-triathlon-may-cancel-hudson-swim-due-to-sewage.html
The swim portion of the first  New
York  City  Ironman triathlon  on Aug. 11 may be canceled due to a
sewer-line break that will lead to the discharge of millions of
gallons of raw sewage into the Hudson River.  Organizers for the 140.6-mile (226-kilometer) triathlon,
which combines swimming, cycling and running, said they’re
monitoring the water quality and direction of the current in the
river. A decision on whether the race is shortened to the bike
and run portions would be made by tomorrow at the latest, race
organizer John Korff said.  “We’re not messing with water quality,” Korff said in a
telephone interview. “It is what it is -- it’s either yes or
no. It depends which way the water is flowing. Athletes will
know at least the day before.”  There will be a controlled discharge of several million
gallons of chlorinated raw sewage into the  Hudson River  at
Sleepy Hollow overnight due to the sewer break in Tarrytown, New
York, the Westchester County Department of Health said in a
statement. The treated sewage bypass is needed so that repairs
can be made to the line.  The health department is advising people who use the Hudson
River waters for recreational purposes, namely swimmers,
boaters, kayakers and windsurfers, to “avoid direct contact
with the water from Croton Point Park and points south until
further notice.” Sleepy Hollow is about 20 miles north of the
George Washington Bridge, which is near the finish line for the
2.4 mile swim leg of the Ironman triathlon.  No Adirondack Lake  “A sewer main break doesn’t sound good to me,” said Chris McCallum, a Hoboken,  New Jersey , resident who is set to
participate in his first Ironman-length race after finishing two
half-Ironmans. “I was concerned enough about the water quality
of the Hudson already. It isn’t the Adirondack lake I swam in
for my previous races.”  McCallum, 29, said even if the swim isn’t canceled, he’s
“on the fence” about getting in the water even though he
considers that leg his strongest of the three disciplines.  “There’s a fair-to-good chance you’re drinking some of the
water during the swim,” said McCallum, who’s the associate
director of fixed income sales for R.W. Pressprich & Co.  The New York City Ironman has 2,500 participants and sold
out its $895 regular race slots online in just 11 minutes. It’s
the most expensive triathlon in the Ironman series, with the
typical entry fee for a race about $575.  Ironman spokeswoman Jessica Weidensall didn’t respond to
messages about whether the organization offers a refund or
discounts on future events if a portion of a race is canceled.  500 Million Gallons  Two years ago, a fire at a sewage-treatment plant led to
almost 500 million gallons of waste being dumped into the Hudson
River two weeks before the annual Olympic-length triathlon in
New York. The race was held as scheduled that year.  “The Hudson was flowing north,” Korff said. “The Hudson
is tidal, so you just don’t know.”  The Ironman race is scheduled to begin with the swim
portion, with competitors taking ferry boats to a fixed barge
for the start in the river.  “Because of the way we start the swim, with everyone on
these water ferries, we’re not going to take people up to swim
start if there’s not going to be a swim. That would be absurd,”
Korff said. “And we’re not going to decide that morning, that
would be even more ridiculous.”  If the swim isn’t held, competitors would probably start
with a 112-mile bike ride on the closed Palisades Interstate
Parkway in New Jersey and New York before finishing with a 26.2-
mile run that ends in  Manhattan .  “We don’t want to keep anybody hanging,” Korff said.
“Then everybody is wondering, ‘What do I do?’ and nobody sleeps
and everybody has a rotten day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  