-- News Corp. Reports Loss After Australia Publishing Writedown
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-09T23:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/news-corp-reports-loss-after-australia-publishing-writedown-1-.html
News Corp., the media company
controlled by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , reported a $1.55
billion quarterly loss as shrinking advertising revenue led to a
writedown of its Australian publishing business.  The net loss was 64 cents a share, compared with net income
of $683 million, or 26 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding the writedowns
and other items, profit was 32 cents a share, in line with the 
average  analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  The majority of News Corp.’s value comes from its
entertainment operations, which include the  Fox News  cable
network and Twentieth Century Fox film studio. Murdoch, who
began building his media group with the Adelaide News in 1953,
announced a plan in June to split off the declining publishing
division, home to the Wall Street Journal in the U.S. and the
Sun newspaper in the U.K., into a separate public company.  “Publishing will continue to be mixed,” Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  said in an interview. “We certainly have
initiatives to improve on execution, and we have an ongoing
focus on being as efficient as we can be. There will be revenue
growth.”  News Corp. shares were little changed in New York today,
closing at $23.67. The stock has surged 33 percent this year,
bolstered by the plan to break up the company. Australian-listed
shares dropped 3.2 percent to A$21.88 at the close in Sydney.  Publishing Profit  Murdoch has assembled a global media company with assets
including Fox News and the Wall Street Journal, after inheriting
Adelaide newspaper assets from his father, Keith. News Corp.
publishes about 146 newspapers in  Australia , including The
Australian, The  Daily Telegraph  and the Herald Sun, according to
its annual report.  Annual publishing profit fell 31 percent to $597 million,
partly because of shrinking advertising revenue at the
Australian newspapers as well as the closure of the News of the
World newspaper, the company said yesterday.  Publishers in Australia are cutting jobs as readers shift
to the Internet and print circulation slides. News Corp. in June
announced job cuts in Australia as it reduces the number of its
units, while  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , publisher of the Sydney Morning
Herald, said the same month it would cut 22 percent of its
workforce.  Growth Plans  News Corp.’s plans to reignite publishing growth include
the new Sun on Sunday, a weekly U.K. tabloid that filled the
void left by News of the World. The company also raised the
cover price of the daily Sun newspaper.  News Corp.’s cable network business, meanwhile, performed
well, said Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,
 New York . Operating profit at the company’s cable business rose
26 percent to $792 million, driven by increases in advertising
and the fees the company receives from pay-TV operators.  “Cable is the most significant segment for the company,”
Harriss said.  The company reported writedowns of $2.8 billion in the
fourth quarter, “principally related to the company’s
publishing businesses, most significantly the Australian
operations.”  The spinoff of the publishing business should take about a
year to complete, the company said in June. While the remaining
entertainment company will continue to be led by Murdoch, the
board has yet to designate a chief executive officer for the
publishing side.  Falling Sales  Sales (NWSA)  fell 6.6 percent to $8.37 billion in the fourth
quarter, which ended June 30. Analysts had estimated $8.72
billion.  News Corp. has been trying to move past a hacking scandal
that erupted last year after reports that one of its newspapers
in the U.K. accessed the voice mail of a murdered teenager,
Milly Dowler. Rebekah Brooks, the former head of the company’s
British division, was charged by London police this month for
her part in those alleged crimes.  The scandal prompted News Corp. to abandon its bid to buy
the remaining stake in  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  A
U.K. committee, after probing whether News Corp. misled
Parliament during the hacking scandal, concluded in May that
Murdoch is “not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of a
major international company.” The nation’s media regulatory
commission, called Ofcom, may force News Corp. to sell or cut
its 40 percent stake in BSkyB.  Coping with the scandal’s fallout has cost News Corp. about
$315 million since it broke in July 2011, with $57 million
coming this past quarter. That includes legal fees, settlements
and losses from closing the News of the World, where the hacking
originated.  The company adopted a $5 billion buyback plan in the wake
of the scandal and doubled the size of the program in May.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net  