-- NHL Not Prepared to Play Unless New Deal Reached, Bettman Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-09T21:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/nhl-not-prepared-to-play-unless-new-deal-reached-bettman-says.html
The  National Hockey League  isn’t
prepared to operate next season unless a new labor agreement is
reached, according to Commissioner Gary Bettman.  The league and its players’ union met today in  New York  to
discuss a recent proposal by the league on revenue sharing and
player compensation. Bettman said afterward that the two sides
have a “wide gap to bridge” on a number of issues.  He added that the  NHL Players’ Association  has been told
“multiple times” over the past year that the owners weren’t
prepared to operate the 2012-13 season under the current accord,
which expires on Sept. 15. League spokesman Frank Brown said in
an e-mail that it was “not wrong” to interpret that as
implying the NHL would lock out its players without a new deal.
He stressed that Bettman never referred directly to a lockout in
his remarks.  League revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion television
contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to an estimated $3.2
billion last season from $2.2 billion in 2006, according to the
NHL. The league hasn’t said how much of this year’s record
revenue is profit.  NHLPA Executive Director Donald Fehr said the players have
reviewed and responded to the league’s proposal on revenue
sharing and player compensation.  “We’ve got the numbers, we have analyzed the proposal to
the extent we can with the numbers we have, looking at the
effect both overall and on an individual club-by-club basis,”
Fehr said, adding that there is a “meaningful gulf” between
the two side’s expectations.  Lost Season  The league’s current collective bargaining agreement was
reached after the entire 2004-05 season was wiped out when team
owners shut down the league. Should the sides fail to reach a
new agreement by Sept. 15, there is no legal requirement for a
lockout, as the sides can continue to operate under the old
agreement.  Fehr, a former executive director of the  Major League
Baseball Players Association , declined to comment on whether the
league had communicated its intentions should Sept. 15 pass
without an agreement being reached.  The owners and players plan to meet at least three times
next week in Toronto, where the NHLPA will present its own
proposal, he added.  “There is ample time for the parties to get together and
make a deal,” Bettman said. “That is what we’re going to be
working towards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  