-- Nokia to Sell App Unit Amid Increasing Microsoft Reliance
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-09T12:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/nokia-to-sell-app-tool-business-as-it-focuses-on-windows.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the smartphone maker that
started using Microsoft Corp. operating systems to revive its
business, agreed to sell its Qt app-tools unit to  Digia Oyj (DIG1V)  as
it abandons home-grown software efforts.  Nokia bought the Qt technology in 2008 to give developers
tools to write applications for Symbian and MeeGo devices -- two
operating systems it’s since cast aside in favor of Microsoft’s
Windows Phone. As many as 125 employees will move to Digia as
part of the deal, according to a statement from the Finnish
software maker today. No terms were disclosed.  The disposal highlights Nokia’s increasing dependence on
Microsoft as it tries to stem plunging sales amid competition
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software. Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop,
who started betting on Microsoft software last year, has shed
units, announced more than 20,000 job cuts and closed plants in
a bid to return the company to profit.  “With Nokia smartphones relying on Windows-based
applications, which are rapidly increasing in number, Qt no
longer has a role to play in Nokia’s smartphone efforts,” said
 Janardan Menon , an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London .
“Nokia is keen to restructure, to squeeze out margin as well as
improve cash where possible.”  Nokia climbed 8.2 percent to 2.32 euros at 3:37 p.m.
Helsinki time. Digia  added  10 percent to 2.64 euros.  Once Dominant  Qt was part of Nokia’s effort to fend off Apple, which
introduced the iPhone in 2007 and used the popularity of apps --
programs such as games written for specific devices -- to gain
sales from the then-dominant smartphone maker. Nokia’s market
value has plunged about 90 percent since the iPhone’s debut as
Apple surpassed it in smartphone sales.  After the iPhone and Android took over the market from
Espoo, Finland-based Nokia, Elop adopted  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s operating
system to refreshen the company’s lineup and differentiate from
the competition. Windows Phone has so far failed to challenge
the iPhone and Android, accounting for 3.5 percent of purchases
last quarter compared with 85 percent for the two market leaders
combined, according to research firm IDC.  Nokia plans to announce its new line of smartphones using
the Windows Phone 8 operating system as early as next month and
offer them for sale before the year-end holiday shopping season,
a person with knowledge of the matter said this month.  “We’ll have to wait until the fourth quarter for evidence
of sales of the new Windows Phone 8-based smart phones to see
whether the link to Microsoft pays off,” Menon said.  Patent Disposal  Digia, based in Helsinki, already bought parts of the Qt
business last year. It said it plans to bring Qt to other
operating systems, such as Android, Apple’s iOS and Windows 8.  Nokia acquired Qt with its purchase of  Norway ’s Trolltech
ASA for 844 million kroner ($154 million) in 2008.  Separately, Nokia agreed to sell more than 500 patents to
Vringo Inc. for an undisclosed amount of cash and proceeds from
revenue generated from the portfolio. The patents cover mobile
technologies including data and signal transmission,  New York- 
based Vringo said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  