-- Novo Nordisk Raises 2012 Forecast as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-08-09T15:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/novo-nordisk-raises-2012-forecast-as-profit-beats-estimates-3-.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s largest
insulin maker, raised its full-year sales and profit forecasts
after reporting second-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
estimates. The shares rose to a record.  Revenue will jump 9 percent to 12 percent this year in
local currencies, compared with a previous forecast for an
increase of 8 percent to 11 percent, the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-
based company said. Operating-profit growth in local currencies
will be about 15 percent, compared with a previous prediction of
at least 10 percent.  The daily injection Victoza, Novo Nordisk’s growth engine,
is gaining market share in the U.S. even after the approval in
January of competitor  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) ’s Bydureon, a
once-weekly version of a similar compound, Chief Financial
Officer Jesper Brandgaard said today.  After “an initial tick down” in Victoza’s market share of
new prescriptions following Bydureon’s introduction, “it looks
like that trend is not stable, and Novo Nordisk is capturing an
increasing proportion of new scripts in the U.S.,” Brandgaard
said on a conference call with reporters.  Victoza’s Surge  Sales of Victoza, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1 to
stimulate natural insulin production, surged 83 percent to 2.29
billion kroner ($380.3 million) in the second quarter, compared
with the average analyst estimate of 2.32 billion kroner.  Second-quarter net income climbed 29 percent to 5.35
billion kroner from 4.13 billion kroner a year earlier,
exceeding analysts’ predictions for profit of 4.82 billion
kroner, the average of 19  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Novo Nordisk rose as much as 5.9 percent, the highest since
the company went public in 1991, and closed up 1.3 percent to
938 kroner in Copenhagen. The shares have  gained  47 percent this
year, including reinvested dividends, outstripping a 17 percent
gain in the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Novo said it’s raising the profit forecast for 2012 because
some introduction costs for a new product, Tresiba, have been
deferred to next year because of a delay in gaining U.S.
approval for the drug. The company is counting on Tresiba to
help it wrest market share from  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Lantus, the world’s
top-selling insulin. That may mean profit will be lower next
year, Brandgaard said.  Growth Driver  “If Novo Nordisk goes to a slightly lower level of
operating profit in 2013 because we roll out a very significant
growth driver for us in the next decade, we have no problems
with that,” Brandgaard said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said last month that
it will hold an advisory committee meeting on Tresiba on Nov. 8.
The treatment was submitted for approval in  Europe  and the U.S.
in September. Novo hasn’t received any information from the FDA
about what the committee’s focus will be, Brandgaard said.  “It’s a bit weird,” said Tim Race, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London . “This is a pretty straightforward filing.
You have to wonder what’s behind this, is there any missing
data, is there some issue with study design?”  Novo also announced the first results today from a late-
stage trial of an experimental product called IDegLira, which
combines Tresiba and Victoza. In a study among 1,600 diabetics,
the drug helped control patients’ blood sugar better than
Victoza on its own and at least as well as Tresiba on its own.  Product Setback  In a separate study of a blood-clotting agent called
vatreptacog alfa in people with hemophilia, anti-drug antibodies
were observed in “a few” patients and in one there was “a
potentially neutralizing effect,” Novo said in today’s
statement. The company is evaluating the finding and final
results are expected in October, it said.  “That’s not a good signal for this type of molecule,”
Race said. “There’s a good chance it gets binned.”  Novo expects an expense of about 1.95 billion kroner this
year because of foreign exchange hedging losses, as the dollar
and Japanese yen gained against the Danish currency. The losses
will be “more than offset” because the value of Novo’s sales
outside  Denmark  will be higher in kroner, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  