-- Now Is Not Yet Time for Syria Military Intervention
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-09T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/now-is-not-yet-time-for-syria-military-intervention.html
Syria  is breaking apart. The regime
is under pressure, the death toll from the conflict has
accelerated, and  calls  are growing for the U.S. and its allies
to  intervene  militarily to cut short the emerging civil war
between Sunni and Alawite Muslims.  This would be a mistake. Just because policies followed to
date have failed, it doesn’t mean that the military options on
the table will work. They may not improve the final outcome of a
conflict that’s unlikely to stop once President Bashar al-Assad
has gone.  The recent defection of Prime Minister Riad Farid Hijab, a
Sunni, shows that Assad’s regime is being whittled down to its
sectarian, Alawite core. Defections of senior Sunni military
officers have also increased, especially since the July 18
assassination of some of Assad’s top security officials. Smarter
tactics and the use of improvised roadside bombs have hobbled
the regular army, which has ceded control in areas along the
country’s northern borders. In some places, ethnic Kurds have
declared themselves in control.  Controlling Weapons  Princeton University ’s Anne-Marie Slaughter  has argued 
cogently that these changes make it essential for the U.S. and
its allies to provide the opposition with heavy weapons, safe
zones and possibly air cover so that the U.S. will have a say in
the post-Assad settlement and control Syria’s chemical weapons
arsenal.  That’s the right goal, but U.S. intervention is not the
best way to secure it. Calls for the creation of safe zones date
to the conflict’s first days.  Turkey , understanding that such
zones would involve declaring war on the Syrian military, has
been reluctant, and its participation would be essential. It may
be more willing now, but mainly in order to crush any Kurdish
enclave on its borders. Turkey is already fighting its own Kurds
at home and in northern  Iraq . Another Turkish-Kurdish conflict
would not be a good outcome for Syria or the region.  To establish safe zones would in any case require air
supremacy, which in turn would mean eliminating Syria’s air
defenses. This is something only the U.S. could do, as a recent
 report  by the  Royal United Services Institute , a British defense
think tank, made clear. Syria’s Russian-supplied air defenses
were designed to take on the Israeli military and are therefore
formidable. Suppressing them would involve casualties among
allied pilots and significant numbers of civilians.  Then there’s the matter of safeguarding Syria’s chemical
weapons stash. To secure the regime’s arms depots, the U.S. and
its allies would need boots on the ground -- 75,000 pairs
according to RUSI’s estimates. To protect these units would take
a peacemaking force of at least 200,000 more troops, providing a
new narrative of foreign occupation for jihadists, the Assad
regime and  Iran  to exploit. Syria has already become a magnet
for extremists around the region.  Ground Involvement  The  Barack Obama  administration has not done everything it
could on Syria, and events will now drive it to do more.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  travels to Turkey on Saturday
to discuss Syria, part of an effort to take the diplomatic
initiative amid the vacuum left by the failure of the mission
undertaken by  Kofi Annan , the former United Nations secretary
general. The U.S. has also indicated that it’s boosting covert
efforts and the supply of non-lethal aid, such as communications
equipment, to the opposition.  Military analysts think the rebels’ growing effectiveness
is partly attributable to U.S., Turkish and Gulf covert
operatives already training and organizing Syrian opposition
fighters. The more U.S. personnel are involved with the rebels
on the ground, the better U.S. policy makers will be able to
understand and influence them. The news this week that some Free
Syrian Army officers had signed a code of conduct, amid growing
reports of atrocities against government supporters, is
encouraging.  The lack of a unified opposition remains the biggest
single barrier to stronger international engagement in Syria:
With whom would the U.S. ensure that cease-fire agreements are
respected and chemical weapons stores protected? What kind of
new order would it be helping to usher in?  On this last front, the news is not all bad. The men who
defected in July -- Sunnis with links to the old Alawite-run
regime -- may be able to provide the nucleus for a transition
government that could prevent Syria’s atomization.  The time for more open forms of military intervention may
come, most likely when Assad falls or when swaths of the
country’s air defense systems are no longer under regime
control. That time is not now.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on parents who refuse to have
their  kids vaccinated ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections
don’t predict future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional,
not economic) depression ;  Noah Feldman  on Olympians  playing to
lose ; William Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China Sea ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ;  Steven
Greenhut  on the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff
investors ; Caleb Scharf on  future telescopes  that could better
explore black holes.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 