-- Nvidia Sales Forecast Tops Estimates on Mobile Device Demand
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-08-10T13:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/nvidia-sales-forecast-tops-estimates-on-mobile-device-demand.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  gained in late trading
after the chipmaker predicted third-quarter sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, on robust demand for processors used in
tablet devices coming to market in the current quarter.  Revenue for the period ending in October will be $1.15
billion to $1.25 billion, the  Santa Clara , California-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts had estimated
$1.09 billion on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares rose as much as 6.8 percent after the report.  Nvidia, which has bet on its Tegra mobile processor to
capture device revenue, has won orders from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  which are pushing into the tablet market with
their own devices.  “Tegra has achieved record sales as tablets come into
their own,” said Nvidia Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang
in the statement.  The company may have added orders for as many as 10 million
units for Tegra, according to Craig Berger, an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets & Co.  Second-quarter net income was $119 million, or 19 cents a
share, compared with $151.6 million, or 25 cents, in the same
period a year earlier. Revenue rose 2.7 percent to $1.04
billion. Analysts had estimated net income of 14 cents on sales
of $1.01 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock was little changed at $14.69 at 9:57 a.m. in New
York. The shares had climbed 6.1 percent this  year  through
yesterday.  Tegra Tops  With slowing PC growth and the increasing integration of
graphics capabilities into other parts made by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
Advanced Micro Devices Inc., analysts have predicted Nvidia
sales are under threat unless it can compensate by building a
mobile phone and tablet processor business.  “Nvidia is bullish because it’s the first time their order
book for Tegra is full,” said  Patrick Wang , a New York-based
analyst for  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  In graphics chips, “they did
gain market share against AMD.”  Tegra sales hit a record, Huang said. The division that
includes Tegra posted an increase in revenue of 36 percent to
$179.7 million, according to the company. Nvidia is also taking
share “in a weak market” with its new PC graphics chip,
Kepler.  Shortages from supplier  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (TSM)  have held back sales of the company’s most profitable
products. Like  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and other chipmakers, Nvidia
subcontracts its production to foundries in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  