-- Obama Hits Romney on Wind Credit Stance in Colorado
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-09T20:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/obama-tells-coloradans-romney-wind-credit-stance-would-cost-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  attacked
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  for opposing the extension of
a tax credit for  wind energy , telling a Colorado audience that
letting it lapse would cost their state thousands of jobs.  On the second day of a trip through the swing state he won
four years ago, Obama returned to criticism of Romney’s tax and
economic proposals. He repeated his accusation that Romney’s
policies would favor the wealthy over middle-income Americans
and big  oil companies  over alternative energy.  “At a moment when home-grown energy, renewable energy, is
creating new jobs in Colorado and Iowa, my opponent wants to end
tax credits for wind energy producers,” Obama told supporters
in Pueblo today.  Romney was raising money in  New York  and New Jersey before
flying to  Boston . He told donors at one of two Manhattan
fundraisers that Obama’s re-election in November would mean a
future of “continued decline” for the U.S.  Obama said his support for extending the wind power tax
credit is part of his administration’s plan to put the country
on sounder economic footing. The credit is set to expire at the
end of the year. Romney’s campaign has said he would let the
credit lapse. Congress probably won’t act until after the
November election.  Romney Approach  A Romney campaign spokeswoman said that while the former
Massachusetts governor is “a strong supporter of wind power”
he disagrees with Obama’s approach.  “Under President Obama’s approach of massive subsidies and
handouts, the industry has lost 10,000 jobs while growth in wind
power has slowed every single year of his term,” Amanda
Henneberg said in an e-mail. Romney would boost the industry
“by promoting policies that remove regulatory barriers, support
free enterprise and market-based competition, and reward
technological innovation.”  Colorado got 6.6 percent of its power from wind in 2010,
eighth highest in the U.S. and the industry supports 5,000 to
6,000 jobs in the state, according to the  American Wind Energy
Association . Iowa, another swing state where Obama will campaign
next week, has the second-highest wind power capacity.  There are about 75,000 U.S. wind-industry workers,
including jobs in manufacturing, according to the association.
Letting the credit expire will lead to the elimination of 10,000
wind-industry jobs this year and another 27,000 in 2013, the
Washington-based trade group estimates.  ‘Roaring Back’  Obama highlighted his administration’s bailout of the U.S.
automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, saying it
brought the industry “roaring back.”  “I want to do the same with manufacturing jobs,” he said,
adding that Romney would have let the  auto industry  go bankrupt
while subsidizing “an oil industry that’s already making a lot
of profits.”  Obama wraps up the trip with a stop later today in  Colorado
Springs , a majority-Republican area where the president will try
to rally Democrats and appeal to independent voters.  Romney, speaking to donors in Manhattan this morning, said
the election’s outcome could set the course of American history
for “perhaps for the entire century.”  He compared the U.S. economic situation with that of Japan
in the 1990s.  “We are not Japan,” he said. “We are not going to be a
nation that suffers in decline and stress for a decade.”  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee raised
about $1.5 million at a breakfast today at a Midtown banquet
hall. That was part of about $5 million he raised yesterday and
today in New Jersey and New York, according to  Spencer Zwick ,
Romney’s finance director.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Colorado Springs at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  