-- Obama Looks to Women, Latino Voters to Catch Romney in Colorado
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/obama-looks-to-women-latino-voters-to-catch-romney-in-colorado.html
President  Barack Obama , running
behind in the latest poll in  Colorado , is trying to energize two
key constituencies in the swing state, women and Hispanics, as
 Mitt Romney  blames Obama for the U.S.’s slow economic recovery.  Addressing a predominantly female audience yesterday in
Denver on the first of a two-day Colorado visit, Obama said
Romney and Republicans support policies “more suited to the
1950s than the 21st century” on women’s issues, including
insurance coverage for contraception.  “The choice between going backward and moving forward has
never been so clear,” Obama told an audience of mostly women at
the city’s Auraria Event Center. He was introduced by Sandra
Fluke, the Georgetown Law graduate whom talk-radio host  Rush Limbaugh  earlier this year labeled a “slut” for supporting
Obama’s mandate for insurers to cover  birth control .  Later, in  Grand Junction , the president said Romney would
take away women’s control of their health-care decisions. Obama
also defended his economic policies, saying he had inherited an
economy reeling from the worst recession in more than seven
decades and that he was putting the nation on the right course.
“There are no quick fixes,” he said.  He said Romney would have let the U.S. auto industry go
bankrupt and that Romney’s plans to cut taxes for wealthy
Americans would require expanding the deficit or raising taxes
on middle-income Americans.  Hispanic Voters  Today, Obama will campaign in Pueblo, encouraging
Hispanics, who make up 21 percent of Colorado’s population, to
register and turn out to vote. He then moves on to  Colorado
Springs , a majority-Republican area where the president will try
to rally Democrats and appeal to independent voters.  Romney, at a campaign stop in  Iowa , another battleground,
said yesterday that Obama’s economic policies were devastating
for middle-income Americans. He accused the president of gutting
a 1996 welfare law under President  Bill Clinton  designed to
encourage recipients to find work.  “It is wrong to make any change that will make America
more of a nation of government dependency,” he told a crowd of
supporters. “I will restore work to welfare.”  Romney Ad  The Republican’s campaign also has released a 30-second
advertisement making the same charge.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called Romney’s
attack “blatantly dishonest.” Obama’s aides say Romney is
distorting the intent of their July 12 decision to let states
seek waivers from some federal rules to develop pilot projects.
Romney advocated for similar flexibility in the federal law
while he was governor of  Massachusetts .  The issue is part of Romney’s effort to cast the president
as supporting expanded government programs that would increase
benefits for the poor at the expense of middle-income families.  Republicans also see an opportunity to drive a wedge
between Obama and the legacy of Clinton, a popular former
president who has assumed an increasingly prominent role in
Obama’s re-election bid.  Romney also raised $1.5 million yesterday at fundraising
events in New Jersey, including a $50,000-a-plate dinner at the
Rumson home of Lew Eisenberg, a senior adviser at  KKR & Co. (KKR)   Colorado Poll  A poll shows Obama trailing Romney in Colorado 50 percent
to 45 percent among likely voters. Obama led in two other
battleground states, Wisconsin and Virginia, in the Quinnipiac
University/CBS News/ New York  Times poll.  Obama campaign spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  dismissed the Colorado
numbers. “There are going to be a lot of polls between now and
Election Day; and that the race is going to be very close,
especially in these key states,” she said.  The poll also illustrated the reason Obama is putting an
emphasis on his pitch to women. Colorado women support Obama 51
percent to 43 percent, while men favor Romney 56 percent to 39
percent, the poll showed. Obama also holds an advantage with
women in Virginia, 54 percent to 40 percent, and Wisconsin, 59
percent to 36 percent.  Obama won all three states in 2008 and they have 32 of the
270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency.  Colorado, with nine electoral votes, is one of nine states
that switched to supporting Obama in 2008 after backing
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004. Obama won Colorado
with 54 percent of the vote four years ago.  Economic Debate  The campaign debate is dominated by the economy, with 48
percent of Colorado voters saying it’s the most important issue,
followed by health care at 19 percent and the federal  budget
deficit  at 11 percent, the poll showed.  Throughout the state, the president plans to highlight his
call for Congress to extend through 2013 the tax cuts for
individuals earning as much as $200,000 a year and married
couples making as much as $250,000. Above those thresholds,
Obama advocates letting rates rise. Republicans in Congress want
to extend all the current low rates.  While Colorado’s jobless rate was 8.2 percent in June, the
state was eighth on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States
index for improving economic health from the first quarter of
2011 to the first quarter of this year. The index combines data
on tax collections, personal income, employment,  home prices ,
mortgage foreclosures and stock performance of companies located
in a state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Grand Junction, Colorado at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Lakewood,  New Jersey  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  