-- Obama Courts Female Voters in Top Television Ad, Speeches
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/obama-courts-female-voters-in-top-television-ad-speeches.html
President  Barack Obama  is
intensifying his pitch to women in campaign commercials and
speeches, an acknowledgement they constitute a majority of
voters and view him more favorably than men.  Obama’s most-aired campaign ad in the past two weeks
features a woman, identified as Jenni, who says “it’s a scary
time to be a woman” and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  is
“just so out of touch” on issues including abortion and health
insurance coverage for contraception.  The ad ran 7,155 times in a 14-day period ending Aug. 6,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising on local broadcast, national cable and national
network stations. It accounted for 22 percent of the 32,565
spots the campaign ran during that span, CMAG data show.  The frequency of the campaign’s appeal underscores the
importance of women in the Nov. 6 election. Women, who generally
favor Democratic candidates, accounted for 53 percent of the
electorate in 2008 and backed Obama over Republican nominee  John McCain  by 56 percent to 43 percent, according to a national exit
poll.  This year, Obama is counting on a replay of that gap.  About 58 percent of women said they have a favorable
impression of Obama, compared with 36 percent who said the same
about Romney, in an ABC News/ Washington  Post poll conducted Aug.
1-5. Among men surveyed, 47 percent said they view Obama
favorably and 44 percent view Romney favorably.  Gender Gap  Since the gender gap emerged in the 1980 election, women
have been “very key to the Democratic base, including electing
presidents,” Dianne Bystrom, a political scientist at  Iowa
State University  in Ames, said in an interview.  “The Democratic presidential candidate needs to make the
gender gap as large as possible and the Republican candidate
tries to narrow it as much as possible,” she said.  Obama’s “Jenni” ad says Romney supports outlawing
abortion even in cases of rape and incest, citing a November
2007 Republican candidates debate in which Romney said that he
would welcome a “consensus” that “we don’t want to have
abortion in this country at all, period.”  Romney went on to say, “That’s not where we are. That’s
not where America is today.”  Romney, who supported abortion rights earlier in his
political career, has said he adopted an anti-abortion position
when he was governor of  Massachusetts  and opposes the procedure
with some exceptions.  Limiting Abortions  “I am pro-life and believe that abortion should be limited
to only instances of rape, incest or to save the life of the
mother,” Romney wrote in National Review in June 2011.  The Annenberg Public Policy Center’s nonpartisan
FactCheck.org said the Obama ad amounts to “falsifying”
Romney’s position. “The Obama campaign is a repeat offender
with this distortion of Romney’s position on abortion,” it said
in a July 31 analysis.  Obama’s “Jenni” ad ran 526 times in the past 14 days on
stations in  Colorado , where Obama courted women yesterday --
defending his 2010 health-care law’s benefits for women and
criticizing the positions of Republicans including Romney.  “When it comes to a woman’s right to make her own health-
care choices, they want to take us back to the policies more
suited to the 1950s than the 21st century,” Obama said at an
appearance in Denver.  Targeted by Limbaugh  Obama was introduced there by Sandra Fluke, a recent
graduate of Georgetown Law in Washington who was called a
“prostitute” and “slut” by radio talk-show host  Rush Limbaugh  for advocating inclusion of contraception coverage in
health insurance plans.  Fluke “was brave to stand up for herself” and is “an
eloquent advocate for women’s health,” Obama said.  As Obama focused on female voters, Republicans criticized
an ad from a pro-Obama super-political action committee that
attacks Romney for actions by Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based
private equity firm he headed.  The ad from Priorities USA Action links the closing of a
Bain-owned plant to the loss of a worker’s health insurance and
the death of his wife from cancer.  “I do not think Mitt Romney realizes what he’s done to
anyone,” the worker, Joe Soptic, says in the ad. “And
furthermore, I do not think Mitt Romney is concerned.”  Romney left Bain before the plant closed, and Soptic’s
wife, who died five years later, had kept her own job and health
insurance for a period of time after her husband lost his,
according to a Washington Post fact-check that gave the ad
“four Pinocchios,” its worst rating for truthfulness.  “President Obama and his campaign are willing to say and
do anything to hide the president’s disappointing record,”
Romney campaign spokesman  Ryan Williams  said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  