-- Octagon Hires Angelo Gordon’s Arden for Distressed-Debt Unit
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-08-09T15:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/octagon-hires-angelo-gordon-s-arden-for-new-distressed-debt-unit.html
Octagon Credit Investors LLC, a  money
manager  with $5.3 billion in assets, hired Angelo, Gordon &
Co.’s Todd Arden to oversee a new distressed-debt unit.  Arden will start in October, according to Octagon Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Gordon. Octagon, which was spun out of
Chase Manhattan Bank in 1999, plans to raise a fund to invest in
U.S. distressed debt, according to a person with knowledge of
the plan, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  “There are always opportunities to invest in the
distressed business even with default rates as low as they are
today,” New York-based Gordon said in a telephone interview.
“It doesn’t mean there aren’t companies that could benefit from
a reorganization of the  capital structure , new capital, a change
of ownership or new operating expertise.”  He declined to comment on any potential fundraising.  Standard & Poor’s  is forecasting the default rate to rise
to 3.7 percent by June 2013, according to an August Global Fixed
Income Research report. The rate was 2.7 percent in June. It had
risen to 11.66 percent in November 2009, the ratings company
said.  Formed in 1994, Octagon is affiliated with CCMP Capital
LLC, the parent company of CCMP Capital Advisors LLC, a private-
equity firm focused on middle-market businesses in  North America 
and  Europe .  Octagon CLO  Octagon manages both leveraged loans and high-yield bonds
in eight collateralized loan obligations and other funds.
Deutsche Bank AG raised a $358.2 million CLO for the firm in
February. It has not previously focused on investing in
distressed debt, Gordon said.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  “Distressed investing is a specialized form of investing;
I don’t think it’s an area where, for lack of a better
description, you dabble,” Gordon said. “If you are going to be
involved in the distressed market, you need to hire
professionals with distressed experience.”  After Arden joins the firm, Gordon anticipates building a
distressed team of several people.  Octagon and CCMP will jointly own a new corporation, with a
new distressed fund primarily invested in U.S. loans and bonds
raised under the Octagon name, the person said.  “We are seeing more transactions in the private-equity
world generated through the loan-to-own space, so at some point
that might be an opportunity for CCMP to add operational
expertise,” Gordon said. “I think the business fits nicely
between what Octagon and CCMP does.”  Arden, who will be based in  New York , joined Angelo Gordon
in 2000 and was promoted to managing director within its special
situations group in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  