-- Oil May Retreat on Fastest Stockpiling Rate in 14 Years
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-08-09T15:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/oil-may-retreat-on-fastest-stockpiling-rate-in-14-years.html
Speculation that nations are
stockpiling oil at the fastest rate in 14 years is fanning
expectations for  Brent crude  to drop below $100 a barrel.  OPEC pumped 2.1 million barrels a day more than projected
demand in April through June, the biggest overproduction for any
quarter since 1998, the International Energy Agency estimates.
The increase has been overshadowed by focus on U.S.-led
sanctions against Iran’s oil exports, Citigroup Inc. said. Brent
will fall to $93 by September and $83 by year-end, according to
the Centre for Global Energy Studies.  Shuttered oil output in nations outside the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries is poised to resume after South
 Sudan  this week agreed on a transit fee with its northern
neighbor and Yemen fixed its main crude pipeline. Those two
countries will add about 500,000 barrels a day to compete with
OPEC, which is pumping the most since 2008. While the world
faces the slowest pace of growth in fuel demand since the 2009
recession, crude rallied above $110 this week amid heightened
political tensions in  Syria .  “There is an overhang of producible oil in the world,”  Ed Morse , Citigroup’s global head of commodities research, said in
a July 31 phone interview from Houston. “We will probably see
more Iranian oil lifted or leaked while OPEC continues to
produce more than is demanded. If  China  remains sluggish, oil
could drop to the low $90s and even fall into the $80s.”  Going into Storage  OPEC produced 31.9 million barrels in the second quarter
compared with projected demand for the group’s crude of 29.8
million, IEA data showed. OPEC hasn’t overproduced as much since
1998, when supply exceeded demand by 3.4 million barrels a day.
Most of the excess oil is probably going into developing-nation
storage sites where data is scarce, as only 15 percent is
accounted for in the 28 Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development countries the Paris-based energy agency advises.  The flood of supply comes as the euro area struggles to
contain a debt crisis now in its third year. Economic growth has
decelerated for six quarters in China while the U.S., the
world’s biggest oil consumer, has a jobless rate that hasn’t
dropped below 8 percent for more than three years. U.S. oil
consumption  fell  1.1 percent last week, the first drop in four
weeks, a report from the Energy Department showed yesterday.  OPEC lowered demand estimates for its crude this year and
next. The group’s 12 members will need to supply 29.9 million
barrels a day this year, 100,000 barrels a day less than in
2011, and 29.5 million barrels of crude a day in 2013, OPEC’s
Vienna-based secretariat said today in its monthly report.  Slower Growth  The global economy is  forecast  to climb 3.5 percent this
year, compared with 3.9 percent in 2011 and 5.3 percent in 2010,
International Monetary Fund data show. It shrank 0.6 percent in
2009, when oil demand dropped the most since the IEA started
records in 1986.  Brent, a benchmark grade for more than half the world’s
oil, fell below $90 a barrel in late June, then rebounded as a
European Union embargo on  Iran ’s crude came into full effect in
July. Prices are 0.3 percent higher today at $112.50 after
settling yesterday at $112.14 on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange, up 26 percent from the year’s low on June 21.  Citigroup forecasts oil averaging $105 a barrel in the
coming three months, and then dropping to $100, “with higher
downside price risk than upside potential,” Morse said.
Refinery outages in the U.S., the return of halted output in
non-OPEC nations, higher Iraqi exports and Saudi Arabian
production of at least 9.5 million barrels a day raises the
chance of crude falling below the three-digit mark, he said.  Most analysts forecast Brent holding above $100 with the
median estimate for the third quarter at $106 and $108 in the
fourth, according to a Bloomberg survey of 36 researchers.  ‘Realism Will Prevail’  “Realism will prevail and prices will sink back,” said
 Leo Drollas , chief economist at the London-based CGES, which
correctly forecast that  Saudi Arabia  would raise output in June
to push prices below $100 for the first time this year. “Where
is all the oil going to go? Iran has ways of circumventing
sanctions, Iraq and  Libya  are producing more, and oil demand
isn’t strong with the current status of the world economy.”  About half of the 1 million barrels a day of oil that has
been shuttered in non-OPEC nations such as Yemen, Sudan,  South
Sudan , Syria and  Norway  will return, adding to the glut. South
Sudan said Aug. 6 it will start its 375,000 barrel-a-day output
by next month once it reaches a deal with Sudan on transit fees
and border security. Yemen resumed flows from its main pipeline
in mid-July, after at least 18 sabotage attacks since March 2011
cut off 120,000 barrels a day of crude that the link carries.  Strategic Stockpiles  South Korea ’s import of Iranian crude may resume as early
as next month, Yonhap News said yesterday, citing unidentified
government officials. Iran has offered to supply oil on its own
tankers, a South Korean government official said June 29.  Producers may struggle to find an outlet for the extra oil
as China, the world’s second-biggest crude buyer, cuts imports.
Net purchases from overseas slid 12 percent in June from May,
the biggest drop since October 2010, data from the customs
service showed. Imports fell as commercial and emergency-reserve
sites filled up, Gong Jinshuang, a senior engineer at China
National Petroleum Corp, said July 17.  The country, which is building 207 million barrels of
storage as part of a strategic-reserve plan, hoarded fuel at the
fastest pace since the 2008 Beijing Olympics in the first five
months of the year.  OPEC must reduce output to a range of 30 million to 30.5
million barrels a day to “prevent further price weakness,”
Energy Security Analysis Inc., based in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts , said in an Aug. 2 report. Saudi Arabia, the
world’s biggest crude exporter, raised production earlier this
year to the highest in at least three decades to damp prices
that had rallied to a 2012 high of $128.40 on March 1.  Economic Stimulus  Economic stimulus plans may encourage demand, according to
Commerzbank AG. Plans by the  European Central Bank  to buy bonds
of euro area countries struggling with debt and the possibility
of a third round of so-called quantitative easing by the U.S.
Federal Reserve is boosting confidence that policy makers are
keen to promote growth,  Eugen Weinberg , Commerzbank’s head of
commodities research said in an Aug. 6 interview from  Frankfurt .  OPEC left its collective output limit at 30 million barrels
a day at its June meeting, a level its 12 members exceeded by
1.8 million barrels in June, according to the IEA, as Saudi
Arabia and its allies sought to make up for lost Iranian barrels
ahead of sanctions. There’s enough oil to make up for further
losses of Iranian production, which slumped to a 22-year low of
3.3 million in June, cutting OPEC supply by 100,000 barrels, the
IEA said.  “The underlying profile for demand requires OPEC to
produce less than 31 million barrels a day in the second half of
the year,”  David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s oil industry and
markets division, said in a July 25 telephone interview from
Paris. “OPEC is producing about 1 million barrels more than
that, so it’s arguable whether they will have to do more than
they already have done, even if we lose more Iranian oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  