-- Oil Near 3-Month High Amid Speculation of China Stimulus
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-09T12:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/oil-near-three-month-high-amid-speculation-of-chinese-stimulus.html
Oil traded near a three-month high in
New York as speculation that  China  will take more steps to boost
economic growth offset signs of weakening demand in the U.S.  Futures advanced as much as 0.8 percent. Growth in China’s
industrial production slowed while inflation cooled for a fourth
straight month in July, providing more room for policies to
stimulate the economy of the world’s second-biggest oil
consumer. U.S. petroleum  consumption  fell 1.1 percent last week,
the first drop in four weeks, the Energy Department said
yesterday. OPEC trimmed its forecast for demand for its crude
and said Iraq’s output surpassed 3 million barrels a day for the
first time since 2002.  “The market is in a mode where all that matters is the
prospect of central bank monetary stimulus,” said Guy Wolf, a
strategist at Marex Spectron Group Ltd., a London-based
commodities brokerage, which predicts  Brent crude  will be capped
at $120 a barrel. “So soft growth data, without inflationary
pressure, is a green light for central banks. Further stimulus
in China is almost a certainty.”  Oil for September delivery was at $93.79 a barrel, up 44
cents, or 0.5 percent, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 1:35 p.m. London time. Prices climbed to
$94.72 yesterday, the highest since May 15. The contract is up
21 percent from its lowest close this year of $77.69 on June 28.  Brent crude for September settlement rose 30 cents to
$112.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $18.77, down from $18.79 yesterday.  China Inflation  Iraq’s crude output rose to more than 3 million barrels a
day last month for the first time since the 2003 U.S.-led
invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein , according to the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Iraq pumped 3.08
million barrels a day in July, 115,000 barrels more than the
previous month, OPEC’s Vienna-based secretariat said today in
its Monthly Oil Market Report.  OPEC said its 12 members will need to supply 29.5 million
barrels of crude a day in 2013, or 100,000 a day less than last
month’s estimate.  China’s consumer prices rose 1.8 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today. That
compares with the 1.7 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 33 economists and a 2.2 percent gain in June.  The deceleration in price gains may encourage policy makers
to introduce more measures to support growth, aiding efforts to
reverse a slowdown that’s lasted six quarters.  Paring Rates  “A rate cut or further liberalization of lending in
deposit markets, or a cut in  reserve requirements  for banks
could be a positive contributor to the energy complex,” said
 Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The case is very strong” for stimulus, he said.  China’s industrial output rose 9.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said. The growth
compares with the 9.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 32 analysts.  U.S. crude stockpiles fell  3.7 million barrels  last week,
the Energy Department said. They were forecast to decline 1.6
million barrels, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Demand has softened in the U.S.,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, who predicts  New York  oil faces
technical resistance at $94.50 a barrel. “Prices have had a
very good run.”  Fewer Products  Total products supplied, a measure of fuel consumption,
dropped 204,000 barrels a day to 18.9 million last week, the
first decline since the week ended July 6, according to the
Energy Department report.  Speculation that nations are stockpiling oil at the fastest
rate in 14 years is fanning expectations for Brent crude to drop
below $100 a barrel.  OPEC pumped 2.1 million barrels a day more than projected
demand in April through June, the biggest overproduction for any
quarter since 1998, the International Energy Agency estimates.
The increase was little noticed as traders focus on U.S.-led
sanctions curbing  Iran ’s oil exports, Citigroup Inc. said. Brent
will fall to $93 by September and $83 by year-end, according to
the Centre for Global Energy Studies, a London-based consultant.  Tropical Storm Ernesto, rumbling westward in the southern
part of the Bay of Campeche, is crossing  Mexico ’s oil-production
hub and will go ashore “shortly,” according to the National
Hurricane Center.  Ernesto, with heavy rain and winds of 70 miles (113
kilometers) per hour, was 40 miles east-northeast of
Coatzacoalcos and traveling west at 13 mph, the Miami-based
center said in an advisory at 8 a.m. East Coast time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  