-- Oil Pares Weekly Gain as China, IEA Signal Slower Growth
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-08-10T12:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/oil-heads-for-second-weekly-gain-as-u-s-jobless-claims-decline.html
Oil fell the most in six days,
paring its weekly gain, as a collapse in  China ’s export growth
signaled the global economy is weakening and the  International
Energy Agency  said demand expansion is slowing.  Futures fell as much as 1.6 percent in New York after the
customs bureau in Beijing said today that China’s net oil
imports shrank to the lowest level this year. The bureau also
said outbound shipments of all goods increased 1 percent in July
from a year earlier, compared with an 8 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The Paris-based IEA cut
global oil demand forecasts for this year and next.  “Most of the drop in  oil prices  today come from macro
figures in China,” Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank
AB, said by phone from Oslo. “It started with China and then
the IEA. That just added to the gloomy picture.”  Oil for September delivery dropped as much as $1.47, the
most since Aug. 2, to $91.89 a barrel in electronic trading on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It traded at $91.98 at 1:24
p.m. London time. Prices are up 0.5 percent this week.  Brent crude  for September settlement fell $1.70 to $111.51
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange after
advancing 1 percent yesterday. The European benchmark’s  premium 
to West Texas Intermediate was $19.59, compared with $19.86
yesterday, the widest gap since April.  “The Brent premium is related to the  Middle East ,” said
 Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo .
“People are worrying about geopolitical risk.”  China Oil Imports  In China, net crude imports were 21.6 million metric tons,
according to data released on the website of the Beijing-based
General Administration of Customs. That’s the equivalent of 5.1
million barrels a day, the least since December 2011.  “China is a major importer of oil, and when that country
slows, there’s going to be a negative effect,” said Madhavi
Mehta, an energy analyst at Kotak Commodity Services Ltd. in
Mumbai. “This isn’t just a blip. The sentiment may be weak in
the market because the economy isn’t picking up.”  The country’s July exports of all goods increased 1 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 11 percent growth in June. A
report yesterday showed growth in Chinese industrial output is
also slowing.  The IEA, which last month had predicted a faster rate of
demand growth for next year, now estimates that world oil use
will decelerate to 800,000 barrels a day, or 0.9 percent, in
2013 from 900,000 a day, or 1 percent, this year.  Consumption Drops  Global consumption will average 90.5 million barrels a day
next year, or 400,000 a day less than estimated last month as a
result of revisions to data since 2010, the IEA’s monthly oil
market report showed today.  Crude prices may rise in  New York  next week as refineries
operate near the highest level in five years and as tension in
the Middle East raises concern that supply may be disrupted, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Ten of 21 analysts and traders, or 48 percent, forecast
crude prices will advance through Aug. 17. Eight respondents
predicted a decline and three expect little change. Narrow
differences in the daily opening and closing levels of WTI crude
signal that oil is losing momentum and is poised to drop,
according to technical analysis by Barclays Plc.  Iran Sanctions, Sudan  International sanctions against  Iran  have reduced exports
from the Persian Gulf nation more than previously forecast,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report e-mailed today. There
is a shortfall of 1.4 million barrels a day from Iran that
“substantially exceeds” the bank’s estimates, it said.  While the possible resumption of exports from South  Sudan 
might partly offset that shortage, it’s unclear when supply from
the African country will resume, according to the report.  Output from Sudan and  South Sudan  is forecast to average
60,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter, and 130,000 barrels
next year, compared with about 450,000 last year, the IEA said.
Restarting could take six months or even longer, it said.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude exporter, pumped 10
million barrels a day in July, the IEA said. Iraq’s crude output
rose above 3 million barrels a day last month, and topped that
of Iran, the agency said. A report yesterday by the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries showed the same switch in
rankings.  Tropical Depression Seven was about 930 miles (1,500
kilometers) east of the Windward Islands with winds of 35 miles
per hour, the National Hurricane Center said in a 5 a.m.
Atlantic time advisory. Ernesto, formerly a hurricane, weakened
to a tropical depression as it dissipated over the mountains of
southern  Mexico  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  