-- Oki Electric Shares Plunge on Spain Accounting Woes: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-09T09:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/oki-electric-shares-plunge-on-spain-accounting-woes-tokyo-mover.html
Oki Electric  Industry Co. shares
plunged the most in at least 37 years in Tokyo after the company
said its Spain unit overstated accounts and it will miss the
deadline for filing financial reports, prompting the Tokyo
bourse to put the company on watch for possible delisting.  The  stock  plunged 34 percent, the most since at least
September 1974, to 81 yen. It was the biggest percentage loser
on  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which added 1.1
percent.  Oki Systems Iberica, based in  Madrid , overstated the
accounts and that may trim  earnings  by about 8 billion yen ($102
million), the Japanese maker of automated teller machines said
in a statement yesterday. Oki Electric, whose customers include
International Business Machines Corp., won’t be able to submit
financial reports for the period ended June 30 until about Sept.
14, it said, a month later than the due date.  “Investors may be seeing possibilities that the improper
accounting could spill out to cause a bigger impact than what
the company estimates,” Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at
Tokyo-based Stats Investment Management Co., said by phone
today. “Olympus’ fraud had a big impact on the company’s stock
and that is still remembered. Investors tend to worry that this
may cause bigger consequences.”  The company’s full-year earnings  forecasts  may be revised
and its past  financial reports  could be corrected after an
outside panel draws up a report, President Hideichi Kawasaki
told reporters yesterday without specifying a time period.
 Olympus Corp. (7733) , which last year admitted to financial
irregularities, was fined by the Tokyo exchange and allowed to
keep its listing after being put on the watchlist.  Dropped Coverage  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. dropped its rating of
Oki Electric, citing its lack of ability to judge financials.  “The announcement comes as a surprise and we expect the
stock to react negatively,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst
Ikuo Matsuhashi said in a report dated today. He reiterated his
neutral rating on the stock, saying Oki’s enterprise value won’t
be affected if the case is an isolated incident.  Oki’s full-year  net income  is estimated to be 11.4 billion
yen for the year ending in March, according to the average of
five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We will disclose the effect of the inappropriate
accounting on earnings once an estimate is made,” Kawasaki
said. “It’s highly possible that an individual was involved and
there probably isn’t a companywide misconduct.”  Supervision List  Oki Electric was the  best performer  on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average, with a 77 percent as of yesterday’s close since
beginning of the year. The company makes ATMs, PCs,
semiconductors and telecommunications equipment for the aviation
industry, and its customers include IBM and Staples Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Tokyo exchange placed the stock on its supervision list
because the company is expected to miss the submission deadline
of Aug. 14 for its quarterly report, the bourse said on its
website. Net income will probably total 11 billion yen for the
year started April 1, Oki said in May.  The bourse fined Olympus, the world’s biggest maker of
endoscopes, 10 million yen in January and allowed it to keep its
listing after an accounting fraud cut the company’s  market value 
by about $4 billion.  Japanese companies previously delisted for fabricating
earnings statements include Livedoor Co., Seibu Railway Co. and
Kanebo Ltd., according to the bourse’s website.  IHI Corp., a Japanese maker of heavy machinery, was put on
the alert list in 2008, becoming the first Japanese company to
be placed in the category, after misstating earnings and
underestimating costs on engineering and plant projects.  The new rule was created after Nikko Cordial Corp., a
Japanese securities brokerage, was allowed to keep its stock
market listing following an accounting scandal in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  