-- Holder Says U.S. Missed Opportunity on Terror Trials: Interview
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-08-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/holder-says-u-s-missed-opportunity-on-terror-trials-interview.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
has been a controversial figure. He reversed plans to hold
terror trials in  New York City , and  House Republicans  held him
in contempt over the Fast and Furious scandal. He speaks about
the collision of law and politics in the Aug. 13 issue of
Bloomberg Businessweek.  Question: You’ve spent a long time at the  Justice
Department  in one position or another.  Holder: I’ve worked in a variety of jobs here over the last
36 years. This place formed me as a lawyer, probably personally
as well, and influences a great deal of who I am. One of the
things I learned is that you’ve got to deal with the underlying
social problems if you want to have an impact on crime -- that
it’s not a coincidence that you see the greatest amount of
violent crime where you see the greatest amount of social
dysfunction. Where schools don’t educate. Where we see high
levels of  unemployment . We see men not involved in the raising
of their children, and specifically, you know, their sons.  Question: When you say the department made you who you are,
what do you mean?  Holder: I was raised -- professionally -- in the Public
Integrity Section. I started in 1976, stayed there for 12 years.
It was formed after Watergate by then-head of the Criminal
Division Dick Thornburgh, who ultimately became attorney
general. And what was brought home to me during my years there
was I saw a variety of public officials who, given the public
trust, betrayed that honor. And it was kind of a chance to see -
- I guess you could call it the underside of government. So I
came into the Public Integrity Section, I think, a pretty
idealistic guy, and I saw a different part.  Question: Obviously, the job of attorney general has become
quite politicized.  There’s no question that there is a political component to
this job, as with any Cabinet position. And I think that the
department, because it is at the crossroads of law enforcement
and policy, and social issues as well, it finds itself at the
middle of a lot of political controversies. But that doesn’t
really, from my perspective, shift what I think an AG’s focus
has to be -- the apolitical work that we do here, whether it’s
enforcing the civil rights laws that have an impact on housing
and policing, or what I’ve been focusing on recently in terms of
a really vigorous enforcement of the Voting Rights Act. All
things that I think are essentially apolitical but will be
opposed by those who will try to characterize them as
politicization of the department. I mean, that’s the most
fundamental right of any American citizen. It’s a function of
what’s probably the greatest piece of civil rights legislation,
the Voting Rights Act of 1965. And so this is something that for
me is personal.  Question: Has this political atmosphere gotten to be too
much? What would you change about it if you could?  Holder: I think people here in  Washington  nowadays see
compromise as somehow inconsistent with an adherence to
principle. So if there was something I could change, I think I
might take us back a bit to a time when, for instance,
Republicans were the ones who were responsible for the great
civil rights advances that we saw back in the ’60s. You know,
without Senator Everett Dirksen and the caucus that he led in
the Senate, there probably wouldn’t have been a Civil Rights Act
of 1960 -- a Voting Rights Act of 1965. That’s what I have tried
to focus on -- dealing with threats to our national security,
prevention of violent crime, financial fraud, and then also
trying to come up with ways in which we protect the most
vulnerable among us by focusing on the civil and fundamental
rights of all Americans. That has put me in confrontation with
certain people, certain factions.  Question: The effort to try Guantanamo detainees in  New
York , for instance, didn’t work out as you’d hoped.  Holder: No, clearly it didn’t. I think that was really a
missed opportunity. A lot of what we heard in opposition to
trying to conduct those trials in New York City has proven, or
would have proven, to be incorrect. We would not have closed
down  Lower Manhattan . The trials would have been done by now. We
would not have spent $200 million a year. Justice would have
been served, and there would have been a credibility, an
international credibility, brought to the resolution of those
matters by trying them in the civilian court system that has
proven so effective at trying terrorists. I mean, we have tried
-- and the  Bush administration , as well -- hundreds of people in
the civilian court system, those people charged with terrorist
offenses -- and have successfully prosecuted them and done so in
a way that has held out our court system as the best in the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  