-- Olympic Pentathlon Gets New Look With Laser Guns at London Games
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-09T23:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/olympic-pentathlon-gets-new-look-with-laser-guns-at-london-games.html
A century after Pierre de Coubertin
introduced modern pentathlon to the  Olympic Games , athletes will
line up laser guns as the sport parades its latest look.  The closing event of the London games schedule, the
pentathlon will conclude a 20-year modernization that has pared
what was once a five-day event into a single day. For the first
time at the Olympics, the athletes will replace lead pellets
with lasers in a combined shoot-and-run to the finish line.  “It’s a definitive step forward into the 21st century,”
Jan Bartu, performance director at U.K. governing body
 Pentathlon GB , said in an interview. “Obviously there is this
100-year legacy and Pierre de Coubertin’s idea, which is a
massive thing. When you start modifying the original format, you
have to make sure the idea lives on.”  The pentathlon of the Games in Ancient Greece included
running, jumping, spear and discus throwing and wrestling. The
selection of sports for the modern version was based on the
legend of a military officer sent to deliver a message, a
mission that required shooting, fencing, swimming, equestrian
and running. According to de Coubertin, the event was intended
to test “a man’s moral qualities as much as his physical
resources and skills, producing thereby a complete athlete.”  In its debut at the 1912 Stockholm games, the modern
pentathlon attracted 32 men from 10 countries including General
George Patton, who as a then-lieutenant placed fifth. Women
entered for the first time at the Sydney games in 2000. Thirty-
six men and 36 women are taking part in  London .  Coubertin’s Legacy  Although the transition to a one-day format happened in the
1990s, further efforts to make the sport more visible and
attractive to younger athletes and audiences began about 10
years ago, according to Klaus Schormann, president of the  Union
International de Pentathlon Moderne , the sport’s governing body.  “Pentathlon is now an Olympic sport with the highest
technology,” Schormann said in a telephone interview. “To play
in the legacy of Coubertin after 100 years is a very special
feeling. The sport is still alive and modernized.”  The first major change was the introduction of the combined
shoot-and-run in 2009, where athletes repeat a cycle of shooting
five targets and running 1,000 meters (3,280-feet) three times.
Laser shooting made its adult debut in February 2011.  “Initially I was a little bit against it,” British
Olympic pentathlete  Sam Weale , 30, said of the move away from
pellet-firing air pistols. “There is too much emphasis on speed
and not enough on precision, but it’s added something to the
sport as a spectacle, made it more unique and more exciting.”  Still, the switch to lasers wasn’t without problems.  ‘Too Fast’  Early events were plagued by complaints that hits weren’t
being registered correctly, according to Sebastien Floure,
general manager of Biscarrosse, France-based Simpower, which is
providing the targets for the pentathlon in London.  “The federation was changing to laser too fast, one year
to purge all the issues,” Floure said in an interview. “This
is why we didn’t want to jump into the market right away.”  The 38 targets, which are each worth about 1,000 euros
($1,230) take four people about two hours to set up along with
network connections. They provide immediate results on the
success of the shot, Floure said. Pentathletes are allowed an
unlimited number of shots within a 70-second span.  “Even if you’re sitting in grandstands you can see what’s
going on,” Bartu said. “It’s a pioneering step in terms of
competing. The Olympics in London has massive potential in the
presentation of the sport and the feedback to the viewers will
be much better.”  The athletes are being given access to the official
competition ground for the riding and combined event in
Greenwich Park for the first time today. The fencing and
swimming will take place in the Olympic park in east London.  Audience Increase  Lasers have helped make the sport more accessible because
television cameras and spectators can get closer to the action,
according to Joel Bouzou, secretary general of the Monaco-based
UIPM. TV audiences and visits to the organization’s website have
“really increased,” he said, without providing details.  The sport’s major sponsors are  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , New
Balance Athletic Shoe, Inc., Speedo International Ltd. and Ram
Swiss Watch AG.  The leading men’s medal contenders include  Russia ’s
Aleksander Lesun and two-time defending Olympic champion Andrei
Moiseev, who hold the  top two spots  in the world rankings.
Lithuania’s Laura Asadauskaite and Lena Schoneborn from  Germany 
are the top-ranked women.  Regardless of the eventual winners, being the final Olympic
competition “will be a great promotion for the sport,” said
Schormann. The women’s shoot-and-run is scheduled to be the last
event to finish before the closing ceremony on Aug. 12. The
men’s pentathlon takes place the day before.  With major changes to the sport complete, it’s over to the
pentathletes to showcase them in the Olympics spotlight.  “It’s a new era,” Bouzou said. “There is more prize
money coming in and that’s useful, so we’re going in the right
direction. Now the combined event with laser shooting is
crowning 20 years of evolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  