-- Playing to Lose Is Smart, Not an Olympic Scandal
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-08-09T22:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/olympians-playing-to-lose-is-strategy-not-a-scandal.html
Olympic athletes want to win -- we
all know that. So why are they being disqualified for trying to
lose?  After the badminton scandal that marred the early days of
the games, the latest athlete to be kicked out was Algerian
middle-distance runner Taoufik Makhloufi, who walked off the
course in an 800 meters semifinal on Aug. 6.  Makhloufi got lucky. After an appeal, the International
Association of Athletics Federations accepted the doubtful
excuse that he was feeling injured, and reinstated him. The next
day, Makhloufi  won the gold medal  in the 1,500 meters by almost
three-quarters of a second.  That was not the performance of an injured man. Makhloufi
hadn’t wanted to run the 800 at all. For some reason, his team
had left him in it. Clearly, Makhloufi knew his chances of
winning gold in the 1,500 could be harmed by running the 800,
which he had little chance to win. He was acting rationally in
giving up. For that matter, so were the Chinese, Indonesian and
South Korean badminton players who tried to  throw early-round
matches  for a better draw in subsequent tournament rounds. So
was the Japanese women’s soccer team, which benched all but four
starters and played for a tie against  South Africa  to avoid
having to travel to  Scotland  for its next match.  Real Effort  Why, exactly, do we have the instinct that acting
rationally in order to win violates the “Olympic spirit”? The
rules of the  International Association of Athletics Federations ,
which governs Makhloufi’s races, demand that athletes “compete
honestly with bona fide effort” or face mandatory elimination
from future events in the same competition. The badminton rules
are roughly the same.  Of course, all the athletes in question were putting in a
bona fide effort to win gold medals. They just believed that the
best way to do it was to focus themselves on the main event and
put themselves in the best possible position for it. That path
took them through a less than fully competitive effort in
earlier matches or races. There was nothing inherently dishonest
about their efforts, except that the rules require them to lie
if they want to have the best possible chance of winning.  One possibility -- the one the Olympic authorities would no
doubt like us to embrace -- is that competitors should go all-
out at all times, treating each moment of competition as sacred.
After all, the Olympics have their origins in ancient religious
ritual, and today sport can seem very much like a secular faith,
complete with rituals like sacred flame and a solemn Olympic
oath.  The problem with this ideal is that it does not match
reality. We see strategic competition all the time in sports,
including the Olympics -- and ordinarily, it does not bother us
much, if at all. We compliment the intelligence of runners and
swimmers who pace themselves in preliminary heats, rather than
expending all of their energies. We accept the intentional walk
in baseball as part of the game, even though it represents the
opposite of bona fide competition between pitcher and batter. We
even accept that professional basketball and football teams will
play their scrubs and accept near-certain defeat once they have
made the playoffs -- not just to protect against injury, but
sometimes even to get a better playoff draw by losing.  Perhaps it could be argued that the badminton players, at
least, violated the spirit of the tournament, which was designed
so that the qualifiers from the initial pool would then compete
in the next round according to a predetermined set of rankings.
Yet it was the tournament’s design that created the incentive
for the teams to lose. In essence, the matches that the players
were attempting to throw were exhibitions: All the teams
involved had already qualified for the next round.  Entertainment Value  Indeed, it could be argued that Makhloufi’s tanking (if
that’s what it was) was worse than that of the badminton
players. At least they were easing up within the context of the
same tournament they sought to win. The runner, by contrast, was
throwing one event to have a better chance of winning an
entirely different one.  The persistence of strategic competition despite the rules
against it suggests another reason that the  Olympic Games 
condemn the practice: the entertainment value. The Olympics are
a big business, and organizers want the spectators to get their
money’s worth. London Olympics Chairman Sebastian Coe
inadvertently  revealed this motive  when he commented after the
badminton scandal, “Who wants to sit through something like
that?”  By this logic, there is nothing sacrosanct about Olympic
effort except that the spectators have paid good money to watch
it while the networks and the sponsors have paid vast sums to
show it. Far from embodying the aspiration to pure sport, the
athletes are entertainers. As entertainers, they owe their
responsibility not to ultimate victory but to putting on a good
show at any moment when a paying customer might be watching.  Once the underlying economic motive emerges, it’s easy to
see that there is a conflict between our interests as consumers
and the athletes’ as producers of value. From the athletes’
perspective, ultimate victory really is the goal. Not only do
they want victory for its own sake, but their future earning
capacity depends on winning gold. A runner such as Makhloufi can
expect his appearance fees to go up significantly if he is an
Olympic champion. We, on the other hand, want to be treated
constantly to the spectacle of total effort -- of the kind we
might never use ourselves in our own strategy-suffused lives.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why to  resist Syria
intervention calls  and on parents who refuse to have their  kids
vaccinated ;  Jonathan Alter  on why  past elections don’t predict
future ones ; Stephen L. Carter on our  (emotional, not economic)
depression ; William Pesek on  rising tensions in the South China
Sea ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered and money laundering ;
 Steven Greenhut  on the  use of municipal bankruptcies to stiff
investors ; Caleb Scharf on  future telescopes  that could better
explore black holes.  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  