-- Olympic Lawyer Procures Toilets, Protects Newts at London Games
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-08-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/olympic-lawyer-procures-toilets-protects-newts-at-london-games.html
Being the first official  law firm 
for the  Olympic Games  isn’t all glamor. Ask the Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP lawyer who had to round up portable
toilets from throughout Britain for the event that will bring
about 9 million spectators for 26 sports over three weeks.  Tim Jones, a former rugby player, has led the Freshfields
team ensuring nothing is left to chance since being named in
2009 as sole legal-services provider to the London Organising
Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.  Freshfields, based in London, is the eighth-largest law
firm in the world by revenue, according to Legal Business
Magazine’s 2012 revenue survey. The firm bid for the Olympic job
in part to improve recognition of its brand globally, and Jones
said Freshfields has seen results.  “We were looking into increasing our brand awareness,
increasing our corporate client base and improving employee
satisfaction,” Jones said. Working on the Olympics “just
provides a terrific galvanizing force.”  Jones, 55, is a self-confessed sports lover who played for
the  London  Welsh rugby club. He talks as enthusiastically about
the variety of his work as he does about meeting British sports
heroes including Barcelona 1992 100-meter gold medalist Linford Christie and David Hemery, the 1968 400-meter hurdles champion.
The British team is enjoying one of its most successful Olympics
ever having won at least 52 medals, including 25 golds.  ‘The Legacy’  “I am a proud Londoner and really believe in the legacy,”
Jones said. “While all other global events are going to the
next generation of super powers, London has a chance to put
itself center stage.”  His work ranged from relatively mundane contract and
employment law to intellectual-property enforcement and putting
in place drug-testing procedures. Contracts had to be in place
for the 8,400 shuttlecocks, 270,000 skeet targets and 600
basketballs needed for the event scheduled to end Aug. 12.  After years of work by as many as 300 lawyers for the
games, Jones said the quirky elements -- such as saving 2,000
endangered newts from the Olympic park and writing contracts for
production of 34,500 medals and having them safely housed in a
vault in the  Tower of London  -- will always stick with him.  Taking on those different challenges drew praise from the
organizers of the games.  Uncharted Territory  “The greatest benefit for me is the willingness to step
into uncharted territory and work as part of my team to figure
out the way forward,” Terry Miller, general counsel at LOCOG,
said of Freshfields in an e-mail.  Freshfields’s ties to the 2012 Games dates back to the 2003
bid to bring the multi-sport event to the U.K.’s capital. A team
that included soccer player  David Beckham  won the bid in 2005
against Paris, the favorite to host the games. LOCOG then
started a competitive tender process in which about 20 firms
made pitches for the work.  Freshfields was confirmed as a tier-three sponsor of the
games in 2009 and became the event’s first ever official law
firm, Jones said. It costs about 10 million pounds ($15.6
million) to be a tier-three sponsor for the games, which can be
covered in part by services provided. Other London 2012 sponsors
include  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Jones declined to provide specifics on Freshfields
financial dealings with LOCOG, saying the information was
commercially sensitive.  Sebastian Coe, the chairman of LOCOG, said working with
Freshfields was crucial to making the games a success.  Free Transit  Lawyers at the firm worked with Transport for London,
operator of the city’s public transit, to arrange free travel
for 9 million ticket holders. Freshfields negotiated the
contracts for 24,000 temporary security staff to man the games.
As many as 18,200 military personnel were deployed at Olympic
sites after  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest security company,
failed to provide enough staff for the games.  “We had the reputation of being a country that could not
make things happen,” Jones said. “Being part of the team that
had to persuade the IOC that we could make quick decisions and
make things happen was fascinating.”  Jones, who studied at Oxford, qualified as a lawyer in 1981
and became a partner at Freshfields in 1990. He is known as one
of the city’s leading corporate advisers, working on deals
including gaming company  Betfair Group Plc (BET) ’s 2011 initial public
offering. He was the firm’s London managing partner from 2007
until 2011. Freshfields advised on $140.4 billion in mergers and
acquisitions so far this year, second behind Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Magic Circle  The firm reported 1.13 billion pounds in revenues for the
fiscal year ended May 31, fourth among the U.K.’s five so-called
magic circle firms.  “This is the biggest peacetime operation, with the second
biggest being the Paralympics,” Jones said. “There are 24,000
athletes and officials, 20,000 media and at the same time you
have something like summertime Davos happening with all the
leading business people and politicians.”  The Paralympics begin Aug. 29 and Jones said those will
capture the imagination of the world.  “Some people love sport, some people like it a bit and
some people hate it, but the Paralympics crosses all those
boundaries,” Jones said. “Paralympic athletes are
extraordinary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  