-- London Boom Pushes U.K. House Prices to Four-Year High
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-08-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/london-boom-pushes-u-k-house-prices-to-four-year-high.html
U.K.  house prices  increased to a
four-year high in July as  London ’s booming property market
widened its divergence with the rest of the country,
Acadametrics Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home in  England  and Wales rose 0.2
percent from June to 225,769 pounds ($353,000), the most since
June 2008, Acadametrics and LSL Property Services Plc said in a
report published in London today. Prices climbed 3.2 percent
from a year earlier.  “This month we report stunning growth in some London
boroughs,” Peter Williams, chairman of Acadametrics, said in a
statement. “The Greater London housing market is another
country compared with the remainder of the U.K.” and “is
likely to continue to move further out of line with all or most
of the market in the rest of England and  Wales .”  The figures highlight how the British capital is skewing
the national picture at a time when  mortgage  rationing and job
losses are curbing demand for homes elsewhere in Britain. The
 Bank of England  said this week that overall house prices have
remained “broadly unchanged” in the past two years and that,
adjusted for  inflation , they have actually declined.  London prices rose 11.8 percent in June from a year
earlier, driven by gains of 38 percent in Kensington and
Chelsea, 21 percent in Camden and 20 percent in Westminster,
Acadametrics said. Such increases dwarfed gains of 3.6 percent
for England and Wales as a whole and masked price drops recorded
in the north of England, the West Midlands and the northwest.  Transaction Jump  Transactions rose 11 percent in July from the previous
month, double the more usual 5 percent gain seen at this time of
year, Acadametrics said.  “This may reflect the return of buyers to the market after
taking part in street parties, watching television and enjoying
an extra bank holiday during the queen’s Jubilee” the previous
month, Williams said. “We would expect that transactions will
remain weak at around the 60,000 per month level,” compared
with 100,000 during the property boom of the last decade.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the  Land Registry  and results from other price measures to
produce their housing index.  Williams stressed that the Acadametrics measure differs
from property indexes by mortgage lenders such as Lloyds Banking
Group’s  Halifax division  or  Nationwide Building Society  because
it incorporates transactions rather than loan offers, which are
granted earlier in the buying process. This month’s data can
therefore be compared with those of Nationwide for May, which
showed a 0.3 percent monthly increase, rather than July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  