-- London’s Drinkers, Mist Celebrated in Tate Photo Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-08-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/london-s-drinkers-mist-celebrated-in-tate-photo-show.html
Shafts of sunlight slant into a dark
room, filled with men drinking glasses of beer.  It could be a characteristic British interior from any time
over the past few centuries, yet one detail dates it: Some of
the drinkers at the bar are sporting hats.  I’m describing “Gaston Berlemont’s Pub, the French House,
Soho,  London ,” a picture taken by Willy Ronis in 1955. It’s one
of the items in “Another London: International Photographers
Capture London Life 1930-1980” at  Tate Britain .  The show, a timely diversion for weary Olympics fans, is an
intriguing series of attempts to record a city that is as
elusive as it is familiar. The image of London in photography
(and painting too) is less sharp than that of, say, Paris or New
York, partly for a visual reason: the light.  For much of the period covered by this show London was
frequently swathed in Victorian fog. It’s still often softly
overcast.  Some of these photographers -- Laure Albin-Guillot in the
1930s,  Robert Frank  in 1951 -- are still recording the same
mysteriously misty metropolis that Monet, Turner and Whistler
had painted in the previous century. On the other hand, many of
the images in the exhibition, for example Ronis’s atmospheric
shot of Soho drinkers, could have been taken yesterday, except
for a few details. But the details make all the difference.  Another Era  Physically, at least, London hasn’t changed that much in
half a century, hugely less than, say, Beijing. Many of the
locations of these photographs -- such as the  French pub , a
favorite watering hole of Bohemian Londoners -- are still there.
Those shifting details, though, make all the difference.  The title of Rene Groebli’s “Tram on Westminster Bridge”
(1949) makes the point. Big Ben, the Houses of Parliament and
the bridge itself are much the same 63 years later, yet the tram
-- and the near absence of traffic -- make it seem like a
picture of a vanished world.  There were, of course, big alterations to the fabric of the
city, particularly those caused by the bombing in World War II.
There’s scarcely a building standing in the foreground of “View
From  St. Paul’s Cathedral , August 1942” by Wolfgang Suschitzky.  The really important transformations were probably the
social ones. Bill Brandt, an Anglo-German photographer, said in
1948 that over only a decade and a half London had changed so
much that his photographs of the 1930s now had “the period
charm almost of another century.” Many of the Londoners in the
earlier photographs on show could be Victorians.  Eccentric Victorians  Come to think of it, the eccentric elderly trio in Henri Cartier-Bresson’s “Coronation of George VI, 12th May 1937”
must have spent half their lives in the reign of Queen Victoria.  There were big social changes in the half-century between
1930 and 1980. Brandt thought that the extreme divisions between
rich and poor he caught in his work of the 1930s, such as
“Housewife,  Bethnal Green ” (1937), were disappearing after
World War II (though they may be returning, nowadays).  The photographs of the 1960s and 1970s by Ghanaian-born
James Barnor capture an increasingly ethnically diverse
population.  Maybe the biggest metamorphosis is one of mood. Mid-century
London was a beautiful but melancholy place, grimy and battered.
It was an ex-imperial capital in decline. In 21st-century
London, despite the economic crisis and the riots, that doesn’t
seem true anymore. Big Ben, St. Paul’s and the Thames still may
look much the same, yet the feeling is dynamic, not elegiac.  “Another London: International Photographers Capture
London Life 1930-1980” is at Tate Britain, London, through
Sept. 16. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend,
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 