-- Hong Kong Cuts Growth Forecast as World Economy Falters
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-08-10T16:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hong-kong-economic-growth-forecast-slowest-since-2009.html
Hong Kong ’s government cut its
estimate for the city’s expansion this year after the  economy 
grew at close to the slowest pace since the financial crisis
amid waning export demand from advanced nations.  Growth will probably be in a range of 1 percent to 2
percent, the government said in a  statement  yesterday, compared
with a previous forecast of 1 percent to 3 percent. Gross
domestic product rose 1.1 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter, after a revised 0.7 percent gain in the first
three months.  The trade-reliant economy risks further deterioration this
quarter after  China  yesterday reported a slump in July export
growth to 1 percent. Expansion across  Asia  is slowing as U.S.
consumers limit spending and Europe’s debt crisis continues,
adding to the challenges for Hong Kong’s new Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying.  “China’s stimulus measures have yet to revive growth and
given such a difficult external environment, Hong Kong’s
economic growth is still facing a lot of uncertainty,” said
Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based senior economist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Yeung said he cut his full-year
forecast for the city’s expansion to 2.4 percent from 3.4
percent yesterday.  Second-quarter growth compared with the 1.2 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists. The
economy contracted 0.1 percent in the second quarter from the
first three months.  Capital Economics  cut its full-year growth
forecast to 1 percent from 2 percent.  Li & Fung  Li & Fung Ltd., the world’s biggest supplier of clothes and
toys to retailers, plunged in Hong Kong trading by the most
since its 1992 listing after slowdowns in U.S. and Europe caused
a slump in operating profit. The Hong Kong-based company said
that sales growth in the U.S. trailed expectations.  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index dropped 0.7 percent
to close at 20,136.12 yesterday, tracking the decline in Asian
stocks on worse-than-expected Chinese trade data. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index fell 0.6 percent, halting a four-day advance.  The government’s new full-year growth estimate “is
predicated on the assumption that  Europe  will continue to muddle
through and the situation is largely contained,” Government
Economist Helen Chan said at a briefing yesterday. “All in all
for external trade there is no ground for optimism.”  Hong Kong’s GDP  increased  5 percent last year and 7.1
percent in 2010.  Slowest Pace  The government raised its estimate for first-quarter
expansion to 0.7 percent from 0.4 percent. Even so, that was the
slowest pace since growth resumed in the last three months of
2009.  Record unemployment and a fiscal crisis in the euro area,
faltering expansion in the U.S. and slowing growth in China have
damped global trade and hurt Hong Kong’s economy.  The city’s imports and exports in June were below all
forecasts in analyst surveys. Overseas sales unexpectedly fell
4.8 percent from a year earlier and imports slipped 2.9 percent,
a July 24 government report showed.  China COSCO Holdings Co. (1199) , the country’s largest listed
shipping company, warned its first-half loss probably widened by
more than 50 percent, according to a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange on July 27. The fleet operator cited a “weak”
global economy, slowing growth in China and excess capacity that
pulled down shipping rates.  ‘Mounting Headwinds’  “Amid mounting headwinds to the global economy, the
external environment would thus remain difficult and continue to
overshadow Hong Kong’s export outlook in the near term,” the
government said in yesterday’s statement. At the same time,
policy easing in Asian economies including China should
“hopefully render some support to the region’s demand,” it
said.  If external trade improves faster than expected “there is
a chance we’ll reach 2 percent” growth this year, Chan said at
the briefing.  While trade was a drag on the economy in the second
quarter, “the domestic sector was still relatively resilient,
thereby providing a buffer to overall economic performance,”
the government said.  Private consumption expenditure rose 3.7 percent in real
terms in the second quarter from a year earlier due to higher
incomes and “stable job conditions,” while investment spending
gained 5.7 percent, boosted by a pickup in private-sector
construction and public sector infrastructure, the government
said.  Luxury Items  “The private sector has held up despite feeble mainland
demand,” said Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc. “The slight slide in sequential growth does show
a bit of stress in the economy.”  Slowing expansion in China is affecting purchases of luxury
items by mainland tourists. While the volume of retail sales
rose 8.5 percent in June from a year earlier, sales of jewelry,
watches and clocks fell for the second month.  Stanley Lau, managing director of Global Timepieces Ltd.,
which has six branches in districts such as Tsim Sha Tsui and
 Mong Kok , said mainland Chinese customers are cutting spending
and businessmen don’t need as many luxury watches to give out as
gifts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  