-- Monster Probed by State Attorney General Over Drinks
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-08-10T00:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/monster-probed-by-state-attorney-general-over-drinks.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , the largest
U.S. energy drink maker by volume sales, said an unspecified
attorney general is investigating the company’s flagship drink
and ingredients. The shares fell in late trading.  The attorney general sent a subpoena in July, the Corona,
California-based company disclosed today in a regulatory filing.
The investigation, which also is looking into advertising,
marketing and promotions, is in an early stage.  “It is unknown what, if any, action the state attorney
general may take against the Company,” Monster Beverage said in
the filing, adding that it can’t assess what kind of financial
or operational impact it may have.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink maker,
distributes almost half of Monster Beverage’s U.S. volume.
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the biggest brewer, distributes about
the same amount, with a few small vendors making up the balance.  Monster Beverage’s shares fell 4.8 percent to $58.26 at
7:59 p.m. The stock had risen 33 percent this year through
today’s close.  Judy Lin Sfetcu, a Monster Beverage spokeswoman, said the
company has no comment beyond the filing.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris , said the office doesn’t confirm or deny the
existence of investigations. A representative of the  New York 
attorney general’s office also declined to say whether it was
investigating.  Second-quarter profit was 59 cents a share, the company
reported yesterday, less than the 61-cent average of nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 28 percent
to $592.6 million, trailing the average projection of $595.9
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  