-- Monti’s Cabinet Held Discussions on Possible Bond-Buying
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-08-09T16:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/monti-s-cabinet-held-discussions-on-possible-bond-buying-2-.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet
held “lengthy” discussions on a possible request for the euro-
region’s bailout funds to buy Italian bonds and doesn’t expect
the country to be subject to additional conditions in return for
aid, a government minister said.  “We still have some time to discuss it; we will see what
the conditions will be,” Education Minister Francesco Profumo
said in an interview today in  Rome , when asked whether  Italy 
would make a request in September. “We have a profound
understanding and I believe we have the instruments to take
decisions.”  In an e-mailed statement issued hours after the interview,
Profumo said that “there wasn’t a long discussion” in the
Cabinet about making a request to  Europe ’s anti-spread mechanism
and that there was no ongoing discussion at the moment.  Monti had previously said that he didn’t see a need for now
to tap the temporary rescue funds.  Italy does not need a Greek-style bailout because the
public accounts are in order, Profumo said in the interview.
Still, a request for bond buying by the euro-region’s rescue
founds would require Italy to agree to conditions before the
purchases could begin. Profumo said the government is confident
that the euro-region allies would accept the measures already
adopted by the government and not require additional austerity.  Aid Conditions  “In our case, the memorandum of understanding wouldn’t
anticipate additional elements,” Profumo said in the interview,
referring to the agreement Italy would need to sign in return
for the bond buying.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 4 basis points to
5.86 percent, the lowest close in a month. That rate is still
almost 120 basis points more than on March 9, as  Spain ’s
deepening recession and its request for aid to shore up its
banks spread debt crisis contagion to Italy. The difference in
yield between Italy’s 10-year debt and comparable German bonds
was at 442 basis points today, compared with an average of 271
basis points last year.  Profumo’s remarks come as  Germany ’s main opposition Social
Democrats increased pressure on  Chancellor Angela Merkel  to
accept more burden-sharing to fight the region’s debt crisis.
SPD floor leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in an interview
with Rheinische Post newspaper that Merkel needed to be more
frank with the German people about the extent the country is
already exposed to the debt crisis through the  European Central
Bank ’s bond buying. He called on Merkel to take more risk in
defending the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  