-- Monti’s Cabinet Discussed Possible Bond-Buying Request
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-08-09T13:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/monti-s-cabinet-discussed-possible-bond-buying-request.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet
held “lengthy” discussions on a possible request for the euro-
region’s bailout funds to buy its bonds and doesn’t expect Italy
to be subject to additional conditions in return for aid, a
government minister said.  “We still have some time to discuss it; we will see what
the conditions will be,” Education Minister Francesco Profumo
said in an interview today in  Rome , when asked whether Italy
would make a request in September. “We have a profound
understanding and I believe we have the instruments to take
decisions.”  Monti had previously said that he didn’t see a need for now
to make such a request.  Italy does not need a Greek-style bailout because the
public accounts are in order, Profumo said. Still, a request for
bond buying by the euro-region’s rescue founds would require
 Italy  to agree to conditions before the purchases could begin.
Profumo said the government is confident that the euro-region
allies would accept the measures already adopted by the
government and not require additional austerity.  “In our case, the memorandum of understanding wouldn’t
anticipate additional elements,” Profumo said, referring to the
agreement Italy would need to sign in return for the bond
buying.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 6 basis points to
5.84 percent. That rate is still almost 120 basis points more
than on March 9, as  Spain ’s deepening recession and its request
for aid to shore up its banks spread debt crisis contagion to
Italy. The difference in yield between Italy’s 10-year debt and
comparable German bonds was at 441 basis points today, compared
with an average of 271 basis points last year.  Profumo’s remarks come as  Germany ’s main opposition Social
Democrats increased pressure on  Chancellor Angela Merkel  to
accept more burden-sharing to fight the region’s debt crisis.
SPD floor leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in an interview
with Rheinische Post newspaper that Merkel needed to be more
frank with the German people about the extent the country is
already exposed to the debt crisis through the  European Central
Bank ’s bond buying. He called on Merkel to take more risk in
defending the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  