-- Monti’s Bond Frustrations Mount as Yields Stay High: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-08-09T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/monti-s-bond-frustrations-mount-as-yields-stay-high-euro-credit.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
frustrations with the  bond market  are surfacing as spending cuts
destroy growth without the reward of cheaper borrowing costs.  Italian gross-domestic product contracted an annual 2.5
percent in the second quarter as Monti sought to appease lenders
by trimming the budget and increasing taxes. Even though Monti
will bring the deficit within European Union limits this year,
Italy still pays 441 basis points more than  Germany  to borrow
for 10 years, within 78 basis points of the gap when Monti took
office on Nov. 16.  Monti, with eight months left to serve, is campaigning to
prevent a bailout on his watch. In June, the former university
president joined forces with Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , also resisting a rescue, to ease requirements on
countries that request aid.  “The longer Rajoy holds out the more you’re going to see
bleeding in Italy,” said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at Eurasia
Group in  London . “And that’s why I think you’ll see more
pressure from Monti” and others, he said.  Monti was forced this week to assure German lawmakers he
still believed in democracy and apologize to his predecessor,
 Silvio Berlusconi . As Italian politicians hit the campaign trail
ahead of next year’s election, it’s harder for Monti to win
support for measures that would boost investor confidence.
Abroad, he has been foiled by German resistance to collective
action and investor speculation that the fate of  Italy , the
third-biggest economy in the 17-nation euro area, is tied to
that of smaller  Spain .  Exit Goldman  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, cut its holdings of Italian sovereign debt by 92 percent
to $191 million in the second quarter, after boosting them in
the first three months of the year, according to the bank’s
quarterly regulatory filing published yesterday. Goldman also
increased its credit-derivative positions on Italy in the
quarter, pushing its total market exposure to Italian government
and non-government securities to negative $977 million from
positive $2.4 billion in March.  The Italian cabinet held “lengthy” discussions on a
possible request for bailout funds to buy its bonds, Education
Minister Francesco Profumo said in an interview with Bloomberg
News yesterday. He later issued a press release saying “there
wasn’t a long discussion.”  Bolder Action  Monti outraged German politicians with an Aug. 5 interview
in Der Spiegel magazine where he said European leaders need to
show more independence from legislatures. Bolder action to fight
surging borrowing costs is needed, he said, such as backing his
call for the euro region’s permanent rescue fund to secure a
bank license, boosting its fire power.  A day after releasing a statement saying he still believed
in democracy, the Wall Street Journal released a month-old
interview where Monti said that  Italy’s yield premium  to Germany
would be 1,200 basis points if Berlusconi, who sustains his non-
political government, were still in power. Prior to Monti’s
apology, a senior member of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party
threatened to topple the government.  Italy’s  10-year yield  of 5.86 percent means the spread to
bunds is almost twice the average for the past year even after
Monti overhauled the pension system, revamped  labor laws  and
imposed austerity on Italians. The government is on track for a
budget gap of about 2 percent of gross domestic product this
year and will have a primary surplus measured by its deficit
minus financing costs, that will help reduce  Europe ’s second-
biggest debt burden from next year. Italy owes more than $1.98
trillion, more than twice Spain’s debts of $886 billion.  Fiscal Consequences  “Monti came up with a comprehensive and credible plan on
the fiscal side,” said Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London. “Bottom line, when you do fiscal austerity
growth is going to suffer. There’s no escaping that.”  The premier had to sacrifice growth to get the country’s
books in order with the economy shrinking for a fourth
consecutive quarter in the three months through June and
unemployment reaching a 13-year high of 10.8 percent. Popular
support for Monti and the parties that back him has slumped,
with anti-euro forces on the rise.  “We are not euro-carpets on our knees in front of the
German border,”  Angelino Alfano , secretary general of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, said on “Uno Mattina” on
Italian state-owned television station RAI, according to
newswire Ansa. “When they say ‘Europe asks for it,’ it’s only a
way of saying that  France  and Germany is asking for it for their
own specific interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.ne  