-- OPEC to Trim Exports on Refinery Maintenance, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-09T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/opec-to-trim-exports-on-refinery-maintenance-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will reduce shipments by 0.4 percent this
month as refiners in  Europe  and the U.S. perform maintenance,
while higher demand within the  Middle East  limits exports,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of global supplies,
will ship 23.73 million barrels a day in the four weeks to Aug.
25, compared with 23.82 million a month earlier, the researcher
said in its weekly e-mailed report. The data exclude  Angola  and
 Ecuador . Middle Eastern fuel demand typically rises at this time
of year because of higher electricity use for air conditioning,
Oil Movements said.  “Late August is on the edge of the maintenance season for
refiners in the west, and of course it is the summer season in
the Middle East, so volumes available for export go down,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder, said today by telephone from
Halifax, England.  OPEC lowered demand estimates for its crude this year and
next in its monthly oil market report today, amid slowing growth
in global consumption and higher output from other producers.
The group said its 12 members will need to supply 29.5 million
barrels a day in 2013, or 100,000 a day less than last month’s
estimate. World demand will expand by 800,000 barrels next year
to 89.5 million, compared with growth of 900,000 barrels a day
this year, according to the organization.  Exports from the Middle East, including non-OPEC members
Oman and Yemen, will decline by 0.6 percent to 17.38 million
barrels a day in the four-week period, the report showed.  Crude on board tankers will average 493 million barrels,
down 0.5 percent from the month to July 28, the researcher said.
 Oil Movements  calculates shipments by tallying tanker-rental
agreements. Its figures exclude oil held on board vessels used
as floating storage.  OPEC comprises Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It plans to meet next on Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  