-- Orban Banning Hungarian Malls Deepens Property Pain: Mortgages
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-08-10T18:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/orban-banning-hungarian-malls-deepens-property-pain-mortgages.html
German discount retailer Lidl
applied this year for 14 exemptions to Hungary’s ban on building
stores larger than 300 square meters (3,300 square feet). None
were approved.  The restriction on large retail outlets, approved by Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government in January, is adding further
pain to a Hungarian commercial  property market  stung by taxes
and penalties that have prompted banks to slash lending. The
Economy Ministry rejected 35 of the 96 applications it received
this year from companies wanting to build stores bigger than the
size limit. Another seven were suspended or closed.  “Unpredictable” policy changes are accelerating cutbacks
by real estate investors as funding from the country’s mostly
western European-owned banks dries up, Gabor Borbely, Budapest-
based head of research at  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , said by phone. The
limit on new store sizes “symbolizes the uncertain environment
in which developers must work. There is no willingness to
finance.”  Hungary’s capital investment level dropped last year for
the first time since at least 1995, according to central bank
data, as policies to plug budget holes, including additional
taxes on companies ranging from supermarkets to phone companies,
hurt investor confidence. Hungary ranked as the worst place to
do business in the eastern European Union after a “spectacular
deterioration” in confidence, according to an April poll of 196
managers by the German Chamber of Commerce in Budapest.  Property Reeling  Commercial property is reeling after the country’s
residential real-estate industry ground to a halt. Foreign-
currency mortgages, which fueled a boom before they were banned
in 2010, saddled homeowners with ballooning repayments as the
forint sank to a record and prompted buyers to flee the market.
Home construction fell last year to the lowest level since the
government started collecting data in 1930 as demand slumped.  Hungarian banks booked a combined pretax loss of 370
billion forint ($1.6 billion) last year on a government policy
to force lenders to swallow exchange-rate losses on foreign-
currency mortgages by allowing their early repayment at below
market prices. The forint has dropped 34 percent against the
 Swiss Franc  since 2007 and 27 percent against the euro.  Orban, Hungary’s most powerful premier since communism
after winning a two-thirds parliamentary majority in 2010,
introduced retroactive corporate taxes, nationalized private
pension fund savings and stripped the  Constitutional Court  of
its right to rule on economic issues. The measures led to the
country’s  credit rating  downgrade to junk last year and forced
Orban to seek International Monetary Fund aid.  Second Recession  The economy is on the brink of its second recession in four
years after a contraction in the first quarter. The forint
plunged 15 percent against the euro, the most in the world, in
the second half of last year. It pared losses this year, rising
14 percent, the third-biggest gain in the world after the
Chilean and Colombian currencies, as investors speculate Hungary
will obtain an IMF loan agreement.  Hungary’s benchmark stock index, the BUX Index, fell 0.3
percent today. The index of 11 companies traded on the Budapest
Stock Exchange has gained 5.1 percent this year after declining
20 percent in 2011.  One shopping mall has been opened in the country this year
and there have been no new hypermarkets, according to the
Hungarian Council of Shopping Centers, whose members include
 Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and Groupe Auchan SA. Retail construction plummeted
even before the restrictions came into force, with five new
shopping centers or hypermarkets completed in 2011 compared with
33 in 2008, before the economic crisis began, the council said.  Lenders Retreat  About 20 percent more lenders reported a decrease in loans
for commercial real estate than said there was an increase in
the first quarter, according to a survey of senior loan officers
surveyed by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. The banks in the survey
account for about 98 percent of the commercial real estate loans
in Hungary. About 10 percent more reported a rise in the year-
earlier period. In the same survey, about 44 percent more said
the bank is likely to reduce loans for retail in the next six
months.  “It’s a standstill, there is no new debt coming on the
market,”Benjamin Perez-Ellischewitz, head of Hungarian  capital
markets  for  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , said in an interview at his
office in Budapest. “With a few exceptions, there is nothing
going on. Everything is amplified on our market because of the
economic and political background.”  Orban introduced levies on the banking, energy, retail and
telecommunications industries in 2010 without consulting the
affected companies, pledging to keep the taxes in place through
2013. He then decided to make bank, energy and
telecommunications taxes permanent.  Unorthodox Policies  The prime minister’s self-described “unorthodox”
policies, which also included the nationalization of $13 billion
in privately managed pension assets in 2011, cost Hungary its
investment-grade credit rating by all three major ratings
companies since November.  Hungary’s economic struggles risk spilling over into euro-
area countries because banks from  Austria ,  Italy ,  Belgium  and
Germany operate in the country,  Mihaly Varga , who is leading
negotiations for a second Hungarian bailout from the IMF in four
years, said July 15 on Budapest-based HirTV.  Austria was stripped of its top AAA rating by Standard &
Poor’s this year partly because of the presence in Hungary of
Vienna-based companies  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG. (RBI)  Erste is the second-biggest lender in Hungary
and Raiffeisen No. 5.  ‘Agonizing’ Market  “The real estate market is agonizing, transaction volumes
are at a low level,” said Zoltan Reczey, a Budapest-based
analyst at broker Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. “The environment
doesn’t support banks’ profitability so foreign parents are
cutting back, rather than developing their operations in
Hungary.”  While the  Economy Ministry  grants exceptions to the store-
size ban, the basis of the judgment isn’t sufficiently clear,
increasing uncertainty for foreign investors in an already
weakening retail market, said Judit Balatoni, secretary general
of the shopping centers’ association.  “There was not much willingness to invest in the first
place,” Balatoni said in a telephone interview on July 24. The
store size restriction “certainly won’t help the construction
sector or increase employment. Participants continue to expect a
stagnating retail market, at best.”  Lidl, based in the German city of Neckarsulm, has opened
152 stores in Hungary since 2004. The company will continue to
expand there, Judit Tozser, Lidl’s spokeswoman in Hungary, said
by e-mail.  Regional Opportunities  “By giving Hungarian suppliers regional opportunities,
Lidl had more than 20 million euros ($24.6 million) in exports
from Hungary in 2011 and that is growing continuously,” she
said. “We hope that these efforts also represent important
values for decision makers and that laws will take such criteria
into account in the future.”  Tesco, the U.K.’s biggest retailer, said the size limit
hasn’t had a “substantial” impact on its investments in
Hungary because the company is already focused on building
smaller shops after opening hypermarkets in the country over the
last 17 years. Tesco plans to file its first two applications
for exceptions to the limit “in the coming days,” Hungary-
based spokeswoman Marta Palfalvi said by e-mail.  The Economy Ministry rejected 27 applications to build food
stores on the grounds that deliveries to the shops pose a bigger
environmental burden than other businesses that were granted
exemptions to the size limit, the ministry said in an e-mailed
reply to questions. The government grants exemptions for
projects that improve surrounding infrastructure and don’t
create an additional environmental burden, it said.  Total Construction  Total construction output in Hungary fell 15.2 percent in
May from a year earlier, the statistics office said on July 16.  Even without the restriction, commercial real estate has
been buffeted by the country’s struggling economy, which emerged
from the worst recession in 18 years in 2009 only to slip back
into decline in the first quarter of 2012. More than 1,200
Hungarian companies went into liquidation in the second quarter,
the most on record, and a further plunge in construction is
expected in the rest of the year, Opten Kft., a Budapest-based
market research firm, said last month.  Hungary’s retail sales have fallen in each year since 2007
except for a 0.3 percent increase in 2011, according to data
published by the central statistics office on July 24. Sales are
down 1 percent so far this year, the data showed.  Vacancy Rate  Immofinanz AG (IIA) , eastern Europe’s biggest listed real estate
company, has a 23.6 percent vacancy rate in Hungary, the highest
among eight European countries including Austria, Poland and
Romania, according to a presentation citing data from January.
The Vienna-based company’s vacancy rate is 18.9 percent in the
 Czech Republic  and 3 percent in  Russia .  The retail vacancy rate is lower at 9.9 percent. Immofinanz
has 144,000 square meters of floor space in the country,
including 12 Stop Shop outlets. It has a 9.9 percent retail
vacancy rate.  “Because of our strong position in shopping centers, we
have actually profited and will continue to profit from the law,
because no new ones are opening,” Immofinanz Chief Executive
Officer Eduard Zehetner said in an interview.  Still, the company would prefer measures by Orban’s
government or the European Union that spur growth in the
country, the CEO said.  Hungary’s banking industry became unprofitable for the
first time in 13 years in 2011, with central bank President
Andras Simor warning in June that he expects lending to decline
for two more years, mostly because of a lack of credit supply.  Reduced Loans  Hungarian banks and savings cooperatives reduced their
loans extended to companies by 9.8 percent last year, according
to data from financial regulator PSZAF. Financing for real
estate projects, which was only measured for non-bank financial
enterprises, dropped 14.3 percent, PSZAF said.  Hungary’s imposition of new taxes during a European bank
crisis had an “unbelievably negative” impact on lending, said
Gabor Futo, who has developed 600 million euros ($738 million)
of properties as co-founder of Budapest-based real estate group
Futureal.  “There’s been a total collapse in investment demand in
Hungary,” Futo said in a phone interview on June 28. “This is
not only because of Hungary’s economic performance, but also
because of a general loss of confidence in Hungary’s economic
policies and institutions among international investors.”  A deal on a  credit line  from the IMF may help restore
investors’ trust in Hungary and boost lending, Futo said in the
interview. Balatoni of the shopping centers’ association said
there is also hope the government will amend rules to make
criteria for obtaining building permits clearer. “There would
still be investors who would like to build malls here,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  