-- Morgan Stanley Follows Goldman With Fixed-Income Call
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-08-09T20:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/morgan-stanley-follows-goldman-with-fixed-income-call.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is retooling an
electronic bond-brokering system as the  Wall Street  bank with
the biggest drop in fixed-income revenue last quarter seeks to
increase its share in a market moving toward automated trades.  The Morgan Stanley Bond Pool network picks a group of
securities and matches buyers and sellers who express interest
through the system, offering lower transaction costs than what
investors typically get in privately negotiated trades, the bank
said in marketing documents dated last month and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Created last year, the system was revamped and the bank
introduced the new version to clients within the past month,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the program hasn’t been made public.  Morgan Stanley joins  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in
starting automated systems to exchange bonds in an effort to
maintain their grip on transaction fees as investors from
 Fidelity Investments  to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  push for cheaper and
faster ways to trade debt. Networks run by firms from  Bonds.com
Group Inc. (BDCG)  to  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  threaten to siphon off
the revenue Wall Street makes from the difference between offers
to buy and sell the securities.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment on the marketing documents.  ‘Invited Clients’  In Bond Pool, which is part of the global credit sales and
trading unit, Morgan Stanley traders submit market mid-prices
and conditional bids and offers for a set of bonds, according to
the marketing documents.  Customers are invited to bid, and the bank matches buyers
with sellers at the close of a specified time window. Market-
makers can fill any leftover interest. Sales teams at the bank
then approach participants with proposed trades, which the
parties have to agree to before the transaction is completed,
according to the presentation.  Sessions take place “as frequently as client and trader
interest dictate, and as quickly as” the system allows,
according to the documents.  The platform, which is offered through the firm’s Matrix
application, is the latest attempt by Morgan Stanley to use
technology to improve its fixed-income trading performance. The
firm started Matrix in 2009, which provided clients with
research, analytics, live prices and trading capability for some
fixed-income products.  Curbing Risk  The firm has expanded its Morgan Stanley Electronic Trading
technology, which was developed for equities and foreign
exchange, into fixed-income, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat
said last year. In 2010, it hired Dexter Senft from Barclays Plc
as head of e-commerce for the fixed-income unit.  The efforts support Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman ’s
goal of increasing market share while reducing so-called risk-
weighted assets in the fixed-income business, which the bank has
cut by 15 percent since the 2011’s third quarter. That reduction
will rise to 30 percent by the end of 2014, Gorman said last
month.  Morgan Stanley’s second-quarter fixed-income trading
 revenue  dropped 60 percent from a year earlier, excluding
accounting adjustments. That was the largest decline among the
five largest Wall Street banks.  Investment banks will bring down compensation costs by
dismissing trading staff as automated transactions become more
prevalent, Boston Consulting Group Inc. said in an April report.
The industry will see little to no growth in the total revenue
pool over the next few years, BCG said.  The biggest dealers have cut company-debt holdings by 84
percent since 2007, according to Federal Reserve data, even as
the size of the U.S. corporate bond market expanded 40 percent
in the past three years, average daily  trading  volumes dropped
about 1 percent, data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority show.  New York-based Goldman Sachs also has an initiative,
GSessions, which debuted in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 Mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 