-- Morgan Lewis, Baker & McKenzie, Duane Morris: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/morgan-lewis-baker-mckenzie-duane-morris-business-of-law.html
The judge handling the Bernard Madoff
brokerage liquidation picked bankruptcy lawyer James L. Garrity Jr., the head of  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP’s bankruptcy and
finance and restructuring practice, to mediate in trustee Irving Picard’s fight with  California  Attorney General  Kamala Harris .  The two parties couldn’t pick a mediator from the register,
so he stepped in, said Judge  Burton Lifland , who ordered Picard
and Harris on July 18 to follow the court’s mediation procedures
to try and resolve their dispute over whether California was
entitled to sue the estate of money manager  Stanley Chais  for
$270 million.  In January, the trustee sued Harris, alleging her $270
million lawsuit against the former Madoff investor’s estate
interfered with the collection of assets needed to help
compensate Madoff victims. The combatants portrayed their fight
in court filings as a clash between federal bankruptcy law,
which describes a trustee’s powers in fraud cases, and state
law, governing a state’s top law enforcer.  Garrity, a certified mediator for the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
for the Southern District of  New York , was a bankruptcy judge
for the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York from 1991 to 1999. Garrity was a partner at Shearman &
Sterling LLP until he joined Morgan Stanley last October. He has
also worked an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District
of New York, where he was promoted to chief of the Tax Unit
focusing on bankruptcy cases, according to the firm website.  A Morgan Lewis representative didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  The Harris case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The
brokerage liquidation case is Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-
1789, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Justice Department Watchdog Creates New Whistle-Blower Position  Michael Horowitz, the U.S. Justice Department’s inspector
general, announced yesterday the creation of a whistle-blower
ombudsperson, a role designed to increase the attention paid to
whistle-blowers, as well as providing a new level of protection
from retaliation.  Robert Storch, who recently joined the inspector general’s
office as a counselor, will serve in the new position.  Storch was previously a federal prosecutor in the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Albany, the Wall Street Journal  reported .  “Whistle-blowers play a critical role in uncovering waste,
fraud, abuse and mismanagement and this new position will enable
the OIG to continue its leadership as a strong and independent
voice within the  Department of Justice  on whistle-blower
issues,” Horowitz said in a statement.  Horowitz, who was confirmed by the Senate in April, said
that in the short time he has been in the role he has seen the
benefits of whistle-blowers within the department.  The new position will have oversight over all of the
Justice Department whistle-blower complaints and will be
responsible for ensuring that the inspector general reviews and
responds to each one. The official also will monitor
investigations into retaliation claims and serve as the office’s
liaison to other agencies and outside advocacy groups.  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie Elects Managing Partner in Northern California  Gary Sprague was elected managing partner of  Baker &
McKenzie  LLP’s  San Francisco  and Palo Alto offices. Sprague will
also take a seat on the firm’s North American Regional Council,
representing the firm’s practice in Northern California.  Sprague joined Baker & McKenzie as an associate in 1985,
becoming a partner in 1990. He is a 25-year veteran of
international tax law and is chairman of the firm’s global tax
planning and transactions subpractice group, according to the
firm website.  Sprague focuses his practice on international corporate tax
planning and advice, tax controversies and international  tax
policy . He represents principally software, e-commerce and other
technology companies.  Sprague has held prior management roles at the firm
including with the policy committee, financial committee and
knowledge and talent management committee.  Sprague replaces Shane Byrne as office managing partner.
Byrne, who also headed the global mergers and acquisitions group
until June, is no longer listed on the Baker & McKenzie website.
Firm spokesman Kevin Blasko declined to respond to questions
about Byrne’s status at the firm.  Moves  Jackson Lewis Adds Trial Attorney in Portsmouth  Jackson Lewis LLP announced that Martha “Marty” Van Oot
has joined the firm’s Portsmouth office as partner. Van Oot has
more than 30 years of experience as a trial attorney, with an
emphasis on complex commercial and employment litigation. She
was most recently at the New Hampshire law firm  Orr & Reno PA ,
where she was a shareholder since 2001.  She has trial experience in both state and federal courts,
representing clients in complex commercial litigation, legal and
other professional malpractice defense, and employment matters.
She is also a frequently retained private mediator.  Debra Weiss Ford, managing partner of Jackson Lewis’
Portsmouth office said of Van Oot, “Her extensive trial
experience will add tremendously to our team’s breadth and
depth, and I look forward to leveraging her skill set and
business connections to further expand our footprint in the
area.”  Jackson Lewis has more than 700 attorneys practicing in 49
locations nationwide.  King & Wood Hires Mirvac Group GC in Sydney Office  King & Wood Mallesons hired Sonya Harris to join the real
estate, construction and environment practice in the firm’s
Sydney office.  Harris joins King & Wood Mallesons from  Mirvac Group  where
she was the general counsel and company secretary, managing the
provision of all legal advice to the Mirvac Group, the firm
said.  Harris led the Mirvac legal team on many of Mirvac’s key
transactions, such as the acquisition of the $1.2 billion
Westpac Office Trust, the redevelopment of major industrial
project Hoxton Park, the acquisition of Harold Park in New South
Wales and the redevelopment of the Old Treasury buildings in
Perth in  Western Australia , the firm said.  Prior to her position at Mirvac, Harris was deputy general
counsel at Multiplex (now Brookfield) and worked on Australian
projects such as the  Macquarie Bank , American Express and KPMG
buildings at King Street Wharf, Bishops See in Perth and the
City Square (BHP head office) project in Perth, the firm said.  Duane Morris San Diego Office Adds Real Estate Partner  Duane Morris LLP has hired Marianne F. Adriatico to join
the firm’s real-estate practice group as a partner in its  San
Diego , California, office. She joins Duane Morris from
HechtSolberg LLP, the firm said.  Adriatico practices in the areas of common interest
development,  land use , commercial lending and real estate
transactions. She has experience representing developers and
builders in the structuring of master planned, mixed-use and
condominium projects and their regulation by the California
Department of Real Estate, the firm said.  Adriatico is the co-chairwoman of the Common Interest
Subsection of the Real Property Section of the California State
Bar.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in offices across
the U.S. and around the world.  Litigation  Proskauer Represents Caritas in Bankruptcy Approval  Caritas Health Care Inc., formerly the owner of Mary
Immaculate Hospital and  St. John’s  Queens Hospital in Queens,
New York, won the signature of the bankruptcy judge on an Aug. 3
confirmation order approving a liquidating Chapter 11 plan. The
hospitals filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on Feb. 6, 2009,
in  Brooklyn .  Proskauer Rose LLP, which has advised Caritas since its
inception in 2006, represented Caritas. The Proskauer bankruptcy
team advising Caritas was led by New York partner Jeffrey Levitan, with assistance from New York partner Richard Zall.  Approved in March, the explanatory disclosure statement
told unsecured creditors they could expect a recovery of 1
percent to 3 percent.  The bankruptcy court approved the sale of both facilities
in November 2009. The purchaser, developer Joshua Guttmann, paid
$26.6 million.  “Getting to confirmation has been a long and winding road
for Caritas,” said Richard Zall, Proskauer partner and chairman
of its healthcare department.” But the company has worked
diligently for more than three years to resolve its many claims
and issues in a way that satisfies its obligations to its
different creditor groups.”  Caritas filed under Chapter 11 intending from the outset to
close and sell of the facilities.  Created by  Wyckoff Heights Medical Center , Caritas
purchased the two hospitals in a bankruptcy sale in early 2007
from St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York. The price
was $3.5 million cash, $10 million in notes, and the assumption
of $26 million in liabilities.  Caritas’ chief restructuring officer said closing the
hospitals with bankruptcy court assistance was necessary because
the New York State Department of Health and the New York State
Dormitory Authority “indicated that they no longer have the
ability to continue to subsidize Caritas’ operating losses.”  The petition listed assets of $87.2 million against debt
totaling $188.3 million. St. John’s had 227 acute-care beds
while Mary Immaculate had 189.  The Caritas case is In re Caritas Health Care Inc., 09-
40901, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn). The St. Vincent case was In re Saint Vincent
Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 