-- Hormone-Heavy $54,000 Camaro ZL1 Boasts Supercharger
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hormone-heavy-54-000-camaro-zl1-boasts-supercharge.html
Driving the  Chevy Camaro ZL1  quickly
on a narrow road is like working with a circus bear in tight
quarters. No matter how well-trained, it’s still a wild animal
that could bite your head off at any moment.  The modern Camaro is a blunt beast, not much given to
nuance or tidy manners, so the top-of-the-food-chain ZL1 should
be all fangs and claws.  It has 580 horsepower and 556 pound-feet of torque coming
out of the supercharged, 6.2-liter V-8 engine, and will barrel
past 60 miles per hour in less than four seconds. All that growl
in a car which starts at only $54,095.  That power is foremost in my mind as I turn into a fast
sweeping corner with a telephone pole standing at its apex. If I
give it too much throttle and the back end slides out, it will
be a certain and terrible bulls-eye.  But, no, the sports coupe arrows past, turning crisply. The
ZL1 handles so much better than the $33,180, 400-hp, Camaro SS,
that they don’t even seem like the same car. There’s savagery in
those 580 horses to be sure, but not unless you ask for it.  The ZL1 exists in pure muscle-car territory. It’s the kind
of boy’s toy that Americans both idolize and specialize in.  Ford (F) 
has retorted with the release of the Mustang Shelby GT500 with
650 hp and a claimed top speed of 200 mph. ($55,000.)  Noise Maker  Such cars are usually all about straight-line speed,
gunning from stoplight to stoplight. Who needs superior handling
when you could make all that tire-squealing, cackle-inducing
noise?  Yet as anyone who has stepped foot in a Mazda Miata or BMW
could tell you, corners are fun. So when the GM engineers set
out to create the ultimate, racetrack-ready Camaro, they knew
they had to get the numb beast to actually turn.  (The ZL1 name comes from a special-edition model of the
Camaro that was first released in 1969 with an especially potent
motor.)  Except for the large intake on the hood to help suck in air
for the Eaton supercharger, the exterior of the new ZL1 is
mostly the same, including the low roof and tiny windows out of
which you can barely see.  The paint job on my $57,590 test car is so bright that it
could blister bark off of trees. A friend calls it idiot yellow.  Fire up the engine and the noise is positively seismic --
the kind of sound from the earth just before it begins to spew
lava.  Ride Control  What you can’t see are the underpinnings that separate the
ZL1 from its mouth-breathing, knuckle-dragging brethren. Like
new Cadillacs and special Corvettes, the ZL1 gets magnetic ride
control, a special suspension which firms or slackens as it
senses road conditions -- allowing more give on bumps, less on
curves.  The reworked suspension delivers the nuance and road feel
the other Camaro models lack, significantly raising the handling
bar.  Still, all that power can easily overcome traction on the
rear wheels (a plus when you want to show off and do stupid
burnouts), so the ZL1 provides four settings on its stability
and traction controls.  These include a conservative setting for driving in the
rain. Unfortunately, the control of these functions is foolishly
difficult to change due to a non-intuitive interface.  Easy Clutch  A six-speed manual transmission is standard and an
automatic available. The stick is easy to use, engaging the
clutch surprisingly effortless.  The interior is nice. Not European nice, but nice for an
American muscle car, with the glove box and various bits coated
in  Alcantara  soft-touch fabric. The feel of the steering wheel
is just right, and that’s mostly what I want to touch anyhow.  Most owners will find themselves on narrow roads like the
one I tested on. However, the ZL1 was expressly designed to
handle a race track too. Several months ago, I first got a
chance to test the Camaro at  Virginia International Raceway , a
particularly tricky road course.  Unfortunately two factors worked against me: Rain and other
auto journalists. The track was slick, so we were asked to put
the cars into the highest traction mode.  After three very slow reconnaissance laps, two journalists
skidded off, incurring damage in each instance. We were pulled
from the cars, our day over.  I didn’t blame the car, which handled very well.  My narrow and winding public road wasn’t going to allow me
to test the limits of the ZL1. Nonetheless, extremely wide
Goodyear  Eagle F1  tires gave superior grip and the Camaro angled
cleanly down the road.  The Camaro ZL1 is good. Perhaps even too good. I’m not sure
most Camaro buyers are even interested in this level of handling
performance.  Those few who do will find that Chevy has given us the
perfect tools to tame the savage beast.  The 2012 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 at a Glance  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 