-- Osborne, Geithner Discussed Standard Chartered Issue Three Times
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-09T23:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/osborne-geithner-discussed-standard-chartered-issue-three-times.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  spoke with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  on
three occasions over two days this week concerning a New York
regulator’s investigation of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , according
to a British government official.  Osborne told Geithner in a conversation on Aug. 7 and twice
Aug. 8 that he was concerned about how allegations against the
British bank came without warning and said he wanted fair
treatment for British companies operating in the U.S., said the
official, who declined to be named to comply with policy.  The U.S. Treasury Department yesterday said in a letter to
the U.K. Treasury its Office of Foreign Assets Control is
investigating Standard Chartered for “potential Iran-related
violations as well as a broader set of potential sanctions
violations.” The letter was released following talks between
Osborne and Geithner.  The bank’s Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands today hit
back at a New York regulator’s claims the lender broke U.S.
sanctions, and said he saw “no grounds” for revoking the
lender’s license.  Standard Chartered has tumbled about 16 percent in London
trading this week after New York regulator  Benjamin Lawsky 
threatened to strip the London-based bank of its license to
operate in the state, alleging it processed $250 billion of
deals with Iranian banks subject to sanctions.  The dispute is becoming increasingly political. Mayor of
London Boris Johnson yesterday accused New York of seeking to
damage its biggest competitor as a financial center, while Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  criticized the regulator for
failing to co-ordinate with its counterparts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  