-- Corn Reaches Record on Drought While S&P 500 Advances
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-08-09T20:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/most-asian-stocks-gain-before-china-inflation-data-as-kiwi-falls.html
Corn surged to a record and soybeans
and wheat prices jumped on mounting signs the U.S. drought will
erode production. Treasuries pared earlier losses after the U.S.
sold $16 billion of 30-year bonds, while the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced a fifth day and the euro weakened.  Corn for December delivery settled up 0.9 percent at
$8.2375 a bushel and touched an all-time high of $8.2975 while
soybeans and wheat climbed more than 1 percent to lead the S&P
GSCI Index of commodities to a fifth straight gain. Thirty-year
rates added less than one basis point to 2.76 percent after
climbing as high as 2.80 percent. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1
percent, extending its  longest rally  since March. The euro lost
0.5 percent to $1.2298.  Corn prices have jumped 63 percent since mid-June and
soybeans have rallied 24 percent, while the government rated
the condition of the U.S. crop on Aug. 3 as the worst since
1988. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is among the banks forecasting
prices will keep rising, and the  United Nations  reported today
the biggest gain in global food costs since 2009.  “This year’s crops are a disaster,” Dale Schultz, the
buyer-relations manager for AgWest Commodities LLC in Holdrege,
 Nebraska , said in a telephone interview. “We have to raise
prices and reduce demand immediately to prevent a real shortage
developing in January or February. There is so much competition
for every bushel of grain this year.”  Soybeans, Wheat  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 3.2 percent to
$16.3125 a bushel, the biggest gain since July 5. The most-
active contract touched a record $16.915 on July 23. Wheat
futures for December delivery advanced 1.5 percent to $9.27 a
bushel on the CBOT, the third increase this week.  The 10-year note’s yield erased earlier gains to trade
little changed at 1.69 percent. The rate is up from a record low
of 1.379 percent reached on July 25.  Treasury prices have tumbled since the government reported
on Aug. 3 that employers added 163,000 jobs in July, topping
economists’ estimates. The Labor Department today showed first-
time jobless claims unexpectedly dropped by 6,000 to 361,000
last week, adding to signs the labor market may keep improving
and diminishing expectations for more quantitative easing from
the  Federal Reserve . Today’s auction was the last of three
offerings that raised $72 billion this week.  “Supply is finished and buybacks are coming,” said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , one of 21 primary dealers required to bid at
government debt auctions.  Bond Watch  The Fed bought $1.3 billion of inflation-protected
Treasuries as part of its program to swap shorter-term debt for
longer-dated securities.  The long bonds sold today yielded 2.825 percent, compared
with a forecast of 2.813 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
six of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. Last month’s sale produced
a record-low auction yield of 2.58 percent on July 12. The bid-
to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, was 2.41, compared with the
2.68 average at the past 10 sales.  Investors should be wary of a steepening  yield curve  in the
Treasury market, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian. While yields on  government securities 
due in eight years and less are anchored by Fed monetary policy,
bond buyers should be wary of longer-maturity debt, said El-
Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds  “What we would caution is rather the level of the rates,
the shape of the curve,” El-Erian said in a “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“The long end is exposed to a lot more risk.”  Yield Curve  The difference in yields between two- and 10-year
Treasuries widened to as much as 1.45 percentage points, or 145
basis points, the in about two months. Investors often demand a
bigger yield premium on longer-maturity debt to guard against
the risk that inflation will erode the value of fixed payments
from the securities over time.  Among U.S. stocks, E*Trade Financial Corp. rallied 6.9
percent as Chief Executive Officer Steven J. Freiberg was ousted
from the company and its board began seeking a new leader. Cisco
Systems Inc. advanced 3.2 percent after the biggest maker of
computer-networking equipment was added to the “Conviction
Buy” list at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Monster Beverage Corp.
declined 9.7 percent after profit and sales missed analysts’
projections.  Euro Weakens  The euro weakened against 15 of 16 major counterparts, with
the South Korean, Mexican, Brazilian and Canadian currencies
rising at least 0.8 percent to lead gains.  The shared currency and U.S. stocks fell to their low of
the session and after a report that former European Central Bank
official Otmar Issing said it was wrong to expect the ECB to buy
bonds to ease the region’s debt crisis. The Wall Street Journal
reported that Issing, who has advised  Germany  since leaving the
ECB in 2006, said Germany’s guilt over World War II doesn’t mean
it needs to write blank checks to other European nations.  “Who knows what influence Issing still has but the timing
of his comments were similar to the further weakness in the
euro,”  Peter Boockvar , equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co.
in  New York , said in a note to clients. “The stock market
started to roll over, albeit modestly, coincident with the euro
going to the low of the day.”  The euro-area’s economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year,
down from a 0.2 percent contraction predicted earlier, according
to a European Central Bank survey of professional forecasters.  ‘Remains Uncertain’  “The situation in  Europe  remains uncertain and the data
has been weaker,” said Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG’s private banking unit in Zurich. “The
euro should go lower.”  New Zealand’s dollar weakened against 12 of 16 major peers
after the nation’s jobless rate climbed to a two-year high last
quarter.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced for a fifth day, rising
to the highest level since March 19.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s
largest food company and the biggest stock in the Stoxx 600,
climbed 2.4 percent after posting first-half sales growth that
exceeded analysts’ projections.  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC) , a Norwegian
provider of offshore oilfield services, climbed 5.1 percent in
Oslo as increased margins and improved vessel utilization
countered a lower-than-expected order intake in the second
quarter.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.9 percent, reaching
the highest level since May 10. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of mainland companies rose 1 percent. China’s consumer
prices rose 1.8 percent last month, compared with a 2.2 percent
gain in June. South Korea’s Kospi Index jumped 2 percent. The
 Bank of Korea  said growth momentum is “slackening,” fueling
speculation for rates cut borrowing after keeping its  interest
rate  unchanged today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  