-- Total Buys Forties Crude at Lower Price; Socar Offers Azeri Oil
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-08-09T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/total-buys-forties-crude-at-lower-price-socar-offers-azeri-oil.html
Total SA bought  North Sea  Forties
crude at a lower price than yesterday. Socar Trading SA failed
to sell Azeri Light in the Mediterranean. No bids or offers were
made for Russian Urals in  Europe  for a third day.  All Angolan crude cargoes for loading in September have
been sold except for one lot, according to four traders who
participate in the market. A Nemba consignment for loading on
Sept. 25 to Sept. 26 has yet to find a buyer, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the information is
confidential.  North Sea  Total bought Forties lots F0813 for Aug. 26 to Aug. 28
loading from BP Plc at 50 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent,
compared with a premium of 55 cents for a shipment Total bought
yesterday, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts trading window.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Before the session,
Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was at 64 cents a barrel more
than Dated Brent, 1 cent less than yesterday’s four-month high,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for September settlement traded at $112.86 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, up from $112.76 yesterday. The October contract was at
$111.31, a discount of $1.55 to September.  The Ninian North and Ninian Central oil platforms in the
North Sea as well as a third-party pipeline will undergo
maintenance work this quarter, Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.
said in an earnings statement.  The Ninian field comprises three platforms and, along with
other fields, the crude from that area is exported to the Sullom
Voe terminal via the Ninian Pipeline System, according to
Canadian Natural’s website. Sullom Voe is the loading terminal
for the Brent blend.  Mediterranean/Urals  Urals blend advanced 1 cent to a premium of 51 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Socar failed to sell 650,000 barrels of Azeri Light for
Aug. 20 to Aug. 24 loading at a premium of $2.75 a barrel to
Dated Brent, on a delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , according
to the survey.  West Africa  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. is seeking to buy crude for
loading in September, said two traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  The tender closes on Aug. 13 and offers are valid until the
following day, they said.  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe rose 2 cents to $1.48 a barrel
more than Dated Brent, the highest since June 18, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  