-- Motorola Solutions Backs Fixmo in Bet on Better Security
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/motorola-solutions-backs-fixmo-in-bet-on-better-security.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , the U.S.
maker of walkie-talkies and radio-tracking scanners, is
investing in software developer Fixmo Inc., which works with the
U.S. National Security Agency, to bolster device safety.  The spending will be in the typical range of $1 million to
$5 million and funded through Motorola Solutions Venture
Capital, said Tony Palcheck, managing director of the unit. The
Schaumburg, Illinois-based company aims to work Fixmo’s
expertise into its equipment and is open to increasing its
investment should that be sought, he said.  “We’re looking to make both a strategic and financial
return and understand that sometimes we need to play in
subsequent rounds,” Palcheck said in a telephone interview.  Toronto-based Fixmo, which raised $23 million from Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers  and other investors in November, 
worked with the NSA to develop the technology behind its 
Sentinel and SafeZone software. The programs allow companies 
and government agencies to control how data is shared on 
employee smartphones and tablets and strengthen protection
against harmful software.  With more sensitive information being transmitted across
broadband emergency networks on Motorola devices, “the
opportunity for more data getting into the wrong hands increases
and this is a solution that prevents that,” Palcheck said. “We
have multiple places within our business units where we think
the Fixmo technology and solutions fit.”  Phones and tablets are increasingly based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system, which accounted for 68 percent of all
smartphones worldwide in the second quarter, according to
researcher IDC. Motorola Solutions plans to introduce more
Android tablets later this year, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said last month.  The rising popularity of Android creates growth
opportunities for Fixmo particularly, given the software can be
customized relatively easily by device makers, said Tyler Lessard, Fixmo’s chief marketing officer.  “We see the Android side as a significant linchpin of the
business,” Lessard said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  