-- Housewives With Pans Protest Japan Tax Hike as Debt Soars
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-08-10T06:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/housewives-with-frying-pans-protest-japan-tax-hike-as-debt-soars.html
About 200 housewives marched down a
shopping street in central  Tokyo , beating pans with ladles and
shouting slogans criticizing a government plan to double Japan’s
5 percent consumption tax.  “Ordinary people like us have a limited amount of money we
can spend each month,” said Natsuyo Makabe, a protester who
took part in three demonstrations in June against the tax as
well as nuclear energy and a free-trade pact. “Ninety-nine
percent of the public will have to cut back on what they buy.”  The apron protesters, as they are known, argue that a tax
increase would crimp household budgets just when the economy
can’t withstand a drop in consumption, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 13 issue. They say it’s a bad time for Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to rein in public debt that will be over
230 percent of national output this year, the biggest anywhere.
The tax plan has already cleared the lower house of Japan’s
parliament, and Noda this week brokered a deal to bring the bill
to the upper house today.  Japan’s  debt  is ballooning as its  population  is aging and
shrinking, meaning there are only 2.4 working-age Japanese to
support one senior citizen now, compared with 9.1 in 1965. If he
gets this tax issue wrong, Noda could throttle consumption,
reduce  tax revenue , and still leave Japan deep in debt. If the
tax increase is defeated, the debt problem remains unsolved.  Yet Japan’s bonds have never been more popular. The ticking
fiscal time bomb is being drowned out by noise from the euro
crisis, which has turned  Japan  into a haven for bond investors.
Foreign ownership of Japanese  government bonds  rose to a record
8.3 percent last year.  Nine-Year Low  Yields on the  10-year benchmark  slid half a basis point to
0.795 percent today in Tokyo, after last month falling to 0.72
percent, the lowest since 2003. Only  Switzerland  pays less to
borrow. Yet Japan’s debt comes to about $93,000 per person,
compared with about $33,000 in both the U.S. and  Greece ,
according to Bloomberg data.  Japan’s current account surplus means it’s not dependent on
foreign investors to soak up its bond issues, according to Genji
Tsukatani, portfolio manager at JPMorgan Asset Management Japan.
He said Japan is at low risk of default. Takeshi Fujimaki, a
former adviser to investor  George Soros , disagrees, warning that
the local bond market is a bubble that will pop in the next five
years. “I wouldn’t be surprised if we see a default happening
tomorrow,” he said.  ‘Widow Maker’  J. Kyle Bass, founder of hedge fund Hayman Capital
Management, has been betting on a collapse in Japan’s bond
market since at least 2009. He predicts Japan will start
experiencing regular trade deficits as the strong yen drives
more Japanese manufacturers abroad.  The trade deficits, along with declining savings, will
trigger a rise in yields to the point where the cost of
 servicing  Japan’s debt exceeds government  revenue , he said. He
acknowledges that other bond investors have nicknamed his short
position the “widow-maker” since betting against the Japanese
 bond market  to date has been fruitless.  Cracks are already appearing, however. A surge in energy
imports to compensate for nuclear plants idled after last year’s
quake gave Japan a record current account deficit in January.
JPMorgan expects the shortfall to become chronic by 2015.
Barclays thinks the switch will happen in 2018.  The Government Pension Investment Fund oversees 113.6
trillion yen ($1.45 trillion) and is historically one of the
biggest buyers of Japanese debt, currently about 63 percent of
its assets. Late in July it revealed that pension payouts
already exceed revenue as  baby boomers  turn 65 and qualify for
payments. “We need to sell Japanese government bonds to raise
cash,” said the fund’s president, Takahiro Mitani. If too many
institutions have to sell bonds, yields will rise.  ‘No Money’  Noda’s plan would lift the  sales tax  to 8 percent in 2014
and 10 percent in 2015. The increase would cost a family of four
an extra 119,369 yen per year on average, according to the
Daiichi Life Research Institute. “We’ll have no money to put
into our saving accounts,” said protester Makabe.  The effect of families cutting back will be catastrophic
for the economy, said Shinichi Kobuki, who organized the march
attended by Makabe. “We’re still in the deflationary slump, our
salaries are getting lower, and small businesses are going
 bankrupt ,” he said. “The consequence of the bigger tax burden
would be worse than just individual lives getting bitter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  