-- How Olympians Evolved From Amateurs to Commercial Gods
-- B y   A l l e n   G u t t m a n n
-- 2012-08-09T14:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/how-olympians-evolved-from-amateurs-to-commercial-gods.html
In 1894, when the French baron Pierre
de Coubertin established the  International Olympic Committee ,
historians believed, wrongly, that the ancient Greek games were
strictly amateur and that athletes received no material rewards
for their efforts.  Based on this misunderstanding, Coubertin decided that the
modern games were to be strictly separated from “sordid”
commerce. For the next half-century, the IOC interpreted the
amateur code so strictly that collegiate athletes who received
as little as $5 for an article published in a local newspaper
were considered professionals. Jim Thorpe, the American-Indian
winner of the pentathlon and the decathlon at the 1912 Olympics
in  Stockholm , was stripped of his medals when it was discovered
that he had played semipro baseball while a high-school student
in  Pennsylvania .  In this era, interpretations of the IOC’s amateur rule were
so bizarre that army officers were allowed to compete in
equestrian events while enlisted men weren’t. It was assumed
that enlisted men needed their military pay while officers, like
all true gentlemen, did not.  First Olympics  It hardly needs to be said that all the athletes who
traveled to  Athens  in 1896 to compete in the first Olympics paid
their own way. (J. P. Boland, an Irish tourist who happened to
be in Athens, encountered a German traveler, Fritz Traun, and
recruited him as a partner in tennis doubles. They defeated a
pair of Greeks, 5-7, 6-4, 6-1.)  At the first games, and for another 60 years or so
afterward, Olympic organizing committees financed the games with
government subsidies, which varied greatly from venue to venue,
and with ticket sales. The IOC itself -- which was based for
many years in Coubertin’s mansion in Lausanne,  Switzerland  --
had relatively few expenses, which was fortunate because its
sole source of income was membership dues (seldom paid on time).  During his long presidency of the IOC, from 1952 to 1972,
the American businessman Avery Brundage waged a relentless
campaign against the commercialization of the games. Competitors
who derived any income, direct or indirect, because of their
athletic prowess were stripped of their eligibility. Cash-
strapped champions who pawned their medals abandoned all hope of
future competition. Small wonder that Brundage was derided by
hapless athletes as “slavery Avery.” Brundage was so fanatical
that he lamented the IOC’s sale of television rights to the
Tokyo Olympics in 1964 for $600,000.  All this began to change when Avery was succeeded by
 Michael Morris , a jovial Irish journalist who was also the third
Baron Killanin. Killanin sought what Brundage had shunned. He
realized the sale of TV rights was the IOC’s key to wealth, and
for the rights to the Montreal Olympics in 1976 he charged ABC
$25 million.  During the presidency of the Spaniard Juan Antonio Samaranch, from 1980 to 2001, the organization’s coffers kept
growing, thanks mostly to the canny Canadian IOC member Richard Pound, who was put in charge of negotiating television rights in
1978. For the American broadcasts of the summer and winter games
of 2004, 2006 and 2008, NBC committed $2.3 billion.  Samaranch oversaw two other major evolutions in the
commercialism of the games. The first was that amateurism
expired with comparatively little controversy. The international
sports federation governing basketball voted in 1989 to allow
professionals to compete in the Olympics. In the Barcelona games
in 1992, this enabled the “Dream Team” representing the U.S. to
include  Michael Jordan ,  Magic Johnson  and  Larry Bird . (What Jim
Thorpe might have made of this we’ll never know.)  Sponsors Everywhere  The second was the use of sponsorships. In the mid-1980s,
the IOC had become uneasy about its economic dependence on the
sale of television rights, and Samaranch realized that the sale
of sponsorships offered a solution. The IOC forged an alliance
with ISL, the Switzerland-based company owned jointly by the
German entrepreneur Horst Dassler and the Japanese advertising
agency  Dentsu Inc. (4324)  The initial agreement, signed in 1985, had
generated $95 million by the end of 1988.  The nine multinational corporations that participated in
the agreement, which became known as TOP I (The Olympic Program
I), grew to 12 for TOP II. Eight of the original nine continued
as “worldwide sponsors” (including  Coca-Cola Co. (K)  and  Visa Inc. (V) )
and four new ones joined the program. Top II raised some $175
million. Top III reduced the number of sponsors but introducted
“Olympic suppliers” such as Mercedes-Benz. For the IOC, the
money kept pouring in. (The final tally for London 2012 is yet
to be determined.)  National Olympic committees have also entered the
sponsorship game. The U.S. Olympic Committee boasts 11 worldwide
sponsors, plus 21 domestic ones. That foreign companies such as
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are USOC sponsors is proof, if any is needed, of
how economic globalization is shaping the games’ finances.  Contrary to Coubertin’s desires, Olympic competition has
become increasingly nationalistic -- but Olympic commerce has
become international and will unquestionably remain so. South
African gold may or may not be a good investment, but athletes
who win Olympic gold can earn millions of dollars from
endorsements. And they don’t even have to pay their own way to
the games.  ( Allen Guttmann  is the author of “The Olympics: A History
of the Modern Games” and “Sports: The First Five Millenia.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Allen Guttmann at
 aguttmann@amherst.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 