-- Palfinger Deploys CFO to China to Develop Sany Venture
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-08-09T11:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/palfinger-deploys-cfo-to-china-to-develop-sany-venture.html
Palfinger AG (PAL)  is deploying Chief
Financial Officer Christoph Kaml to  China  as a tie-up with  Sany
Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  promises to make the world’s second-biggest
economy the Austrian crane maker’s largest market.  Kaml, 38, together with his wife and two children, will
move to Changsha in central China’s Hunan province later this
month and stay there for three years, Chief Executive Officer
Herbert Ortner said in an interview in Vienna today.  “This simply is the most efficient way” to develop the
partnership, Ortner said.  Sany is China’s biggest maker of excavators and is run by
billionaire Liang Wengen. Changsha-based Sany and Bergheim-based
Palfinger, the world’s biggest maker of truck-mounted cranes,
agreed in February to invest 900 million  yuan  ($142 million) in
a venture to make and sell mobile cranes.  Kaml’s move follows a strategy announced in September by
French power-industry equipment manufacturer  Schneider Electric
SA (SU)  to post some top managers to  Hong Kong , including Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire and his family, to
support expansion in Asia.  The Palfinger-Sany plant in Changsha will probably start
operations before the end of September, Ortner said. China is
likely to become Palfinger’s biggest generator of revenue in the
coming five years, he said.  Palfinger is betting that in 2012, growth in the Americas,
Russia and Asia will “more than compensate” for economic
decline and “uncertainty” in Europe, enabling a “moderate”
increase in group sales this year, Ortner said.  First-half revenue rose 12 percent to 465.1 million euros
($562 million), Palfinger said today. Annual  sales  have risen by
about 29 percent in each of the last two years, coming in at
845.7 million euros in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  