-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate as Prices Ease and Economy Booms
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-as-prices-ease-and-economy-booms.html
Peru ’s policy makers will probably
leave the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a 15th
consecutive month today as inflation slows and economic growth
outperforms regional peers.  The central bank will maintain the key rate at 4.25
percent, according to all 15 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .
The board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, will announce
its decision at about 6 p.m. in Lima.  The Andean nation is on track to lead South America’s
economic expansion this year, while registering one of the
region’s lowest inflation rates. Unlike  Brazil  and  Colombia ,
where growth has lost momentum and policy makers have cut rates,
Peru’s economy has proved more resilient, leaving policy makers
under little pressure to stimulate demand.  “The central bank has no motive to impose expansive
policy,” Jorge Gonzalez Izquierdo, head of the economics
faculty at Lima’s Pacifico University, said by phone on Aug. 7.
“Inflation is under control, gross domestic product is
increasing at its expected potential and bank lending is
growing.”  Peru’s economy grew 6.5 percent in May from the same month
last year following a 4.4 percent expansion in April and 6
percent gain in the first quarter, the statistics agency
reported on July 15. Its GDP will climb 5.7 percent in 2012,
surpassing all other South American nations and the Latin
American average of 3.7 percent, the  United Nations ’ economic
unit for the region said in June.  Regional Growth  Brazil’s economy will expand 2.7 percent this year,
according to UN forecasts, while Colombia’s central bank last
month lowered its 2012 growth forecast to a range of 3 percent
to 5 percent from 4 percent to 6 percent. The two countries’
central banks cut interest rates at their last meetings.  Like Peru’s policy makers, Chilean central bankers have
kept  borrowing costs  unchanged as inflation slows and economic
growth remained above the regional average at 6.2 percent in
June.  Chile  will keep its key rate unchanged at 5 percent at
next week’s meeting, according to all seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Two countries that continue growing at notable rates in
terms of external trade are Peru and Chile,”  Banco Central  de
Chile President  Rodrigo Vergara  said in Santiago Aug. 7. “Both
countries have growing export markets in  China  and  Asia  in
general. You can say in general, the Pacific is doing well and
the Atlantic has more problems.”  Signs of Slowing  Still, Peru and Chile are starting to show signs of
contagion from China’s slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Chile in July unexpectedly posted its second trade deficit
of 2012 on slowing exports, while Peru in May had its biggest
shortfall since 2008 on waning demand for copper and gold. Chile
and Peru are the world’s first- and third-largest copper
producers respectively. The metal has declined 13 percent in the
past six months on the Comex exchange in  New York .  Falling commodity prices also took pressure off  inflation
rates  that have declined in the past two months, though that
affect may coming to an end.  While Bloomberg’s  commodity index , which includes energy,
grain, food and precious metals and livestock, has declined 5.8
percent in the past year, it has risen 6.1 percent since the
start of June as a drought in the U.S. pushes up grain prices.  Peruvian annual inflation eased to 3.28 percent in July
from 4 percent the previous month and 4.14 percent in May. While
Velarde last month said that inflation probably would drop below
the upper limit of the bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target in
2012, this week he expressed concern that rising global grain
prices would pressure consumer prices.  “Since June, global prices of wheat, corn and soybean
started rising as a result of a supply shock,” Gonzalez, a
former labor minister, said. “The central bank shouldn’t
respond to this as long as it doesn’t change long-term inflation
expectations, which the bank still estimates at 2 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 