-- PGA Championship Golfers Find No Bunkers on Hardest U.S. Course
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/pga-championship-golfers-find-no-bunkers-on-hardest-u-s-course.html
The  PGA Championship  at Kiawah Island
off the South Carolina coast this week has sand everywhere --
just no bunkers.  Two years after American  Dustin Johnson  missed a playoff
when he got a two-shot penalty for not realizing he was in a
bunker on his final hole, the PGA of America has eliminated the
chance of a repeat performance by adopting a local rule. Nothing
is considered a bunker, a first for a PGA Championship. Players
are allowed to ground their clubs on the sand and even remove
loose debris just as if the ball was resting on grass.  “To make it fair and understandable for the players, this
is how we think it should be played,” Kerry Haigh, the PGA of
America’s managing director of championships, said in a news
conference. “Hopefully, they understand.”  On his final hole in 2010 at  Wisconsin ’s Whistling Straits,
a course with more than 900 bunkers, Johnson’s ball came to rest
in a sandy area on the right side of the 18th fairway. Johnson,
28, said he assumed it was a waste area, not a bunker, and
touched his club to the ground.  The area, like all sand on the course, officially was
considered a bunker although it had been trampled with
footprints and spectators had set up chairs in the sand. He was
told of his error when he reached the putting green. The ensuing
penalty kept him out of a three-hole playoff between Bubba Watson and eventual winner  Martin Kaymer .  This week, instead of bunkers where players are forbidden
from grounding their club or moving loose rocks or sticks, the
links-style Ocean Course has what Haigh called “sandy areas.”  “It’s different, that’s for sure,” Australian  Geoff Ogilvy , 35, said in an interview yesterday while waiting out a
rainstorm on the clubhouse’s porch. “Some of them look like
normal bunkers. Some of them look like waste areas. If Dustin
hadn’t done what he had done, I’m sure we might have had a setup
with some waste areas and some bunkers.”  Pete Dye  Dealing with the unusual sand conditions might not be the
only issue four-time PGA Championship winner  Tiger Woods  and
other players will be faced with this week at the Pete Dye-built
course, ranked as the toughest in the U.S. by Golf Digest.  Dye, 86, who also built Whistling Straits and  Florida ’s TPC
Sawgrass course, site of the U.S. PGA Tour’s Players
championship, has created a 7,676-yard (7,019-meter) layout that
players said is more of a mental test than physical.  “You have to think,” Woods, 36, who is seeking his first
major title since the 2008  U.S. Open , said in a news conference.
“You can’t just go up there and just swing away and hit it and
go find it.”  The winner of 14 major titles, Woods is a 7-1 favorite to
win golf’s final major of the year, according to Las Vegas
Hotel’s sports book.  England ’s  Luke Donald , the world’s No. 1
golfer, is second at 15-1 followed by countryman  Lee Westwood  at
20-1.  Ryder Cup  Haigh said the decision to play the course without official
bunkers is consistent with how the course was played during the
1991 Ryder Cup matches between  Europe  and the U.S. and the 2007
Senior PGA Championship.  The course’s oceanfront location features a variety of sand
surfaces. Most of the areas are hard-packed beach sand. However,
some sand areas around the putting surfaces are entirely
surrounded by grass, giving them a traditional bunker look.  Many of those areas have been filled with new softer sand
in the months leading up to the tournament. While rakes have
been placed in many greenside sandy areas, players or their
caddies aren’t required to smooth the sand after playing a shot.  Courtesy Raking  Tournament officials posted a notice in the locker room,
Haigh said, asking players to rake those areas as a courtesy if
they cause “severe damage.”  Before coming to see the course, British Open winner Ernie Els criticized the bunker decision. After two practice rounds
this week, Els said the decision now makes more sense.  “I take my words back,” Els, 42, said in a news
conference. “There’s a lot of sand out there, so it’s probably
better to not have any bunkers. It would be almost impossible to
maintain them all. I think it’s a good decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Kiawah Island at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  