-- Philippine Bonds, Peso Advance on Inflation, Growth Prospects
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-08-09T08:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/philippine-bonds-peso-advance-on-inflation-growth-prospects.html
Philippine bonds and the peso gained
after the central bank said inflation will remain under control,
withstanding any impact from monsoon rains that caused flooding
in  Manila  this week.  The currency climbed before data tomorrow that economists
predict will show  exports  rose for a third month in June. The
government will ensure stable prices after parts of the capital
were inundated, and  inflation  will still stay within the central
bank’s 3 percent to 5 percent target range, Deputy Governor Diwa
Guinigundo said yesterday. Policy makers aim to keep price gains
in the band from 2012 through 2014.  “Inflation is still under control and any uptick won’t
shock the market,” said Jan Briace Santos, a fixed-income
trader who helps manage the equivalent of $17 billion at BPI
Asset Management Inc. in Manila. “Foreign portfolio managers
are starting to buy local  government securities . Sustained
growth in exports will also mean we’ll continue to see better
gross domestic product figures.”  The yield on the Philippine government’s 5 percent bonds
due August 2018 fell 10 basis points, 0.1 percentage point, to
4.6 percent as of 4:36 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition
Financial Services.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.762 per dollar, prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc show. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
6 percent for a sixth day.  Michael Spencer , the Hong Kong-based chief economist for
 Asia  at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Bloomberg TV interview today
that the  Philippines  is the strongest performing economy in
Asia. The $225 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 2010.  The inflation rate climbed to a six-month high of 3.2
percent in July, data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  