-- Pimco Cuts Holdings of Treasuries in Total Return Fund
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/pimco-cuts-holdings-of-treasuries-in-total-return-fund.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , reduced
his holdings of Treasuries in July.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in his $263 billion Total Return Fund to 33 percent of
assets last month from 35 percent in July, according to a report
on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s  website .
Mortgages were at 51 percent, from 52 percent the previous
month. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings.  Gross’s Total Return Fund attracted $2.1 billion last month
and deposits into his exchange-traded fund, which mimics the
flagship’s strategy, reached the highest since the ETF started.
The seventh straight month of net deposits into the mutual fund
contributed to $8 billion in new cash for the year through July
31, Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said Aug. 1.  Treasuries returned 1.9 percent this year as of Aug. 9,
while mortgages returned 2.4 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  In developed nations, Gross has advised investors to favor
debt of the U.K., as well as the U.S., as  Germany  faces risks
related to the eventual costs required to end the region’s
worsening sovereign-debt and banking crisis.  Non-U.S. Holdings  The Total Return Fund raised its holdings of non-U.S.
developed nations’ debt to 6 percent in July from 5 percent in
June, the lowest since February 2011. Gross left emerging-market
debt at 8 percent. He retained investment-grade credit at 13
percent, the smallest level since March 2008, for a fourth-
consecutive month. High-yield debt fell to 2 percent from 3
percent of holdings in June.  Gross raised the Total Return  Fund (PTTRX) ’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 18 percent from negative 21
percent the previous month. The fund can have a so-called
negative position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund gained 7.9 percent over the past
year, beating 92 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset such as debt, stocks or
commodities. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
later specific price and date.  Shorting is borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation
of making a profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $1.82 trillion of  assets  as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  