-- Pimco Says Capital Flows Signaling New Storms Threatening Europe
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-08-09T11:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/pimco-says-capital-flows-signaling-new-storms-threatening-europe.html
Capital has begun flowing out of the
countries sharing the euro, signaling “another storm” may be
about to break, according to Thomas Kressin of Pacific
Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s biggest
bond fund.  The euro has lost 5 percent of its value since the beginning
of May on a trade-weighted basis, and about 8 percent against the
dollar, according to Kressin, head of European foreign exchange
at Pimco in Munich. That contrasts with earlier crisis periods
when the euro held steady as capital flowed from peripheral
nations into the core, Kressin said in a posting on the
company’s website.  Investors are losing confidence in the single currency and
seeking havens for their cash outside the euro area as  Europe ’s
debt crisis drags on in its third year. That has forced the
 Swiss National Bank  to buy euros to prevent the franc from 
appreciating, and prompted the Danish central bank to charge for
the use of its deposit facility while yields on U.K.  two-year
notes  are less than 0.14 percent.  “Now there are growing signs that the crisis of confidence
in the euro zone has assumed a new dimension,” Kressin wrote.
“Whereas initially investors fled to the safety of the euro
zone’s core, now they are taking their capital out of the euro
zone altogether.”  The Swiss central bank’s sales of the euro to rebalance its
reserves are “reinforcing” pressure on the single currency,
according to Kressin. Its purchases of top-rated European
 government bonds , particularly bunds, are also forcing down
yields on those securities, he said.  “When the storm clouds gathered over ‘little’  Greece  at
the end of 2009, it seemed unthinkable that the debt crisis and
the flight of capital would shake European monetary union --
once proclaimed as ‘irreversible’ -- to its very foundations,”
he wrote. “Now, though, another storm could be about to
break.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  