-- Poland Needs Jobs, Markets to Keep Growing, Adviser Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-08-09T13:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/poland-needs-jobs-markets-to-keep-growing-adviser-says.html
Poland ’s government can’t wait for
the central bank to cut rates and must help local companies add
new jobs and export markets to maintain economic growth, said an
economic adviser to Prime Minister Donald Tusk.  “Poland’s slowdown has reached the stage where decisions
have to be taken if we want to avoid a contraction next year,”
Malgorzata Starczewska-Krzysztoszek said in an interview in
Warsaw today. The nation must “overhaul the labor market to
protect jobs and avoid an increase in unemployment; a rate cut
isn’t the Polish economy’s biggest need right now.”  The European Union’s biggest eastern  economy  will
outperform the rest of the 27-nation bloc this year, growing 2.7
percent, the European Commission forecasts. Still, that’s slower
than last year’s 4.3 percent as Poland feels the impact of the
debt crisis in the euro region, where it sells about half of
exports.  As concern about the global economy mounts, the government
must adjust next year’s budget to assume that growth “probably
won’t exceed” 2 percent, Starczewska-Krzysztoszek said.  She urged the government to relax business and labor-market
regulations, use more public-private partnerships, introduce
special-purpose funds for infrastructure projects and support
local companies seeking new markets in  China ,  India ,  Indonesia 
and  Brazil  to reduce dependence on the euro area.  Employment Woes  The zloty traded at 4.0730 per euro at 3:30 p.m. in Warsaw,
down from 4.0704 yesterday. The government’s five-year bond
yield rose 10 basis points to 4.51 percent.  Polish jobs growth slowed in June to 0.1 percent from a
year earlier, the lowest in 25 months. The jobless rate in the
nation of 38 million, at between 11.4 percent and 13.5 percent
for two years, is forecast by the government to remain at that
level through 2013 after having exceeded the record-low rate of
8.8 percent since 2007.  Exports to the euro region fell 1.8 percent in the first
five months to 30.2 billion euros ($37.5 billion) and their
share among all foreign sales shrank to 53.1 percent from 55.2
percent a year ago, according to the  Central Statistical Office .  Poland will revise its 2013 budget draft at the end of this
month,  Ludwik Kotecki , chief economist at the  Finance Ministry ,
said yesterday. Last week, PAP newswire cited him as saying that
the government will continue consolidating finances if economic
growth isn’t at risk.  ‘Some Overshoot’  “Budget discipline is going to remain a key issue, but the
euro area’s deepening debt crisis will force us to be flexible
on fiscal consolidation,” Starczewska-Krzysztoszek said. “That
means some overshoot of the planned deficit levels for this year
and next could be allowed, as long as we stay on track for
medium- and long-term targets.”  Poland plans to reduce its deficit to 2.9 percent this
year, within the EU ceiling of 3 percent of gross domestic
product for the first time since 2007 and down from 5.1 percent
last year. The gap was 7.8 percent in 2010 and the government
assumes it will shrink to 2.2 percent next year.  No Easing  In addition to fiscal consolidation, the Polish central
bank has eschewed easing monetary policy. It became the only
central bank in the EU to increase borrowing costs this year
when it raised the main rate by a quarter-point in May to 4.75
percent. It had previously left borrowing costs unchanged for
almost a year, with  inflation  exceeding the bank’s target of 2.5
percent since October 2010.  Recent data indicating that an economic slowdown may be
worse than forecast has boosted traders’ bets for a reduction in
rates this year. Three-month forward-rate  agreements  fell to 36
basis points below the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate today, the
most since June 2009 and signaling a quarter-point cut in rates
by mid-November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A rate cut would definitely be perceived as business-
friendly in the textbook sense of supporting economic
activity,” Starczewska-Krzysztoszek said.  Company Plans  Still, 80 percent of Polish small companies and more than
half of medium-sized ones don’t plan to borrow, according to a
survey of 1,500 firms commissioned by the Polish Confederation
of Private Employers and carried out between April and July.  “Since companies aren’t borrowing and a lower benchmark
rate wouldn’t necessarily be passed through to loan pricing and
availability, the real effect on combating the slowdown would be
limited,” Starczewska-Krzysztoszek said. “When Polish
entrepreneurs make decisions on  capital expenditures  and hiring,
 interest rates  are pretty far down their checklist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  