-- Polish Upgrade Unlikely Amid Euro Crisis, Moody’s Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-08-10T11:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/polish-credit-upgrade-is-unlikely-amid-euro-crisis-moody-s-says.html
Poland  probably won’t get a credit-
rating upgrade at Moody’s Investors Service as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbs trade and economic expansion.  Moody’s plans to cut its 2013 growth forecast for Poland
from about 3.1 percent and predicts gross domestic product will
rise 2.3 percent this year, said Jaime Reusche, an analyst at
the ratings company. A current-account gap and reliance among
banks on foreign financing also hamper an upgrade, he said.  “Looking at Poland credit as a whole, there’s only so far
you can go on the rating side. The limitations are the external
vulnerabilities,” Reusche said yesterday in a phone interview
from  New York . The revision to Moody’s 2013 growth forecast
won’t be “drastic.”  Growth in the European Union’s biggest eastern member,
which reached 4.3 percent in 2011, is slowing as the euro area,
its biggest trading partner, slips into recession. Moody’s has
kept Poland’s rating at A2, its sixth-highest investment grade,
since 2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It has a stable
outlook on the rating.  The zloty lost 0.3 percent to 4.0782 per euro as of 12:49
p.m. in Warsaw, paring this month’s gain to 0.9 percent, the
eighth-steepest among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on 10-year  government bonds  rose eight
basis points to 4.94 percent, a two-week high.  ‘Strong Statement’  Moody’s forecasts that the government will narrow the
budget deficit to 3 percent of GDP or less next year and
predicts “some minor slippage” to the official 2012 target,
with the gap to reach 3.2 percent, Reusche said.  “If there is slippage from next year’s target, that’s
still tolerable for the outlook,” he said. “But if it doesn’t
come under 3 percent, that starts to undermine the credibility
of the fiscal policy.”  Narrowing the  budget gap  to within the bloc’s 3 percent
limit will allow Poland to escape the EU’s so-called excessive-
deficit procedure. Failing to do so may cost Poland access to
development grants that helped it become the only member of the
27-nation EU to avoid a recession in 2009.  ‘Not Terrible’  Earlier this year, Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government
pledged to reduce the shortfall to 1 percent of GDP in 2015, a
goal that assumes the economy will accelerate in coming years.  “A fiscal slippage is not terrible,” Reusche said. “But
not clearing an excessive-deficit procedure over the next two
years would really start chipping away at fiscal-policy
credibility.”  Foreign investors dodging the euro region’s debt crisis
have been lured to Polish bonds by Tusk’s  budget-deficit  cuts
and growth that’s outpacing most of Europe. They own a record
32.3 percent of zloty-denominated government debt after raising
holdings 6.6 billion zloty ($2 billion) in June for the biggest
increase in 16 months, the  Finance Ministry  said last week.  “You’re getting a ‘feel-good’ sentiment from non-resident
holders of debt and you don’t really want to change that by
undermining your fiscal credibility,” Reusche said. “At those
moments of market volatility your fiscal credibility is key and
you can’t lose it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  