-- Porsche Must Face New York Suit by Hedge Funds, Judge Rules
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-09T00:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/porsche-must-face-new-york-suit-by-hedge-funds-judge-rules-1-.html
Porsche SE (PAH3)  must face a lawsuit
claiming it hid its plan to corner the market in  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
shares, a state judge in  New York  ruled, rejecting the sports-
car maker’s bid to dismiss the case.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Charles Edward Ramos
today said the “core” issue of the claims by 26 hedge funds
including Greenlight Capital Inc. and Glenhill Capital LP is
whether New York courts may hold a foreign entity responsible
for fraudulent misrepresentations aimed at plaintiffs in the
state. Porsche, in an e-mailed statement, said it will appeal
the decision.  The court “rejects Porsche’s characterization of the
issues in this action as the manipulation of the German stock
market and the trade of German securities,” Ramos wrote in his
opinion. “New York clearly has a vested interest in such an
action.”  The funds, which bet that Volkswagen stock would fall,
claim Porsche misled investors by denying through much of 2008
that it intended to acquire Volkswagen and by using manipulative
trades to hide its stock positions. Porsche said on Oct. 26,
2008, that it controlled most of Volkswagen’s common stock,
causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced to cover
their positions.  Under New York rules, the court “assumed the truth of the
 hedge funds ’ allegations without ruling on the merits of their
claims,” Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche said in the
statement. The company said it “continues to believe that the
hedge funds’ lawsuits are without factual and legal merit.”  The case is Glenhill Capital LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holding SE, 650678-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  