-- Postal Service $1 Million-an-Hour Loss Puts Abyss in View
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/postal-service-1-million-an-hour-loss-puts-abyss-in-view.html
Just how long the U.S.  Postal Service 
can survive without Congress passing a bill to let it make
fundamental changes may become more clear today when the agency
reports its 11th consecutive quarterly loss.  Management will update the board on when the service may
temporarily run out of cash before rebounding during the
Christmas holiday season. The service has said its cash would
touch zero in October, a forecast that assumed it wouldn’t make
$11.6 billion in required payments to the  U.S. Treasury  for
future retirees’ health-care costs.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat who is a sponsor of
the postal overhaul legislation the Senate passed in April, said
he expects today’s results to show the service’s condition is
worsening.  “It’s going to be kind of hand to mouth,” said  Art Sackler , coordinator of the Coalition for a 21st Century Postal
Service, whose members include heavy mailers such as  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  “Their cash is so low, their
liquidity overall is so low, that they’re going to be depending
on the  cash flow  coming in the door.”  Congress went on recess Aug. 3, two days after the Postal
Service defaulted on a $5.5 billion health-care payment, without
passing a bill to allow changes the service says it needs to
survive.  The service, which gets no direct taxpayer funding, is
trying to close thousands of post offices and mail processing
plants and cut about 220,000 jobs, more than a third of its
workforce. Many of those changes require Congress’s approval.  $9.1 Billion  The Postal Service has said it’s losing $25 million a day.
It reported losing $6.5 billion in its first two quarters of the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30, and has predicted a loss of $9.1
billion for the full year.  Carper urged the House, which isn’t in session until Sept.
10, to pass a postal bill that can be reconciled with the Senate
version in time for President  Barack Obama  to sign a measure
into law this year.  The House and Senate have 13 more legislative days together
scheduled this year.  “The House’s refusal to act on postal reform legislation
is fiscally irresponsible and is further eroding confidence in
both the Postal Service and in Congress’s ability to provide it
with the reforms it needs to save itself,” Carper said in an e-
mailed statement.  “I can only hope that as members of Congress are back in
their districts meeting with their constituents over the next
month, they will hear these concerns about the future of the
Postal Service and be persuaded that they cannot continue to
postpone passing comprehensive postal reform legislation until
it is politically convenient.”  ‘Urgent Need’  The Postal Service wants Congress to act, David Partenheimer, a spokesman, said.  “There remains an urgent need for legislative action as
part of our business plan to return to financial stability,” he
said in an e-mail.  When Congress returns, it may also be asked to pass a
drought-relief package for states in the U.S. Midwest and extend
George W. Bush-era tax cuts and will have spending bills that
need its attention.  “Timing for the consideration of postal-reform legislation
has not been set,” said Ali Ahmad, a spokesman for the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which passed a postal
measure sponsored by Republican Representatives  Darrell Issa  of
 California  and  Dennis Ross  of  Florida .  Limping Along  “Chairman Issa and House leadership continue to monitor
the Postal Service’s efforts to implement all cost-cutting
measures they are able to do under current law as well as the
Postal Service’s financial condition to ensure that there is no
disruption in service,” Ahmad said.  While the service is staring down a cash shortage, it took
some pressure off Congress by saying it can limp along for now
by withholding the Treasury payments, Sackler, of the mailers’
coalition, said in an interview.  “The conventional wisdom is that Congress will not
abdicate its responsibilities and will make sure the Postal
Service continues,” he said. “The worry is, continue in what
way?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  