-- Post-Knight Rules, Shoddy Mortgages, Higher One: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-09T12:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/post-knight-rules-shoddy-mortgages-higher-one-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is writing new rules in the wake of  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  losses that could turn longstanding policies for how
exchanges manage their automated systems into regulations.  After Knight suffered a $440 million trading loss Aug. 1
that almost put it out of business, the SEC began work to
bolster existing policies meant to ensure the exchanges’ systems
can safely handle trading demands, according to a person
familiar with the SEC’s work who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the process isn’t public.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in an Aug. 3 statement that
she asked her staff to hasten work “to require exchanges and
other market centers to have specific programs in place to
ensure the capacity and integrity of their systems.” The agency
will hold a Sept. 14 public meeting with industry participants
to talk about “how we can strengthen the stability of our
market structure while still preserving the many benefits of
electronic trading,” Schapiro said in a statement yesterday.  The malfunction at Knight tripped safeguards previously put
into place by the SEC after technical faults caused the one-day,
May 6, 2010, market crash. The SEC’s so-called automation review
policies, put in place with exchanges after the 1987 market
crash, require the venues to notify the regulator of trading
failures or security lapses. Portions of those policies will
serve as the basis for the new rules, the person said.  Compliance Policy  BofA Law Firm Says Lenders May Need More Mortgage Reserves  Bank of America Corp. ’s law firm defending the company
against MBIA Inc. in a dispute over defective mortgages said
that a court ruling in a separate case means lenders should
reevaluate their reserves for bad loans.  Lenders could be forced to repurchase shoddy mortgages even
if banks’ misrepresentations weren’t responsible for defaults,
O’Melveny & Myers LLP said in a client  note  on its website. The
law firm cited a June 19 ruling in which the judge sided with
bond insurer  Syncora Holdings Ltd. (SYCRF)  against a mortgage company.  “In light of a recent federal court ruling, banks may wish
to reevaluate litigation risk from plaintiff insurers claiming
injury” in bonds they backed, Robert Stern, an O’Melveny
partner, said in the note dated July 27. Firms “facing such
lawsuits may wish to reevaluate their exposure and possibly
adjust reserves set aside to cover such risks.”  The Syncora ruling contrasts with Bank of America’s
argument that bond insurers and other firms should only win
refunds if they prove that loan defects led to defaults. While
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  committed more than
$40 billion to clean up mortgages at the second-biggest U.S.
lender, he has yet to resolve disagreements with MBIA, whose
claims make it one of the bank’s biggest remaining adversaries.  The note “was not a commentary on any institution’s
reserve decisions,” said Majory Appel, a spokeswoman for
O’Melveny & Myers. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
law firm’s note.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Standard Chartered CEO Says ‘No Grounds’ to Revoke License  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands 
hit back at a New York regulator’s claims the bank broke U.S.
sanctions, and said he saw “no grounds” for revoking the
lender’s license.  Standard Chartered has tumbled about 16 percent in London
trading this week after New York regulator  Benjamin Lawsky 
threatened to strip the London-based bank of its license to
operate in the state, alleging it processed $250 billion of
deals with Iranian banks subject to sanctions.  “We reject the position and portrayal of facts by the
 Department of Financial Services ,” Sands said on a conference
call with reporters yesterday, his first public comments since
the regulator’s  report  on Aug. 6. “It would be disproportionate
and wholly inconsistent with the actions of other U.S.
authorities in other sanctions matters” to revoke the bank’s
New York license, he said.  The dispute is becoming increasingly political. Mayor of
London Boris Johnson yesterday accused New York of seeking to
damage its biggest competitor as a financial center, while Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  criticized the regulator for
failing to co-ordinate with its counterparts.  For more, click here.  Standard Chartered might be asked to pay as much as $700
million to resolve money-laundering allegations filed by New
York’s banking superintendent after his department grew
impatient with inaction by federal regulators, a person familiar
with the case said.  Lawsky, who heads up New York’s Department of Financial
Services, tried unsuccessfully a few months ago to get U.S.
regulators to punish the London-based bank for conduct involving
disguised Iranian money transfers, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the matter is confidential. The
transfers have been under investigation by federal agencies for
more than two years, according to Lawsky’s Aug. 6 order.  A settlement of $700 million would match the amount that
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  set aside last month after a Senate committee
found the bank gave terrorists, drug cartels and criminals
access to the U.S. financial system. A payment of that sum by
HSBC would be the largest paid by any bank so far.  A large fine and loss of a banking license could result in
Standard Chartered becoming a takeover target for bigger
lenders, Jon Kirk, a partner of financials research at Redburn
Partners LLP, said in a note to clients.  Lawsky’s agency notified federal and local regulators and
prosecutors about his order, the person familiar with the matter
said.  David Neustadt , a spokesman for the Department of
Financial Services, or DFS, declined to comment on the reasons
for Lawsky’s actions.  Standard Chartered is also being investigated by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Justice Department and the
Manhattan District Attorney, the bank said in a statement.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is also reviewing the
wire transfers, said a person familiar with the investigation
who asked not to be identified because the probe is active.  On a conference call yesterday, Standard Chartered Chief
Executive Officer Peter Sands denied that the bank broke U.S.
anti-money laundering laws, saying it “has always tried to
comply with U.S. sanctions.”  A hearing over whether the bank’s license to operate in New
York should be revoked is slated for Aug. 15.  For more, click here, and see Interviews, below.  Separately, the U.S. Treasury Department confirmed
yesterday its Office of Foreign Assets Control is investigating
Standard Chartered for “potential Iran-related violations as
well as a broader set of potential sanctions violations.”  The U.S. Treasury made the statement in a letter to the
U.K. Treasury in London. The letter was obtained by Bloomberg
News.  OFAC Director Adam Szubin said in the letter that “we will
continue to coordinate with other federal and state agencies”
in the investigation.  Higher One Pays Students $11 Million for Unfair Fees, FDIC Says  Higher One Holdings Inc. (ONE)  and  Bancorp Bank (USB)  have agreed to
pay civil penalties for their handling of student debit cards,
according to the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Higher One will pay $11 million in restitution to students
cheated by extra fees, the FDIC said yesterday in a statement.
The New Haven, Connecticut-based company is affiliated with
Bancorp Bank of Wilmington, Delaware, which has agreed in the
settlement to improve its compliance management. The companies
will pay a combined $282,000 in civil penalties, the FDIC said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Suspends Third London-Based Worker on Libor Probe  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  said its banking unit
suspended a London-based employee, the third worker in a month,
as U.K. authorities investigate suspected manipulation of
benchmark interest rates.  The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. worker has been asked
to stay at home, Hironori Imafuku, a Tokyo-based spokesman for
Mitsubishi UFJ, said without naming the employee or giving
further details.  The lender’s decision comes after the bank on July 10 said
it suspended two traders in London in relation to the local
regulator’s interbank lending rate probe. Barclays Plc in June
was fined 290 million pounds ($454 million) for rigging Libor as
authorities in Europe, Asia and the U.S. broaden inquiries into
manipulation of benchmark gauges for borrowing.  The Yomiuri newspaper reported earlier today that U.K.
regulators are investigating the unidentified individual.  Japan’s Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. and Norinchukin Bank are among 18 banks that
contribute to the fixing of  U.S. dollar Libor  at the British
Bankers’ Association, according to the group’s website. The
three and Tokyo-based Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. are among 13
banks that set Japanese  yen Libor , the association said.  Taiwan FSC to Allow China Companies IPOs, Commercial Times Says  Companies registered on the mainland of China or that are
at least 30 percent owned by Chinese citizens will be allowed to
hold initial listings in Taiwan, subject to approval, the
Commercial Times reported, citing Wu Tang-chieh, vice chairman
of Financial Supervisory Commission, as saying.  Taiwan’s  Financial Supervisory Commission  will also allow
yuan-denominated mutual funds to be set up in Taiwan, the
newspaper reported.  Courts  Ex-Home Diagnostics CEO Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading  George Holley, former chief executive officer and chairman
of Home Diagnostics Inc., pleaded guilty during his trial on
insider-trading charges, according to the U.S. attorney’s office
in New Jersey.  Holley, 72, pleaded guilty to two counts of securities
fraud yesterday in federal court in Trenton, where prosecutors
rested their case Aug. 7, Matthew Reilly, spokesman for Paul
Fishman, the U.S. attorney in New Jersey said.  Holley illegally tipped at least six people that Osaka,
Japan-based  Nipro Corp. (8086) , a maker of medical equipment, would buy
his company, according to the indictment. Holley pleaded guilty
to charges relating to two of those people.  Nipro bought Home Diagnostics, based in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida, for $215 million in February 2010. The subsidiary,
which makes blood glucose monitoring systems and disposable
supplies for diabetics, is now known as Nipro Diagnostics.  “We felt that the plea agreement that was arrived at
during trial was an appropriate, fair resolution of the case,”
 Kevin Marino , Holley’s defense attorney, said in a telephone
interview.  Sentencing is scheduled for Dec. 4. Holley faces as many as
20 years in prison on each of the two counts.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Judith Germano and Assistant U.S.
Attorney Christopher Kelly declined to comment on the plea.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Holley, 11-cr-66, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton). The SEC case
is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Holley, 11-cv-205, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Ex-Terex CFO Apuzzo Must Defend SEC Case, Appeals Court Says  Joseph Apuzzo, the former chief financial officer of
Westport, Connecticut-based  Terex Corp. (TEX) , must defend a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit claiming he aided an
accounting fraud, an appeals court said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan reinstated a lawsuit
that a Connecticut judge dismissed in 2010, reasoning that the
SEC did not adequately allege substantial assistance by Apuzzo
to the scheme.  “The SEC is not required to plead or prove that an aider
and abettor proximately caused the primary securities law
violation,” the appeals court said in an opinion yesterday
reversing the lower court. “The complaint plausibly alleges
that Apuzzo provided substantial assistance to the primary
violator in carrying out the fraud.”  Seth Taube, a lawyer for Apuzzo, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail request for comment. The appeals court didn’t rule
on the merits and said only that the case may go forward.  The case is SEC v. Apuzzo, 11-696-cv, 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  Jury Fails to Reach Verdict at Trial of Ex-ISoft CEO, Directors  The jury in the trial of the former chief executive officer
and two former directors of  iSoft Group Plc  failed to reach a
verdict on charges brought by Britain’s Financial Services
Authority that the men lied to the market about revenue in order
to win contracts and boost merger talks.  The judge at a London criminal court discharged the jury
after a three-and-a-half month trial and scheduled another
hearing for Sept. 7, according to the FSA. The agency is
considering whether to seek a retrial.  Ex-Deloitte Partner Admits to Securities Fraud, U.S. Says  Ex-Deloitte & Touche LLP partner Thomas P. Flanagan pleaded
guilty to one count of securities fraud and admitted he traded
on inside information about clients of the firm, the U.S.
Justice Department said.  Flanagan, 64, entered his plea yesterday before U.S.
District Judge Robert Dow in Chicago, acting U.S. Attorney  Gary
Shapiro  said in a press statement. The accountant engaged in the
conduct from December 2006 to May 2008, the government said.  He left the firm in the latter year, ending a 30-year
association with Deloitte and its corporate predecessors.
Flanagan made about $420,000 in illicit profits for himself and
$58,000 more for a relative, according to prosecutors.  “The profits resulted from illegally trading on the inside
information that Flanagan obtained regarding Deloitte clients,”
Shapiro said.  Flanagan, who is free on his own recognizance, will be
sentenced on Oct. 25. A plea agreement with prosecutors calls
for a term of three to four years. He has settled a related
lawsuit with the SEC.  A defense lawyer, Joel Levin in the Chicago office of
Perkins Coie LLP, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  Jonathan Gandal, a Deloitte spokesman, said the firm sued
Flanagan for his actions after learning of them and added that
Flanagan “concealed from Deloitte his trades in the securities
of our clients,” and “lied about his compliance” with the
firm’s policies and reporting system.  The case is U.S. v. Flanagan, 1:12-cr-00510, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Interviews  Maughan Expects StanChart to Keep U.S. Banking License  Simon Maughan , a financial industry strategist at Olivetree
Securities, talked about money-laundering allegations filed
against Standard Chartered Plc.  He spoke with Guy Johnson on Bloomberg Television’s “City
Central.”  For the video, click here.  Keating Says Obama ‘Demonizes’ U.S. Banking Industry  Frank Keating, president and chief executive officer of the
 American Bankers Association , discussed the impact of scandals
and President Barack Obama’s remarks on the financial services
industry, the importance of community banks and the impact of
regulations on bank profitability.  Keating, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers,” also talked about proposals to
break up larger banks.  For the video, click here.  Banks Risk Criminal Exposure, Burns Says in Interview  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talked about
New York state’s allegations that Standard Chartered Plc
violated U.S. law on financial transactions with Iran and rules
on the subject administered by the Treasury Department’s Office
of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).  He spoke with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking
Stock.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  FSA’s McDermott Named Enforcement Chief After Leading Libor Case  Tracey McDermott has been named the U.K. financial
regulator’s head of enforcement after leading its investigations
into attempted manipulation of interbank offered rates and a
push to prosecute insider trading.  McDermott was named director of the  Enforcement and
Financial Crime Division  at the Financial Services Authority, a
role she’s performed in an acting capacity since April 2011, FSA
Managing Director Martin Wheatley told staff in an e-mail today.
She will head the enforcement unit at the Financial Conduct
Authority when the FSA is split in two next year.  McDermott took over as acting enforcement chief when
Margaret Cole was appointed managing director last year, a post
she left in March to join the private sector. The enforcement
division has won 10 convictions for insider trading and levied
its largest fines ever against a firm and an individual since
McDermott took over, Wheatley said. She joined the FSA in 2001
as an associate in enforcement.  Carney Signals He Isn’t a Candidate for Bank of England Governor  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  signaled he isn’t a
candidate to succeed Mervyn King as the next Bank of England
chief.  Carney, asked yesterday on the BBC’s Hardtalk program in
London whether he would be interested in becoming governor of
the U.K. central bank, said he’s “very focused” on his current
posts and “interested in who they pick” to replace King.
Questioned on whether his answers meant “a no or a never
consider the job?” he said: “It’s both. How’s that?”  Carney’s name has been frequently listed among candidates
ever since the Financial Times reported in April that the
Canadian had been approached for the role by the Bank of
England’s court of directors, a claim refuted by its chairman.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said the same month
that he would begin work in the autumn on a formal search to
replace King, who will retire in June 2013.  In a separate interview with CTV television, Carney said he
hasn’t been approached by the Bank of England’s court or spoken
to Prime Minister David Cameron on the matter. He said he
planned to “fulfill” his role as Bank of Canada governor,
which is due to last until 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 