-- PPF to Sell Nomos Stake to Otkritie to Fund Expansion
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-09T16:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/ppf-to-sell-nomos-bank-stake-to-otkritie-to-fund-expansion-1-.html
PPF Group NV, the private-equity firm
controlled by Czech billionaire Peter Kellner, sold its 26.5
percent stake in Nomos Bank, becoming the latest international
investor to retreat from Russia’s banking industry.  Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp., part-owned by state-
run VTB Group, agreed to buy a 19.9 percent stake, Nomos said
today in a statement.  Alexander Mamut , a billionaire business
partner of Nomos shareholder  Alexander Nesis , is acquiring the
remainder of PPF’s stake with Oleg Malis, it said. Terms of the
deal weren’t disclosed.  Nomos shares  tumbled after Kommersant reported that the
stake may have been sold for less than its previous market
value. Barclays Plc,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
are among international institutions that have abandoned
consumer banking operations in Russia during the past two years
as state-controlled banks increase their market share.  The “abrupt exit” of PPF from Nomos “looks like a first
step to a merger with Otkritie, the new shareholder,” Alex Kantarovich, a banking analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Moscow, said today in a note. He cut Nomos shares to neutral
from overweight.  Price Report  Alexey Karakhan, a spokesman for Otkritie, declined to
comment on whether Nomos is pursuing a full merger. Vedomosti
newspaper said on July 17 that Nomos was close to buying
Otkritie, citing an unidentified person.  Interfax reported that the Czech group sold its 26.5
percent stake for more than $700 million. That’s more than the
$620 million valuation calculated earlier in a report by
Kommersant, which reported that Otkritie may pay 12.8 billion
rubles ($406 million) for its stake, a 13 percent discount to
yesterday’s market value. Both reports cited people that weren’t
identified.  Nomos fell 9.9 percent to 720.5 rubles in Moscow, and its
London stock last traded 10 percent lower at $11.35. The shares
fell as much as 14 percent in  Russia , the most on record.  “PPF’s presence was positive for Nomos’s governance as PPF
provided a second strong voice that could block major
transactions,” Jason Hurwitz, senior analyst at  Alfa Bank ,
wrote in an e-mailed report. “Today’s news thus could be
negative from this perspective, as it would appear that the
blocking stake would be broken up.”  Nomos expects the deal “to build on the successful track
record of cooperation between Nomos and Otkritie” and welcomes
the new shareholders, according to a statement that cited bank
President Dmitry Sokolov.  Mamut Investments  Mamut is also an investor in Polymetal, the Russian silver
and gold producer that joined the U.K. FTSE 100 index last year.
Malis represents the telecommunications unit of billionaire
 Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group  on the board of  Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator.  Otkritie is suing several former employees, including
George Urumov, over an alleged $183 million fraud involving
Argentine warrants and bonuses for colleagues. Urumov denies any
wrongdoing and says he was fired for exposing fraud involving
his bosses and counterparties including OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
largest lender, according to court documents from his employment
lawsuit against Otkritie.  Nomos raised $718 million last year from an initial public
offering in London and Moscow.  PPF, which bought into Nomos in 2007, will invest the
proceeds from the sale in consumer lender Home Credit,
electronics retailer Eldorado and real estate projects in
Russia, the  investment company  said in a statement late
yesterday. In July, the group said it owns at least 5.9 billion
euros ($7.3 billion) of assets in Russia, including stakes in
Nesis’s Polymetal International Plc, Home Credit and Nomos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  