-- Private Equity Chief Outran Bank Before Death, Suit Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-09T21:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/private-equity-chief-outran-bank-before-death-suit-says.html
Frank Pearl, the founder of
Washington-based private equity firm Perseus LLC, fraudulently
moved assets to his wife and a trust in an effort to outrun
creditors as he was dying of cancer, a bank said in a lawsuit.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Washington, claimed Pearl thwarted its ability
to collect on a $16.2 million debt by transferring more than
$300 million of his interest in Perseus funds to a trust for the
benefit of his wife. The bank also said he may have lied on
credit agreements when he portrayed $33 million in real estate
and $65 million of antiques and artwork as his property alone.  Two months before he died on May 4, Pearl restructured his
loan with the Toronto-based bank, making the same claims about
his ownership interests, according to the complaint.  “TD Bank believes and therefore avers that the actual
purpose of the requested restructure was to remove TD Bank as a
direct creditor of Perseus so that the Perseus Trust could
operate Perseus free of any collection and enforcement efforts
by TD Bank,” according to complaint naming Pearl’s widow as a
defendant.  Pearl, 68, died from complications related to  lung cancer .  He founded Perseus in 1995 and served on the board of
directors of Perseus portfolio companies, including Perseus
Books LLC, the largest independent publisher of nonfiction
books, according to a statement by the firm announcing his
death. Pearl was Perseus’s sole owner, according to the lawsuit.  Avis, Wesray  Before starting Perseus, Pearl was a principal and managing
director of Wesray Capital Corp., where he was involved in
supervising corporate acquisitions and divestures, according the
firm’s statement. The companies he was responsible for companies
that at the time included Avis Rent-A-Car and Western Auto
Supply Co., as well as Wilson Sporting Goods Co., according to
the statement.  Pearl, who practiced law in Washington from 1969 to 1983,
also served on the boards of charitable and nonprofit groups
including the John F. Kennedy Center for the  Performing Arts  and
the Peterson Institute for International Economics. He was a
member of the  Council on Foreign Relations  and served as trustee
emeritus for the  Brookings Institution , according to the
statement.  A month his death, the loans Pearl had with TD Bank, the
U.S. unit of Toronto-Dominion, defaulted, according to the
complaint. It was then that TD Bank said it learned Pearl had
created a trust in December to which he conveyed all his
interests in Perseus, related companies, and his funds. The sole
beneficiary was allegedly his wife, Geryl Pearl.  Wife’s Lawyer  “We are dismayed by TD Bank’s lawsuit less than 100 days
after his tragic death,” Robert Cary, a lawyer for Geryl Pearl,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Neither Mr. Pearl nor Mrs.
Pearl did anything wrong. TD Bank’s lawsuit is meritless, and we
intend to prove that in court.”  Frank Pearl was “one of  Washington ’s most respected
businessmen,” was “extraordinarily generous to charitable
causes” Cary said. He had “an unblemished reputation over four
decades,” said Cary, a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP in
Washington.  Thomas Richardson of Arnold & Porter LLP in Washington, who
is listed in court records as the personal representative of
Pearl’s probate case, didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and
telephone messages seeking comment on the suit’s allegations.  Kenneth Socha, Perseus’s chairman, declined to comment on
the lawsuit because neither the firm nor any Perseus employee is
a defendant in the case.  ‘Simple Contract’  “On the date of Frank Pearl’s death, the transfer of the
assets to the Perseus Trust became so far perfected that a
creditor on a simple contract could not acquire a judicial lien
that would be superior to the interest of the trustees of the
Perseus Trust,” according to the bank’s complaint.  The bank, which said it learned of the trust at a June 14
meeting at  Arnold & Porter  in Washington, said it doesn’t have a
copy of the trust agreement or “specific information about its
creation and funding.”  The bank was told by lawyers for Geryl Pearl at the June 14
meeting that the real estate and artwork Frank Pearl claimed
sole ownership to was owned by both Pearl and his wife before
his death, according to the lawsuit.  The original loan Pearl had with TD Bank was made in
September 2010 and involved $17.5 million in credit lines to
Perseus. In order to close on the loan, TD Bank “required the
unconditional guaranty” of Pearl, who at the time held all
membership interests in Perseus, according to the complaint.  New Statement  As part of the loan approval process, Pearl submitted a
personal financial statement detailing his assets and
liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2009, which showed he had assets in
his own name worth more than $449 million, the lawsuit claims.  About three months after the loan was approved, Pearl, as
required by the credit agreement, submitted a new financial
statement showing that he had about $415 million assets in his
own name at the end of 2010.  Pearl then asked TD Bank if he could restructure the
original loan to create a holding company for Perseus and make
that holding company the borrower, according to the complaint.
His motive, he said, according to the complaint, was to avoid
having to make public his financial statement under the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act that overhauled U.S. financial regulations.  “TD Bank at this time does not know if Frank Pearl would
have been required to disclose his financial statement under the
Dodd-Frank Act if the TD Bank loans were not restructured or
whether this reason was mere pretext to camouflage Frank Pearl’s
actual purpose for requesting the restructuring,” the bank said
in the complaint.  Credit Agreement  In November, Pearl learned he had lung cancer and that
unless “a very aggressive form of treatment was successful, he
did not have long to live,” according to the complaint.  On March 12, Pearl signed a credit agreement for the
$16.2 million restructured loan attesting that all the financial
statements submitted to TD Bank were “correct and complete”
and that there has been “no material adverse change in the
assets, liabilities, financial condition, business” since the
documents were submitted, according to a copy of the agreement
filed with the complaint.  “On information and belief, Frank Pearl knew at the time
he effected many of the transfers described in this complaint
that he was afflicted by a fatal disease that left him only a
short, finite time to live,” the bank alleges. “Frank Pearl
concealed his condition and seriousness of this condition from
TD Bank and, on information and belief, from other creditors.”  The case is TD Bank NA v. Pearl, 12-cv-01315, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 