-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Narrowed in June on Cheaper Oil
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-09T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-narrowed-in-june-on-cheaper-oil.html
The U.S.  trade deficit  probably
narrowed in June as less expensive oil helped cut the nation’s
import bill, economists said before a report today.  The gap shrank to $47.5 billion, a four-month low, from
$48.7 billion in May, according to the  median  forecast of 69
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A separate report may show
initial jobless claims rose, signaling progress in the labor
market is limited.  A jobless rate that has topped 8 percent for more than
three years is also leading to a slackening in American  consumer
spending  that may further curb imports. At the same time,
slowing economies in  Europe  and  Asia  threaten orders to U.S.
manufacturers, indicating exports will also languish.  “The story is really about  oil prices , which continued to
decline in June,” said Jacob Oubina, a senior economist at RBC
 Capital Markets  LLC in  New York . “Exports and capital spending
have both benefited greatly from global economic activity, but
if you get a significant slowing in that activity, which we are
seeing at the moment, then that could weigh on these two pillars
of growth.”  The Commerce Department’s trade report is due at 8:30 a.m.
Washington time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
gaps of $44 billion to $50 billion.  Also at 8:30 a.m., a Labor Department report is projected
to show applications for  jobless benefits  rose 5,000 last week
to 370,000, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Global Slowdown  Exports may be hard-pressed to pick up as countries in
Europe teeter near recession and  China ’s expansion cools.  The U.K.’s economy  shrank  0.7 percent in the second
quarter, the most since 2009, a government report showed July
25. Italy’s economy contracted for a fourth straight quarter in
the three months through June as manufacturing slumped and the
euro-area debt crisis intensified, according to a report this
week.  China’s growth slowed to the weakest pace since 2008,
expanding 7.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
country’s National Bureau of Statistics said July 13.  “There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding
the global economy,”  Jim Rogers , chairman and chief executive
officer of  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN) , said during a July 31 earnings
call. “Our view is that Europe is near or at a recessionary
level, but we are not anticipating things to get worse. In Asia-
Pacific and particularly in China, growth has slowed but we
don’t see signs of further weakening there either.”  Declining Exports  Manufacturing is suffering from the global slump. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of factory export orders
has fallen for three consecutive months. It fell in July to the
lowest level since April 2009, indicating that bookings are
contracting.  That may help explain why shares of equipment makers have
lagged behind the broader market. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) , which includes companies like
Eaton Corp. and Deere & Co., has gained 6 percent this year
while the  S&P 500 (SPX)  index has risen 12 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last
month the  European debt crisis  was a main source of risk.
Central bank officials “will closely monitor incoming
information on economic and financial developments and will
provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in an Aug. 1 statement.  Oil Prices  On the other end of the trade ledger, retreating oil prices
probably restrained the value of imports in June. The cost of
imported petroleum  decreased  11 percent from the prior month,
the biggest decline since December 2008, the Labor Department
said July 12.  Oil prices have since started to rebound, which may hurt
U.S. consumers’ buying power.  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  rose as high as $109.13 a barrel on
Aug. 3, up from a low this year of $88.49 on June 21.  Import growth may also be restrained as the struggling U.S.
labor market slows demand. The jobless rate unexpectedly rose to
8.3 percent in July from 8.2 percent a month earlier, Labor
Department figures showed Aug. 3.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  