-- Trade Deficit in the U.S. Shrank More Than Forecast in June
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-09T13:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/trade-deficit-in-the-u-s-narrowed-more-than-forecast-in-june.html
The U.S.  trade deficit  narrowed more
than forecast in June as the biggest drop in crude  oil prices  in
more than three years helped cut the nation’s import bill.  The gap shrank 11 percent to $42.9 billion, the smallest
since December 2010, from $48 billion in May, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The  median 
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 69 economists called for
the deficit to shrink to $47.5 billion. Exports climbed to a
record on demand for autos and industrial engines.  The better-than-projected reading may help boost second-
quarter growth figures when the government revises the data
later this month. The recent rebound in oil prices and slowing
economies in  Europe  and  Asia  mean the deficit will probably not
keep contracting, making it more difficult for trade to aid the
economic expansion.  "For all the talk about the troubles in Europe and  China 
slowing, what’s going on around the world is not make or break
for the U.S. recovery,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist
at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “This
report is a positive in the sense that growth in the first half
of the year was a little better than reported.”  Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from a deficit of $44
billion to $50 billion. The Commerce Department revised the
trade deficit for May from an initially reported $48.7 billion.  Claims Drop  Fewer Americans filed  applications  for  unemployment
benefits  last week, a sign the labor market may keep improving
after employment picked up in July, another report today showed.
Jobless claims unexpectedly dropped by 6,000 to 361,000 in the
week ended Aug. 4, according to the Labor Department. The  median 
forecast of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
an increase to 370,000.  Stock-index futures trimmed earlier losses after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in September fell 0.2 percent to 1,396.1 at 9:14 a.m.
in  New York .  Imports dropped 1.5 percent to $227.9 billion from $231.4
billion in the prior month. In addition to crude oil purchases
of computers and televisions also fell.  The value of imported crude oil fell to $26.4 billion, the
least since February. The cost of a barrel of crude decreased
$7.78 to $100.13, the biggest decline since January 2009.  Oil Rebound  Oil prices have since started to rebound, which may hurt
U.S. consumers’ buying power.  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  rose as high as $109.13 a barrel on
Aug. 3, up from a low this year of $88.49 on June 21.  Exports increased 0.9 percent in June to $185 billion.  After eliminating the influence of prices to produce the
numbers used in calculating gross domestic product, the trade
deficit declined to $44.2 billion, the smallest since March
2010, from $47.7 billion.  Figures on gross domestic product released before today’s
report initially showed the  trade gap  subtracted 0.3 point from
growth in the second quarter after having little effect the
prior three months. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.5 percent
annual rate from April to June.  Today’s figures will add about 0.5 percentage point to GDP,
according to Pierpont Securities’ Stanley.  Exports may struggle to keep supporting U.S. growth as
countries in Europe teeter near recession and China’s expansion
cools.  European Economies  The U.K.’s economy  contracted  0.7 percent last quarter, the
most since 2009, government data show. Italy’s economy shrank
for a fourth straight quarter in the three months through June
as manufacturing slumped and the euro-area debt crisis
intensified, according to a report this week.  In Asia, China’s growth slowed to the weakest pace since
2008, expanding 7.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
the country’s National Bureau of Statistics said July 13.  “There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding
the global economy,”  Jim Rogers , chairman and chief executive
officer of  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN) , said during a July 31 earnings
call. “Our view is that Europe is near or at a recessionary
level, but we are not anticipating things to get worse. In Asia-
Pacific and particularly in China, growth has slowed but we
don’t see signs of further weakening there either.”  Measures of manufacturing activity reflect the global
deterioration’s effect on production. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of factory export orders has fallen for three
consecutive months. It fell in July to the lowest level since
April 2009, indicating that bookings are contracting.  Bernanke’s View  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last
month the  European debt crisis  was a main source of risk.
Central bank officials “will closely monitor incoming
information on economic and financial developments and will
provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in an Aug. 1 statement.  On the other side of the trade ledger, import growth may
also be limited as the tepid U.S. labor market restrains demand.
The jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 8.3 percent in July from
8.2 percent a month earlier, Labor Department figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  