-- Rains Hamper U.K. Harvest as Less Than 1% Wheat Collected
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-09T15:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/rains-hamper-u-k-harvest-as-less-than-1-wheat-collected.html
Rains in the week ended Aug. 7
impeded harvest progress in the U.K., where crops have been
collected on less than 1 percent of the wheat area, the
Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board said.  The bulk of the wheat harvest likely will be under way in
the next one to two weeks, the Kenilworth, England-based
researcher’s grain unit said today in an e-mailed report.
Progress is behind the five-year average. It’s too soon to
estimate yields or quality of crops, and early results have been
“highly variable,” AHDB said.  Harvesting “has been interrupted by regular, often heavy
showers,” AHDB said. “These have reduced harvesting time on
affected farms with some only managing to harvest for a couple
of hours on two to three days.”  Wet weather has increased the prevalence of plant diseases,
and crops are at a “moderate to high” risk of developing
mycotoxins linked to fusarium, a fungus, AHDB said. Mycotoxins
are chemicals that can be harmful to humans and animals.
Rainfall in the week ended Aug. 7 averaged 19 millimeters (0.7
inches), with the highest totals in northwestern parts of the
country, AHDB said.  About 60 percent of winter barley fields have been
harvested, with progress nearing completion in the south, AHDB
said. The harvest is still about 10 percent behind normal.
Yields are near the five-year average of about 6.2 metric tons
to 6.4 tons per hectare (2.47 acres). Less than 1 percent of
spring barley has been collected, “well behind” the five-year
average.  Almost 35 percent of the winter rapeseed area has been
harvested, including more than 100,000 hectares in the past
week, AHDB said. Yields have been about 3.4 tons to 3.6 tons per
hectare, “close to or slightly above” the five-year average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  