-- Research In Motion’s $147 Million Patent Penalty Reversed
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-09T19:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/research-in-motion-s-147-million-patent-penalty-reversed.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the Canadian
maker of BlackBerry devices, won a judge’s order overturning a
$147.2 million patent-infringement award to MFormation
Technologies Inc. RIM rose as much as 5.4 percent.  Jurors in federal court in  San Francisco  concluded in July
that RIM software violated Edison, New Jersey-based MFormation’s
patent-protected inventions.  “There was no legally sufficient evidentiary basis” for
the jury’s findings, U.S. District Judge James Ware said
yesterday in a written opinion.  MFormation, which makes mobile-device management software,
sued RIM in 2008, saying it misappropriated technology learned
during failed licensing discussions. RIM denied any wrongdoing.  “We appreciate the judge’s careful consideration of this
case,” Steve Zipperstein, RIM’s chief legal officer, said today
in a statement.  “MFormation is deeply disappointed that the court would
overturn a jury verdict after a month of trial including a week
of thoughtful deliberation by the jury,” Todd DeLaughter, the
company’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. He said the company is assessing its options.  RIM climbed 4.2 percent yesterday amid speculation by a
Jefferies & Co. analyst that Samsung Electronics Co. may license
the struggling BlackBerry maker’s new BlackBerry 10 software or
consider buying the company.  Market Shares  RIM’s share of the worldwide smartphone market fell to
4.8 percent in the second quarter from 12 percent a year earlier
as Google Inc.’s Android operating system climbed to 68 percent
and Apple Inc.’s iPhone slipped to 17 percent.  RIM is planning to release two new BB10 phones early next
year and try to regain some of its lost market share.  RIM rose 16 cents to $7.78 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
at 3:12 p.m.  New York  time.  The case is MFormation Technologies v. Research In Motion
Ltd., 08-04990, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto
at   hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  at   nturner7@bloomberg.net . 