-- Rig Shortage Means Record $4.5 Billion Blowout Binge: Energy
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-08-10T20:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/rig-shortage-means-record-4-5-billion-blowout-binge-energy.html
The five-story-tall valve that
failed to stop the biggest offshore U.S. oil spill is heading
toward a $4.5 billion surge in orders as deep-water oil
explorers seek to minimize costs on the world’s most expensive
drilling rigs.  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  and  National Oilwell Varco
Inc. (NOV) , the two top makers of blow-out preventers, are racing to
meet the biggest wave of investment in the 90-year history of
the 400-ton fail-safe device that attaches to the well head on
the ocean floor. The surge comes as growing demand for deep-
water rigs has spurred record rental rates and safety concerns
put greater emphasis on time-consuming maintenance.  Blow-out preventers, known as BOPs, are used by  oil
companies  as insurance against explosive blow-outs such as the
one that destroyed  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico 
two years ago. Some drillers have begun doubling up on the $45
million machinery to minimize maintenance delays and shorten
drilling time for the most modern rigs that can cost more than
$600,000 a day.  “If you’re shaving four days off of each well, that may be
several hundred thousand dollars a day” in savings, Clay Williams, chief financial officer at Houston-based National
Oilwell Varco said in a telephone interview.  Blow-out preventers monitor pressure levels during
drilling, and are designed to pinch off the well in the case of
an uncontrolled blast of oil or gas. The device used on BP’s
Macondo well in 2010 failed to work after being jammed by drill
pipe in an explosion that sunk the rig and forced BP to set
aside $38 billion to cover oil spill costs.  Stack of Valves  Equipment makers redesigned and improved the complex stack
of valves and gauges as U.S. regulators cracked down on safety
guidelines after the disaster. The incident also hammered home
the need for more diligent repair and maintenance regimes, which
typically mean stopping drilling to haul the BOP to the surface
for work that can take several days.  The expanding search for oil is sending explorers into
offshore waters where they require the newest rigs engineered to
handle greater depths, higher pressures and more extreme
temperatures. A total of 88 deep-water rigs are expected to be
delivered between 2013 and 2019, the fattest pipeline of orders
since the advent of deep-water drilling in the 1970s, according
to  IHS Petrodata. (IHS)  That compares to 39 rigs ordered from 2003 to
2009.  Device Swap  Each new  rig  will require a new blowout preventer -- most
provided by National Oilwell and Cameron and  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s Hydril Pressure Control unit -- and as many as half of the
new rigs will get a second device. The backup valve can be
immediately lowered to replace the one brought up for
maintenance, allowing drilling to continue.  “It’s kind of becoming a new standard,” Suzanne Spera, a
spokeswoman for driller Rowan Companies Plc, said in a telephone
interview. “We felt it was something our customers liked, given
the increased demand for safety and decreasing risk tolerance by
regulators and operators in general.”  All three of Rowan’s new rigs under construction will
feature dual blowout preventers on board the drillships.
Doubling up on BOP’s may allow the rig operator to charge a
higher premium, she said. Rowan recently announced a three-year
lease for one of its new rigs with dual BOPs to producer  Repsol
SA (REP)  at a rate of about $624,000 a day, one of the highest rates
ever.  Share Performance  Cameron’s shares have gained about 19 percent in the past
year, while National Oilwell is up 21 percent in the period.
Those beat the 10 percent average increase in a 16-member group
of oil and gas services providers. Cameron fell 0.7 percent to
$52.29 at the close in  New York . National Oilwell rose 0.5
percent to $77.36.  Other rig contractors, including  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  and  Diamond
Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO) , are putting backup BOPs on more than one
of their rigs, while  Noble Corp. (NE)  is designing its new rigs to
hold the extra equipment if customers request it.  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  recently signed a contract to rent one of
Noble’s new rigs with a second BOP onboard.  Manufacturers are about halfway through a roughly two-year
surge in orders for the machinery that may amount to as much as
$4.5 billion, including about $1.5 billion for double-orders if
half of those rigs want spares, according to estimates by James C. West, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York. Those
double orders would mean about 29 cents per share in extra
profit for Cameron and 21 cents for National Oilwell Varco, he
calculates.  Earnings Gains  “We hope that everyone orders two,” Jack Moore, chief
executive officer at Cameron, told analysts and investors on
April 26. “I mean, we’d be happy if they ordered three.”  Cameron is expected to boost earnings 54 percent this year
to $3.22 a share while National Oilwell is expected to grow net
income 26 percent to $5.91 a share, according to average analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of new rigs requesting a second BOP may be
closer to 25 to 30 percent, said  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at
Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston.  Lost drilling time for BOP maintenance cuts into rig
owners’ operating profits by raising costs and reducing
revenues, as producers aren’t always charged during downtime,
Uhlmer said.  Transocean’s adjusted pretax operating profit margin
dropped to 9.7 percent last year from 22 percent a year earlier
as annual operating and maintenance expenses climbed 37 percent
in 2011. Noble’s operating margin was almost cut in half to 18.2
percent in the same period.  Limiting Downtime  “Everyone’s trying to limit subsea downtime,” Luke Lemoine, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast in  New Orleans 
said in a telephone interview. “That was the thing that plagued
a lot of contractors in 2011.”  Older rigs may be another source of new business for BOP
makers. Most of the world’s existing rigs weren’t built to hold
a second BOP, which can weigh about 800,000 pounds, National
Oilwell Varco’s Williams said. As older deep-water rigs come
back to the shipyard for major servicing every five years, some
may be upgraded to accommodate a backup BOP. Or an old device
may be swapped out for a newer one, he said.  Cameron and National Oilwell Varco also are seeing more
requests from rig operators who want to use the original
manufacturers to service their equipment. That so-called after-
market business could represent $1 billion a year in sales for
Cameron alone, Barclays’ West said.  Under Review  Rig operators are still assessing the value of having a
backup blowout preventer on each rig,  David Williams , chief
executive officer at Noble, said July 19 on a conference call
with analysts.  “You may or may not be able to fully utilize all the
benefits of it all the time,” the Noble CEO said.  National Oilwell had the greatest market share of BOPs sold
for deep-water rigs in 2011 with 44 percent, West wrote in a May
10 note to investors. Cameron was second with 31 percent,
followed by Hydril with 25 percent.  National Oilwell Varco opened a research and development
office in Houston about a year ago dedicated to improving
blowout preventers. The facility, with 13 test bays, can
research the effects of the safety equipment in harsh
environments.  $100 Million Investment  Cameron will invest roughly $100 million this year to
improve its after-market business for blowout preventers, which
includes recertifying blowout preventers, as required by federal
regulators, and continuously servicing them as they get older.  “A lot of stuff has shown up at our door that we have not
seen in years, so it is taking us a while to work through it,”
Charles Sledge, chief financial officer at Cameron, said Feb. 2.
“It certainly is a good business and one that requires a lot of
investment on our part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  