-- RIM Said to Draw Interest From IBM on Enterprise Services
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-10T21:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/rim-said-to-draw-interest-from-ibm-over-enterprise-services-unit.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s
enterprise-services unit, seen as the company’s most valuable
asset, has attracted interest from  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , two people familiar with the situation said.  IBM made an informal approach about possibly acquiring the
division, which operates a network of secure servers used to
support RIM’s BlackBerry devices, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the matter is private. The
business may be valued at $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion depending
on the mix of assets included, according to Berenberg Bank.  No party has shown interest in buying all of RIM or the
division that makes its phones, and the Canadian company is
inclined to wait for the rollout of BlackBerry 10 phones in
early 2013 before making any decisions on a sale, the person
said. No talks are currently under way, according to the person.  “If they were to offload this, they are offloading their
jewel,” said Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg with a sell
rating on RIM’s shares. “They want to give BlackBerry 10 a go,
so I don’t think this would happen until next year.”  RIM  shares  climbed 6.3 percent to $8.29 at the close in  New
York . The stock is down 94 percent from its mid-2008 high,
putting its market value at $4.3 billion.  Apple, Google  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who took charge in
January, is trying to turn the company around after customers
defected to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system,
triggering losses and declining sales. The Waterloo, Ontario-
based manufacturer said in May that it had hired  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  to study strategic options. Heins
has said he would prefer to find a partner or license RIM’s
software to other companies, rather than pursuing a sale.  James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
said the company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation, as
did Nick Manning, a spokesman for RIM.  Splitting the enterprise unit from hardware would be
difficult because the technology is so closely intertwined, said
 Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York.
Separated successfully, the enterprise unit may fetch $2
billion, said Misek, who rates RIM the equivalent of a sell.  Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San
Francisco , said the difficulties separating the unit will lead
to a lower price, in the range of $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
Modified to work with other platforms, it would be worth more,
said Wu, who has a neutral rating on the stock.  Secure Mail  IBM is the world’s largest provider of computer services to
enterprises, and has made recent acquisitions in online commerce
and human-resources software. RIM’s enterprise-service business
would give IBM control of a secure and speedy e-mail system
that’s preferred by many large corporations over more consumer-
oriented products.  The fees RIM charged mobile carriers for subscriber access
to its network generated revenue of $4.1 billion last year. RIM
has $2.2 billion in cash and investments and little debt. If the
enterprise-services division is worth about $2 billion, it would
suggest the company’s mobile-phone business has little value to
investors.  IBM buying some or all of RIM’s business is strategically
sound as the enterprise unit would be a “logical extension” of
IBM’s own services, said William Blair & Co. analyst Anil Doradla, who has the equivalent of a hold rating on RIM stock.  RIM, once the world’s leading smartphone maker, is racing
to get the BlackBerry 10 lineup ready for its debut early next
year, aiming to regain market share lost to Apple’s iPhone and
Google’s Android operating system.  Product Revamp  The new devices, which RIM says represent a total revamp of
the company’s product line, have seen their introduction delayed
twice as engineers struggle with their development. They will
also need to attract third-party application developers, who
currently focus on building software for more popular
smartphones. Last month, the  New York Times (NYT)  newspaper dropped
its downloadable application for BlackBerry models, which it
will continue to offer for Apple and Google devices.  RIM is eliminating almost a third of its workforce and
shutting down manufacturing sites to boost efficiency. Its share
of the global smartphone market fell to 4.8 percent in the
second quarter from 12 percent a year earlier as Android climbed
to 68 percent and Apple slipped to 17 percent, according to
research firm IDC.  The company reported a fiscal first-quarter loss in June of
37 cents a share, excluding some items, more than five times
what analysts had predicted. Sales tumbled 43 percent to $2.8
billion, missing a prediction of $3.05 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  