-- Roche’s Skin Cancer Treatment Delayed by U.K. Drug-Cost A
-- B y   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/roche-s-skin-cancer-treatment-delayed-by-u-k-drug-cost-a.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  will have to
provide more information about the expense of the Zelboraf skin-
cancer treatment before the U.K.’s drug-cost agency will decide
whether to recommend use in the National Health Service.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
said it asked Roche for further clarification about the cost-
effectiveness of the melanoma drug, also known as vemurafenib,
after the drugmaker submitted information about pricing to NICE
last month.  “We need to be sure that new treatments provide sufficient
benefits to patients to justify the significant cost the NHS is
being asked to pay,” Carole Longson, director of NICE’s Health
Technology Evaluation Centre, said in a statement today.  NICE, which advises the state-run  National Health Service 
on the treatments that represent value for money, refused to
back Zelboraf for approval after the first consultation in June.
Roche offered to cut the price of the drug, which costs about
1,750 pounds ($2,734) a week in the U.K. The average duration of
treatment is seven months, which would cost 52,500 pounds, NICE
said. The amount of the offered discount is confidential, the
authority said.  A melanoma pill for patients whose tumors can’t be removed
surgically, fewer than 1,000 people a year would be eligible for
treatment with Zelboraf in England and  Wales , according to the
London-based authority.  "Roche is confident that vemurafenib should be recommended 
by NICE and will provide further information to help NICE make 
its decision," the company said in an e-mailed statement.   Zelboraf won European approval in February and is among the
new medicines the Basel, Switzerland-based company is counting
on to boost growth as sales for its tumor drug Avastin decline.
Zelboraf was backed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in
August 2011 and competes with New York-based  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Yervoy treatment.  NICE’s final guidance on Zelboraf will replace local NHS
recommendations across country.  “Vemurafenib is an expensive drug and its long-term
benefits are difficult to quantify,” NICE’s Longson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  