-- Romanian Coalition Loses Support on Turmoil, Poll Shows
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-09T08:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/romanian-coalition-loses-support-on-turmoil-poll-shows.html
The two parties in Romanian Prime
Minister Victor Ponta’s ruling coalition lost support after they
pushed to suspend President Traian Basescu, a poll showed.  The Social Democrats and the Liberals, which now form the
Social-Liberal Union and will run together in parliamentary
elections later this year, would win 61.4 percent of votes if an
election were held now, according to a July survey of 1,037
people by polling company IMAS,  Adevarul  newspaper reported
today. That compares with 66.6 percent in a June poll by IMAS.
The survey had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  The  Liberal Democratic Party , which backs Basescu, would
win 16.3 percent of votes, up from 12.7 percent in June, the
survey showed. The new  People’s Party , founded by media owner
Dan Diaconescu, would get 10 percent, compared with 9.8 percent
in the previous poll. The opposition Democratic Union of
Hungarians in  Romania , an ethnic minority party, would get 6.2
percent, up from 4.3 percent.  A power struggle between Ponta and the president, which led
to Basescu’s suspension by parliament last month on grounds he
overstepped his duties in announcing budget cuts, has pushed the
leu to record lows and boosted borrowing costs. The turmoil
deepened last week when the  Constitutional Court  delayed ruling
on whether a July 29 referendum to impeach Basescu was valid.  Turnout for the referendum called by Ponta’s coalition was
46.24 percent, according to the central electoral bureau, below
the majority required to be valid. The government challenged the
result, saying voter lists were outdated. It has pledged to
provide the court with updated voter rolls.  The court has complained to the European Union about
political pressure before announcing its ruling later this
month. Validation of the referendum would lead to Basescu’s
ouster and early presidential elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  