-- Romney Says Small Government Will Boost Productivity: Interview
-- B y   J o s h   T y r a n g i e l
-- 2012-08-09T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/romney-says-small-government-will-boost-productivity-interview.html
On his way to a fundraiser in  Chicago 
on Aug. 7, Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  talked
for Bloomberg Businessweek’s Aug. 13 edition about his father,
what he learned at the private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, and
why he sees the controversy over his tax returns as a nonissue.  Question: Much of the case you make to voters is that
you’re a successful entrepreneur and a successful executive, and
thus you’ll make a successful president. Why were you so
successful as a businessman?  Romney: Well, I had the privilege of growing up in a home
with a dad that was a leader. And because I was the baby of the
family, he was kind enough to take me along with him and I got a
chance to see real leadership in action. I watched him at
American Motors as he interacted with not only executives, but
workers there. I remember going to  Milwaukee  as he addressed UAW
employees at the Milwaukee stadium and described to them the new
profit-sharing program that he and the head of the UAW had put
in place.  I later saw him work on policy that related to the state of
 Michigan , particularly its education system. He also helped to
create a new constitution for Michigan. I would attend the
meetings where he interacted with people of various backgrounds
to find solutions and ultimately make changes. So I learned
something about leadership from a man who was an extraordinary
leader.  I also had the occasion to go to work in a business, a
consulting firm which provided advice to businesses that faced
challenges of various kinds. I learned through that process,
through the people who taught me in the consulting firm as well
as the people I learned from who were clients.  Ultimately, I was able to be the leader of that company and
led it through a challenging turnaround. I also had the occasion
of starting up a business and saw it become one of the world’s
leaders.  And then, of course, I became the head of the [ Salt Lake
City ] Olympics and with a great team helped turn it around. And
finally, served as the governor of a state and found that the
leadership principles I’d applied in business and in the not-
for-profit world applied extraordinarily well in government as
well.  Question: What was the best part of working at Bain? The
thing that got you excited to get to the office each morning?  Romney: I’m not sure people would think of me in this
light, but frankly what I enjoyed most about Bain & Co., the
consulting firm, was the analytical process of solving tough
problems. If a client invites you in and is ready to pay a lot
of money for your counsel, it is not because you know their
business better than they do. Of course, they know their
business better than I ever would. But they’re looking for
someone to understand their business challenges in a new light.
And that presents an analytical challenge which is steep and
exciting.  And I love the thinking and the analyzing as much as
anything. I also enjoyed working with a team of people to arrive
at ideas and solutions, and also to see ideas and solutions
implemented. The experience at  Bain Capital  was similarly
analytical, to decide which business ideas really had economic
merit and which did not. And then to do your best to make sure
that the team was in place to execute its vision.  Question: When you look at it now, does that photo of you
and your Bain colleagues posing with money in your pinstripe
suits make you laugh or make you cringe?  Romney: Oh, that was a moment of humor as we had just done
what we thought was impossible. We had raised $37 million from
other people and institutions who entrusted us with their funds,
and we thought it was a miracle that our group had been able to
be so successful in fundraising. And ultimately we were able to
yield for them a very attractive return by such investments as
 Staples (SPLS) , which was in our very first fund.  So it’s a happy memory.  We had a great group of people, each one of whom I think of
fondly.  Question: On the subject of leadership, why does Mormonism
produce such a disproportionate number of political and business
leaders?  Romney: I don’t know that I have an answer for you on that.
I believe that people of faith by and large have a great
interest in the institution of family and that a family is a
great place to learn leadership skills. I’m sure I benefited by
having a mom and dad, both of whom were actively involved in the
community and in various enterprises. And by watching them
interact with other people, I learned the kinds of lessons which
serve me well. I presume that’s true for people of faith, if
their faith, like mine, draws you to your family.  Question: Great executives often say that early failure is
essential to their eventual success. Aside from not winning a
Senate seat in 1994, your record seems almost unblemished. Have
you ever massively, embarrassingly failed at anything?  Romney: Well, I can say that the investments we made at
Bain Capital did not all succeed. There were occasions when
after long study and analysis, we concluded that the idea was
good, that the management team was the right team.  We invested in the business with hopes that it would grow
and be successful, and despite our best preparation, we were
disappointed with the result. And those results being typically:
You lose your money and people can lose jobs. That’s always
devastating. And I learned that not every business will be
successful, even those that have been carefully selected and
thoroughly evaluated.  Question: Was that personally humbling?  Romney: I have never believed in my own ability to succeed
at everything. I recognize I’m a human being like everybody else
and I make mistakes, and fall short time and again. That being
said, I will work as hard as I can to deliver the results which
people entrust me to achieve.  Question: You’ve signed  Grover Norquist ’s pledge to veto
any tax increase as president. You’ve also pledged to get
America on the road to a balanced budget. Since you’ve promised
not to cut defense or Social Security, where specifically is the
money going to come from?  Romney: Well, mathematically there are three ways of
balancing a  budget . One is by cutting spending; one is by
growing the economy; and the last is by raising taxes.  The challenge of raising taxes is that it depresses growth.
And so like a dog chasing its tail, you can’t get to a balanced
budget by simply raising taxes. As a matter of fact, it is
ultimately counterproductive.  So my plan is based upon reducing spending and putting in
place a program of policies that put more people to work and
raise wages. So specifically, places that I would reduce
spending:  First, I will eliminate programs that are not absolutely
essential. Obamacare is one of the easiest to eliminate from my
standpoint and that saves approximately $100 billion a year.
There are also programs I would return to the states where their
growth can be managed and where they will be carried out with
less fraud, inefficiency, and abuse.  So for example, Medicaid, housing vouchers,  food stamps ,
and other programs of that nature, I believe, can best be
administered by the states. And finally I will cut the number of
federal employees through attrition by at least 10 percent, and
I will link their compensation with that which exists in the
private sector. The plan that my team and I put in place
achieves a balanced budget within eight years and does so
without raising taxes.  Question: One thing that distinguishes this recovery is
that public sector jobs, government jobs, have already fallen by
650,000. Given the conservative goal of shrinking government, is
this a positive development or a negative one?  Romney: Well, clearly you don’t like to hear [about] anyone
losing a job. At the same time, government is the least
productive - the federal government is the least productive of
our economic sectors. The most productive is the private sector.
The next most productive is the not-for-profit sector, then
comes state and local governments, and finally the federal
government.  And so moving responsibilities from the federal government
to the states or to the private sector will increase
productivity. And higher productivity means higher  wages  for the
American worker. All right? America is the highest productivity
nation of major nations in the world, and that results in our
having, for instance, an average compensation about 30 percent
higher than the average compensation in  Europe .  A government that becomes more productive, that does more
with less, is good for the earnings of the American worker, and
ultimately it will mean that our taxes don’t have to go up, that
small businesses will find it easier to start and grow, and we
will be able to add more private sector jobs. Don’t forget! It’s
the private sector jobs that pay for government workers. So if
you have fewer government workers doing work more and more
productively, that means private-sector work will grow.  Question: What you’re speaking about is a fairly dramatic
overhaul in the domestic economy in which workers are
transferred from the government rolls to other jobs. Those other
jobs may not come open immediately. Is this a transition? How do
you expect to prepare the American people for that kind of
fundamental shift?  Romney: Well, I’m not suggesting that we’re going to have a
mass exodus of people from one industry or one sector to
another. But in response to your question as to whether
government becoming smaller is a good thing, the answer is
decidedly “Yes.” I do recognize that there are businesses that
unfortunately go out of business and there are jobs that become
obsolete. These are the [realities] of an economy like our own.  And the way to make sure that people who unfortunately lose
a job can find another one quickly, and one with better pay and
benefits, is by having a growing economy that is starting new
businesses, is highly productive, and is able to sell goods
around the world competitively. Any nation that wants to have
good jobs and rising wages knows that the answer is to have, if
you will, a strategy based on the five principles that form the
basis of my economic policy.  First, take advantage of our energy resources; two, provide
the skills that our workers need through adult education and
great schools; three, get trade to work for us by clamping down
on cheaters like  China  and also opening up new markets for
goods, like  Latin America ; four, taking steps to get America to
a balanced budget; and five, being a champion of small business
by holding down taxes on small business, getting regulation to
work for small business, and getting health-care costs under
control.  Speaking of small business -  I’ve got to leave and go to
work here -  [Romney adviser informs the former Massachusetts governor
that the campaign had agreed to a longer interview.]  Ask one question. But I’m holding up traffic in Chicago
trying to - I’ve got the Secret Service and all the press and
we’re stopped in front of a place of business. So, shoot.  Question: Let’s frame the issue around your tax returns in
a slightly different way. If you’re an investor and you’re
looking at a company, and that company says that its great
strength is wise management and fiscal knowhow, wouldn’t you
want to see the previous, say, five years’ worth of its
financials?  Romney: I’m not a business. We have a process in this
country, which was established by law, which provides for the
transparency which candidates are required to meet. I have met
with that requirement with full financial disclosure of all my
 investments , but in addition have provided and will provide a
full two years of tax returns.  This happens to be exactly the same as with  John McCain 
when he ran for office four years ago. And the Obama team had no
difficulty with that circumstance. The difference between then
and now is that President Obama has a failed economic record and
is trying to find any issue he can to deflect from the failure
of his record. Thanks, guys. Good-bye.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Pollock   epollock@bloomberg.net . 