-- Romney Defending Tax Return Stance Says ‘Not a Business’
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-09T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/romney-defending-tax-return-stance-says-not-a-business-.html
Mitt Romney , defending his refusal to
release more than two years of tax returns, said, unlike a
company being evaluated by a potential investor, he shouldn’t
have to provide more details of his finances for public vetting.  “I’m not a business,” the presumed Republican
presidential nominee said in an Aug. 7 interview with Bloomberg
Businessweek when asked whether he would want to see five years
of financial information for a firm in which he might invest.  “We have a process in this country, which was established
by law, which provides for the transparency which candidates are
required to meet,” he said. “I have met with that requirement
with full financial disclosure of all my investments, but in
addition have provided and will provide a full two years of tax
returns.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and private equity
executive whose fortune is estimated at about $250 million, has
faced increasing calls -- both from Democrats questioning
whether he dodged paying taxes and Republicans eager to put the
issue to rest -- to release more tax filings that would shed
light on his investments and financial activities.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
been the most outspoken on the issue, recently claiming that he
had been told by someone with knowledge of Romney’s finances
that the Republican hadn’t paid taxes for a decade.  Paid Taxes  The charge drew an angry response from Romney, who said
Reid should “put up or shut up” about his source, and asserted
that he had paid “a lot of taxes” every year and that
President  Barack Obama  was behind attempts to suggest otherwise.  In the interview, Romney said the amount of tax return
information he has released is “exactly the same” as Senator
 John McCain ’s when he was the Republican presidential nominee
four years ago.  “The Obama team had no difficulty with that
circumstance,” Romney told Businessweek. “The difference
between then and now is that President Obama has a failed
economic record, and is trying to find any issue he can to
deflect from the failure of his record.”  While McCain released his 2006 and 2007 tax returns, he
initially refused to provide those of his much wealthier wife
Cindy McCain, an heiress who controls the Budweiser beer
wholesale distributing company Hensley & Co. and files
separately. Under public pressure, McCain’s campaign ultimately
provided a two-page excerpt of her 2006 and 2007 tax returns
that divulged her income and how much tax she paid without
providing any specifics about her investments or financial
transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  