-- Rousseff Solar Push Thwarted by BNDES Loan Ban: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-08-09T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/rousseff-solar-push-thwarted-by-bndes-loan-ban-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s bid to spur solar-energy
projects is failing as a ban on state subsidies for foreign-made
panel parts hinders sales by the world’s biggest producers.  Buyers of equipment made by  Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. (YGE) ,  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  -- three of
the world’s four largest panel makers -- aren’t eligible for
loans at below-market rates from state bank BNDES. That leaves
Campinas, Brazil-based Tecnometal Equipamentos Ltda. as the only
maker of subsidized panels that turn sunlight into electricity.  President  Dilma Rousseff  last month  said  utilities will
allow homeowners and businesses to install solar panels and
trade electricity in the nation’s power grid next year as part
of Brazil’s “bet on an economic-growth model based on clean,
renewable energy.” Her efforts to promote the technology are
being undermined by the financing ban because domestic-made
parts are too expensive to make projects viable, said Helcio
Garcia Camarinha, chief executive officer of  Braxenergy , a
developer of solar projects.  “You can get a government loan but then again your module
is 30 percent more costly so what’s the point?” Niels Kleer,
chief of operations of the joint venture between German solar
developer Gehrlicher Solar AG and Ecoluz Participacoes SA, said
by telephone from Salvador, Brazil.  Chinese panel makers who are shut out of the market in
Brazil,  Latin America ’s largest economy, are shifting sales to
 Chile , where state-owned copper miner Codelco is using solar
panels to cut costs and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is planning projects,
Salvador Escobedo, founding partner at Panama City-based solar
developer Solam Group, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Massive Potential’  Developers have announced plans this year to install more
than 1,000 megawatts of photovoltaic panels in Chile, compared
with 67.5 megawatts in Brazil, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data
show. Brazil has two large solar projects online with 1.4
megawatts of installed capacity, compared with 1,919 megawatts
in  Germany , where sunlight is 40 percent less intense.  “Brazil has massive potential -- credit is the industry’s
main obstacle,” Camarinha said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “Conventional lines of credit are very expensive.”  The BNDES offers 15-year loans with  interest rates  as low
as 2.5 percent, less than a third of Brazil’s Selic benchmark
interest rate, for solar projects as part of the government’s
climate fund, said Marcio Macedo, head of the environment
department at the Brasilia-based bank.  To qualify for the loan, at least 60 percent of a solar
project’s parts must be locally made. So far, the BNDES, or
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, hasn’t
received any requests for the financing, he said.  Solar Losses  First Solar Inc., the biggest U.S. solar company, had been
the only one forecast to report a profit in the second quarter
among the 17 companies in the BI Global Large Solar Index,
according to estimates collected by Bloomberg as of July 31. The
rest, led by Suntech of  China , were expected to have losses.  First Solar reported second-quarter profit rose 81 percent
to $111 million on Aug. 2. Suntech is scheduled to report
earnings later in August.  All 17 members of the  Bi Solar index  have tumbled in the
past 12 months as the index slid 66 percent. Suntech is the
index’s second-largest decliner in the period, plunging 80
percent, First Solar dropped 78 percent and Yingli fell 64
percent.  “Panels are a large part of the overall system costs,”
Macedo said. “It’s going to be very difficult to reach the 60
percent threshold if you import the panel.”  Stadium Panels  Joint venture Gehrlicher Ecoluz Solar do Brasil won a
contract to install solar panels at the Pituacu sports stadium
in the northeastern city of  Salvador  using equipment from
Baoding, China-based Yingli and the U.S.’s United Solar Ovonic
Corp. The project was financed by utility  Cia. de Eletricidade
do Estado da Bahia  and the state government.  Homeowners who want to buy Chinese panels can tap a 60-
month loan from state-run bank Caixa Economica Federal with
rates as low as 18 percent, Jean Benevides, national manager of
environment for the Brasilia-based lender, said in a telephone
interview. No one has bought solar equipment using the line,
which offers the lowest rates for panel purchases in Brazil.  Rates on bank loans for rooftop panels are about 6 percent
in Germany and 8.5 percent in  Italy , said Jenny Chase, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s London office.  Brazil’s Ministry for Mines and Energy didn’t respond to an
e-mail or telephone call seeking comment from Bloomberg News.  Wind Energy  BNDES’s local-content rules played a crucial role in
creating a domestic industry for  wind turbines  in the past three
years and helped make the renewable energy cheaper, said Nelson
Fonseca Leite, president of the Brasilia-based Brazilian
Association of Electric Energy Distributors.  In addition to the local-content rules, the government also
needs to auction contracts to supply energy from solar projects,
similar to the ones awarded in 2009 for  wind energy , in order to
encourage Chinese companies to build factories in Brazil, he
said.  “For manufacturers to come here there must be a guaranteed
market for solar, which there isn’t at the moment,” Leite said.  Import tariffs, shipping costs and other duties make some
solar equipment as much as 85 percent more expensive in Brazil
than the rest of the world, said Jose Renato Colaferro, chief
executive officer of Blue-Sol, a Ribeirao Preto, Brazil-based
panel distributor that buys and installs equipment from Yingli
and Suntech.  Tecnometal, the only Brazilian panel producer, expects to
cut costs on panels once its factory in the southeastern city of
Campinas reaches full capacity in 2013, said Renato Mangussi,
director of renewable energy business. The facility opened in
January.  “No country offers long-term financing for imported
equipment,” Mangussi said by telephone from  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil. “If you want locally produced panels you have to come
to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  