-- Russia’s Food Safety Watchdog Sees Feed Thefts Spreading ASF
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-08-09T10:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/russia-s-food-safety-watchdog-sees-feed-thefts-spreading-asf.html
Animal feed thefts in Russia may be
to blame for the latest outbreaks of African Swine Fever on
industrial farms, Rosselkhoznadzor, the country’s food safety
watchdog,  said  on its website.  In two instances in the Tver and Krasnodar regions, hog
feed was stolen from industrial farms and it’s possible that the
bags used to carry the feed out came from private yards and
helped spread the infection, Alexei Alekseenko, spokesman for
Rosselkhoznadzor, said by phone in Moscow today.  ASF, a viral disease for which there is no vaccine, is
deadly for pigs and harmless for humans, according to the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  Farm owners and veterinary officials should “pay extreme
attention” to guards that work on farms, Nikolai Vlasov, deputy
head of Rosselkhoznadzor, said in an appeal on the watchdog’s
website.  About 30 virus outbreaks have been registered across Russia
in private yards and industrial farms so far this year,
Alekseenko said. On Aug. 8 and July 26, two of billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s farms in Krasnodar region were forced to kill 7,809
hogs due to a recent outbreak, according to statements from
Basic Element, a diversified group with stakes in everything
from agribusiness to energy.  About 76,000 pigs out of 800,000 in the Krasnodar region of
southern  Russia  are infected with ASF and will be killed, the
region’s government said on its website yesterday. Governor
Alexander Tkachev declared a state of emergency in the area
because of the virus, according to the statement.  About 500,000 pigs died or have been killed in ASF
outbreaks in Russia since the virus was discovered in the
country in 2007, Alekseenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  