-- Russia GDP Probably Eased Last Quarter as EU, China Faded
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-08-10T09:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/russia-gdp-growth-probably-eased-last-quarter-as-eu-china-faded.html
Russia ’s  economic expansion  probably
eased in the second quarter as slowing growth in  China  and
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbed demand for commodities exports.  Gross domestic product rose 4 percent from a year earlier,
the slowest pace since the same quarter of 2011 and down from
4.9 percent in the January-March period, according to the  median
estimate  of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Economy
Ministry’s estimate is 3.9 percent. The Moscow-based Federal
Statistics Service will release the data at 4 p.m. in Moscow.  Russia’s economy is facing challenges as growth slows in
China and the European Union, its two largest trading partners.
Russian industry growth decelerated to 1.9 percent in June from
3.7 percent the previous month, easing more than economists
forecast. Fixed-capital investment rose 4.7 percent, down from
7.7 percent.  “A slowdown in the second quarter and further in the
second half is certainly on the cards,” said Dmitry Polevoy,
chief economist for Russia and  Kazakhstan  at ING Groep NV in
Moscow. The contribution of foreign sales to economic growth
“looks less certain with exports hit by faltering demand from
the EU.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks fell 0.8 percent to 1,444.92
at 12:24 a.m. in Moscow. The ruble retreated 0.3 percent to
31.8677 against the dollar.  Europe, China  The EU, Russia’s largest trading partner, is battling to
stanch a debt crisis that’s threatening to trigger another
global slowdown. Euro-area GDP will probably drop 0.3 percent
this year before rising 1 percent in 2013, the European
Commission said May 11.  Economic growth in China, which accounts for 10 percent of
Russian trade, eased to 7.6 percent last quarter, the weakest
level in three years, lowering demand for imports such as
metals.  “Industry has continued to slow -- this probably reflects
troubles in European export markets, but may also be due to a
strong ruble,” said  Neil Shearing , chief  emerging markets 
economist for  Capital Economics .  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel (MNOD) , Russia’s largest miner, reduced
second-quarter output of nickel by 8 percent from a quarter
earlier, the company said in a July 30 statement. U.S.
steelmaker Alcoa predicted last month that growth would be
slower in Russia as European demand remains uncertain and prices
are low.  Consumption Boost  Accelerating wage growth, slowing unemployment and consumer
optimism at the highest level in almost four years are driving
private spending, which accounts for half of Russia’s economy.  While “consumption growth is not slowing dramatically,
current growth isn’t enough to boost the second-quarter GDP
figure,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Helsinki, said by e-mail. “We don’t expect any acceleration
in consumption growth as inflation is speeding up.”  Consumer prices grew at the fastest rate this year in July,
accelerating 5.6 percent from a post-Soviet low of 3.6 percent
the previous month. That’s pushed inflation near the central
bank’s target of 5 percent to 6 percent.  The world’s biggest energy exporter is the last major
emerging economy to keep borrowing costs unchanged this year.
The central bank left the refinancing rate unchanged today at 8
percent, holding it a quarter-point above the record low since
December.  Inflation Risk  Bank Rossii highlighted “significant” inflation risks
from a weaker harvest and higher interbank rates that constrain
lending growth. The bank dropped wording from last month’s
statement that money market rates were at an acceptable level
for the “nearest future.”  The government may revise up this year’s economic-growth
projection to 3.8 percent to 4 percent, more than the previous
3.4 percent forecast, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said July
20. GDP grew 3.9 percent in the second quarter, the ministry
estimated last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  