-- Russia Stocks Climb to 3-Month High as Oil Gains
-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2012-08-09T15:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/russia-stocks-climb-to-3-month-high-as-oil-gains.html
Russian stocks  rose to a three-month
high as crude advanced on bets China will take steps to stoke
growth, boosting the outlook for equities in the world’s biggest
energy exporter.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.5 percent to 1,456.41
by the close in Moscow, the strongest since April 28. OAO MRSK
Holding, the power distribution company, surged 3.3 percent. OAO
Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s fourth-biggest oil company, rose 1.8
percent.  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, climbed 0.6
percent to $112.89, its seventh day of gains and the longest
streak of advances since Feb. 24. China’s inflation cooled for a
fourth straight month in July, providing more room for policies
to stimulate growth in the world’s second-biggest oil consumer.  “Oil above $110 a barrel is a supportive factor for the
Russian economy and the Russian equity markets,” VTB Capital
analysts wrote in an e-mailed note today.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
headed for the highest level since May 3 on prospects policy
makers around the world will take further steps to boost their
economies after German industrial production declined and
 China ’s inflation report. Russia, the world’s largest producer
of nickel and palladium, received last year about half of its
2011 budget revenue from sales of oil and natural gas.  New Stimulus  “When people believe oil and commodities are to gain
further, they buy Russian equities,” Andrei Bogdanov, who helps
manage $8 billion in Russian equities and bonds at OAO
Gazprombank, said in a telephone interview from Moscow
yesterday. “The markets are already expecting new stimulus
measures, although it’s still a question in what form and when
those measures will be approved.”  OAO Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK) , Russia’s biggest producer of the
metal by market value, lost 0.9 percent after the company said
third-quarter revenue may decline as much as 10 percent because
of low prices and poor export demand.  The Micex trades at 5.4 times  estimated earnings  and has
increased 3.9 percent this year. That compares with a multiple
of 10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
7 percent this year.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, dropped 0.1
percent to $27.83. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, fell 0.6 percent to 28.47
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  