-- Russia Keeps Grain Crop Forecast, Export Ban Avoided
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-08-09T11:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/russia-keeps-grain-crop-forecast-export-ban-avoided-correct-.html
(Corrects July export figure in the seventh paragraph of
the story originally published Aug. 8.)  Russia , the world’s third-biggest
wheat exporter last season, maintained its grain-crop forecast
and said there is no reason to curb exports in 2012.  The Russian grain crop is forecast at 75 million to 80
million metric tons in the season that started July 1, including
45 million tons of wheat, Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady
Dvorkovich  and Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov told
reporters in Moscow today. There’s no reason to limit overseas
shipments this year, although export duties are “theoretically
possible” beyond 2012, Dvorkovich said after a government
meeting with industry experts.  “I don’t see any scenario under which this can happen this
calendar year,” Dvorkovich said, referring to export duties. He
added that he doesn’t know what the situation will be in 2013.  Wheat future prices for December delivery have climbed 36
percent this year on the Chicago Board of Trade, as drought
curbed production from Russia to the U.S., the world’s biggest
wheat exporter. In  Australia , the world’s second-biggest
shipper, output is being threatened by dry weather, while in
 India  the weakest monsoon in three years may harm crops.  Export Potential  Russia’s export potential for all grains is seen at 10
million tons to 12 million tons for the season started July 1,
Dvorkovich said, reiterating the previous estimate. That’s down
from last year’s 27.2 million tons, according to ministry data.  Russia has no reason to sell grain from stockpiles to curb
domestic prices because they have started to stabilize,
Dvorkovich said, adding there may be sales later in the season.  Exports reached 2.07 million tons in July, compared with
2.5 million tons a year earlier, Fedorov said. They may reach
about 3 million tons by the end of August, according to
estimates yesterday by the Institute for Agricultural Market
Studies and Rusagrotrans, the biggest grain rail carrier.  Russia has harvested 37.1 million tons of grains so far,
down from 38.7 million tons a year earlier, Fedorov said.
Reaping is under way in Siberia this month, and the government
will hold another meeting with industry experts in the end of
August to review forecasts after new figures from the Siberian
harvest, Dvorkovich said.  Russia is seen shipping 11 million tons of wheat in
2012-13, slipping to fifth place among exporters, behind the
U.S., Australia,  Canada  and the European Union, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture ’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  in
Moscow.  Russia supplied 21.3 million tons of the cereal in 2011-12,
making it the world’s third-biggest wheat exporter after the
U.S. and Australia, according to USDA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  