-- Salesforce Attracts Big Rivals as Strategy Delivers
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/salesforce-attracts-big-rivals-as-strategy-delivers.html
Even before  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  went
public in 2004, Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  wasted few
opportunities to poke fun at bigger, more established software
companies, calling their products “landfill.”  In his management book “Behind the Cloud,” Benioff
advised upstarts to “box above your weight.”  Now,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are punching
back, buying companies that offer business-management tools over
the Internet, gaining traction in an area pioneered by
Salesforce. That’s stepping up pressure on Benioff to move
beyond his core -- programs that manage sales -- and accelerate
a push into software-development and social-media marketing,
part of a bigger market valued by UBS AG at more than $100
billion.  “They need to stay ahead of the curve or else they’re
going to get clobbered,” said Josh Greenbaum, an analyst at
Enterprise Applications Consulting in Berkeley,  California .  When he started Salesforce, Benioff bet that wider use of
the Internet would help enterprises stop buying servers and
software and installing them in-house. The bet paid off, as
companies look to use online services -- now called cloud
computing -- to cut costs and streamline operations.  “There are more competitors entering a market pioneered by
Salesforce,” said  Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  New York , who recommends  buying  the shares. “We’re
starting to see a lot of consolidation activity as Microsoft,
Oracle and SAP want to be more broadly competitive against
Salesforce.”  For Rent  Concern over accelerating competition has diminished
Salesforce’s value. The company’s  enterprise value  -- which
accounts for its debt and market capitalization -- will fall to
5.85 times sales in the current fiscal year, versus its yearly
average of 7.72 since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show. On
the same basis, Oracle’s  value  has held up better amid an
 acquisition spree , with a ratio of 3.56 for its current year,
compared with an average of 4.64.  Salesforce’s revenue growth may  taper  this year and next,
from the 37 percent rate in the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31.
The rally that  lifted  Salesforce’s stock 64 percent through
April 19 from a low on Jan. 4 has since fizzled. The shares have
 declined  15 percent since that peak.  Benioff for years has beaten the drum for corporate
software delivered as an online service as a more efficient way
for companies to run sales, marketing and customer support.
Instead of paying multimillion-dollar licensing fees up front,
customers rent its applications by the month via a Web browser,
with Salesforce handling updates.  Tough Rivals   “The moves that Oracle, SAP and Microsoft have made
validate what Salesforce.com has been saying for over a
decade,” Benioff, 47, said in an interview from his vacation
home in  Hawaii . “When you’re one person with a flag like we
were for many years, it’s much harder.”  Benioff, who recently joined the board of  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) , spent 13 years at Oracle before starting Salesforce in
1999 with the blessing of Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison , who also
invested  $2 million  in the venture.  A decade later, Ellison, speaking at a posh Silicon Valley
hotel three summers ago, lambasted Salesforce, accusing the
software maker of repackaging decades-old technology. Cloud
computing, Ellison ranted, was “nonsense.”  “All it is, is a computer attached to a network.” Of
Salesforce, Ellison added, “They change a term and they think
they’ve invented technology.”  These days, Ellison has embraced cloud computing, buying
companies and starting his own online computing service to
deliver Oracle’s business applications and database software.  Gathering Clouds  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, says  it’s
already booked  $1 billion from cloud computing, as well as
online human resources and customer support companies it
acquired in the past year. Customers include  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)   Beyond the $13 billion customer relationship management
software segment, UBS analyst  Brent Thill  estimates the broader
platform software market, which includes databases and
development tools, to be worth $101 billion.  “We’re the second biggest software-as-a-service provider
today and to be honest with you, we just got started,” Oracle
co-President  Mark Hurd  said in a recent interview.  Oracle also plans to add accounting, supply chain
management, and manufacturing planning to its online offerings.  Dream Deals  SAP, the world’s largest maker of business management
applications, reported better-than-estimated  earnings  thanks to
its SuccessFactors online HR software. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, a perennial Benioff target, last month bought Yammer
Inc., a Facebook-like corporate networking tool that competes
with Salesforce’s Chatter.  To contend with the newfound competition, Salesforce is
expanding into human resources and tools for  marketing on
Facebook  and Twitter. At its annual  Dreamforce conference  on
Sept. 18 in  San Francisco , where Salesforce is based, the
company plans to detail its new human resources offering.
Benioff will unveil Work.com, which will let managers set
organizational goals and recognize employees.  “They’ve been making a lot of acquisitions that give them
new capabilities,” said  DuPont Co. (DD)  Chief Information Officer
Phuong Tram. DuPont has standardized on three vendors -- SAP,
Salesforce and Microsoft -- and expects each to deliver
technology it can rent on a monthly basis, he said.  Star Hire  Salesforce can hit $10 billion in sales given its pace of
growth, Benioff said, though he hasn’t set a target date.
Analysts expect it to reach $10.8 billion in annual sales by
2020, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Benioff is drawing on the expertise of John Wookey, a
Silicon Valley engineering executive who joined Salesforce last
year after spending 12 years at Oracle and almost three at SAP.  “The challenge here is it’s a company that grew out of
selling primarily to small and medium-sized businesses, to
selling to large enterprises,” Wookey said.  Wookey needs to prove his mettle at Salesforce after
presiding over the  years-late  Fusion suite at Oracle, then
departing SAP after less than three years.  “John Wookey needs to establish some credibility as a guy
who can deliver,” said Greenbaum. “He’s had very high profile
roles, and in each case left before the job was done.”  Social Element  Salesforce and Oracle are also dueling to take advantage of
growing corporate demand for marketers to create campaigns and
garner product feedback from Facebook and Twitter users’ streams
of posts.  Oracle bought closely held Involver Inc. following deals
for Vitrue Inc. and Collective Intellect Inc. in the past three
months.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  on July 31 said it would buy Wildfire
Interactive Inc. for about $250 million to let ad clients design
social media marketing campaigns.  The acquisitions echo Salesforce’s $745 million deal for
social marketing company Buddy Media Inc. on June 4.  “The reason Oracle and Salesforce are buying companies in
my space is they see there’s a lot of activity, and the growth
rates are much higher than their growth rates,” said Rob Tarkoff, CEO of Lithium Technologies Inc., which helps
companies, including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and Sephora USA Inc.,
create social media campaigns. Tarkoff said he’s fielding calls
about a potential acquisition on a weekly basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  