-- HSBC, Standard Chartered Face Korea Review After U.S. Probes
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-08-09T08:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hsbc-standard-chartered-face-korean-review-on-money-laundering.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered  Plc’s South Korean operations will be reviewed by
local regulators after U.S. authorities accused the banks of
money laundering.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  will review the U.K.
lenders’ branches to determine whether they properly reported
suspicious transactions and confirmed clients, it said in an e-
mailed statement today, without elaborating.  New York’s financial regulator this week claimed that
London-based  Standard Chartered (STAN)  broke U.S. sanctions by
processing $250 billion of deals with Iranian banks subject to
sanctions. HSBC set aside $700 million last month after the U.S.
Senate found that the bank gave terrorists and criminals access
to the U.S. financial system.  The review will begin this month as a precautionary step,
Kwon In Won, director-general at the FSS’s supervision
coordination department, said by phone in  Seoul . There’s no
evidence of wrongdoing by the two banks in Korea, he added.  HSBC will provide all the information the FSS is requesting
on a timely basis and give any other support needed, the bank
said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News questions. Standard
Chartered will cooperate fully with the regulator, it said in an
e-mailed reply.  The South Korean unit of Standard Chartered had 367
branches as of March, according to the FSS data. London-based
HSBC operates 11 branches in the country.  Standard Chartered Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands
yesterday rejected the Department of Financial Services’s claims
that the bank broke U.S. sanctions. There are “no grounds” for
revoking the lender’s license to operate in  New York , Sands said
on a conference call with reporters.  HSBC apologized to investors last month for compliance
failings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  