-- SEC List Shows 155 Money Funds That Got Approval for Help
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-09T22:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/sec-list-shows-155-money-funds-that-got-approval-for-help.html
Money-market fund companies obtained
permission to support 155 of their funds during the financial
turmoil of 2007 and 2008, and six more funds got the same go-
ahead since the crisis, according to a list provided to Congress
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , Morgan Stanley and  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  are among companies that lined up the ability to
bail out funds to guard against credit defaults or market
illiquidity, according to the SEC’s list, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) ,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Pioneer Investments bought troubled
securities out of their funds in 2010 and 2011 after the SEC
passed new rules to make funds more stable.  The report stems from testimony Chairman  Mary Schapiro  gave
to the Senate Banking Committee on June 22 aimed at bolstering
regulators’ arguments that money funds remain a threat to global
financial market stability despite the 2010 rule changes. Fund
companies had sought permission from the agency to provide
support for funds more than 300 times since the 1970s, she told
lawmakers. Senator Patrick Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican who
has criticized Schapiro’s quest for additional reform that could
face an agency vote as early as this month, asked her to back up
the claim with data.  ‘Needed’ Relief  “It was not the staff’s practice to grant such no-action
relief if the applicant represented to the staff that the relief
was being sought merely as a precautionary measure,” Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed statement.
The agency believed “the relief was needed either to assist the
fund in maintaining a stable net asset value or to meet
extraordinary redemptions in the fall of 2008.”  The list doesn’t show how many funds were actually bailed
out.  Companies that secured permission to rescue funds included
five of the 10 largest U.S. providers. The two biggest,  Fidelity
Investments  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., didn’t appear on the list
in connection to actions during or since the crisis.  Industry executives and representatives called the list
misleading and an exaggeration of how many funds required
support to prevent them from “breaking the buck,” or falling
below their stable $1 share value.  “What’s troubling about this list is that the reason for
the support is completely obscured, and so it gives a false and
misleading impression,” Brian Reid, chief economist at the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute , said in a
telephone interview.  Earlier Encouragement  Reid said the SEC historically had encouraged companies to
offer support to funds rather than expose shareholders to
potential losses. “Now they are trying to use sponsor support
as some sort of inference that there’s a problem.”  J. Charles Cardona, president of New York-based  BNY
Mellon ’s Dreyfus unit, said the SEC was overstating its case by
including funds that obtained approval for a bailout from their
parent but never used it.  “The chairman’s testimony, at a minimum, demonstrates a
lack of appreciation for the circumstances surrounding” the
actions taken by fund sponsors, Cardona said.  Dreyfus’s parent BNY Mellon said in September 2008 it would
spend $433 million to absorb losses for investors in six
institutional funds and four mutual funds that held debt issued
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the bankrupt securities firm.  ‘Significant Inaccuracies’  Dreyfus got permission to support 53 funds in 2007 and
2008, the list shows. Investors pulled $36.6 billion from
Dreyfus funds, excluding those that focus on government-backed
securities, in the week after Lehman declared bankruptcy in
September 2008, according to data from research firm iMoneyNet
in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  The SEC’s list includes “a number of significant
inaccuracies,” Marie Chandoha, president of Charles Schwab
Investment Management, said in an e-mailed statement.  It incorrectly includes San Francisco-based Schwab’s Value
Advantage Funds and cites a $1.35 billion capital infusion into
another fund when the actual amount was $1.35 million, she said.  “Ultimately, less than half the funds that we applied for
took advantage of the no-action relief, and all the securities
purchased out of the funds matured at par,” Kevin Klingert,
head of global liquidity for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
Investment Management, said in an e-mailed statement.  Reserve Primary  John O’Connell, a spokesman for Chicago-based Northern
Trust, and Geoff Smith, a spokesman for Boston-based Pioneer
Investments, declined to comment.  Money funds have attracted scrutiny since the September
2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which
held debt issued by Lehman. Its closing a day after Lehman’s
bankruptcy triggered an industrywide run on funds eligible to
buy corporate debt, helping to freeze global credit markets.  The run abated only after the  U.S. Treasury  guaranteed
money-fund shareholders against losses on more than $3 trillion
in securities for a year and the  Federal Reserve  began financing
the purchase of fund holdings at face value to help them make
redemptions. Congress has since prohibited the Treasury from
acting in the same way again.  The 2010 rule changes required funds to meet liquidity
minimums, reduce average maturities and disclose holdings more
frequently, and allowed them to close more quickly in an
emergency. Schapiro has said more action is needed to prevent
another run.  Schapiro’s Proposal  Schapiro sent to fellow commissioners on June 25 a proposal
that would force funds to abandon their fixed $1 share price or
introduce withdrawal limits and capital buffers. Industry
executives have lobbied against the plan, saying it would
destroy the product’s appeal to investors and rob short-term
borrowers of an important funding source. Commissioners could
kill the proposal or invite public comment on it in a vote as
early as this month.  Northern Trust acted in 2011 to buy about $85 million of
holdings in Eksportfinans ASA from two of its funds after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the Norwegian bank, a move
that threatened the funds’ own ratings with the agency. AIG
bought $100 million in Eksportfinans debt from one fund.  In 2010, Pioneer bought $20 million in debt issued by
British Petroleum Plc, whose ratings were downgraded after the
Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Pioneer is a unit of Milan-based
 Unicredit SpA. (UCG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  