-- Serbian Police Searching for Two More Suspects in Agrobanka Case
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-09T13:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/serbian-police-searching-for-two-more-suspects-in-agrobanka-case.html
Serbian police are searching for two
more suspects linked to the arrest of the former chief of
Agrobanka AD and seven others for abuse of office and granting
$331 million in loans never repaid to the defunct bank.  The police arrested Dusan Antonic, who was on the run,
yesterday after prosecutors apprehended four other bank
executives and three founders and managers of companies that
received favorable loans between 2006 and 2011 without adequate
collateral, the police said in an e-mail today. Authorities are
looking for Antonic’s son, Milan, whose companies were getting
cheap lending, and another businessman.  The arrests will show how the “octopus, which had been
destroying our country for many years in the past, functioned,”
Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic told broadcaster B92 last
night.  The arrests are part of the new government’s pledge to
fight organized crime and corruption. The central bank fired
Agrobanka’s management on Dec. 29 and placed it in receivership
after inspectors discovered its capital didn’t match the risk it
had assumed.  Agrobanka, in which the government held a 20 percent stake
before it lost its license, had an unaudited 2011 loss of 29.7
billion dinars ($307.57 million) following a 2010 pretax profit
of 1.18 billion dinars and a loss of 2.27 billion dinars at the
end of September 2011.  Property ‘Expropriation’  The central bank revoked Agrobanka’s license on May 26 and
the bank’s foreign shareholders said on July 16 that the
lender’s closure amounted to an “expropriation of property”
worth more than 70 million euros ($86.19 million).  Foreign shareholders had been trying for three years to
agree with the Serbian government, the biggest individual
shareholder, on a strategy that would have included changing the
bank’s executive and managing board members, their
representative, Ales Skoberne, said in a July 31 e-mail.  The shareholders are preparing legal action, Skoberne said.
The government never responded to foreign shareholders’ efforts
to stop the transfer of powers from the bank’s managing board to
its executive board, especially for decisions on big loans equal
to 10 percent to 20 percent of Arobanka’s capital, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  