-- Sheen’s ‘Anger Management’ Poised for 90-Episode Order
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-08-09T21:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/sheen-s-anger-management-poised-for-90-episode-order.html
“Anger Management,” the sitcom
starring  Charlie Sheen , is ahead of ratings guarantees that
would trigger a 90-episode order by News Corp.’s FX, according
to one of the show’s producers.  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Revolution Studios will
receive the larger order after the final three episodes of the
first season air, Joe Roth, founder of Revolution Studios, said
in an interview.  “We’re over the hurdle rate of what we have to do in order
for them to automatically pick it up,” Roth said. The next
three episodes “have to air over the next three weeks and then
the decision will be made.”  The 90 episodes would allow  Lions Gate  and  Revolution
Studios  to market reruns of “Anger Management” to other
networks, Roth said. The producers prefer so-called syndication
rights to be handled by FX or  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, which already
licenses repeats of Sheen’s former show “Two and a Half Men.”  Through seven episodes, “Anger Management” is averaging
3.4 million viewers, with 1.7 million among the advertiser-
targeted 18-to-49 year-old demographic, according to Nielsen
data. Year to date, FX ranks ninth among U.S. cable networks,
with 1.32 million average prime-time viewers.  Due to interest in Sheen, demand from television networks
outside the U.S. is four to five times higher than typical
American comedies, Roth said.  ‘Charlie Thing’  “Typically an American sitcom is very difficult to sell
overseas and we haven’t found that to be the case in this
show,” Roth said. “It has to be a Charlie thing. There’s no
other way.”  In “Anger Management,” a sitcom based on the 2003 movie
of the same name, Sheen plays a therapist with aggression issues
of his own.  Warner Bros. Television  fired Sheen from the top-rated
comedy “Two and a Half Men” last year after he gave a series
of interviews critical of the show’s creator,  Chuck Lorre .  Sheen was sentenced to 36 hours of anger management, 30
days in a rehabilitation center and 30 days of probation after
pleading guilty to assaulting his wife on Christmas day in 2009,
the  Associated Press  reported at the time. The couple later
divorced.  The actor received two years of probation after pleading no
contest to a charge in December 1996 of attacking a girlfriend
at his Southern California home, according to the AP.  Minimal Cost  Lions Gate’s television studio, producer of “Mad Men” on
AMC and “Weeds” on Showtime,  contributed  $397.3 million in
fiscal 2012 sales, or about 25 percent of the company’s total
revenue. That’s more than doubled since fiscal 2007, when TV
produced $118.5 million, or 12 percent of sales.  The company’s Debmar-Mercury unit developed the model
behind the “Anger Management” order. In exchange for producing
10 episodes of a show at minimal cost to a network, the company
receives a guaranteed 90-episode order if the program hits
negotiated ratings. The model resulted in a 90-episode order for
“Are We There Yet” on  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TBS.  Peter Wilkes, a spokesman for Lions Gate, declined to
comment. John Solberg, a spokesman for FX in  Los Angeles , didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver and run from  Santa Monica ,
California,  fell  as much as 3.8 percent to $12.75 in extended
trading after reporting an unexpected fiscal first-quarter loss.
The shares fell 2.8 percent to $13.25 in regular trading and
have climbed 59 percent this year.  Netflix Rights  Revolution Studios is in talks to produce an original show
for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Roth said. Netflix already has rights to
stream 46 movies from the company, including “Black Hawk
Down,” “xXx” and “Hellboy,” he said.  Netflix will become competitive with television networks
when it releases “House of Cards,” from director  David Fincher 
and starring  Kevin Spacey , Roth said. That will also make the
streaming service an attractive place for Hollywood producers to
take shows, he said.  “They are a great content partner because they understand
they’re a distributor and they understand they’re starting out
with creative players,” Roth said. “They make a decision about
what it is that they want, and they let you go do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in  New York  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  