-- Societe Generale and Overseas Banks Seek U.S. CFTC Swap Delay
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-08-09T19:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/societe-generale-and-overseas-banks-seek-u-s-cftc-swap-delay.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  should delay registration of swap-dealing units of
overseas-based lenders,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank, and a lobbying association for international
financial institutions told the agency.  The agency should delay requirements for swap-dealer
registration, which may be triggered in October, until after the
CFTC receives comments on a recent guidance proposal for how
Dodd-Frank Act regulations will apply to foreign-based banks and
units of U.S. banks operating overseas, Societe Generale said in
a letter dated yesterday. Swap-dealers face the highest
collateral, capital and business conduct standards under the
law, which may be triggered in October.  “Our board is concerned that it may not be prudent to
expose SG to new and extensive regulatory oversight if the
extent of the oversight, and all applicable rules, are not
known,”  Societe Generale  Corporate and Investment Banking’s
Laura Schisgall, general counsel, and Mark Kaplan, chief
operating officer, said in the letter. “To that end, SG urges
the commission to delay mandatory swap dealer registration until
there has been an adequate comment period on the proposals and
the guidance has been issued in final form.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to write new regulations
for the $648 trillion swaps market after largely unregulated
trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The law is designed
to have most swaps guaranteed at clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or other platforms to increase transparency.  Lobbying Efforts  Banks have spent two years lobbying against efforts to
automatically apply Dodd-Frank to their overseas operations,
saying doing so would hurt their ability to compete.  “Non-U.S. regulators have requested meetings with their
home country-regulated firms in order to evaluate the scope and
consequences of swap dealer registration obligations, and it is
important to afford exemptive relief and additional time to
permit such consultations to occur,” Sarah A. Miller, chief
executive officer of the Institute of International Bankers,
said in  a letter  to the CFTC. The group represents banks
including  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  