-- SpiceJet Cuts Delhi Flight Plan on Fees: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-08-10T10:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/spicejet-cuts-delhi-flight-plans-as-fees-jump-corporate-india.html
SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  cut plans to increase
flights from New Delhi airport, India’s busiest, as a fourfold
jump in user fees threatens to make new routes unviable.  The nation’s third-biggest carrier, which posted its first
 profit  in six quarters last month, is operating four of its new
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Q400 turboprops from Delhi, as against an
earlier plan to fly seven, Chief Executive Officer Neil Mills
said in an interview.  “The number of destinations you can serve out of Delhi is
huge, but not at the charges that they have got in now,” the
South African executive, 41, said at his office in Gurgaon, near
the capital. “We now have a different plan.”  The carrier will add services from other cities with the
planes intended for Delhi after the airport raised the charges,
which the  International Air Transport Association  said will
boost airlines’ operating costs by $400 million. SpiceJet has
already increased its flights from  Mumbai  by 40 percent after
getting some of the slots left vacant by cash-strapped
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)   Last year, GMR Group-led  Delhi International Airport Ltd. 
sought close to a tenfold increase in airport charges to cover
its operating costs and recover the money spent on modernizing
the facility, including building a new terminal. India’s airport
regulator approved the 346 percent increase starting May 15.  Billionaire Maran  SpiceJet, controlled by billionaire Kalanithi Maran,
operates 39 services a day from Mumbai and about 80 from Delhi
out of its total 300 flights.  The  regulator  allowed the Delhi airport operator to collect
462.80 rupees, or a fixed $9.14, as user development fee from
each departing domestic passenger on trips of more than 500
kilometers (210 miles) and 391.60 rupees from each arriving
local passenger on trips of similar distance, according to an
order posted on the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of
India’s website. Each outbound domestic traveler also has to pay
200 rupees of airport development fee.  Aircraft weighing up to 100 metric tons must pay a landing
fee of at least 281.82 rupees per ton. Q400 planes each weigh
29.6 tons, according to Bombardier’s website. In airfields such
as Chandigarh and Dehradun, operated by state-owned Airports
Authority of India, Q400s are  exempted  from landing fees because
their seat capacity is below 80.  Airport charges will account for 745 rupees, or 15 percent
of the fare, on a 1,400 kilometer trip from  New Delhi  to Mumbai
on a Sept. 10 SpiceJet flight, according to the carrier’s
website. The fee was 113 rupees on a 1,600 kilometer journey
from Mumbai to the northern city of Chandigarh.  Additional Charges  The increase in Delhi airport fees would have cost an
additional 200 million rupees a month for SpiceJet if it hadn’t
passed on the charges to passengers, Mills said. The carrier
spent 766 million rupees for airport charges during the quarter
ended June 30, up 36 percent from a year earlier.  Smaller airports such as Dehradun, Srinagar and Chandigarh
don’t levy user charges. Instead, the state-owned airport
operator collects a uniform 207 rupees as a passenger service
fee from each outbound traveler. This charge is also applicable
for the Delhi airport.  “It doesn’t make sense to deploy more flights from Delhi
where cost is high and competition even higher,” said Sharan Lillaney, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “It’s
better to move to a low-cost, high-growth venue since the focus
is on profitability.”  The increase in Delhi airport charges will affect  travel
demand  by as much as 7 percent, IATA’s Director General  Tony Tyler  said in New Delhi on July 25.  Long-Term Success  The airport operator said in a statement after Tyler’s
comments that Delhi International Airport invested “heavily”
to improve existing infrastructure and create new facilities.
“This investment is now being offered a limited, regulated
return by the competent authority,” it said, adding that the
charges won’t affect the airport’s long-term success.  Delhi International Airport posted a 1.3 billion-rupee loss
in the first quarter, parent  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  said in an
exchange filing today. The fee increase will help the facility
meet its financial obligations, GMR said.  Ragini Chopra, a spokeswoman at  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) ,
the nation’s biggest, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions on
the fee increase. State-run Air  India  Ltd.’s spokesman K.
Swaminathan, and Sakshi Batra, a spokeswoman at IndiGo, the
nation’s biggest budget airline, also didn’t immediately respond
to e-mailed questions.  Shares of SpiceJet and Jet have more than doubled in Mumbai
this year. SpiceJet rose 0.6 percent to 34.45 rupees at close of
trading in the city. Jet fell 1.2 percent.  Planes Grounded  The carriers also won more passengers after rival
Kingfisher Air pared operations because of losses and a cash
shortage. Billionaire Vijay Mallya-controlled Kingfisher’s
market share was the lowest in June among India’s six operators
from second in October after it ended two-third of flights and
grounded planes.  SpiceJet is seeking to control expenses to help maintain
growth after the carrier returned to a  profit  following five
straight quarters of losses. Net Income in the three months
ended in June was 562 million rupees. Sales jumped 51 percent to
14 billion rupees.  The carrier may post a profit of 1.4 billion rupees in the
year ending in March 2014, its first annual profit in three
years, according to the average of 10  analyst estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. In the current fiscal year, the company may report
a loss of 18 million rupees, according to analysts.  Jet Airways also reported a profit in the first quarter.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch this week recommended buying both
the carriers’ stock and also raised their price target, citing
rationalization of routes and improved fares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  