-- Standard Chartered’s Fitness Is Key Grounds for Shutdown
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-08-10T18:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/standard-chartered-s-fitenss-is-key-grounds-for-shutdown.html
New York ’s financial-services
regulator has grounds to shut  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  in the
state even if he accepts the firm’s argument that it illegally
laundered only a fraction of the $250 billion he claims.  As the state’s top banking regulator,  Benjamin Lawsky  has
power to act in his discretion against any financial institution
he deems untrustworthy, according to the charter of his year-old
department.  Penalties he could impose include fines and the revocation
of the bank’s license to operate in the state. Lawsky is said to
be considering a settlement figure as high as $700 million,
according to person familiar with the case. That would match the
amount HSBC Holdings Plc set aside last month to resolve
allegations of similar behavior.  Since the Aug. 6 issuance of  an order  from Lawsky’s
Department of Financial Services threatened to revoke Standard
Chartered’s license, the bank has focused its defense on the
amount it laundered, saying it involved less than 1 percent of
the 60,000 Iranian wire transfers asserted by Lawsky.  Even if  Standard Chartered ’s position is legally sound, the
order’s disclosure of internal e-mails suggesting a conspiracy
to hide the identity of Iranian clients from regulators has
given Lawsky grounds to act when the two sides face off at an
administrative hearing Aug. 15, according to experts on both
sides of the Atlantic.  “I don’t care whether it is a half of 1 percent that
weren’t right,” said  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, in an interview yesterday on
Bloomberg Radio. “There are going to be more that weren’t
right.”  ‘Outrageous’  “The e-mails are really outrageous,” said Levitt, a board
member of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News. “I think
Lawsky has uncovered something that probably has a much deeper
depth.”  Standard Chartered’s e-mails, cited by Lawsky in the Aug. 6
order, provide suitable grounds for his action, said Owen
Watkins, a partner with the  London  law firm Lewis Silkin.  “Making and publicizing the order was within the power
conferred on Mr. Lawsky by section 39 of the New York Banking
Law,” he said. “On the basis of the order, you can see that
the superintendent has an arguable case, with the e-mails and
the comments made by certain Standard Chartered staff
internally.”  Standard Chartered’s Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands 
said Aug. 8 that the normal practice in resolving such
allegations is a “coordinated approach by the different
agencies.”  Criticism Unfair  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  criticized the
regulator for failing to coordinate with its counterparts, while
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  accused New York of seeking to damage
its biggest competitor as a financial center.  Neil Barofsky , who oversaw the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief
Program and criticized the U.S. Treasury Department in his book,
“Bailout,” objected to the criticism heaped on Lawsky.  “This is not Lawsky getting ahead of other regulators,”
said Barofsky. “This is Lawsky doing his job.”  As of Aug. 8, the U.S. Treasury Department, which has
ultimate jurisdiction over whether Standard Chartered’s wire
transfers complied with the law, said it was coordinating its
efforts with other regulators in the case, which include the
Federal Reserve, the  Justice Department , the New York District
Attorney and Lawsky’s department.  ‘Willful Non-Compliance’  Even if the coordination leads nowhere and Lawsky ends up
taking action against Standard Chartered alone, the arguments
presented in his Aug. 6 order, and Standard Chartered’s history
with the New York banking supervisor, suggest he would be on
firm ground.  “Willful non-compliance is very serious,” said Tariq
Mirza, a former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. official now
with  Grant Thornton . “If those allegations can be substantiated,
regulators throw the book at institutions.”  Standard Chartered’s apparent effort to conceal the
identity of its Iranian counterparties violated the terms of a
2004 settlement between it and the state of New York, in which
the London bank pledged “to ensure compliance with all record
keeping and reporting requirements,” according to the order.  For almost a decade starting in 2001, Standard Chartered
operated under what Lawsky’s order called a “deceptive business
plan” designed to conceal from regulators that it was
processing money transfers for Iranian clients, including the
central bank’s U.S. dollar transactions related to oil sales.
The order cites bank e-mails and other internal documents to
support its accusations.  Iranian Clients  Even before 2001, the order states, the bank’s general
counsel “embraced a framework for regulatory evasion” by
keeping its New York branch in the dark about Iranian
transactions.  The bank allegedly accomplished this goal by stripping out
the name of Iranian clients so as not to slow down transfers
that might have to be reviewed for compliance with U.S. economic
sanctions. Those restrictions allowed some transactions but not
others as long as non-Iranian banks were involved on both ends.  In addition to evading federal controls, Standard Chartered
covered up its plan to grab market share in the Iranian funds
market by falsifying business records, making false statements
to the department, maintaining inaccurate books, obstructing
department oversight and failing to report misconduct promptly,
according to the order.  Legal Counsel  The bank stripped out references to Iranian clients in
directions for Society of Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunications (SWIFT) wire payments made in U.S. dollars
through its New York branch, according to the order.  The bank’s outside legal counsel advised that this system
was not in compliance with U.S. economic sanctions and that the
New York branch needed to be able to verify that transfers were
permissible, according to the order.  Between 2004 and 2007, Standard Chartered was subject to
formal departmental action over other regulatory compliance
failures related to the Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering
policies and procedures and regulations of the U.S. Office of
Foreign Assets Control, the main overseer of  Iran  transactions.  In a 2004 agreement with the department and the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of New York, the bank promised to monitor and
improve money-laundering controls. The restrictions of the
agreement were lifted in 2007 because the bank provided a
“watered-down” report of compliance that made no mention of
the doctored SWIFT directions, the order said. Bank statements
“misled” the department into lifting the restrictions of the
2004 agreement, according to the order.  ‘Rogue Institution’  All this alleged misconduct by “a rogue institution” had
an effect on the “safety and soundness” of its New York branch
and on the department’s confidence in the unit’s “character,
credibility and fitness as a financial institution licensed to
conduct business under the laws of this state,” according to
the order.  Accusing the bank of “being motivated by greed,” the
department’s order concludes that Standard Chartered’s “most
senior management designed and implemented an elaborate scheme
by which to use its New York branch as a front for prohibited
dealings with Iran -- dealings that indisputably help sustain a
global threat to peace and stability. By definition, any banking
institution that engages in such conduct is unsafe and
unsound.”  ‘Apparent Violations’  Based on this evidence, the bank will be asked at the Aug.
15 hearing to explain its “apparent violations” and
demonstrate why its state license shouldn’t be revoked. The
department also wants an on-site monitor, paid for by the bank
and selected by the state, to ensure future compliance. The bank
must also show why its dollar-clearing operations in New York
shouldn’t be suspended as formal license-revocation hearings
take place.  Shaun Gamble, a Standard Chartered spokesman, declined to
comment. The stock fell 2.7 percent to 1,326.50 pence in London
trading. The bank, which had $17.6 billion in income and
$5 billion in profit last year, has $40.8 billion in assets
associated with its New York branch, according to Lawksy’s order.  The loss of its New York license would significantly damage
Standard Chartered’s corporate banking model and could result in
a 40 percent drop in earnings, said Chirantan Barua, an analyst
at Sanford Bernstein Research in London. Barua has had an
underperform rating on the stock since at least March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.K. Lobbying  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  spoke with
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  on three occasions over
two days this week concerning the investigation of Standard
Chartered Plc, according to a British government official.  Osborne told Geithner in a conversation on Aug. 7 and twice
Aug. 8 that he was concerned about how allegations against the
British bank came without warning and said he wanted fair
treatment for British companies operating in the U.S., said the
official, who declined to be named to comply with policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 