-- State Street Urges Futures Client Account Change After MF Global
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-08-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/state-street-urges-futures-client-account-change-after-mf-global.html
U.S. futures regulators seeking to
bolster protection of customer funds after the collapse of  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and Peregrine Financial Group Inc. should
allow clients to put collateral in separate accounts at custody
banks, according to representatives of  State Street Corp. (STT)   The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  should revoke
a policy enacted in 2005 that banned futures customers from
using the accounts, State Street, the third largest custody
bank, said in a presentation prepared for a discussion in
 Washington  on possible new regulations. The agency should allow
for so-called tri-party custody accounts between clients,
brokers and custody banks, according to the presentation.  “Allowing tri-party custody accounts would help protect
customer margin monies from misuse or fraud by the futures
broker, without impacting the clearinghouses’ access to
necessary funds,” Charley Cooper, senior managing director of
State Street Global Markets, said in a statement today before
the discussion. In tri-party accounts, futures brokers
substitute their own collateral to fully fund the clearinghouse
while client money remains at the custody bank.  The CFTC has been considering new regulations to increase
protection of customer funds after a $1.6-billion gap resulted
from MF Global’s collapse last October and more than $200
million is unaccounted for after Peregrine’s downfall in July.
The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice
Department  are probing the MF Global failure.  Electronic Access  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  and  Scott O’Malia , a Republican
commissioner, have called for new rules to provide regulators
direct electronic access to bank account records to verify
customer fund levels. The agency’s five members are considering
a package of changes that may also include providing clients
with more information about how brokers hold assets.  Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner, has called for the
creation of an insurance fund of as much as $2.5 billion to
protect futures clients. The fund, financed by a 0.5 percent fee
on brokers’ prior year gross revenue from futures, would cap
customer claims at $250,000 per account, Chilton said.  “There are insurance funds for banking and security
customers, yet futures customers are left high and dry when an
MF Global or Peregrine circumstance occurs,” Chilton said in an
e-mail. “That’s totally unacceptable and we need a change in
the law.”  The agency’s discussion in Washington today is also
considering different rules governing how and where client funds
can be held. The agency approved a regulation in January that
allowed swaps clients to request that their collateral be kept
in a custody account.  Custody Banks  Representatives of  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) 
and State Street had  urged  the CFTC to allow the use of the
separate accounts to protect swaps collateral. Futures clients
don’t have the same option under current regulations.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds .  The agency in 2005 banned the use of third-party accounts
for the futures markets because of concerns that futures brokers
wouldn’t have quick access to the collateral to back trades.
“The immediate and unfettered access requirements is intended
to prevent potential delay or interruption in securing required
margin payments that, in times of significant market disruption,
could magnify the impact of such market disruption,” the CFTC
said in its 2005 decision.  The decision was supported then by the Futures Industry
Association and the  National Futures Association , the industry-
funded self-regulator. The  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based lobby association representing mutual funds,
opposed the change in  a letter  to the regulator.  State Street’s Cooper said the absence of the third-party
accounts makes the futures market an outlier compared to the
swaps market, which have the option of the accounts.
“Regulators can offer greater protection to customers who seek
it while allowing market participants the flexibility to choose
the arrangement that best suits their individual business
needs,” he said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  