-- Stockton Creditor Asks Judge to Dismiss City’s Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-08-09T23:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/stockton-creditor-asks-judge-to-dismiss-city-s-bankruptcy.html
Stockton,  California , should be
removed from bankruptcy court protection because it failed to
negotiate in good faith with creditors and can’t form a viable
debt-adjustment plan, a creditor said in court papers.  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp. challenged the
validity of Stockton’s bankruptcy, arguing the city didn’t
negotiate with the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , its largest unsecured creditor with a $147.5 million
claim, according to a filing yesterday in  U.S. bankruptcy court 
in  Sacramento , California.  The bond insurer said Stockton’s proposal to reduce debt
unfairly places the burden on debt holders without forcing
Calpers to make concessions and still leaves the city insolvent
over the long term. National insures about $93.8 million in
bonds issued by the city.  “Despite the city’s massive Calpers liability, the city
did not even ask for any reductions from Calpers, which is the
very liability that the city blames for its financial
situation,” National said in the filing.  Connie Cochran, a spokeswoman for Stockton, said the city
“is not in a position to address specific objections” to the
plan because the objection deadline hasn’t passed.  Spending Cuts  The issue raised in yesterday’s filing doesn’t account for
spending cuts already made by the city or its civic obligations
to citizens, she said today in an e-mailed statement.  In the past four years, the city has reduced programs and
services, cut the police force by 25 percent, fire personnel by
30 percent and reduced the number of other employees by 43
percent, Cochran said.  Employees’ pay has been cut by at least 9 percent and as
much as 23 percent, while workers have begun paying a portion of
their retirement, according to the city’s statement. Stockton
addressed post-retirement benefits by reducing city-paid
healthcare premiums for retirees this year and eliminating city-
paid premiums next year.  National claims Stockton’s debt adjustment proposal isn’t
feasible, and the city has admitted it won’t be a panacea for
its debt.  Stockton “projects a total deficit under its own plan and
over its own projection period of nearly $100 million,”
National said.  Annual Deficit  Even if all concessions in Stockton’s proposal are
achieved, “the failure of the city to propose any adjustment to
its Calpers liability results, in the city’s own forecasts, in
an annual deficit starting as early as 2013-14 of over $5
million,” growing to more than $17 million a year by 2020-21,
National said.  “Calpers participated in the mediation process and will
work within the legal system to reach resolution of these
difficult issues,”  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for Calpers, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The pension fund, the largest in the U.S., gave information
and assistance to the city during the bankruptcy process and
remains “committed to safeguarding the constitutionally
protected pension benefits of the city’s employees and
retirees,” he said.  Stockton is trying to become the first American city since
the Great Depression to use bankruptcy to force bondholders to
take less than the principal they’re owed. The city will need
approval from the judge to impose any cuts on creditors.  Port City  The city of 292,000, a river port about 80 miles (130
kilometers) east of  San Francisco , listed assets of more than
$1 billion and debt of more than $500 million in its bankruptcy
petition.  Stockton filed a Chapter 9 bankruptcy on June 28 after
months of talks failed with creditors, including  Assured
Guaranty Corp. (AGO)  and labor officials. Assured’s claims should be
treated the same as those of other creditors, including any
filed by employees, the bond insurer said in an Aug. 1
statement.  “Chapter 9 was not intended to be used as a sword to
prefer one class of similarly situated creditor over another,”
according to the statement.  The bankruptcy case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  