-- Strides Said to Consider Sale of Injectable-Drugs Unit
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-08-09T09:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/strides-said-to-consider-sale-of-injectable-drugs-unit.html
Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR) , a supplier of
cancer-fighting drugs to Pfizer Inc., is considering selling its
injectable-medicines unit, three people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The unit, called Agila Specialties, may be valued at more
than Bangalore-based Strides’s current  market value  of about
$800 million, two people said, declining to be identified as the
information is private. Agila’s relative success in winning
approvals for new products and the scarcity of facilities able
to manufacture injectable medicines make it an attractive target
for drugmakers, they said.  “Injectables is certainly a very lucrative business
because there’s less competition, flexibility in pricing, and
opportunity for higher profit margin compared to just simple
generics,” said Surya Narayan Patra, an analyst at Systematix
Shares & Stocks Ltd. “If some big generic player is looking to
ride the global injectables story, then this acquisition may
look attractive.”  Agila’s sales rose 48 percent to 10.2 billion rupees ($185
million) in 2011 and may expand to about $350 million by next
year, according to Patra and Nitin Agarwal, a pharmaceutical
analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  The unit may be valued at four to five times sales, which
is in line with recent pharmaceutical transactions in  India ,
Agarwal said. At 4 1/2 times Agarwal’s sales estimate, Agila is
worth about $1.6 billion. The median multiple paid in 20
purchases of Indian pharmaceutical assets over the last five
years was 4.78 times sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strides gained as much as  5.5 percent  today, and was up 3.1
percent at 767 rupees as of 3:12 p.m. in Mumbai. At that price
its market value is about 45 billion rupees.  Pfizer Supplier  T.S. Rangan, chief financial officer at Strides, declined
to comment on market speculation, in an e-mailed response to
questions. A formal sale process may begin in the next few
months, the people said.  Strides provides  Pfizer (PFE)  with generic versions of off-patent
drugs through a partnership announced in 2010. It received U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval for oxaliplatin injection
used to treat advanced cancer, the company said yesterday. The
drug will be distributed in the U.S. by Pfizer. Agila also has
partnerships with GlaxoSmithKline Plc and  Novartis AG (NOVN) , according
its  website .  In May 2009, Novartis AG paid about 4.7 times sales for
Unterach, Austria-based Ebewe Pharma’s injectable-drug unit in a
$1.2 billion purchase. Mylan Inc. acquired closely held
injectable-drug business Bioniche Pharma Holdings Ltd. for $550
million in 2010, paying about 4.2 times annual revenue.  Also that year,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  announced the
acquisition of Mumbai-based  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIHC) ’s branded
generic-medicine unit for $3.72 billion, paying about 8.7 times
sales. That sale was also for more than Piramal’s $2.5 billion
market value at the time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Highest Approvals  Agila had the highest number of injectable-medicine
approvals by the FDA for its generic drugs, with 32 from 2008 to
2010, compared with 23 at Hospira Inc., according to a May
 presentation . The company has eight manufacturing facilities in
India,  Brazil  and  Poland , according to its website.  Strides sold Ascent Pharmahealth Ltd., its Australian and
Southeast Asian unit, to Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. in January
for A$375 million ($397 million) in cash. When the sale was
announced, Strides’s market value was about $475 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s shares
have risen 85 percent since then, through yesterday.  While Patra of Systematix said he doesn’t think Strides
should sell Agila, he noted that the company is comfortable
selling businesses if the price is right.  “Considering the track record of the management, it is not
unusual to expect such a thing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  