-- Structured Note Sales Drop 73% on Disclosure Rules: India Credit
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-08-10T06:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/structured-note-sales-drop-73-on-disclosure-rules-india-credit.html
Structured note sales in  India 
dropped at more than twice the global pace in the first half
after issuers balked at new regulations aimed at limiting risk
and investors avoided securities linked to falling stocks.  Offerings declined 73 percent to 5.88 billion rupees ($106
million) from the first half last year, the lowest in at least
two years, according to the most recent  figures  from the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India . Worldwide sales of the
notes, which offer customized bets linked to stocks, currencies,
commodities and  interest rates , fell 31 percent to $61.8 billion
in the same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Issuance has slowed down because issuers were grappling
with the new requirements,” said Rajesh Iyer, Mumbai-based head
of products and research at Kotak Wealth Management, which
provides financial advice for 30 percent of India’s 100 richest
families, according to its website. “Private banks and
intermediaries that have budgeted for structured notes will feel
the pressure.” Sales were “slightly better” in July and
August, he said.  India introduced rules for structured notes in November,
joining regulators globally in increasing scrutiny of complex
investments after billions of dollars of losses from derivatives
trading during the financial crisis. With more than 90 percent
of the securities in India linked to equities, wealthy people
who are the biggest buyers of the products also shunned the
market after the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks
slipped 16 percent from its peak in 2010.  ‘Challenging’ Phase  The Securities and Exchange Board of India on Nov. 1 began
requiring sellers to publish daily valuations of the notes
through independent agencies and make investors aware that their
bets may not be hedged and the principal not always protected.  Issuers including the Indian units of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Indian
unit, Macquarie Group Ltd. and Nomura Holdings Inc. have
published valuations that are available on the  website  of Crisil
Ltd., which handles about 95 percent of structured-note
valuations.  “The initial phase was quite challenging as no agency had
the wherewithal to value these structures,” and issuers spent
several months working out models, said Prateek Pant, director,
products & services in Mumbai at RBS Private Banking. “There’s
been a significant break in the momentum in the structured
product market.”  Worst Markets  The new regulations have added to a slowdown in the market
as investors in  Asia ’s third-largest economy shun riskier assets
as the  Sensex (SENSEX) , as well as the broader S&P CNX Nifty Index,
struggle to recoup losses after they both plunged 25 percent
last year, the worst performances among the world’s biggest
markets.  It may be in the interest of investors to keep non-
principal protected products “out of reach of all but the most
sophisticated investors,” N. Hariharan, a spokesman at the
market regulator, said in an e-mailed response. “The number of
issuance and outstanding value of structured notes has gone down
on account of stringent regulatory requirements.”  As much as 95 percent of the structured notes sold in India
are linked to equities, according to Amit Gupta, director of
institutional sales at  Barclays Capital  in Mumbai.  “Because the equity market in the last two to four years
hasn’t done very well, investor appetite for equity-linked
structured notes has come down quite drastically,” said Amitabh Mohanty, head of fixed income at  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  High net-
worth individuals, who typically have $1 million or more of
investable assets, buy at least 60 percent of India’s structured
notes, according to Mohanty.  Wealthy Clients  The number of millionaire households in India rose to
162,000 last year from 134,000 in 2010, the sixth-highest in
Asia, according to The  Boston Consulting Group ’s 2012 Global
Wealth report. The country also has 278 households with more
than $100 million, or ultra-high net-worth individuals, up from
241 in 2010, according to the report.  The nation’s individual wealth may triple in the five years
from 2011 with growing interest in more complex investment
schemes to boost returns, according to estimates from Karvy
Private Wealth, an adviser to high net-worth clients in India.  “There is certainly a lot of latent demand for structured
products from mostly high net-worth clients,” said RBS’s Pant.
The products in India can offer investors as much as 350 basis
points more than bonds, he said.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in the markets, the yield on India’s 8.15 percent
government bond due in June 2022 rose one basis point to 8.15
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The yield on the benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds has
fallen about 42 basis points this year.  The extra yield on India’s 10-year government bonds over
similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries  widened five basis points to
650, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten-year  borrowing costs  for companies rated AAA by Crisil,
the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , rose one basis point to
9.49 percent on Aug. 8. Yields have increased from 9.42 percent
at the start of the year.  The Sensex fell 0.15 percent to 17,534.72, as the Nifty
declined 0.13 percent to 5,315.95. The rupee weakened 0.1
percent to 55.3550 against the dollar.  Credit-default swaps on  State Bank  of India, which some
investors consider a proxy for the sovereign, fell one basis
point to 311 in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Cautious Attitude’  India introduced the new rules three years after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse caused multi-billion dollar
losses globally.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Indian unit has begun compensating
investors after an employee in its wealth-management division
allegedly defrauded them of 3 billion rupees invested over 15
months, the  U.S. bank  said in January 2011.  “There is an overhang of losses in investors’ minds from
aggressively sold relatively exotic structured products during
the bull-run up to 2007,” Swapnil Pawar, chief investment
officer at Karvy, said in e-mailed comments. “The attitude of
regulators is cautious.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is asking banks
that issue structured notes to boost disclosures to investors,
according to a letter posted on its website in April. Some U.K.
banks are also withdrawing commission payments to independent
financial advisers that are typically included on the products
in advance of new regulations that will affect how advisers make
and disclose charges.  “Investor protection has strengthened in the minds of
regulators because of global market conditions and events in the
industry,” said Shiv Gupta, managing director at RBS Private
Banking, India. “Uncertainty over making investments in this
environment has affected many clients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  