-- Sugar Waiting at Brazil’s Ports Falls 11% in Week on Dry Weather
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-09T10:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/sugar-waiting-at-brazil-s-ports-falls-11-in-week-on-dry-weather.html
The amount of sugar waiting to be
loaded at the main ports in  Brazil , the world’s largest
producer, fell 11 percent during the past week as dry weather
helped loading, shipping agency Williams Servicos Maritimos
Ltda. said.  About 2.5 million metric tons of sugar was ready for
loading yesterday at the ports of Recife, Paranagua and Santos,
the country’s biggest, data from Recife, Brazil-based Williams
Brasil e-mailed yesterday showed. That compares with about 2.8
million tons a week earlier. Most of the sugar was destined for
China,  Malaysia ,  Iran  and Canada, according to the data.  Dry weather has helped speed up the harvest in Brazil, with
sugar-cane production in the center south, the main growing
region, rising 3.9 percent in the first half of July, data from
industry group Unica showed. Cane output in the last 15 days of
July may have been a record, broker Newedge Group in New York
estimates. Unica will update harvest progress figures later
today, it said in an e-mail yesterday.  “It seems that center south crop is flowing in a good pace
and pushing markets down,” Luiz Carlos dos Santos Jr., head of
sugar brokerage and operations at SA Commodities in Santos, said
in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Demand from importing countries remains “idle” and ships
waiting to load sugar at Brazil’s main ports represent
previously agreed sales,  Naim Beydoun , a broker at Rolle,
Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers, said on Aug. 5.  White, or refined, sugar for October delivery rose 0.5
percent to $592.40 a ton by 11:11 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in  London .
Raw sugar for October delivery was up 0.8 percent to 21.26 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  