-- SunTrust Sued by Soccer Star Heather Mitts Over Investments
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-09T23:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/suntrust-sued-by-soccer-star-heather-mitts-over-investments-1-.html
SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  was accused of
negligence and fraud in a lawsuit filed by U.S. Olympic soccer
team player Heather Mitts and three National Football League
players over allegedly risky investments.  SunTrust failed to supervise a financial adviser who
invested clients’ assets in high-risk investments, some of which
were Ponzi schemes, lawyers for Mitts said in the complaint,
which also lists as plaintiffs football players Adam Joshua
Feeley of the  St. Louis Rams , Brent Celek of the  Philadelphia
Eagles  and Kevin Curtis, who played for both teams. The athletes
invested more than $7.5 million with William Crafton Jr., a
former financial adviser affiliated with SunTrust.  “Plaintiffs funds were contributed to various known Ponzi
schemes, including the Westmoore Fund, the value of which is
essentially zero and the actual fund is in receivership,”
lawyers for Mitts said in the complaint filed today in federal
court in Philadelphia.  Crafton, who became a  money manager  for the players in
2006, sold his roster of clients to SunTrust in 2009 for about
$2.7 million and became head of the bank’s  San Diego  office,
according to the complaint. He allegedly invested players’ money
in the Westmoore Fund, part of a multi-million dollar securities
fraud, lawyers for Mitts said in the complaint.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Westmoore
Management LLC and its Chief Executive Officer Matthew Jennings
in June 2010 over claims it operated an undisclosed Ponzi-like
scheme raising more than $53 million.  Crafton, who represents about 20 other professional
athletes, had inside information about the liquidity and
security of the Westmoore fund and was friends and shared
commissions with Jennings, according to the complaint.  SCG Management  Crafton didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment on the complaint left for him at SCG Management LLC in
San Diego.  SunTrust failed to tell Mitts and the other plaintiffs
until late August 2010 that their investments were “essentially
worthless,” according to the complaint. The bank continued
assuring the athletes their investments were safe until it
announced in a Feb. 17, 2011, letter that Crafton was “no
longer employed” by SunTrust, according to the complaint.  Michael McCoy , a spokesman for SunTrust, said the company
declined to comment on pending litigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  