-- Supervalu Said to Reduce Discount on $850 Million Term Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-08-09T14:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/supervalu-said-to-reduce-discount-on-850-million-term-loan-1-.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the third-largest
U.S. grocery chain, reduced the discount at which it’s offering
to sell a $850 million covenant-lite term loan to refinance
debt, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The six-year debt will now be sold at 97 cents on the
dollar, up from 96 cents, the person said, increasing proceeds
for the company and reducing the yield to investors.  The loan pays interest at 6.75 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate, with a 1.25 percent minimum
on the benchmark, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenders are being offered call protection for two years,
the data show, meaning the company would have to pay a premium
of two cents in the first year and one cent in the second year
to refinance the debt.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc are arranging the
loan for the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company and lenders
must let the banks know by today whether they will participate
in the deal, said the person. The debt is expected to be
distributed to investors tomorrow, according to the person.  The company is also seeking a $1.65 billion asset-based
revolving line of credit which is being arranged by Wells Fargo
& Co., U.S. Bancorp, Barclays and Credit Suisse Group AG,
Bloomberg data show.  Jeff Swanson, a spokesman for Supervalu, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Covenant-lite debt doesn’t carry typical lender protection
such as financial-maintenance requirements.  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  are bigger chains than
Supervalu in terms of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  