-- Swiss Re Net Beats Estimates After Lower Catastrophe Losses
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-08-09T08:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/swiss-re-profit-drops-after-loss-on-sale-of-u-s-admin-re-unit.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, posted an unexpected quarterly profit after
fewer natural catastrophe claims countered a loss on the sale of
its U.S. Admin Re unit.  Net income fell 91 percent to $83 million in the three
months to June 30, beating the mean estimate for a $73.7 million
loss of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Swiss Re profit slumped as the company booked a $1 billion
loss in the quarter after agreeing to sell its U.S. Admin Re
holding company to  Prudential Plc (PRU)  for 398 million pounds ($624
million). While earnings were boosted by fewer losses from
natural catastrophes, they were also helped by reserve releases
and gains from currency movements and government bond sales.  “If you exclude the one-offs, the underlying profit is not
very exciting,” said Daniel Bischof, a Zurich-based analyst
with Helvea who has a neutral rating on the stock. “In previous
quarters, they were significantly beating expectations.”  Swiss Re fell 1.1 percent to 61.20 francs as of 10:24 a.m.
in Zurich trading, paring this year’s gain to 35 percent. The
stock is the fourth-best performer this year on the 26-company
Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance Index, which climbed 16 percent.  Net income in property and casualty reinsurance rose 86
percent to $717 million, helped by lower-than-expected natural
catastrophe losses, exchange rate gains and the sale of
 government bonds . Earnings were also supported by reserve
releases of $307 million, Swiss Re said.  Catastrophe Losses  Europe’s biggest insurers and the reinsurers who help them
shoulder risks for clients used last year’s catastrophes to push
through higher prices for coverage. Natural disasters caused an
estimated $5.48 billion of insured losses for insurers and re-
insurers in the second quarter, down from more than $27 billion
a year earlier, according to estimates from Aon Benfield, the
world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  Larger rival  Munich Re  said on Aug. 7 that it expects to
exceed its full-year profit target after higher investment
income helped boost second-quarter net income to 808 million
euros ($1 billion).  “We have delivered a profit in the second quarter,” Chief
Executive Officer Michel Lies said in the statement. “Given the
impact from the sale of the Admin Re U.S. business, this shows
the strength and resilience of our underlying earnings power.”  Swiss Re’s combined ratio, a measure of profitability,
worsened to 85.7 percent from 81.4 percent a year earlier. A
ratio above 100 percent means claims and costs exceed premium
income, leaving a loss from underwriting.  Price Gains  Swiss Re said July renewals, when most reinsurers agree on
contracts with customers in parts of the U.S. market,  Australia 
and  New Zealand , saw rate increases of 3 percent. The portfolio
increased by 7 percent.  Swiss Re estimates that premium volumes have climbed by 24
percent, or $2.9 billion, this year.  The reinsurer is targeting an average annual gain in
earnings per share of 10 percent until 2015 and a return on
equity averaging 700 basis points above the risk-free yield of a
five-year U.S. Treasury bond. A basis point is one-hundredth of
a percentage point.  Swiss Re started providing a breakdown for reinsurance,
corporate solutions and Admin Re unit this year following a
restructuring of the company. The property and casualty
reinsurance unit targets a return on equity of 10 percent to 15
percent, while the life and health reinsurance business has a
target of 7 percent to 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  