-- U.K. Stocks Extend Four-Month High; BSkyB Shares Advance
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-09T16:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-randgold-bskyb-advance.html
U.K. stocks  rose, extending a four-
month high, as cooling Chinese inflation increased speculation
that policy makers will do more to stimulate the world’s second-
biggest economy.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc gained 1.2 percent after
winning an appeal against a regulator’s decision that it must
make its sports channels available to competitors at a set
price.  Amec (AMEC)  Plc slumped the most since October after saying
revenue growth will weaken in the second half.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index rose 5.59 points, or 0.1
percent, to 5,851.51 at the close in  London , the highest since
April 2. The gauge has surged  11 percent  from its June 1 low
amid optimism that central banks will introduce more measures to
stimulate growth. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also gained
0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 1 percent.  “There’s a sector rotation going on,” said Graham Bishop,
an equity strategist at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “Investors
are coming back into cyclical stocks such as banks, miners and
capital goods. Share prices are being driven more by tail-risk
mitigation, rather than earnings momentum.”  China ’s consumer prices rose 1.8 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing. That
compared with the 1.7 percent median forecast of 33 economists
in a Bloomberg survey and a 2.2 percent gain in June.  Chinese Economy  Slower consumer-price inflation fueled speculation that
policy makers may add further measures to reverse the economic
slowdown. The leaders of the ruling Communist Party last week
pledged to keep adjusting policies to ensure the economy expands
at a stable rate this year.  U.S.  jobless-benefit claims  unexpectedly dropped by 6,000
to 361,000 in the week ended Aug. 4, Labor Department figures
showed today. The median forecast of 43 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a reading of 370,000.  The volume of shares changing hands on the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  was 22
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Britain’s Nicola Adams today became
the first woman boxer to win Olympic gold, bringing the nation’s
tally of gold medals to 24.  “With traders around the City glued to their screens
watching Team GB steadily accumulate more medals, the atmosphere
in the markets is almost deathly quiet,” said  David Jones ,
chief market strategist at IG Index in London.  BSkyB Rises  BSkyB (BSY) , the U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, gained
1.2 percent to 752 pence. Media regulator Ofcom
“misinterpreted” evidence on BSkyB’s negotiations with rivals
when it ordered the company in 2010 to ease access to its sports
channels, which broadcast popular soccer games, the Competition
Appeal Tribunal ruled today in London.  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the telecommunications company that has
rights to broadcast Premier League soccer from the 2013-14
season, slid 2.4 percent to 216.3 pence.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  increased 3.6 percent to 1,363 pence
as Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  hit back at a  New York 
regulator’s claims the bank broke U.S. sanctions, and said he
saw “no grounds” for revoking the lender’s license.  The bank is rising for a second day after plunging 16
percent on Aug. 7 after it was accused of violating U.S. money
laundering laws over its dealings with Iranian banks.  “We reject the position and portrayal of facts by the
department,” Sands said on a conference call with reporters
yesterday. “It would be disproportionate and wholly
inconsistent with the actions of other U.S. authorities in other
sanctions matters” to revoke the bank’s New York license, he
said.  Amec Drops  Amec retreated 4.8 percent to 1,103 pence, the biggest drop
since Oct. 4. The U.K.-based oil and gas engineer said revenue
growth will weaken in the second half, and profit margins will
be lower than a year earlier.  Enterprise Inns Plc (ETI) , a U.K. operator of leased and tenanted
pubs, rallied 7.7 percent to 59.75 pence, the biggest gain since
February. The company said business in the 44 weeks to Aug. 4
“continued its improving trend toward growth.”  Shares of competitor  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  advanced 7.5 percent
to 6.56 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  