-- U.K. Goods-Trade Gap Widens to Record as Exports Fall: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-09T11:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-k-goods-trade-deficit-widens-to-record-as-exports-decline-1-.html
Britain’s trade deficit widened to a
record in the second quarter as the impact of the euro-area debt
crisis and cooling global growth sapped demand for exports.  The goods-trade gap increased to 28.3 billion pounds ($44.3
billion pounds) from 25 billion pounds in the previous quarter,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . Exports
fell 4.9 percent, while imports slipped 0.5 percent. In June,
 the deficit  widened more than economists forecast to 10.1
billion pounds, partly due to the impact of public holidays.  The report follows comments from the  Bank of England 
yesterday that the pound’s appreciation over the past year may
hamper exports at a time when slowing global expansion is
undercutting demand. The U.K. economy shrank 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, and the central bank cut its growth forecasts,
citing the turmoil in the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading
partner, and the government’s fiscal squeeze.  “We’ve seen signs of slower growth more generally across
the world, not just in the  euro zone , and that seems to be
affecting the U.K.,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London and a former central bank
official. “The main risk to the U.K. export market is still
from  Europe . The economy will recover in the third quarter, but
there’s still a risk of a triple-dip recession.”  The pound has risen about 3.4 percent this year on a  trade-
weighted basis . It’s still down about 20 percent since the start
of 2007. Against the euro, sterling has appreciated about 5.4
percent in 2012.  Dismal Outlook  In the second quarter, exports to  Germany , the euro area’s
largest economy, fell 525 million pounds compared with the first
three months of the year, the statistics office said. Sales to
the Netherlands plunged 819 million pounds, while exports to the
U.S. fell 428 million pounds. By category, the biggest declines
were in exports of chemicals and cars.  Barclays Plc economist Blerina Uruci said the outlook for
exports “seems rather dismal and the prospects for any material
rebalancing of the economy are not encouraging.”  The June deficit compared with  economists’ forecast  for
8.73 billion pounds, based on the median of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Exports dropped 8.4 percent in June from
May, while imports fell 1.2 percent. There was an additional
public holiday in June for the queen’s Jubilee that the
statistics office said “may have affected” the data.  There was a 5.81 billion-pound surplus on services in June,
which left the total  trade gap  at 4.31 billion pounds. That’s
the most since records began in 1997. Britain’s goods deficit
with the European Union widened to 4.94 billion pounds in June
from 4.49 billion pounds. The gap with non-EU nations was 5.18
billion pounds.  U.S. Trade  The  U.S.’s trade gap  probably narrowed in June as less
expensive oil helped cut the nation’s import bill, economists
said before a report today. The deficit shrank to $47.5 billion
from $48.7 billion in May, according to the median forecast of
69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A separate report may show
initial jobless claims rose.  Elsewhere, Chinese  inflation  eased to 1.8 percent in July
and factory output increased the least since 2009, the country’s
National Bureau of Statistics said. Separately, the  Bank of
Korea  said inflation will stay subdued, and the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
anticipated that its benchmark gauge of prices will remain
unchanged “for the time being.” That indicates scope for
monetary stimulus should the European crisis deepen.  Rates Unchanged  The Bank of  Korea  kept  borrowing costs  at a 14-month low of
3 percent today after a surprise cut in July.  Indonesia  also
decided to hold its benchmark interest rate today. The  State
Bank  of  Pakistan  is scheduled to decide on borrowing costs
tomorrow.  The Bank of England increased its  bond-purchase program  by
50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds last month and started a
program to boost credit. It said yesterday that if the pound
continues to strengthen that “could make it harder for British
producers to compete in world markets.”  Separate data today showed Australia’s economic resilience
continues, with employers there boosting payrolls last month,
sending the  unemployment rate  down.  Still, an Indian government report showed industrial
production in  Asia ’s No. 3 economy fell for the third time in
four months, with output of capital goods plunging the most on
record. Production declined 1.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with economists’ forecast for a 0.4 percent gain.  “Growth in much of emerging Asia has been slowing for some
time,” Daniel Solomon, economist at the Centre for Economics
and Business Research in London, said in a research note. For
the U.K., “subdued export growth seems likely in the short term
given the combined challenges facing the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at  jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  