-- U.S. Didn’t Intervene in Currency Markets in Second Quarter
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-09T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-didn-t-intervene-in-currency-markets-in-second-quarter.html
The U.S. didn’t buy or sell dollars
to affect foreign-exchange rates in the second quarter, the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of New York said in a report to Congress.  The New York Fed, which acts for the  U.S. Treasury  and the
Federal Reserve in the $4 trillion daily currency market,
intervened in the currency market last year for the first time
since 2000. The Fed bought $1 billion of the U.S. currency on
March 18, 2011, when Group of Seven nations sought to halt the
surge in the yen after Japan was struck by the nation’s worst
earthquake on record.  The value of the Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund
totaled $25.25 billion, while the Federal Reserve System Open
Market Account holdings totaled $25.27 billion, the report for
the three months ended June 30 released today showed. Both
accounts are made up of holdings in euro and yen.  At the end of June, direct holdings of foreign  government
securities  totaled $24.44 billion. Repurchase agreement holdings
were $4.84 billion.  On Nov. 30 the Fed, along with the central banks of Canada,
England, Japan, Switzerland, and the  European Central Bank ,
agreed to reduce the rate charged on dollar liquidity swap
arrangements. In addition, the banks agreed to extend
authorization of the swaps through Feb. 1, 2013.  The swap lines were provided by the Fed as part of measures
taken since 2007 to combat the effects of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The emergency liquidity tool,
which provides dollars as needed, was reintroduced in May 2010
in response to renewed demand by overseas banks for dollar-based
funding.  The central bank’s nominal trade-weighted measure of the
 U.S. dollar  appreciated 2.4 percent during the quarter,
strengthening 5.3 percent against the euro, while declining 3.7
percent against the yen, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  