-- U.S. Says Military Focus on Asia-Pacific Isn’t ‘Saber-Rattling’
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-09T06:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-says-military-focus-on-asia-pacific-isn-t-saber-rattling-.html
The U.S. military’s realignment in
the Asia-Pacific shouldn’t be seen by China or other nations in
the region as an act of aggression, Marine Corps Commandant
General James Amos said.  “I don’t look at it as saber-rattling,” Amos said at a
press conference today in the northern Australian city of
Darwin, where as many as 2,500 Marines are being stationed.
“We’ve got a lot of interests here.”  The Marines are being deployed in Australia’s northern
region under a plan announced by President  Barack Obama  and
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in November. The U.S. is promoting
the realignment as an opportunity to boost cooperation with
regional powers, and Amos said the Marines could help save lives
by responding to Southeast Asian natural disasters.  The increased military presence, including a bid to
strengthen naval defenses in the Philippines, is part of a U.S.
push to boost its footprint in the Asia-Pacific as China’s
military power grows. Along with longstanding disputes over
intellectual property rights and the  yuan   exchange rate , China
and the U.S. are grappling with diplomatic issues such as
nuclear programs in Iran and  North Korea , and territorial
disputes in the  South China Sea .  A policy of trying to contain China wasn’t viable,
Australian Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  said in a separate
speech in Sydney today.  Containing China  “I do not believe it is possible for a country or
countries to contain another country with a population of 1.3
billion, whether that is China or India,” Smith said.
“Australia’s policy is for Australia and the world to engage
China, and for China to engage the world.”  Australia is opposed to the idea of the U.S. operating an
aircraft carrier base at the HMAS Stirling naval port in Perth,
Smith said Aug. 2, after a think tank suggested the possibility
in a report to Congress.  The Washington-based  Center for Strategic and International
Studies  commissioned by the U.S. Defense Department considered
how the U.S. military could undertake the so-called “pivot” in
the Asia-Pacific announced by Obama last year in response to
China’s increasing influence.  “We’ve got five major treaties in the Asia-Pacific area,”
Amos said today. “Besides the natural disasters and freedom of
commerce and all of that, we have a lot of trading partners in
this part of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  