-- S&P 500 Caps Longest Rally Since March on Economic Data
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-09T20:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-jobs-report.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its longest rally since March, as
data showing an unexpected decline in jobless claims last week
tempered concern about a worsening of Europe’s economy.  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes advanced 2.3
percent as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said it saw higher demand in the
industry and data showed prices for single-family homes rose in
most U.S. cities last quarter.  E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC)  increased
6.9 percent as Chief Executive Officer Steven J. Freiberg was
 ousted  from the brokerage. Monster Beverage Corp. declined 9.7
percent after profit and sales trailed estimates.  Five stocks rose for every four falling on U.S. exchanges
at 4 p.m. New York time. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  added less than 0.1 percent
to 1,402.80, rallying 2.8 percent in five days. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 10.45 points, or 0.1 percent, to
13,165.19. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5.5
billion shares, 18 percent below the three-month average.  “We acknowledge the positive news,” Wayne Lin, a money
manager at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $631.8 billion. “We’ve had some
positive surprises on the jobs front and it seems that housing
has found some footing. Yet people are aware of the risks. The
risk in Europe is still out there.”  Labor Department data showing fewer firings signaled
employers are seeing enough demand to retain staff, indicating
the economy is sustaining the recovery. Stocks erased gains
earlier after the Wall Street Journal reported that former
European Central Bank official Otmar Issing said it was wrong to
expect the ECB to buy government bonds to ease the region’s debt
crisis. Economists surveyed by the ECB predicted the region’s
contraction this year will be worse than previously forecast.  Earnings Season  A five-day rally has taken the S&P 500 up almost 10 percent
from a five-month low on June 1. About 72 percent of S&P 500
companies which reported second-quarter results so far have
 beaten  analysts’ earnings estimates, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “It’s kind of blah,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees
about $1.1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania. “Growth is slowing in other
parts of the world. It will take time. In addition, we’ve had a
strong move up in stocks. It may be people just getting tired.”  All 11 stocks in a measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes
gained. Data from the National Association of Realtors showed
that values nationally jumped the most since 2006 as real estate
markets stabilized.  Analysts’ Recommendations  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
jumped 4.8 percent to $12.67 after being raised to overweight at
JPMorgan.  KB Home (KBH)  added 6.3 percent to $10.74, while  Beazer
Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  rallied 4.5 percent to $2.79 after the two
companies were also raised at JPMorgan.  E*Trade added 6.9 percent to $8.57. Chairman Frank J.
Petrilli will serve as interim CEO while the company seeks a new
leader, the company said today in a statement. A board committee
which includes the head of its biggest shareholder, Citadel
LLC’s CEO  Ken Griffin , will lead the search for a new chief
executive, the company said.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  rose 3.2 percent to $17.70 after the
biggest maker of computer-networking equipment was added to the
“Conviction Buy” list at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Piper
Jaffray Cos. also raised its recommendation for the technology
company today.  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  added 15 percent to $10.06. The bond insurer
seeking reimbursement from Bank of America Corp. over faulty
mortgages surged after pledging to carry on a court fight to
force the lender to repurchase the loans.  James River  James River Coal Co. (JRCC)  soared 13 percent to $2.52. The
producer of the fuel in Appalachia and the Midwest reported a
smaller  loss  than analysts predicted as costs fell.  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  climbed 2.3 percent to $23.23. The
insurer that hired Ellen Cooper from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as
chief investment officer said it increased the size of its share
buyback authorization to  $1 billion .  Elizabeth Arden Inc. (RDEN)  soared 13 percent to $44.02. The maker
of the Britney Spears and Elizabeth Taylor brand fragrances
forecast annual profit and revenue that  topped  estimates.  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  advanced 7.1 percent to $51.94.
The U.S. military’s largest ammunition maker rose as higher
defense sales helped first-quarter  earnings  top estimates. It
raised its full-year forecast.  Robbins & Myers Inc. (RBN)  surged 27 percent to $59.63.  National
Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the largest U.S. maker of oil equipment,
agreed to buy the company for about $2.5 billion in cash.  Monster Beverage  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  tumbled 9.7 percent to $61.20.
Monster and Atlanta-based Coca-Cola Co. are facing  higher costs 
for ingredients such as sweeteners and plastic for bottles.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  slid 2.9 percent to $3.07. The
market maker that was driven to the verge of bankruptcy after a
trading error said last week’s mishap may cause more losses and
liabilities and customers may lose confidence in the firm.  Education Management Corp. (EDMC)  plunged 19 percent to $3.24. The
second-largest for-profit college chain by enrollment fell a day
after posting a $1.2 billion loss in the fiscal fourth quarter.  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  declined 10 percent to $4.20. The solar-
panel company majority-owned by Total SA tumbled after it cut
its 2012 sales forecast.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  slid 1.2 percent to $51.42. The third-largest
U.S. department-store company reduced its fiscal 2012 profit
forecast after sales fell in the second quarter.  NetApp Slumps  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  dropped 2.6 percent to $32.13. The seller of
hardware and software for storing data was downgraded to hold
from buy at Cantor Fitzgerald LP by equity analyst Paul Mansky.
The 12-month target price is $38 per share.  Asian dealmaking in  North America  confirms energy and gold
stocks are a bargain when compared with the underlying
commodities, according to Frank Holmes, U.S. Global Investors
Inc.’s chief executive officer. The shares have trailed
commodity prices for more than a year.  “The disparities mean that the cheapest resources are not
found in the ground -- they’re listed” on stock exchanges,
Holmes wrote three days ago in a blog  posting .  Proposed multibillion-dollar takeovers of Canadian energy
producers by Cnooc Ltd. and Petroliam Nasional Bhd show the
value available in commodity stocks, according to Holmes.  Cnooc, China’s largest offshore-oil explorer, offered to
acquire  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in July for 61 percent more than the stock’s
market price. The proposed deal followed an offer in June from
Petronas, Malaysia’s state-owned energy company, for Progress
Energy Resources Corp. that was 77 percent above the market
price. The bid was raised last month.  Holmes’s firm, based in San Antonio, runs three commodity-
related mutual funds with total assets of about $1 billion. The
biggest is the Global Resources Fund, which returned 12 percent
during the two-year period depicted in the chart, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  