-- U.S. Jobless Claims Were Available Early, Firm Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-08-09T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-jobless-claims-were-available-early-firm-says.html
U.S. jobless claims data were
available on the Labor Department’s website about 15 minutes
before the scheduled release today, according to Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates.  The firm was able to access the figures from the Labor
Department’s website before the embargoed time of 8:30 a.m.,
according to Ray Stone, managing director of Stone & McCarthy
Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Stephen Barr, a spokesman for the Labor Department,
declined to immediately comment.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  are among the most
closely-watched figures for clues on the progress of the labor
market.  Jobless claims unexpectedly dropped by 6,000 to 361,000 in
the week ended Aug. 4, according to the Labor Department in
Washington. The median forecast of 43 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an increase to 370,000.  The early release of the claims occurred as reporters were
attending a so-called lockup, in which embargoed copies of the
release are provided to the media and the organizations’
electronic dissemination of the figures is controlled by
government employees. During a lockup, reporters are unable to
communicate with anyone outside the media room.  In April, the Labor Department ordered media organizations
to remove computer software, hardware and communications lines
they had installed at the department in order to guard against
data leaks at the lockups.  Lockup Process  Reporters in lockups are given market-sensitive data,
typically 30 minutes before their broader release. This gives
journalists time to prepare stories and headlines that are
published after a government employee throws a switch opening
communications lines to the news organizations’ computer
systems.  After protests from Bloomberg and other news organizations,
and a congressional hearing in which senior editors from
organizations including Bloomberg testified, the Labor
Department agreed to allow the media to continue using their own
equipment and data lines. Reporters will be required to leave
mobile phones and other electronic devices in lockers outside of
the lockup room, along with personal effects such as umbrellas
and purses.  The Labor Department’s lockup room is currently closed as
new equipment is installed. All of the agency’s economic reports
are being released from the Commerce Department for the rest of
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  