-- U.S. Issues New Guidelines for HIV, Gonorrhea Prevention
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-08-09T19:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-issues-new-guidelines-for-hiv-gonorrhea-prevention.html
Doctors can give the HIV medicine
Truvada as a preventative to healthy heterosexuals at high risk
of the virus and should treat  gonorrhea  differently to hold off
a drug-resistant form growing outside the country, U.S.
officials said.  The new guidelines for the sexually transmitted diseases
were announced today by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  The CDC in January 2011 advised that  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s
once-a-day pill Truvada was safe and partially effective as a
preventative for homosexual men, and suggested frequent testing
if the medicine was used. The gonorrhea guideline issued today
urges doctors to use more potent antibiotic injections instead
of cefixime, the pill that has been the standard of care.  “Action is urgently needed to prevent untreatable
gonorrhea from becoming a reality,”  Gail Bolan , director of the
Atlanta-based CDC’s division of sexually transmitted disease
prevention, in a telephone interview.  Treatment options have shrunk as every medicine starting
with penicillin loses effectiveness against gonorrhea, the
second-most commonly reported infectious disease in the U.S.
with about 700,000 new cases a year. Cefixime and the more-
potent ceftriaxone injection belong to the only class of
effective drugs left to use, the agency today said in a report.  Infection ‘Canary’  “Gonorrhea is very good at picking up antibiotic
resistance,” said  Carlos del Rio , a professor of medicine at
Emory University in Atlanta and a member of the CDC’s gonorrhea
surveillance program, by telephone. “In a way, it’s the canary
in the  coal mine  for antibiotic resistance in the STD setting.”  While gonorrhea infections often are symptomless, they can
lead to infertility and other serious conditions if untreated.
Screening is necessary because many infections are “silent,”
with few or no symptoms, Bolan said. Less than half of new cases
are diagnosed each year.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved Truvada on July
16 for use by healthy heterosexuals or homosexuals who are at
high risk of being infected with the AIDS virus, such as in
cases in which one partner has HIV. Daily use of the pills to
prevent HIV infection, known as pre-exposure prophylaxis, or
PrEP, should only be used for people who are uninfected and
continue to use regular testing and prevention methods, such as
condoms, according to the interim guidelines.  The daily pill had already been deemed safe and partially
effective for homosexual and bisexual men in a  January 2011  CDC
interim guidance, and the  World Health Organization  published
initial guidelines in July suggesting that couples with one
infected member could use the drug.  Another Tool  “This provides another tool that providers can use for HIV
prevention,” said  Dawn Smith , lead author on the guidelines and
a biomedical interventions implementation officer at the CDC’s
National Center for HIV and AIDS Prevention. “It will always
need to be targeted at people who are very high risk. It
requires a lot of work.”  An estimated 48,000 HIV infections occurred in the U.S. in
2009 and 27 percent were among heterosexual men and women who
didn’t inject drugs, the guidance states. Though this could be
used to drive those numbers down, the prevention method still
needs development, said  Mitchell Warren , executive director of
AVAC: Global Advocacy for AIDS Prevention.  Early Effort  “It’s still very early days,” he said. “It’s not as if
anyone is out there actively promoting it. Even with the FDA
approval, the most important next steps are the demonstration
projects, to really help us understand how to deliver PrEP, to
whom we can best deliver and motivate adherent use, and really
add public health impact.”  Two studies cited in the guidance found that the method,
which prevents HIV from establishing a permanent infection by
making new viruses as it enters the body, is effective for
heterosexual people. Still, the prevention method’s long-term
safety in adults and for pregnant users’ fetuses hasn’t been
determined conclusively, a main reason those taking Truvada
should be monitored closely, according to the guidance.  The CDC guidelines for gonorrhea treatment were last
updated in 2007, when the bacteria demonstrated resistance to
the fluoroquinolone class of medicines, and the agency
recommended discontinuing their use. Cefixime and ceftriaxone
are members of a family of drugs known as cephalosporins.
Companies have been reluctant to invest in developing new
antibiotics because they are used sparingly, and often held in
reserve to prevent resistance, del Rio said.  “The industry doesn’t do work based on public health,”
del Rio said. “They work based on what’s going to benefit their
stockholders.”  Antibiotic Incentives  In June, the  U.S. Senate  reauthorized the  Prescription Drug
User Fee Act , adding a section called “Generating Antibiotic
Incentives Now,” to encourage drugmakers to develop new
antibiotics for life-threatening infections. Under the new
language, qualified drugs would receive an additional five years
of market exclusivity and a faster review.  The legislation “isn’t enough to fix the problem,” said
Robert Guidos, vice president for public policy at the
 Infectious Diseases Society of America , based in Arlington,
Virginia. “It’s valuable, and it’s obviously sparked a lot of
attention in industry. But it isn’t enough.”  Other options that may help may be research and development
tax credit, or strengthening partnerships between public health
officials and private industry may also help, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net :
Jeanna Smialek in New York at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 