-- U.S. Women Tap New York Athletic Club for Water Polo Gold
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-09T21:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-women-tap-new-york-club-ties-in-quest-for-water-polo-gold.html
The U.S. may have had one key
advantage over  Spain  as each nation tried to win its first
Olympic gold medal in women’s water polo tonight: Chemistry.  Six of the 13 players on the U.S. roster are members of the
 New York Athletic Club , whose athletes have competed in every
modern Olympics since the first in 1896, winning 231 medals,
excluding 11 before today in London.  It paid off as the U.S. team added another title, beating
Spain 8-5 in the final. The last time a team representing the
U.S. won an Olympic water polo competition was 1904, when a NYAC
squad took the gold.  “It’s always a great advantage to have opportunities to
play with the same girls,” U.S. team member  Heather Petri , a
four-time Olympian who scored tonight, said yesterday. “You get
to know them better in and out of the water.”  Petri and teammate Brenda Villa, who also scored in the
final, won a record fourth consecutive medal after silvers in
2000 and 2008, and a bronze in 2004. Maggie Steffens scored five
times for the Americans.  The Americans have played more than 40 games together in
the past year, the 34-year-old Petri said in an e-mail
yesterday, giving them a degree of experience and camaraderie
that their opponents can’t match.  “The club embraces the fact that we love to play a sport
that is relatively unknown,” Petri said. They “genuinely care
to see us succeed at the highest level. During high stress
Olympic training sessions, sometimes that is all you need.”  This year, 55 members of the NYAC are competing in the
Olympics, including 15 in water polo, the club’s Athletic
Director Cedric Jones said in a telephone interview.  “We’ve always been strong in water polo,” Jones said. The
women’s team is “a strong-willed team, very talented. They play
well together and they care about each other. They have
chemistry.”  Prior Experience  The experience of players including Petri and fellow
attacker Brenda Villa, 32, is vital in high-profile match, Ellen Estes Lee, a member of the Athens and Sydney Olympic squads,
said in a telephone interview. Eight members of the U.S. team
have played in the Olympics before.  “The more of those matches you have under your belt, the
more it’s going to help,” Estes Lee said.  Spain’s women were making their Olympic debut in the event,
and tied the U.S. 9-9 in the preliminary phase, with the
Americans coming from behind to outscore their opponents in the
third quarter before drawing even in the fourth.  The U.S. then beat Beijing bronze medalist  Australia  11-9
to reach the final, while Spain ousted  Hungary . Australia
defeated Hungary 13-11 to win the bronze tonight.  The U.S. was trying to end its run of last-gasp Olympic
losses in the gold-medal match.  The U.S. was denied the chance at victory in the 2000 and
2008 finals as its opponent got late goals. In the inaugural
tournament in Sydney, Australia scored with just over a second
remaining to take the gold medal. Eight years later in Beijing,
the Netherlands secured the win with 26 seconds remaining.  “Every member of the team is proficient at doing so many
things,” Petri said. “So when you look at the bench there’s
not a drop off at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  