-- U.S. Foreclosure Filings Drop 10% as States Slow Process
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-foreclosure-filings-drop-10-as-states-slow-process.html
U.S. foreclosure filings fell 10
percent in July from a year earlier as court rulings and new
legislation slowed the process for seizing homes in some states,
according to  RealtyTrac Inc.   Default, auction and repossession notices were sent to
191,925 homes, or one in 686 households, the  Irvine ,
California-based data firm said today in a statement. It was the
22nd straight decline on a year-over-year basis.  Seizing properties from borrowers behind on their mortgage
payments became harder as judicial decisions and recently
enacted laws gave homeowners more ways to avoid foreclosure,
RealtyTrac Vice President  Daren Blomquist  said in the statement.
An Oregon law that took effect last month, for example, grants
homeowners in or at risk of default the right to request
mediation, he said.  The law resulted in foreclosure filings in the state
“hitting a five-year low, but we would expect the Oregon
numbers to trend back higher sometime in the next several months
based on the pattern we’ve seen in other states with similar
legislation,” Blomquist said. Procedural changes in states such
as Florida, Illinois and New Jersey produced only “a temporary
foreclosure lull,” he said.  Lenders have contributed to declines in filings by
approving more short sales, in which a property is sold for less
than the loan balance. Those deals avert home seizures and
minimize losses, RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer  Brandon
Moore  said on June 14. Short sales fetched $27,000 more than
transactions involving bank-owned homes in the first quarter,
according to the company.  Nevada Leads  Repossessions fell last month in 38 states and the  District
of Columbia , with 53,654 U.S. homes receiving a notice of home
seizure, RealtyTrac said today. Nevada led with a 71 percent
decrease from a year earlier, followed by declines of 65 percent
in Virginia, 44 percent in California, 39 percent in Georgia and
35 percent in Washington state.  Nationwide, foreclosure filings of all types fell 3 percent
from June. Initial notices were sent to 98,174 homes, a 6
percent decline.  States with increases in foreclosure starts were led by
Connecticut, where they tripled, followed by  New Jersey  and
Pennsylvania, where initial notices more than doubled,
RealtyTrac said. They rose 83 percent in  Indiana  and 65 percent
in Massachusetts.  California had the highest foreclosure rate, with one in
325 households receiving a notice. Filings in the most populous
state fell 11 percent from June and 25 percent from a year
earlier.  Arizona  had the second-highest rate, with one in 346
homes receiving a notice, and Florida was third at one in 352.  Filings rose more than 14 percent from a year earlier in
Florida, and by almost 30 percent in Illinois. In New Jersey,
they more than doubled, according to RealtyTrac.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the  U.S. population .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  