-- U.S. Second Quarter Foreign Exchange Operations (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-08-09T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-second-quarter-foreign-exchange-operations-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
foreign exchange operations report.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE  FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS  April-June 2012  During the second quarter, the  U.S. dollar ’s nominal trade-
weighted exchange value appreciated 2.4 percent as measured by
the Federal Reserve Board’s major currencies index. The dollar
appreciated broadly, including a 5.3 percent rise against the
euro, but depreciated 3.7 percent against the Japanese yen. The
U.S. monetary authorities did not intervene in the foreign
exchange markets during the quarter.  U.S. DOLLAR APPRECIATES BROADLY AMID RISING  RISK AVERSION  AND
WEAKENING GLOBAL GROWTH OUTLOOK  During the second quarter, the U.S. dollar appreciated against
most major currencies, with the exception of the Japanese yen.
The dollar’s appreciation predominantly reflected broad risk
aversion stemming from rising concern over the euro-area
sovereign and banking crisis and a weakening global growth
outlook. These factors weighed on investor sentiment, prompting
them to shift their portfolios away from higher-yielding
investments and increase their demand for safe-haven
alternatives. During the period, there were significant declines
in global equity prices and other risky asset prices, and a rise
in realized and implied volatility across a broad range of
assets. This diminished sentiment was accompanied by a
preference for dollar- and yen-denominated assets. During the
quarter, the Japanese yen appreciated significantly against
major currencies, as the U.S. dollar depreciated 3.7 percent
against the yen. A 41-basis-point narrowing in the ten-year
interest rate differential between the  United States  and Japan
likely helped support the yen over the quarter.  Reflecting the worsening global growth outlook--as evidenced by
weaker-than-expected activity data in the United States, Europe,
China, and other countries--the dollar appreciated noticeably
against emerging market and commodity-sensitive currencies. In
particular, the dollar appreciated more than 1 percent against
the Australian dollar, between 4 and 5 percent against the
Mexican peso and the Norwegian krone, and 10 percent against the
Brazilian real. During the period, the S&P GSCI Commodity Spot
Index fell 13 percent, led by a 20 percent decline in the front-
month Brent crude oil futures contract. In addition, after
declining notably in the previous quarter, foreign exchange
implied volatilities of many of these currency pairs rose to
their highest levels since December 2011. A similar increase in
volatilities was observed across some other asset classes. For
example, the VIX index of implied equity volatility in early
June rose nearly 11 percentage points to approximately 27
percent, its highest level since late 2011.  EURO DEPRECIATES AGAINST THE DOLLAR AS SOVEREIGN AND BANKING
SECTOR CONCERNS INTENSIFY  During the quarter, the U.S. dollar appreciated 5.3 percent
against the euro, as increased political uncertainty in Greece
and renewed concerns about the ongoing euro-area sovereign and
banking crisis prompted investors to further reduce their
exposure to the region. Additionally, signs of a worsening
economic outlook driven in part by weaker-than-expected activity
in the euro area added to investor concerns.  Political uncertainty following the Greek parliamentary election
in early May weighed on the euro, as the inconclusive result
caused some investors to question the outlook for the country’s
official European Union/International Monetary Fund (IMF) aid
program and its membership in the euro area. This uncertainty
also increased concern about the risks associated with domestic
bank deposit flight and broader contagion effects on other euro-
area periphery countries.  Spanish banking sector concerns, including the potential need
for official euro-area financial support, also weighed on the
euro during the quarter. Specifically, Spain’s fourth largest
bank, BFA-Bankia, presented a recapitalization plan in late May
that included a larger-than-expected request for €19 billion,
while the IMF and independent consultants estimated
recapitalization needs for the rest of the Spanish banking
system in an adverse scenario at between €40 billion and €60
billion.  Developments in these countries translated into higher risk
premiums on some euro-area assets, as concerns increased that a
broader set of countries could require official euro-area
financial support. The Euro Stoxx 50 index declined
approximately 17 percent during April and May, led by a roughly
27 percent decline in the Euro Stoxx Banks sub-index. From the
beginning of the quarter through mid-June, the yield on ten-year
Spanish sovereign debt rose about 180 basis points to 7.2
percent, while the yield on Italian ten-year sovereign debt rose
about 100 basis points to more than 6.2 percent. These movements
generally coincided with a broad depreciation of the euro, as
the euro-U.S. dollar  currency pair  depreciated intraday to its
two-year low of $1.2288 per euro on June 1. Also around this
time, one- and three-month option implied volatilities on the
euro-U.S. dollar pair reached their highest levels since early
January.  Toward the end of the quarter, euro-area asset prices
strengthened following the conclusion of a two-day euro-area
Heads of Government Summit. Leaders announced plans to establish
a single banking supervisor and to modify the terms under which
the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) can be used. Most
notably, these modifications included granting the ESM the
ability to provide support directly to banks, with minimal
conditionality imposed on the sovereign. In late June, the euro
appreciated nearly 2 percent against the dollar, as short-term
implied volatility on the currency pair declined, and Spanish
and Italian sovereign yields declined notably.  SWISS FRANC TRADES NEAR  SWISS NATIONAL BANK ’S EURO-SWISS FRANC
CURRENCY FLOOR  The deterioration in risk sentiment also affected the Swiss
franc. The euro-Swiss franc currency pair depreciated closer to
the floor of 1.20 Swiss francs per euro announced by the Swiss
National Bank (SNB) on September 6, 2011. This depreciation
appeared to reflect increased euro-area uncertainty that
resulted in increased safe-haven capital flows into the Swiss
franc. The SNB stated that its foreign currency reserves had
risen in May by 66.2 billion Swiss francs to 303.8 billion Swiss
francs, reported by an SNB official to be largely the result of
currency purchases to defend the minimum  exchange rate  against
the euro. The franc depreciated 4.8 percent against the U.S.
dollar during the second quarter.  CHINESE RENMINBI DEPRECIATES AGAINST THE DOLLAR  During the period, the Chinese  renminbi  depreciated 0.9 percent
against the dollar, one of the largest quarterly declines since
officials formally de-pegged the currency from the U.S. dollar
in 2005. Market participants pointed to several factors that
might have driven officials to depreciate the currency,
including diminished foreign exchange inflows attributable to
both a weaker  trade balance  and lower capital account inflows,
signs of a weaker growth trajectory, and accommodative policy
actions. Such a moderation in the renminbi’s appreciation trend
has occurred in the context of measures enacted by Chinese
authorities to make the currency more market-determined. Most
notably, in mid-April, Chinese authorities widened the intraday
trading band from +/-0.5 percent to +/-1.0 percent. Furthermore,
the currency’s depreciation is directionally consistent with
that of other emerging market Asian currencies, many of which
also depreciated against the dollar during the period.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE HOLDINGS  The U.S. monetary authorities did not undertake any intervention
operations during the quarter. As of June 30, the value of the
U.S. Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund foreign-currency-
denominated assets totaled $25.25 billion, comprised of euro and
yen holdings. The  Federal Reserve  System Open Market Account
holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled $25.27
billion, also comprised of euro and yen holdings.  Dollar Liquidity Swap Arrangements with Foreign Central Banks  On November 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with
the  Bank of Canada  (BoC), the  Bank of England  (BoE), the  Bank of
Japan  (BoJ), the  European Central Bank  (ECB), and the SNB,
agreed to reduce the rate charged on the dollar liquidity swap
arrangements and to extend authorization of these swap
arrangements through February 1, 2013. The rate charged on the
dollar liquidity swap arrangements was reduced from the U.S.
dollar overnight index swap (OIS) rate plus 100 basis points to
the OIS rate plus 50 basis points. In addition, as a contingency
measure, these central banks agreed to establish temporary
bilateral liquidity swap arrangements so that each central bank
could provide liquidity, if necessary, in any of the respective
currencies. As of June 30, the ECB had $27.97 billion swaps
outstanding. The BoC, BoE, BoJ, and SNB did not have any
outstanding swaps at the end of the quarter.  Foreign Exchange Reserve Holdings  The U.S. monetary authorities invest their foreign currency
reserves in a variety of instruments that yield market-related
rates of return and have a high degree of liquidity and  credit
quality . To the greatest extent practicable, the investments are
split evenly between the System Open Market Account and the
Exchange Stabilization Fund. A significant portion of the U.S.
monetary authorities’ foreign exchange reserves is invested on
an outright basis in German, French, and Japanese  government
securities . Another portion is invested in euro-denominated
 repurchase agreements , under which the U.S. monetary authorities
accept sovereign debt backed by the full faith and credit of the
following governments: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, and Spain. Foreign currency reserves are also
invested at the  Bank for International Settlements  and in
facilities at other official institutions. As of June 30, direct
holdings of foreign government securities totaled $24.44 billion
and foreign government securities held under repurchase
agreements totaled $4.84 billion.  This report, presented by  Simon Potter , Executive Vice
President,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , and Manager of the
System Open Market Account, describes the foreign exchange
operations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the
 Federal Reserve System  for the period from April through June
2012. Kevin McNeil was primarily responsible for preparation of
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  