-- U.S. Mortgage Delinquencies Rise for First Time in Year
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-08-09T15:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-mortgage-delinquencies-rise-for-first-time-in-year.html
The U.S. mortgage  delinquency rate 
increased for the first time in a year as slowing economic
growth left more borrowers struggling to pay their bills.  The share of home loans at least 30-days late rose to 7.58
percent in the second quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis, up
from 7.4 percent in the previous three months, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  said in a report today. The rate for
seriously delinquent loans, those more than 90 days behind,
climbed to a seasonally adjusted 3.19 percent from 3.06 percent.  “It’s the first time it’s really picked up,” Michael Fratantoni, vice president of research and economics, said in a
telephone interview today from Washington. “It’s reflecting
weak job growth in the second quarter.”  An extended economic slowdown may spur more foreclosures
and temper a housing recovery at a time when home  prices  are
showing signs of a bottom. Gross domestic product grew at a 1.5
percent annual pace in the second quarter, compared with a 2
percent rate in the previous three months. The unemployment  rate 
rose to 8.3 percent in July from 8.2 percent in June.  The non-seasonally adjusted delinquency rate jumped to 7.35
percent from 6.94 percent. Late payments tend to increase in the
second quarter from the first, the banking group said. The
adjusted rate was 8.44 percent a year earlier.  Foreclosure Starts  Lenders started foreclosure actions, defined as letters
from attorneys, on 0.96 percent of mortgages in the second
quarter, unchanged from the first quarter and a year earlier,
the bankers group reported. About 4.27 percent of all loans were
in the foreclosure process, down from 4.39 percent in the first
quarter and 4.43 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
Mortgage servicers slowed the pace of foreclosures in the fourth
quarter of 2010, when they faced allegations of using improper
and fraudulent paperwork to repossess homes with delinquent
mortgages. The five largest servicers, including  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , reached a $25 billion settlement
with state and federal regulators in February.  States where home repossessions require judicial approval
had the largest backlog of homes in the foreclosure pipeline,
led by  Florida ,  New Jersey ,  Illinois  and  New York .  Maryland ,
another judicial foreclosure state, had the largest increase in
foreclosure starts.  FHA Loans  Lenders stepped up actions against Federal Housing
Administration loans, which became popular in 2008 and 2009 to
allow buyers to purchase houses with low down payments, because
legal obstacles to the filings were removed, Fratantoni said.
The percentage of FHA loans in foreclosure rose to a record 4.23
percent in the second quarter, the mortgage bankers said.  “The jump was due to one or more large servicers of FHA
loans restarting foreclosure actions on delinquent FHA loans
after the completion of the  Department of Justice  review and the
mortgage servicing settlement,”  Jay Brinkmann , the group’s
chief economist, said in a statement. “It does not, however,
represent a significant decline in FHA performance. These loans
had been considered seriously delinquent for some time.”  The delinquency rate has fallen from a peak of 10.1 percent
in the first quarter of 2010, helping to limit foreclosures and
stabilize  home prices . The median sales price of single-family
homes in the second quarter increased in 110 of 147 metropolitan
areas amid low inventory, the National Association of Realtors
said in a report today.  Price Jump  Freddie Mac , the U.S. government controlled mortgage
company, said yesterday that home prices increased 4.8 percent
from March to June, the largest quarterly gain since the second
quarter of 2004.  The direction of mortgage delinquencies depends on
employment for the remainder of the year, Brinkmann said.  “Until we see some pickup in  job creation , until we see
unemployment turn around, we really can’t see a fundamental
improvement in the housing situation,” he said during a
conference call.  The delinquency and foreclosure estimates are based on a
survey of 42.5 million loans on one- to four- unit residential
properties, representing about 88 percent of all first-lien
mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  