-- U.S. Cleans Vietnam Agent Orange Site 37 Years After War
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T09:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-cleans-agent-orange-site-in-vietnam-37-years-after-war.html
The U.S. will clean a  Vietnam War 
site contaminated with an  Agent Orange  byproduct for the first
time since fighting ended 37 years ago, boosting ties with a
former enemy that blames the herbicide for poisoning millions.  U.S.-funded workers begin treating polluted land today at
Danang International Airport, a war-era air base that is now a
gateway to one of  Vietnam ’s top tourist draws. The move bolsters
a decades-long effort to eradicate  dioxin , a chemical derived
from Agent Orange that the U.S. government has linked to
diseases in war veterans even as it denies legal liability.  “We are both moving earth and taking the first steps to
bury the legacies of our past,” U.S. Ambassador David B. Shear
said today at the groundbreaking ceremony in Danang, according
to an embassy statement. “I look forward to even more successes
to follow.”  The clean-up underscores U.S. efforts to settle grievances
left over from the war as it shifts resources to Asia to counter
 China ’s growing military might. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  discussed Agent Orange in Hanoi last month on a regional
trip in which she also pledged to help Laos cope with unexploded
bombs and make progress clearing Cambodia’s war-time debt.  Improved U.S.-Vietnam ties “have regional implications in
Asia,” said Ian Storey, senior fellow at Singapore’s Institute
of Southeast Asian Studies. “The relationship can’t advance
very far without closing the book on these war legacy issues.”  Panetta’s Visit  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  in June became the highest-
ranking U.S. official to visit a naval base at Cam Ranh Bay
since the Vietnam War, which killed 58,000 Americans and more
than a million Vietnamese. The U.S. plans to service ships at
the port, part of efforts to expand naval exchanges as both
countries express concern over China’s assertiveness in the
 South China Sea .  From 1962 to 1971, U.S. troops sprayed herbicide over about
10,000 square miles in central and south Vietnam -- an area
roughly the size of  Massachusetts  -- to clear jungles and kill
crops used by Viet Cong guerrillas, according to the  Aspen
Institute . While most of the land sprayed is not contaminated,
more than two dozen former U.S. military bases may still contain
high levels of dioxin that puts locals at risk.  Danang and two other U.S. air bases where  Agent Orange  was
stored, mixed and loaded for spraying missions are considered
the most dangerous, with dioxin levels more than 200 times those
considered safe. The U.S. has committed about $49 million to
dioxin clean-up, and a further $107 million would need to be
raised to clear all remaining sites, the U.S. Vietnam Dialogue
Group on Agent Orange/Dioxin said in a May  report .  Ducks, Fish  On hand to witness the clean-up in Danang will be Nguyen
Van Dung, who started working at the airport 16 years ago and is
one of three million Vietnamese the local  Red Cross  estimates
suffered adverse health effects from Agent Orange. He dug
ditches in the contaminated soil and ate ducks and fish from a
nearby lake that contains dioxin-laced sediment.  “I didn’t know any better because no one said there was
anything wrong with the ground,” he said by phone this week.  A daughter born after Dung began work at the  airport  died
because of bone and blood diseases. His son, who requires blood
transfusions every 20 days, is toothless and can’t walk because
his bones have developed abnormally. The government recognizes
that his son’s illness is because of dioxin exposure, he said.  “I am very happy that they are cleaning it up so that
others won’t get sick,” said Luu Thi Thu, Dung’s wife who
manages a souvenir stand at the airport. “Ït’s too late for our
family but there is hope for the next generation.”  Dow Chemical  Pasadena-based  Tetra Tech Inc. (TTEK)  won a U.S. government
contract this year to excavate about 73,000 cubic meters of
contaminated soil around the airport, enough to fill about 30
Olympic-sized swimming pools. The dirt will be heated to break
it down into non-toxic compounds.  Agent Orange, named for the color of a band around the 55-
gallon drum in which it was delivered, was the most used among
15 herbicides sprayed on Vietnam. President  John F. Kennedy ’s
administration asked companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  to produce the defoliant.  In 1984, those companies settled a case brought by U.S. war
veterans for $180 million, one of the largest settlements ever
at the time. The  Department of Veterans Affairs  still offers
compensation for soldiers who were exposed to Agent Orange and
may be suffering from more than a dozen illnesses, including
 lung cancer  and  heart disease . The government also provides aid
for their children who have certain  birth defects .  Not to Blame  Dow Chemical says on its  website  that “the very
substantial body of human evidence on Agent Orange establishes
that veterans’ illnesses are not caused by Agent Orange.” The
U.S. has allocated funds to provide care for all disabled people
among Vietnam’s 90 million citizens without ascribing any
particular case to Agent Orange.  “We do not believe that there is sufficient scientific
evidence that would enable us to identify the cause or origin of
an individual disability,” Matthew Palmer, a State Department
official, told a congressional hearing in 2010.  The Vietnam Association for Victims of Agent Orange/Dioxin
sued Dow Chemical and more than 30 other companies in 2004. The
 Supreme Court  declined to hear the case in 2009, accepting a
federal appeals court ruling in  New York  a year earlier that
dismissed the case on the so-called government contractor
defense, which protects companies that make products to
government specifications and disclose any known dangers.  The association is pleased with U.S. efforts to clean up
Danang and expects them to do more, according to Tran Xuan Thu,
the group’s vice president.  “We are very happy to see this taking place,” he said by
phone. “It shows the U.S is taking responsibility to solve the
problem it created.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  