-- U.S. Consumer Comfort Drops to Two-Month Low on Economy Concern
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-08-09T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/u-s-consumer-comfort-drops-to-two-month-low-on-economy-concern.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell
this week to the lowest level in two months as Americans became
more discouraged about the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 41.9
in the period ended Aug. 5 from minus 39.7. The gauge hasn’t
climbed since the end of June. Americans’ view of the economy
fell to the lowest level since February.  Greater discontent about the economy was accompanied by
dimmer views of personal finances and the buying climate, a sign
consumer spending will be slow to pick up. A recent increase in
gasoline prices and scant improvement in the labor market are
also restraining confidence among lower-income households.  “The American public is downright sour on their own
economic prospects and those of the nation as a whole due to the
growing labor slack in the economy,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. The share of
respondents in the Bloomberg survey who rated the economy as
“poor” climbed this week to a seventh-month high.  Another report today showed fewer Americans filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the
labor market may keep improving after job growth picked up in
July. Jobless claims fell by 6,000 to 361,000 in the week ended
Aug. 4, the Labor Department said. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for an increase to 370,000.  Stocks fell as concern about  Europe ’s economy. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1 percent to 1,400.97 at 9:37 a.m.
in  New York .  Economy View  The Bloomberg index on the current state of the  economy  was
minus 74.4 last week, the weakest since Feb. 5, after minus 74.2
in the prior period. Eighty-seven percent rate the economy
negatively, matching the previous week’s reading as the most
since February and 22 percentage points more than the average in
26 years of polling.  The gauge of  personal finances  dropped to minus 3.7 from
minus 0.4, while the  buying-climate  index fell to minus 47.7
from minus 44.5. Both are at their lowest levels since May.  Gasoline prices that are rising along with 8.3 percent
unemployment are hurdles for Americans, whose spending accounts
for 70 percent of the economy. After reaching a low this year of
$3.33 a gallon on July 1, the  average price  of regular gasoline
nationwide reached $3.65 a gallon on Aug. 7, the highest since
May, according to AAA, the country’s biggest motoring
organization.  Other measures of confidence have been mixed. The
Conference Board’s gauge unexpectedly rose in July for the first
time in five months, while the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan’s index fell to the lowest level of the year.  Meals Out  Demand at some restaurants has started to cool. McDonald’s
Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain, said sales at
stores open at least 13 months were unchanged worldwide in July,
partly because the weaker  U.S. economy  weighed on consumers.
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. and Starbucks Corp. have reported
sales growth has started to slow.  Higher-end merchants are also feeling the pinch.  Ralph
Lauren  Corp., the retailer of its namesake brand clothing,
projected quarterly sales that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Tiffany & Co. cut forecasts for the year and Coach Inc. posted
sales that trailed analysts’ projections.  “We don’t expect to have a true read on the health of
consumer until we’re through fall and holiday selling periods,”
Roger Farah, president and chief operating officer at Ralph
Lauren, said on an Aug. 8 earnings call. “By then we should
also have a better understanding of the political landscape in
the U.S.”  Presidential Election  Today’s report also showed political affiliations continue
to sway sentiment. The measure of confidence among Democrats was
higher than that of Republicans for a record 20th straight week.
The gauge for political  independents , a key swing group in this
year’s presidential election, fell to minus 48.7, matching its
lowest reading this year.  Confidence among American men fell to the lowest level of
the year, today’s figures showed. It marked the 13th time since
1990 that the index has fallen below women’s confidence gauge.  “One likely reason is women’s greater Democratic
allegiance and higher support for  Barack Obama  in this election
year, sentiment that can be expressed in economic assessments,”
 Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates in New
York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement.  The confidence gauge among 45-to-54 years old slumped to
the lowest level since 2009.  The group “is likely having a difficult time rebuilding
nest eggs following the recession amidst weak wage growth,”
Brusuelas said.  Lower-Income Households  Lower-income households were also more pessimistic last
week, with declines in confidence among Americans earning less
than $40,000 a year.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  