-- Bolt Sweeps Sprints, U.S. Women Win Soccer, Runner Fractures Leg
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-08-10T00:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/hungary-germany-win-two-gold-medals-at-london-olympic-games.html
Usain Bolt completed his second
straight sprint sweep, the U.S. women’s soccer team won gold by
avenging a loss to  Japan  and relay runner Manteo Mitchell pulled
off one of the most heroic acts of the London Olympics.  Nicola Adams of Britain, Katie Taylor of Ireland and
Claressa Shields of the U.S. became the first Olympic champions
in women’s boxing, which is making its debut. Americans won in
women’s water polo, men’s triple jump and decathlon as the U.S.
moved atop the standings with 39 golds and 90 medals overall.  Bolt led a 1-2-3 Jamaican finish in the 200 meters while
becoming the first man to successfully defend titles at both 100
and 200 meters.  “I’m now a legend, I’m also the greatest athlete to
live,” Bolt, 25, told reporters. “Jamaica has proven that we
are the greatest sprint country.”  There are 17 medal events scheduled for today, including
six in track and field. Heading into the final three days of the
2012 Olympics, the U.S. leads second-place  China  by two golds
and 10 total medals.  Bolt ran a time of 19.32 seconds at the Olympic Stadium,
with teammates Yohan Blake winning the silver medal in 19.44 and
Warren Weir taking the bronze in 19.84. Bolt retained his 100-
meter title five days ago in an Olympic-record 9.63 seconds.  The U.S. women’s soccer team won its third straight gold
medal, beating world champion Japan 2-1. Carli Lloyd, 30, scored
both goals for the Americans and Yuki Ogimi, 25, scored for
Japan.  American Revenge  The victory gave the Americans revenge after Japan beat
them in the 2011 Women’s World Cup final in a penalty shootout.  “My heart goes out to Carli,” U.S. goalkeeper Hope Solo
told reporters. “She is a big-time player who steps up when she
needs to.”  World record-holder Ashton Eaton, 24, and reigning two-time
world champion Trey Hardee, 28, gave the U.S. a 1-2 decathlon
finish. Christian Taylor, 22, and Will Claye, 21, had an
American gold-silver showing in the men’s triple jump.  Claye won bronze in the long jump earlier in the week, and
is the first man to win medals in the long and triple jumps at
the same Olympics since Naoto Tajima of Japan at the 1936 Berlin
games.  Mitchell helped the U.S. qualify for tonight’s final of the
men’s 1,600-meter relay while running with a broken leg in the
heats yesterday.  “I felt it break,” Mitchell, 25, said in a statement
released by USA Track and Field. “I heard it. I even put out a
little war cry but the crowd was so loud you couldn’t hear it. I
wanted to just lie down. It felt like somebody literally just
snapped my leg in half.”  ‘An Inspiration’  Mitchell originally hurt himself three days earlier by
missing a step as he walked up a flight of stairs at the Olympic
Village, according to USA Track and Field.  “Manteo has become an inspiration and a hero for his
teammates,” Max Siegel, the organization’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “Without his courage and
determination to finish, Team USA would not be at the starting
line in the final.”  The U.S. got gold in women’s water polo with an 8-5 win
against  Spain . Six of the 13 players on the U.S. roster are
members of the  New York  Athletic Club, whose athletes have
competed in every modern Olympics since the first in 1896.  Kenya’s David Rudisha set the world record in winning the
men’s 800-meter gold medal. Rudisha, 23, won in a time of 1
minute, 40.91 seconds, breaking his own previous mark of
1:41.01.  Women’s Boxing  In women’s boxing, Adams won the flyweight division,
Taylor, 26, took the lightweight title and the 17-year-old
Shields won the middleweight crown.  “I am so happy and overwhelmed with joy right now,”
Adams, 29, said. “I have wanted this all my life and I have
done it.”  The U.S. beat Australia 86-73 in the women’s basketball
semifinals to extend its Olympic winning streak to 40 games. The
Americans will face  France  in tomorrow’s final.  The U.S. also reached the women’s volleyball final with a
3-0 win against  South Korea . The Americans will meet  Brazil ,
which beat Japan 3-0, for the gold medal tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch at the London Olympics at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  