-- Muni Bond Downgrades by Moody’s in Quarter Total Most Since 2000
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-09T18:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/muni-bond-downgrades-by-moody-s-in-quarter-total-most-since-2000.html
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
290 municipal issuers from April 1 through June 30, the most for
any quarter since 2000, led by cities and school districts still
recovering from the longest recession since the 1930s.  It was the 14th-straight quarter that downgrades exceeded
upgrades, Moody’s said in a report today. There were 4.4
downgrades for every rating raised. The cuts include the 90
 California  redevelopment authorities reduced by the New York-
based rating company.  “We expect downgrades to continue outpacing upgrades in
the second half of 2012 as local governments navigate an
increasingly difficult budgeting environment characterized by
anemic revenue growth and significant expenditure pressure on
wages and post-employment benefits,” Moody’s said in the
report.  Local-government tax revenue has fallen for six straight
quarters, according to a report from the Nelson A.  Rockefeller
Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York. About half of
Moody’s downgrades in the quarter affected bonds sold by cities
and school districts, with many in California and Michigan,
according to the report.  Bonds issued by  Detroit , which is seeking to avoid a state
takeover of its finances, and Stockton, California, which filed
for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection on June 28, were among those
downgraded by Moody’s in the second quarter, according to the
report.  No state general-obligation debt was downgraded in the
three months through June 30, though Moody’s outlook for states
remains negative as potential federal funding cuts and
increasing health-care and pension costs strain budgets,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  