-- Universal Music Said to Meet Regulators Amid EMI Cuts
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-08-10T07:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/universal-music-said-to-meet-regulators-amid-emi-cuts.html
EMI , the record label of the
Beatles, known more recently for debt and disposals, may become
even smaller than buyer  Universal Music Group  has proposed, as
competitors say suggested cuts don’t go far enough.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music unit and European Union
regulators met yesterday to discuss if the offer to sell 60
percent of EMI’s European assets satisfies competition concerns,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Some third
parties who looked at the proposals under an EU review process
say they don’t go far enough in reducing the presence of the
world’s largest record company in some European markets,
according to two other people.  Universal Music agreed to buy EMI from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last
year for 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion). It may also have to
dispose of global rights to EMI assets and put more up for sale
to appease European Union regulators. That would make the iconic
London-based label less attractive for Vivendi, saddled with
debt and under investor pressure to improve earnings, as it
faces a deadline next month to pay for EMI.  “If  Universal Music  has to give up the global rights for
everything it would push the deal toward unprofitability,” said
Simon Dyson, an analyst at  Informa Media & Telecoms . “Universal
has invested a lot of money into this deal and if it doesn’t go
through, then they have to sell EMI, and companies won’t offer
them anything near what they paid for it.”  Representatives for the European Commission, Universal and
EMI declined to comment.  Coldplay, Gorillaz  Universal Music last month offered to dispose of EMI’s
Parlophone Records, home to Coldplay and Gorillaz, in the U.K.,
while keeping the label’s Beatles songs, according to people
familiar with the matter. It said it would also sell labels
including EMI Classics, Virgin Classics and EMI units in
countries such as France, Belgium, Poland and  Sweden .  While some rivals oppose the package, Universal Music was
told yesterday that a majority of third parties found its
concessions sufficient, one of the people said, adding that the
parties will continue to meet to refine the disposals.  If Universal Music also sells global rights, the value of
EMI disposals may be as much as 300 million euros ($370
million), said one person familiar with the matter. Universal
Music has budgeted in case it must divest global rights, said
the person.  First Breakup  Vivendi dropped 1.1 percent to 15.57 euros at of 9:26 a.m.
in Paris. The stock had declined 3.8 percent this year through
yesterday, valuing the company at 20.5 billion euros.  Citigroup agreed in November to sell EMI’s recorded music
and publishing business in separate transactions for a combined
$4.1 billion. Universal Music agreed to buy EMI’s recorded
division while a Sony Corp.-led group agreed $2.2 billion for
publishing. Citigroup seized EMI from  Guy Hands ’s private equity
firm, Terra Firma Partners Limited, in February 2011 after it
failed to meet loan terms. Hands bought EMI for 4 billion pounds
in 2007.  Under Hands, who cut jobs and reorganized the business,
acts including the  Rolling Stones ,  Paul McCartney , Queen and
Radiohead left the label.  EMI’s recorded business, which houses the Beatles and
artists including Coldplay, Katy Perry and  David Guetta , saw its
headcount drop by 34 percent in recent years, artists and
repertoire spending was cut by more than half and the roster of
artists fell by 44 percent, according to internal documents of
the label obtained by Bloomberg.  ‘Better Custodians’  Uncertainty over EMI’s ownership “deterred new artist
sign-ons or renewals,” the documents stated. “Large advances
are no longer the norm at EMI.”  Alice Enders  of Enders Analysis in London estimates the
global recorded music market will lose almost half its value
between 2005 and 2016. A combination of EMI and Universal Music
makes sense because EMI gets much of its revenue from catalog
rights while Universal leans more heavily on new releases, she
said.  “EMI has been raped by financiers over the past 10 years
trying to squeeze it for cash without a passion for the
industry,” said Lohan Presencer, chief executive officer at the
U.K.’s  Ministry of Sound , a network of independent record
labels. “We as an industry are better custodians of it than
venture capitalists.”  Market Power  Impala and Merlin, independent record label groups in
Brussels and  London , have publicly opposed the EMI purchase,
saying the deal would give Universal Music too much power in
many European markets.  “I remain steadfast in my view that the best outcome for
consumers is for this merger to be blocked,” Merlin CEO  Charles
Caldas  said this week in an e-mail. “If the merger goes
through, even with the kinds of concessions suggested in the
press, we think it will result in fewer choices and higher
prices. Universal has plenty enough market power as it is. They
should not have more.”  Another party that reviewed Universal Music’s proposals
under the EU process called for more disposals in European
markets such as Germany, Italy and  Spain  as well as worldwide
rights for all assets, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Enders said the divestment of global rights at EMI would
probably also satisfy competition concerns of U.S. regulators.
The Federal Trade Commission is also examining the purchase.  The Sony-led group won European Union approval in April to
buy EMI publishing after agreeing to sell the global rights to
catalogs that included hits by  Robbie Williams  and  Ozzy Osbourne . The deal was approved in the U.S. in late June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  