-- Murdered Crows, Adams’s West, Art Jamming: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/murdered-crows-adams-s-west-art-jamming-lance-esplund.html
A soft pool of light beckons like
campfire at the center of the darkened  Park Avenue Armory Drill
Hall  in  New York .  If you enter the vast space as I did, during a lull in
Janet Cardiff and George Bures Miller’s three-part, 30-minute
sound installation, “The Murder of Crows,” the echoes and
creaks of your footsteps will alert others to your approach.  A few people mill around in shadows, but most occupy some
of the 60 wooden folding chairs arranged in a semicircle around
an old card table, which supports a lone gramophone horn lying
on its side like a wounded animal.  Propped on chairs, mounted on tripods, suspended from the
ceiling and sitting on the floor are 98 audiophile-quality
speakers which envelop you in a multi-track sphere of sound.  The Canadian  team  has created sound installations at times
carnivalesque and Kafkaesque. Here 1970s rock-opera meets dream
analysis, while Cardiff, as if under hypnosis, narrates her
actual nightmares in which limbs are amputated and cats and
babies are fed into killing machines.  Her gentle, tinny voice, like that of a soothsayer heard
through a seashell, emanates from the gramophone.  Cardiff’s disturbing imagery and a soothing lullaby are
accompanied by the sounds of orchestral music, waves crashing
against the shore, wind, acoustic guitar, a marching band and
cawing crows flying overhead.  Sigmund Freud  would have a field day here with Cardiff’s
dreams. But for the rest of us, this pleasant, underdeveloped
yet overwrought work -- which mistakes sincerity for
authenticity -- offers little to chew on.  “The Murder of Crows,” presented in association with the
 Mostly Mozart Festival , runs through Sept. 9 at the Park Avenue
Armory, 643 Park Ave. Citibank is the 2012 season sponsor.
Information: +1-212-744-8180;  http://www.armoryonpark.org .  ‘The Jam’  Further downtown is another layered, multidimensional
exhibition.  Steven Harvey Fine Art Projects  has turned the
typical summer invitational into a jam session, in which art,
music, arts education and environment all interweave.  Drawing its title from the 1970s breakbeat funk hit by
Graham Central Station, the show begins with a retro-psychedelic
decorative gallery mural by Andrea Bergart and Matt Phillips.  A grouping of drawings and paintings -- figures,
abstractions, flowers and Janice Nowinski’s transcription of a
Boucher nude -- are installed.  The show’s finishing touch is a soundtrack by the talented
Brooklyn chill-wave band Color War.  When I stopped by, the gallery had been further transformed
by a drawing workshop led by Tara Geer, whose loosely tangled
mixed-media drawings are included here.  “The Jam” is uneven. Its premise and execution are shaky.
In the back gallery, however, a 1959 abstract painting by Alfred
Jensen, backed by Color War’s music and Bergart and Phillips’s
rhythmic Sumi-ink mural, put this show in the groove.  “The Jam” runs through Aug. 31 at Steven Harvey Fine Art
Projects, 208 Forsyth St. Information: +1-917-861-7312;
 http://shfap.com .  ‘Robert Adams’  For almost five decades, photographer Robert Adams, born in
1937, has been shooting the American West, specifically
 Colorado ,  Southern California  and the Pacific Northwest.  His full-career survey of more than 200 black-and-white
photographs at the  Yale University Art Gallery  chronicles the
postwar progress of manifest destiny, as untamed wilderness is
gradually blighted by suburban tract homes, mines,
deforestation, fast-food chains, big-box stores and strip malls.  Adams is primarily a plainspoken documentarian with a great
eye. He conveys suburban loneliness, the drama of gathering
prairie storms and the promising emptiness of the plains.  There is no mistaking his political views. He presents a
world deteriorating through development. Yet some of his images,
no matter how appealing, lack a clear sense of vision, as if the
artist is hiding behind the “objective” lens.  That said, there is not a single bad photograph here --
each one conjures aches for what is irretrievable.  A dozen or more masterpieces make it all worthwhile. They
include pictures of a Methodist church, a giant Sitka spruce
tree in  Oregon , nighttime tree shadows playing across a garage
door and a little boy peering at us from the back window of an
old Ford pickup truck.  “ Colorado Springs , Colorado” (1968), one of Adams’s early
photographs, is also one of his most representative. It depicts
a woman seen through the picture window of her ranch house.  Silhouetted, framed at the center of concentric rectangles,
she appears to have been pinned there by an entomologist.  “Robert Adams: The Place We Live, A Retrospective
Selection of Photographs” runs through Oct. 28 at the Yale
University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel St.,  New Haven ,  Connecticut .
Information: +1-203-423-0600;  http://artgallery.yale.edu .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  reviews and  dining  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 