-- Musk’s College Roommate Ressi Teaches Art of Startups: Interview
-- B y   A s h l e e   V a n c e
-- 2012-08-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/musk-s-college-roommate-ressi-teaches-art-of-startups-interview.html
Adeo Ressi, whose Founder Institute
offers programs helping entrepreneurs start their companies,
talks about taking risks and high jinks with his college roommate,
billionaire  Elon Musk , in the Aug. 13 issue of  Bloomberg
Businessweek.   Question: How did you come to start a car-service company?
What kind of candidate do you look for to join your entrepreneur
training program at the  Founder Institute ?  Ressi: The most successful entrepreneurs in the world have
a combination of the right type of personality and fortunate
life circumstance. A lot of them have been doing it most of
their life. For whatever reason -- they dropped out of school,
or they wanted to join a classic profession that didn’t work out
-- the next thing they know they’re an entrepreneur.  But the world conditions you very well to be an employee,
to work for someone else. Just look at banks: They don’t know
how to finance entrepreneurs. When I want to buy a house and get
it financed, a banker looks at my situation and is like, “I
don’t understand. The salary history is all over the map.” They
don’t know what to do with me. But if I had been earning
$125,000 a year for the last three years, they’d be like, “Oh,
easy. You’re preapproved for this.”  The world deals with people who have stable employment
histories very well, and so what we try to do is, we try to find
people who have the raw material and have been put into
situations where they are employees and recondition them.  Question: A lot of countries and regions have tried to
clone Silicon Valley, and it usually starts with building some
sort of research center. But you’re trying to clone something
different.  Ressi: Culture. Silicon Valley has very little to do with
the weather or the fact that there’s Stanford. If anything, we
probably have fewer universities than  Boston . But at the end of
the day, a lot of it is the collaborative culture that exists
here. We try to recreate that.  When we opened a chapter in Bogota,  Colombia , there was a
huge number of successful technology people who’d never met one
another. When I say huge number, I’m talking about 10. Ten of
the top 10 people had never met one another. How does that
happen? We had a lunch for our program’s mentors, and they were,
“Oh, I know all about your company. Nice to finally meet you.”
I’m sitting there, I’m like, “How do you not know one
another?” It’s just different levels of evolution in these
markets.  Vietnam  is very similar.  Question: One of the things you bring to the table is your
network of contacts, including some very famous, successful tech
people. Elon Musk, for example.  Ressi: Yeah. I have known Elon for 20 years. We were both
transfer students [at the  University of Pennsylvania ] and got
put in a freshman dorm. The social life there was horrible, so I
said, “Let’s start a nightclub,” and he’s like, “OK.” So we
moved into a house and started a nightclub in the house.  It was a full-out, unlicensed speakeasy. We would have as
many as 500 people. We would charge $5, and it would be pretty
much all you could drink -- beer and jello shots and other
things. Our second house had 14 rooms -- and there were three of
us living in there. There was so much room in the freaking house
we would actually use spent kegs and put plywood on top, and
that was furniture.  We had this desk tipped over on its side, painted all
fluorescent. It was art. I came home one day, and it was gone.
I’m like, “What the hell?” I’m running around the house
looking for this desk. I go into Elon’s room. He’d basically
taken the desk, painted it black, set it up, put his computer on
it, and was using it. I’m like, “Dude, that’s like installation
art in our party house.” And he says, “But I needed a desk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashlee Vance in  San Francisco  at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  