-- Visa, MasterCard Swipe-Fee Plaintiffs Get October Deadline
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-09T22:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/visa-mastercard-swipe-fee-plaintiffs-get-october-deadline-1-.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
plaintiffs in a lawsuit over swipe, interchange, fees have until
Oct. 19 to formally request approval of a more than $6 billion
settlement, according to a filing unsealed in  Brooklyn , New
York, federal court.  U.S. Magistrate Judge James Orenstein ordered that the
agenda be made public today following a hearing on the status of
the case, which was the first court appearance since the
settlement was unveiled last month.  The deal, which would settle allegations of interchange fee
price-fixing, promises to provide merchants with cash payments
as well as a temporary reduction in interchange fees and the
potential for surcharges to cover future interchange costs.  Opposition to the accord has grown over the past few weeks,
with groups including the  National Cooperative Grocers
Association  and retail giants Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target
Corp. issuing statements saying the settlement doesn’t do enough
for merchants.  “We are making progress and getting the underlying
documents drafted,” K. Craig Wildfang, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in court regarding a motion for approval of the
settlement. “We are going as fast as we can. Not as fast as we
would like.”  The National Cooperative Grocers Association and the
National Association of Convenience Stores plan to fight the
settlement in court, Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer for the groups,
said in a phone interview.  ‘Serious Issues’  “There are serious issues with the settlement,” he said.
“The trade association named plaintiffs who came out against
it, all of the members of their boards -- flesh and blood
merchants -- voted against it.”  The convenience store group, which issued its statement
within minutes of the settlement’s disclosure on July 13, said
the deal amounts to only two months’ worth of roughly
$50 billion in swipe fees collected annually by payment
networks. The deal also doesn’t prevent Visa or MasterCard from
raising fees in the future, the group said. Other measures under
the deal would only be allowed under strict oversight of Visa
and MasterCard, making them “unworkable” for merchants, the
group said.  Target said in a statement that the proposed settlement
would “perpetuate a broken system.” Wal-Mart said in a
statement that “we encourage all merchants to put consumers
first and reject the settlement.”  Final Approval  Visa Chairman and CEO Joseph Saunders told investors in a
conference call on July 25 that he expected a federal judge to
grant preliminary approval to the settlement in the fall. The
court must also grant final approval to the deal before it can
be implemented.  The accord followed roughly a roughly a seven-year legal
battle, according to lawyers for the plaintiffs.  “This settlement agreement is the result of seven years of
negotiation which makes us confident that the court will agree
that this is fair to all parties,” Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman
for the Electronic Payments Coalition, which favors the deal,
said in an e-mail statement.  “The recent statements that we’ve heard from a handful of
retailers are nothing new and have already been considered
during the course of this long negotiation,” she said.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 