-- Wells Fargo’s Home-Loan Hegemony Spurs Stability Risk: Mortgages
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-09T21:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/wells-fargo-s-home-loan-hegemony-spurs-stability-risk-mortgages.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s grip on the U.S.
mortgage market has tripped alarms among regulators and
lawmakers concerned that the bank’s control over one of every
three new loans could hurt consumers and undermine markets.  Wells Fargo and its two largest rivals,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and U.S. Bancorp, made half of all U.S. home loans in the
first half, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry
publication. Wells Fargo alone controlled 33.1 percent. In
mortgage servicing, which involves billing and collections, four
firms have 50 percent of the business, and Wells Fargo is No. 1
in that field, too, with 18.5 percent.  The concentration in the mortgage business has drawn
warnings from the inspector general for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , the head of Ginnie Mae,  Fitch Ratings , and congressmen,
including one from Wells Fargo’s home state, about growing risks
to borrowers, taxpayers, investors, housing markets and the
financial system. Scenarios include a setback or strategy shift
at Wells Fargo that could choke off credit for homebuyers and
compel the U.S. to again pump in money to keep the housing
market from seizing up.  “A concentration of issuers creates an oligopoly,” said
 Bill Frey , head of Greenwich Financial Services LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut, whose firm invests in, creates and
trades mortgage bonds and advises bondholders. The result will
be “higher mortgage costs for generations, as well as slower
economic growth. Housing is the keystone of our economy.”  Market Disruptions  As recently as the 1990s, a company with 7 percent market
share would have been considered a large player in a market that
was broadly distributed among savings and loans, community
banks, credit unions, mortgage brokers and commercial banks,
according to  David Stevens , chief executive officer at the
 Mortgage Bankers Association  and a former official in the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, led by Chief Executive
Officer John Stumpf, 58, controlled 15 percent of the market in
2007, before the financial crisis triggered by falling home
prices and souring mortgages hobbled rivals such as  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “The nation benefits from a broadly distributed mortgage-
finance system,” said Stevens, whose organization represents
more than 2,400 firms involved in housing. “If the market is
too concentrated on one company, and if they were to change
their strategy around mortgage originations or got into
financial trouble and had to leave the market altogether you
could have market disruptions.”  ‘Strategic Vision’  Officials aren’t suggesting that Wells Fargo did anything
improper to emerge as the biggest player in mortgages, or that
the bank, ranked fourth by assets in the U.S., is putting its
own soundness at risk.  Instead, as they seek to avoid another financial crisis,
regulators’ focus is on what might happen if Wells Fargo’s
enthusiasm wanes for housing, which comprised almost a fifth of
the  U.S. economy  in more prosperous years. Last month, the bank
said it will stop funding loans originated and sold by
independent mortgage brokers.  “The home lending business is a key part of Wells Fargo’s
strategic vision for the future,” Vickee Adams, a bank
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have always
taken a longer-term view of the home lending business and we
have succeeded by lending responsibly to customers, one at a
time.”  Cowboy Dress  Adams said the lender should be judged by its share of the
retail channel, 16.3 percent in the first quarter, rather than
the entire business, which also involves buying loans from
small- and medium-sized lenders. In January, sales managers in
the  San Francisco  Bay Area dressed as cowboys to urge retail
loan officers to reach for 40 percent of the new-home purchase
market, according to two attendees who asked that their names
not be used because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, has
said he’s concerned about concentration and urged officials in a
May speech to consider changes. Freddie Mac -- with Fannie Mae,
the recipients of nearly $190 billion in government aid --bought
82 percent of the single-family loans it purchased in 2011 from
10 firms, filings show, with 40 percent from Wells Fargo and
JPMorgan.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac rely on Wells Fargo and other
large servicers to collect payments for the loans they
guarantee. That makes them vulnerable to the business practices
and financial health of a few large banks, said Steve A. Linick,
the Federal Housing Finance Agency’s inspector general. The top
10 serviced 75 percent of single-family mortgages guaranteed by
Fannie Mae, according to company filings.  Safety and Soundness  “A limited number of servicers poses a safety and
soundness risk to the enterprises,” Linick said in a phone
interview. This “ultimately could cause losses to taxpayers.”  The effect on servicing has also drawn the attention of Ted Tozer, president of Ginnie Mae, a government-owned corporation
that guarantees mortgage bonds holding loans backed by the
 Federal Housing Administration  and other agencies.  “If the quality of servicing deteriorates, you have to
deal with it and that puts a lot of oversight responsibility on
us, no question about it,” said Tozer, whose Washington-based
operation guarantees more than $1 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities. “That’s one of the big challenges.”  Higher Costs  Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, declined to
make DeMarco available for an interview. In a May 15 speech in
Washington, he said policymakers “need to think hard” about
how regulations have contributed to the current environment, and
consider ways to broaden the market.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman at New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment, as did Tom Joyce at Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp. JPMorgan ranks first by assets in the U.S. among
commercial lenders and U.S. Bancorp is fifth.  Spokespeople for the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, which regulate banks, also declined
to comment.  Aside from the impact on Fannie and Freddie, lawmakers and
consumer advocates say the lack of options for mortgage credit
is causing borrowers to pay more than they should. Lenders
reported $13.7 billion in mortgage-banking income through the
first six months, according to IMF, the industry publication.
That was capped by Wells Fargo’s record $2.89 billion income in
the second quarter on $131 billion in loans.  “To the extent there is a lack of competition, that’s
costing homeowners money,” Rep.  John Campbell , a California
Republican on the House Financial Services and Budget
committees, said in a phone interview. “As low as  interest
rates  are, I’d argue they could be lower.”  Consumer Cost  Federal Reserve officials have driven down interest rates
to make it cheaper for consumers and businesses to borrow. The
average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell to a record
low of 3.49 percent in the week ended July 26, according to
Freddie Mac. Further efforts to reduce rates may fall short
because, despite the profits, lenders have been slow to add
capacity, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Vipul Jain wrote in an
Aug. 3 report.  Even at current rates, Campbell said, the housing recovery
-- which he considers central to a U.S. economic revival -- has
been sluggish. Home prices in 20 cities fell 0.7 percent in May
from a year earlier, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.
While that’s the smallest 12-month decline since September 2010,
prices are still 33 percent below the 2006 peak.  Since 1975, home purchases, new home construction and
remodeling has accounted for almost 18 percent of U.S. economic
output, according to the National Association of Home Builders,
which cited government data. That figure fell to less than 15
percent in the first quarter.  Not Sustainable  While the home sales would have been worse without Wells
Fargo, and to a lesser extent JPMorgan or U.S. Bancorp, it’s not
sustainable, Campbell said.  U.S. officials including DeMarco haven’t taken large-scale
steps to reduce Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s reliance on a few
firms, and Campbell said he hasn’t taken up the issue with the
government mortgage firms.  Wells Fargo’s leading market share isn’t likely to draw the
ire of antitrust monitors, at least not yet, according to Makan Delrahim, an attorney at Brownstein, Hyatt, Farber, Schreck LLP
and a former attorney at the Department of Justice’s antitrust
division. The U.S. doesn’t track explicit market-share
thresholds, meaning a firm can control 90 percent market share
if it gets there by offering better products or services and not
by unduly taking advantage of its market position, he said.  Buffett Approval  Wells Fargo’s own health probably isn’t at risk, either,
according to analysts. The bank’s reputation for management has
been burnished by having billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. as its biggest shareholder, at least a decade-long
track record of posting annual profits, and its history of
avoiding some of the industry’s worst underwriting practices.  In 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission showed that
Paulson & Co. had rejected subprime mortgage bonds from Wells
Fargo when it was trying to find assets that the hedge fund
could bet against. The reason: the quality of the underlying
loans was too good.  “Wells did the best job of the big players in the mortgage
market and therefore they’ve garnered share as the other fellows
have fallen by the wayside,” Buffett said in a July 13
interview. “They’ve got a sensational mortgage operation.”  Wells Fargo was unchanged today at $33.82 in New York. The
stock has advanced 23 percent this year.  Bank executives also pride themselves on the diversity of
their revenue sources, often highlighting the reduced risk in
having more than 80 businesses. The second-quarter earnings
supplement included a slide titled “continued strong
diversification” that showed 10 sources of fee revenue.  Systemic Effect  “We believe because of the diversification and because of
the vision that we have for the company that we can perform in
almost any environment,” Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said at a June 12 investor conference. Sloan has also said
its “debatable” whether Wells Fargo belongs on regulatory
lists of the largest global banks required to hold extra capital
because their failure could threaten the financial system.  Still, the growth in mortgages has started to challenge
thresholds long cited by former Chairman and CEO Richard Kovacevich, who said a diversified bank would have no business
that’s more than 10 percent of revenue over an economic cycle.
Mortgage banking was 13.6 percent in the second quarter.
Servicing and origination accounted for 29 percent of fees.  Credit Rating  The rise may dent the bank’s credit, according to Fitch
Ratings. The firm said last month that Wells Fargo’s rating of
AA-minus, with a stable outlook, may be pressured if it doesn’t
reduce its mortgage dealings. Fitch said it expects the
concentration to moderate over time, and swaps traders pay the
smallest premium among the six largest U.S. banks to protect the
company’s debt against losses.  Rep.  Brad Miller  would welcome the moderation, said the
North Carolina Democrat, whose state hosts some of the former
Wachovia Corp. operations bought by Wells Fargo in 2008. Miller
said in a phone interview that he’s “very concerned” about the
concentrated mortgage market, and has introduced legislation
that would cap the size of the biggest banks.  “It appears that Wells is inheriting the market because
the other banks are putting their energies into other things,”
said Miller, a member of the Financial Services panel.  For now, regulators and lawmakers are more focused on
keeping money flowing into home loans and are unlikely to force
change, according to Bart Naylor, who works on financial policy
at Public Citizen, a Washington-based advocacy group.  “To the extent a regulator wants there to be a thriving
mortgage market,” they may defer to the largest lenders, Naylor
said. “However, they should be cautioned that leading market
share has led to oblivion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 