-- West China Says Business Healthy After Short-Seller Note
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-09T10:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/west-china-says-business-healthy-after-short-seller-note.html
West China Cement Ltd. (2233)  said its
business was “healthy” after short-seller Glaucus Research
Group questioned its corporate governance and financial
statements.  “I don’t know why the company was targeted,” Chairman
Zhang Jimin told reporters in  Hong Kong  today. “Our business is
healthy and the outlook is robust.” Zhang owns about 40 percent
of the Xi’an-based company, according data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  cement-maker  fell 1.5 percent in Hong Kong trading
today after the report by Glaucus, which seeks to profit from
declines in companies’ stock. Moody’s Investors Service had last
year included West China among a list of Chinese companies with
risky business practices.  “The market has some concern about this company,” said
Michelle Leung, a Hong Kong-based BOC International Holdings
Ltd. analyst. Still, this isn’t new and not all of the points
cited by Glaucus were valid, she said.  The  cement-maker  closed at HK$1.28 after earlier dropping
as much as 16 percent to HK$1.09. The  stock , which was halted
yesterday, has fallen 55 percent since the Moody’s report last
year.  E-mail messages to Glaucus weren’t answered and no contact
number is listed on the website of the company, which identifies
itself as a California-based research group that also engages in
short-selling. The website says its research director is Matthew
Wiechert, and that he has a background in  investment banking .  Sino-Forest Corp., a Chinese tree grower, sought  bankruptcy
protection  in Canada in March after being accused of overstating
assets by short-seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  