-- What’s Fed to Do as 15 of 18 Banks Fixing Libor Aren’t American
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-08-09T23:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/what-s-fed-to-do-as-15-of-18-banks-fixing-libor-aren-t-american.html
Mark Calabria at the  Cato Institute 
usually isn’t shy about criticizing  Timothy F. Geithner . Yet he
says it was ultimately up to the British to deal with the
manipulation of Libor, as only three of the 18 banks that set
the London interbank offered rate are based in the U.S.  Geithner was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York in 2008 when he learned about banks underreporting Libor,
the global benchmark for $500 trillion of securities. He sent a
memo in June of that year to Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  raising concerns and recommending changes in how the rate
is calculated. Little has been done to address the issue since,
and King said last month that he only just learned of wrongdoing
and Geithner didn’t highlight malpractice.  “Geithner is not the primary person in the world
responsible for Libor,” said Calabria, Cato’s director of
financial-regulation studies in Washington and a former Senate
Banking Committee aide. “There were items on that memo that
were absolutely first and last the responsibility of the British
Bankers’ Association and by extension the Bank of England.”  Four years after Geithner sent his recommendations,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million pounds ($453
million) for rigging borrowing costs, and regulators in both
countries have defended their reaction to the manipulation. The
failure to work together across jurisdictions highlights the
need for better collaboration among policy makers and regulators
worldwide, said  Kevin Hassett , a director of economic policy
studies at the  American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  Essential Coordination  “Coordination between central banks is essential,” said
Hassett, a former Fed economist. “We’re at this moment where
Europe is very close to a banking crisis that will be made much
worse if there’s this view that international central bankers
don’t have a clue and don’t communicate well with each other.”  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the BBA that asks  banks  to estimate how much it would cost to
borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. The scandal cost Barclays Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  his job, and at least a dozen other banks,
including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Bank of America
Corp. , are being investigated.  Geithner, now U.S. Treasury secretary, advised King in the
memo to “establish and publish best practices for calculating
and reporting rates, including procedures designed to prevent
accidental or deliberate misreporting.”  Raising Concerns  “We brought those concerns to their attention and we felt,
and I still believe this, that it was really going to be on them
to take responsibility for fixing this,” Geithner told the
House Financial Services Committee in Washington on July 25. He
also said he raised concerns to other U.S. regulators, including
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  While British authorities have jurisdiction over Libor,
Geithner’s response to the manipulation still has fueled
criticism that he didn’t act forcefully enough to stop crime and
protect markets.  The New York Fed released documents on July 13 in response
to a request from Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Republican
from Texas, showing it was aware Barclays underreported Libor
rates in 2008. Neugebauer asked for more on July 23, covering
all communications from August 2007 until July of this year
between employees at the New York Fed and banks involved in
setting the rate.  ‘Here Was Fraud’  “If they were having structural problems, I thought your
e-mail was appropriate, but what was being disclosed here was
fraud; this rate was being manipulated,” he said at the July 25
hearing, referring to the released material.  During the hearing, Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas
Republican, said it appeared Geithner treated the Libor concerns
“almost as a curiosity or something akin to jaywalking, as
opposed to highway robbery.”  Calabria said Geithner should have investigated the
internal controls at the banks he was in charge of overseeing --
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  -- to
regulate “by example,” even if the bulk of Libor-setting
institutions are based overseas.  Criticism of the Fed’s reaction probably will continue,
said Hassett, a former Bloomberg News columnist.  Libor “is going to turn out to be a very large issue, and
the fact that Geithner is saying he did everything he could to
address the problem suggests that the Fed was asleep at the
wheel while there was bad stuff going on,” he said.  Lowball Submissions  The Bank of England initially became embroiled in the
scandal over an October 2008 phone call between Diamond and  Paul Tucker , at the time markets director of the U.K. central bank. A
memo Diamond wrote about the call suggested Tucker might have
hinted Barclays could lowball its Libor submissions.  The Bank of England has defended itself by saying that it
thought the system was dysfunctional rather than dishonest and
that it lacked the powers to make changes.  The Libor scandal has thrown into question Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s plan to put the Bank of England in primary
charge of banking regulation. In 2010, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  announced that he wanted to abolish the
Financial Services Authority, the watchdog set up in 1997 by the
previous government, and give most of its powers to the central
bank.  King told Parliament’s Treasury Committee July 17 in London
that Geithner’s e-mail included recommendations rather than
allegations at a time when global regulators were expressing
concern about the quality of the borrowing benchmark.  Alleged Wrongdoing  “Mr. Geithner was sending that to us as a suggestion for
how these rules should be constructed and we agreed with him,
but neither of us had evidence of wrongdoing,” King said. “The
first I knew of any alleged wrongdoing was when the reports came
out two weeks ago.”  The BBA reassessed its processes for setting Libor in 2008.
E-mails released in July showed that Bank of England officials
refused to be associated publicly with the review because it
didn’t make deep enough changes to the structure of governance
for the rate.  “One of the important points revealed by this episode is
that the coordination is very faulty and influenced strongly by
regulators defending their own turf and their own financial
centers,” said  Richard Portes , president of the Centre for
Economic Policy Research in London. The U.K. regards Libor’s use
across the globe as “one of the signs of London’s financial-
sector preeminence.”  Blibor Proposal  Dan Doctoroff , chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP,
proposed an alternative to Libor, dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank
Offered Rate, in a Wall Street Journal opinion piece this month.
Bloomberg LP is the parent of Bloomberg News.  One reason the Fed may have been loath to be more forceful
in its direction to the Bank of England is a culture of
deference to jurisdiction, Calabria said.  “There’s a reluctance” among central banks, “at least
among the top tier,” to criticize the behavior of peers
“because I don’t want you to criticize me,’” Calabria said.  When Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s second round of asset
purchases, announced in 2010, sparked complaints around the
world that he risked a surge in inflation, current and former
central bankers including Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  and former Bank of England policy maker  David Blanchflower  voiced support. Blanchflower is a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor.  Improve Coordination  On matters of regulation and financial soundness, officials
must improve their coordination across borders to strengthen the
global financial system, New York Fed President William C. Dudley repeatedly has said.  What’s needed are international guidelines for so-called
central counterparty clearinghouses that would back
standardized, over-the-counter derivatives trading worldwide, he
said in May. Resolution regimes also must be developed for
systemically important financial institutions that operate
across borders, he added.  Poor coordination may lead to a “race to the bottom” as
some officials may focus on what’s best for their institutions
instead of overall financial stability, Dudley said in
September.  It’s “very discouraging,” Portes said. “The way banks
are playing regulators off against each other over the Volcker
rule is a good example of why things aren’t going very well.”  Foreign Resistance  The U.S. has faced resistance from foreign governments
about its proposed ban on proprietary trading. The regulation,
named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the
Dodd-Frank financial regulatory act to restrict risky trades at
banks that operate with federal guarantees.  Central bankers and regulators from around the world have
voiced concern that the rule, which would apply to U.S.
operations of foreign banks, also may extend to activities
outside the country. While U.S. government securities aren’t
included in the proprietary trading ban, foreign securities
didn’t receive an exemption. The Treasury Department and
regulators received more than 17,000 comment letters, including
from Canada, the European Union, France and Japan.  “One of the things we’ve learned is the lowest common
denominator causes the problem,” Hassett said. “That’s a
serious cause of concern as the European crisis proceeds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  