-- Worst Drought Covers Nearly One-Fourth of Contiguous U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-09T15:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/worst-drought-covers-nearly-one-fourth-of-contiguous-u-s-.html
The two worst levels of drought now
grip nearly one-fourth of the lower 48 states, the U.S. Drought
Monitor reported.  About 24.1 percent of the region was suffering extreme or
exceptional drought in the week ended Aug. 7, up from 22.3
percent in the previous period and 18.3 percent last year,
according to the  monitor , based in Lincoln,  Nebraska .  While there has been some improvement in the drought in the
Midwest, that wasn’t the case in the Great Plains, said Mark Svoboda of the National Drought Mitigation Center in Lincoln.  “Maybe the drought overall is improving but the areas
hardest hit in the corn and bean belt have intensified,”
Svoboda said by telephone.  The drought has helped push corn prices to a record. World
food prices have surged 6.2 percent as dryness has also gripped
 Russia  and below-average monsoon rains fell in  India .  The primary corn and soybean agriculture areas in the U.S.
had their sixth-driest April-July growing season in records
dating back to 1895, the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  said yesterday.  Svoboda said the amount of corn-growing area affected by
the two worst categories of drought has jumped to 53 percent
from 14 percent in the past three weeks. For beans, it has
increased to 50 percent from 16.  Livestock Impact  In addition, 37 percent of the main livestock-producing
area is now covered by the two most-severe drought levels,
Svoboda said. Farmers and ranchers who can’t get feed at home
also can’t find it nearby because the drought is so widespread,
he said.  “Range, pasture and forage land has just been battered,”
Svoboda said. “This is something that we haven’t seen, save for
a couple of times, in the last hundred years.”  The Drought Monitor, a partnership with NOAA, the
mitigation center at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the
Agriculture Department, surveys dryness and categorizes drought
in four levels, from moderate to exceptional.  Drought considered moderate or worse decreased slightly in
the latest reporting period to about 62.5 percent of the lower
48 states, compared with 62.9 percent in the prior week and 32.3
percent last year, according to the monitor.  Svoboda said the improvement was in fringe areas.  U.S. Total  In the U.S. as a whole, including  Puerto Rico , drought now
covers 52.3 percent of the land, down from 52.7 percent in the
previous week. A year ago, 27.1 percent of the U.S. and Puerto
Rico was affected by drought.  Some dryness affects 70.2 percent of the U.S. and 78.1
percent of the contiguous 48 states.  Svoboda said the northern Plains have a chance for above-
normal rain next week, while the southern Plains and the lower
Midwest may see more dry conditions.  The U.S. is entering the time of year when the amount of
rainfall naturally begins to decline, Svoboda said.  “I don’t see a real drastic change in the situation unless
you are in the South and get a tropical system,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  