-- Yahoo Strategy Review May Result in Changes to Cash Plans
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-10T20:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/yahoo-ceo-strategy-review-may-result-in-changes-to-cash-plans.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  has embarked on a strategy review that may result
in a reversal of plans to restructure operations and return
billions of dollars in cash to shareholders.  The review could mean that the company alters plans to
return to shareholders the proceeds from the sale of Yahoo’s
stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  “Mayer is engaging in a review of the company’s business
strategy to enhance long term shareholder value,” Yahoo said in
the filing. The review will cover Yahoo’s “growth and
acquisition strategy, the restructuring plan the company began
implementing in the second quarter of 2012, and the company’s
cash position and planned capital allocation strategy.”  Mayer, who joined last month as CEO, is trying to drive a
turnaround at a company that suffered  three  straight years of
sales declines as Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. did a better job
attracting users and advertisers. On her watch, the company may
use at least part of the cash from the Alibaba Group deal to
improve products and build new ones, said Ron Josey, an analyst
at ThinkEquity LLC in  New York , who rates the stock a hold.  “She has a license to do what she wants,” he said. “CEO
Mayer didn’t come to Yahoo to sort of just wind down assets and
return cash to shareholders. I believe she has a longer-term
view.”  The shares dropped 5.4 percent to $15.15 at the close in
New York, the biggest decline since Oct. 31. The stock has
decreased 6.1 percent this year.  Job Cuts  Alibaba Group,  China ’s largest e-commerce provider, said in
May that it would repurchase about 20 percent of itself from
Yahoo for about $7.1 billion. Yahoo, set to receive at least
$6.3 billion in cash from the deal, said at the time that it
would return “substantially all” of the cash proceeds, after
taxes, to shareholders.  Mayer also is exploring whether to proceed with plans
outlined in April to cut about 2,000 jobs and reorganize the
company. The announcement was made under then-CEO  Scott Thompson , who left in May after failing to correct inaccuracies
in his academic record.  Yahoo has had five CEOs in the past three years, including
 Carol Bartz , who was fired in September.  Ross Levinsohn , interim
CEO, left the company after Mayer joined Yahoo.  While Yahoo is using the review to find ways to step up
growth, the prospect of further strategy shifts may prove
unsettling for some shareholders, Josey said.  “This is something that has been front and center among
investors for the longest time,” he said. “We’re in a
transitionary period. Nothing is set in stone. But it just
brings a concern about what is the future, where is the company
going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  