-- Yandex Discount to Mail.ru Is Buy to Auerbach: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-08-10T02:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/yandex-discount-to-mail-ru-is-buy-to-auerbach-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) ’s biggest discount in five
months to competitor Mail.ru Group Ltd., will shrink as  Russia ’s
most-used search engine doesn’t face the risks of further losses
by  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Auerbach Grayson & Co. said.  The Russian search engine slid 1 percent yesterday, sending
its enterprise value, or the sum of its equity and net debt, to
13.4 times estimated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s a 38 percent discount versus Mail.ru, the
largest Russian-language  Internet company , the widest gap since
March 1. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian stocks listed in the U.S. rose 0.1 percent to 94.37.  Yandex, based in the Hague, reiterated on July 31 its
 forecast  for a 40 percent to 45 percent revenue growth in 2012.
While the company receives more than 90 percent of sales from
online ads, Mail.ru, which holds stakes in Internet companies
 Facebook , Groupon Inc. and Zynga Inc., gets about 40 percent of
revenue from that source, Auerbach said. Facebook, the world’s
largest social-networking service, disappointed investors on
July 26 when its first earnings report as a public company
showed slower sales growth.  “It’s a good time to enter the trade of Yandex versus
Mail.ru,” Simon Mandel, the director of emerging Europe equity
sales at Auerbach said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters
in  New York  yesterday. “Mail.ru is too heavily associated with
risks relating to Facebook and other social media companies that
it has stakes in.”  Yandex fell to $20.90 in New York yesterday.  ‘Purer Play’  The  RTS stock-index futures  expiring in September lost 0.2
percent to 144,000. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest
U.S.-traded exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose
0.2 percent to $27.88. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, advanced 1.2 percent to
28.99, gaining for the first time in four days.  Internet targeted ads soared 50 percent in the first
quarter to 10.1 billion ruble ($320 million), according to the
Association of Communication Agencies of Russia. That compares
with a 10 percent increase in television ad spending and a 19
percent gain in radio advertisement in the first quarter, the
association, known as AKAR, said on its website.  “Yandex’s growth will continue, offering a refuge from
global growth deceleration,” Mandel said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. Yandex is “a much purer play on Russian online ad
spending,” he said.  ‘Time to Switch’  New York-based Auerbach has partnership agreements with
banks and brokers in 130 countries, according to the company.  “Yandex is the best way to get exposed to the growing
online advertising market in Russia and avoid risks related to
global Internet companies, particularly Facebook,” Konstantin Belov, analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by
phone yesterday. “It’s a good time to switch.”  Moscow-based  Mail.ru (MAIL)  fell 0.1 percent to $36.17 in  London ,
dropping for the first time in nine days. The global depositary
receipts jumped 39 percent in 2012, compared with a 6.1 percent
gain in Yandex shares.  Facebook, which has tumbled 45 percent since its initial
public offering in May, may drop further after the expiry on
Aug. 16 of a so-called lockup period, which bar insiders from
selling shares for a length of time after the IPO, Mandel and
Belov said.  Urals Gains  Brent oil for September settlement gained 1 percent to
$113.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, increased
1.7 percent to $114.10 per barrel, the highest since May 3.  Russia depended on revenue from oil and gas for 50 percent
of its 2011 budget.  “Russia’s non-oil companies, especially those focused on
domestic consumers, benefit the most from rising oil price,
because rising exports revenue translate into higher domestic
spending,” Igor Nuzhdin, an analyst at Nomos Bank, said by
phone from Moscow yesterday.  Crude for September delivery was little changed at $93.36 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Prices are
up 20 percent from $77.69 on June 28, the lowest close this
year.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM)  dropped the most since July 3, falling 4
percent to $8.49. The stock was the biggest decliner on the
Bloomberg Russia-US Index yesterday.  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of Russia’s natural gas
export monopoly, surged 2 percent to $24.95, the highest since
April 25, and was the biggest gainer on the gauge. The company
is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings on Aug. 13.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
was unchanged at HK$4.24 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:39 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.3 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  