-- Zynga Said to Give Stock to Keep Staff After Earnings Miss
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-10T20:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-09/zynga-is-said-to-grant-stock-awards-to-staff-after-earnings-miss.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest maker of
games played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website, doled out equity grants
to all full-time employees after an earnings shortfall caused a
share-price  decline  that eroded the value of existing grants, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Stock options  were given to all of Zynga’s full-time
workers shortly after its earnings report on July 25, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. Though the company routinely gives options and cash
bonuses to employees each quarter, this marked the first time
equity awards were given to all staff, the person said.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  aims to prevent a
stampede of talent after the stock plummeted 71 percent since
the initial public offering in December. Many employees who
joined before the IPO were paid partly in restricted stock
units, or RSUs, whose value has diminished as concerns over
growth prospects dragged on Zynga’s shares.  “It’s a proactive move to prevent mass exodus,” said
 Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  Dallas .
“It’s positive for morale and I think it’s the fair thing to
do.”  Stephanie Hess, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Zynga, declined to comment yesterday.  The company had 2,846 full-time employees at the end of
last year. An option gives the bearer the right to purchase
shares at a preset price at a specified time. Zynga had 77.4
million options outstanding, with a weighted average exercise
price of 76 cents apiece, as of June 30, according to a
 regulatory filing .  Meaningful Equity  Startups often supplement salaries and bonuses with equity
grants to entice employees to stick around in the run-up to and
months after an IPO.  “Stock ownership or equity-based incentives are an
important part of Silicon Valley culture,” Frank B. Glassner, a
partner at consulting firm Meridian Compensation Partners LLC.
“When people have meaningful equity in a company, they have
skin in the game.”  Granting options to employees does not dilute existing
shareholders, since it does not require the company to issue new
shares, Glassner said.  Zynga said on Aug. 9 that John Schappert is departing as
chief operating officer and board director. A management
overhaul stripped him of his oversight of key operations.  Pincus kicked off the reorganization in July to revive
growth and help the company better capitalize on the switch to
game-playing on mobile devices. The company reported second-
quarter sales and profit last month that fell short of analysts’
predictions. It said changes by Facebook made it harder for
users to find existing games.  Last year, the CEO came under scrutiny for his handling of
worker compensation after he asked some employees to return
unvested equity because their potential rewards didn’t match
what they were contributing to the business, Roger Dickey, one
of the first 30 workers at Zynga, said at the time.  Zynga shares fell 2 percent to $2.95 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  