-- Anti-Thaksin Groups Weigh Protest at Thai Leader’s Offices
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-10-29T06:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/thaksin-s-opponents-to-hold-bangkok-rally-in-bid-to-oust-sister.html
Thai anti-government protest groups
will consider holding a rally at Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s offices, a tactic used during a 2008 campaign that
led to the seizure of Bangkok’s airports.  Groups that helped oust governments linked to former Prime
Minister Thaksin Shinawatra in 2006 and 2008 met in Bangkok
yesterday in a bid to remove his sister, whose party won a
parliamentary majority in elections last year. Boonlert
Kaewprasit, a retired army general, declared the demonstration a
success and said the next one may be held at Government House.  “We will certainly organize another rally to push this
government out,” he said in a speech broadcast by TVD satellite
television. “There will be many more people at the next
rally.”  The protests, organized by groups that supported Thaksin’s
ouster in a 2006 coup, represent the most organized push against
Yingluck’s 15-month-old government. Tit-for-tat demonstrations
by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents since the coup have killed
more than 100 people and led to road blockages and arson
attacks.  “The spark has been lit, some traction has been found but
there are additional forces that have to be deployed,” said
Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute for Strategic
and International Studies at Bangkok’s Chulalongkorn University.
“And those forces are beyond the anti-Thaksin column and beyond
what we saw yesterday -- the role of the judiciary, the role of
the military, the role of the palace as we saw in 2008.”  Stocks Drop  Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index (SET)  fell 0.4 percent to 1,276.78
at the midday break, poised for the lowest close in a month. The
baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.72 per dollar.  Boonlert said at least 20,000 people attended yesterday’s
rally at the Royal Turf Club, which is under royal patronage. He
was a classmate of Surayud Chulanont, a former prime minister
who is a member of King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s 19-member Privy
Council.  “It is a great success as the number of people coming
today are much more than expected,” Tul Sitthisomwong, who
heads a group that joined the protest, said by phone. “The
purpose is to call the government out. They have proved that
there is widespread corruption among them, they allow their
close associates to defame the monarchy and they have not
fulfilled their election pledges.”  Yingluck Support  Police said the number of demonstrators peaked at about
8,000, the Bangkok Post  reported , citing deputy commander Adul
Narongsak. Piya Utayo, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Police,
declined to comment when reached by phone.  “There is no problem and everything goes in line with the
democratic system,” Yingluck told reporters today. “It doesn’t
affect the government’s work.”  Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung said today the
number of demonstrators was higher than he expected. He vowed to
avoid using violent measures against protesters while urging
them to abide by the law.  “We are not too concerned about the number of people at
the rally,” he told reporters today. “The number may be a
couple of thousand or a hundred thousand. The government is fine
with that as long as they don’t violate the law.”  In 2008, protesters who accused Thaksin’s allies of turning
 Thailand  into a monarchy-free republic occupied Government House
for several months before seizing Bangkok’s airports as the
military declined to enforce an emergency decree. Queen Sirikit
attended the funeral of a protester killed in clashes with
police during the demonstrations.  Election Fraud  The airport seizure ended when a court disbanded the
Thaksin-linked party for election fraud, leading to a
parliamentary vote that resulted in a change of government.
Unlike in 2008, Yingluck’s party now controls an outright
majority in parliament.  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a jail sentence in
2008 for helping his ex-wife buy land from the government while
he served as prime minister, a charge that stemmed from a
military-appointed panel after the coup. He denies all
wrongdoing and says the charges are politically motivated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  