-- Arsenal Beats QPR After Late Arteta Strike in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-27T19:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/arsenal-beats-qpr-1-0-after-late-arteta-strike-in-premier-league.html
A Mikel Arteta goal in the 84th
minute gave Arsenal a 1-0 win over 10-man Queens Park Rangers in
English soccer’s Premier League.  Manchester City beat Swansea 1-0 and Reading tied Fulham 3-
3, keeping the Royals and QPR as the league’s only winless teams
this season. Wigan defeated West Ham 2-1,  Aston Villa  and
Norwich tied 1-1, while Stoke and Sunderland finished goalless.  Arsenal struggled with QPR at the Emirates Stadium in north
London before Arteta got the game-winner four minutes after
QPR’s Stephane M’bia was shown a red card for kicking out at
 Thomas Vermaelen .  QPR goalkeeper Julio Cesar kept the game scoreless with a
lunging, one-handed save after an attempted clearance in front
of goal hit a defender. Arsenal continued to pressure and Arteta
netted the rebound after his header hit the crossbar.  The visitors had two chances to tie in stoppage time but
Esteban Granero shot wide of the far post after getting behind
the defense and Arsenal goalkeeper Vito Mannone stopped Jamie
Mackie’s close-range shot. QPR is winless in 18 away league
matches and sits at the bottom of the standings with three
points from eight games.  England midfielder  Jack Wilshere  returned to the Arsenal
lineup for the first time in 17 months after being sidelined
with knee and ankle injuries. He played 67 minutes before being
replaced by  Theo Walcott .  Carlos Tevez  scored the only goal as Manchester City beat
Swansea to climb above  Manchester United  into second place, one
point behind Chelsea. United visits Chelsea tomorrow.  Injury Time  Hal Robson-Kanu’s goal in injury time gave Reading the home
draw with Fulham after Dimitar Berbatov had given the Cottagers
a late lead on 88 minutes.  Mikele Leigertwood and Garath McCleary also scored for
Reading, which has four draws and four defeats this season.
Bryan Ruiz and Chris Baird had the Fulham goals.  Ivan Ramis and James McArthur scored as Wigan beat West Ham
to end a six-match winless run and pick up its first home
victory of the season. James Tomkins scored in the final minute
for West Ham.  Michael Turner ’s goal in the 79th minute gave Norwich the
away draw against 10-man Aston Villa and former manager  Paul Lambert . Christian Benteke scored in the first half for Villa,
which had Joe Bennett sent off for a second yellow card in the
52nd minute.  Stoke and Sunderland both picked up their league-high sixth
draws of the season following their scoreless meeting at the
Britannia Stadium.  Everton hosts Liverpool, West Brom visits Newcastle and
Tottenham is at Southampton in tomorrow’s other games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 