-- Maze Wins Season-Opening World Cup Ski Race, Vonn Crashes
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-27T14:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/maze-clinches-third-giant-slalom-win-in-soelden-vonn-crashes.html
Tina Maze  won the season-opening
giant slalom race in Soelden,  Austria , as defending World Cup
champion  Lindsey Vonn  crashed.  Maze, of Slovenia, had a combined time over two runs of 2
minutes, 31.41 seconds amid foggy conditions on the 3,000-meter
(9,800 feet) high Rettenbach glacier. It was her third career
win in Soelden.  “My body was all around the course and even though in the
first run I had such an amazing feeling, the second one was just
fight,” Maze, who led  France ’s Tessa Worley by 0.74 seconds
after the first run, said on the World Cup website. “I am glad
I fought that hard.”  Austria’s Kathrin Zettel was  0.42 seconds  behind in second
place, while her teammate Stefanie Koehle finished third.  Vonn, who won her first giant slalom last year in Soelden,
was in twelfth place after the first run.  The 28-year-old American, who took her fourth overall World
Cup title last season after 12 victories, then caught the gate
with her left hand early on in the second run and crashed.  “That was definitely not the game plan,” Vonn said on the
U.S. Ski Team website. “Second run I was trying as hard as I
could to make up 2.5 seconds, which is tough to do, and I got my
arm caught on a gate.”  Defending giant slalom champion Viktoria Rebensburg of
 Germany  didn’t finish after falling on her second run. Vonn’s
teammate  Julia Mancuso , a former Olympic giant slalom champion,
also failed to finish after her ski came off early in her first
run.  The second leg of today’s race was delayed an hour due to
fog. The men’s event takes place tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Soelden, Austria, through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  