-- Berlusconi Says He May End Support for Monti’s Government
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-28T09:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/berlusconi-says-his-party-may-end-support-for-monti-s-government.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said his  party , the biggest in parliament, may end
support for Premier  Mario Monti ’s government because its
policies are deepening the country’s recession.  The People of Liberty party needs to consider that “with a
no-confidence vote by us, we would determine a situation that
would be interpreted in a certain way by the financial markets
and would cause early elections,” Berlusconi told reporters
yesterday near Milan. “We will consider these facts and decide
whether to immediately withdraw our support of the government.”  Such a step would likely force President Giorgio Napolitano
to call early elections, before a vote due by May. It also would
probably fan  Europe ’s debt crisis, as Monti’s austerity policies
have contributed to a decline in  Italy ’s bond yields, with
markets more focused on  Spain  in recent months.  “It’s impossible to say what is in Berlusconi’s head now,
but if he decides to end his support to Monti, early elections
become almost inevitable,” said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor
of politics at Rome’s LUISS University. “Berlusconi would lose
the elections anyway, but would likely get more votes thanks to
an anti-austerity platform and that would increase his party’s
bargaining power in the next parliament.”  Monti Austerity  Monti, 69, was appointed prime minister last November after
Berlusconi, 76, resigned and within weeks passed 20 billion
euros ($25.9 billion) in austerity measures, overhauled the
pension system and embarked on changing labor-market rules in
the euro region’s third-biggest economy. The former European
commissioner’s government is supported in parliament by both
Berlusconi’s party and the  Democratic Party .  Elisabetta Olivi, a spokeswoman for Monti, declined to
comment yesterday when asked about Berlusconi’s remarks.  Monti’s initiatives have deepened Italy’s fourth recession
since 2001 and helped former comedian Beppe Grillo’s opposition
5 Star Movement emerge in  opinion polls  as the country’s second-
biggest political force. Since June, the total support for
parties backing Monti has fallen in most polls below 50 percent.
Those parties hold more than two-thirds of the seats in both
chambers of the parliament elected in 2008.  During Monti’s tenure, the  10-year yield  has dropped more
than 200 basis points to 4.903 percent on Oct. 26. The decline
of Italian debt-financing costs sped up after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed in July to do what’s needed to
preserve the euro and then in September announced a bond-buying
program for countries facing financing stress.  Investor Uncertainty  “Berlusconi’s remarks increase investors’ uncertainty on
the duration of the government’s life, and this will likely
become tangible when markets re-open,” D’Alimonte said.  Monti is still implementing some steps aimed at containing
 debt  and keeping the deficit under 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year. Italy entered a recession in the fourth
quarter of 2011 as the global slowdown aggravated the effects of
waning productivity and Monti’s mix of tax increases and public
spending cuts.  GDP declined 0.8 percent in the second quarter amid the
biggest drop in household spending in almost two decades and
unemployment topping 10 percent. Debt rose to 1.982 trillion
euros in the second quarter, or 126.1 percent of GDP, the
European Union’s statistic institute Eurostat said Oct. 24. That
makes it the biggest debt load in the euro region after  Greece .  Shrinking Economy  Italy will contract 2.4 percent in 2012 and 0.2 percent in
2013, the government said Sept. 20. The  International Monetary
Fund  predicted last week in its World Economic Outlook that the
economy will shrink 2.4 percent this year and 0.7 percent next.  Still,  industrial output  unexpectedly rose in August,
signaling the recession may be easing, and  consumer confidence 
gained this month as the government announced tax cuts for the
lowest earners to offset the effect of an increase on the value-
added levy in 2012. The measure, part of a budget plan approved
by the Cabinet on Oct. 10, must be approved by the parliament
before becoming law.  “Berlusconi’s words need always to be double-checked,”
Rosy Bindi, the deputy leader of the Democratic party in the
lower house of parliament, told Sky TG24 television. “I don’t
know if Berlusconi sent Monti packing. For sure, he repudiated
the support he has given Monti and his policies in the last few
months.”  Monti has said he won’t compete in the coming national
elections. Still, the former university president and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. adviser has said he would be available to serve
as premier again after the vote.  Tax Fraud  An Oct. 19 SWG Institute poll of national voting
preferences had Grillo surpassing 20 percent, second only to the
Democratic Party with 25.5 percent and ahead of Berlusconi’s PDL
at 15 percent.  Berlusconi reiterated yesterday that he won’t seek the
premiership again, although he plans to stay in politics, after
a court in Milan found him guilty of tax fraud in a television-
rights trial. The media tycoon-turned-politician was sentenced
Oct. 26 to four years in prison and banned from public office
for five years in the case involving his company  Mediaset SpA. (MS)   He probably won’t serve any jail time because of his age
and the Italian appeals process, which can run out the statute
of limitations. The court pardoned three years of the sentence.  Berlusconi said yesterday that the political movement he
founded in 1994 should hold primaries in December to pick its
candidate for the premiership. He stepped down from his post
after losing his parliamentary majority amid his legal woes and
as the Italian benchmark 10-year bond yield topped 7 percent.  Prostitution Charge  Berlusconi is also being tried in a Milan court on charges
of abuse of power and engaging a minor in prostitution. He told
judges on Oct. 19 that he never had sex with the woman at the
center of the charges, Karima El Mahroug. He also said he
“never put pressure on members of the Milan police force” to
let her go. El Mahroug, a Moroccan who danced in nightclubs
under the stage name Ruby Heart Stealer, says she attended at
least one party at Berlusconi’s mansion near Milan in February
2010, when she was 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  