-- Broncos’ Peyton Manning to Own 21 Papa John’s Pizza Franchises
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/broncos-peyton-manning-to-own-21-papa-john-s-pizza-franchises.html
Peyton Manning  will invest in 21
Papa John’s pizza franchises in his first season as the Denver
Broncos’ quarterback.  “It’s a smart investment now and will be long after I’m
done playing football,” Manning said yesterday in a statement.  Manning will be introduced as the company’s newest
franchisee in the Denver area during a television spot with Papa
John’s Chief Executive John Schnatter tomorrow during the
telecast of NBC’s “Football Night in America.”  “I don’t know of a person or business partner who has a
higher standard on quality or competes more fiercely than Peyton
Manning - on and off the field,” Schnatter said in a statement.
“Having Peyton as a franchisee is a huge win for our brand,
especially for our customers in Denver, where our business has
never been better.”  Manning’s involvement with the Louisville, Kentucky-based
company goes back to 2011 when he was featured in the
restaurant’s free-pizza giveaway to customers who correctly
guessed the coin toss for Super Bowl XLVI.  Manning, a four-time Most Valuable Player, was let go by
the  Indianapolis Colts  after 14 years when he missed the 2011
season following neck-fusion surgery. He then signed a five-year
deal with the Broncos.  Papa John’s is in the third year of a multi-year
sponsorship with the National Football League, and, besides the
Broncos and Colts, is also the official pizza of the Arizona
Cardinals, Atlanta Falcons,  Baltimore Ravens , Dallas Cowboys,
Houston Texans, Miami Dolphins, New York Giants, New York Jets,
 Philadelphia Eagles ,  Seattle Seahawks , St. Louis Rams, Tennessee
Titans and Washington Redskins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  