-- California Ballot Issues Draw $351 Million, Group Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-10-27T02:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/california-ballot-issues-draw-351-million-group-says.html
Campaigns for and against 11
California ballot propositions have raised $350.7 million to
influence voters, according to MapLight, a nonpartisan research
organization.  The figure has almost tripled since $118 million was
reported in August. Campaign finance data show more than a third
of the money comes from four people, Berkeley, California-based
MapLight said yesterday.  About $126.2 million came from the four, who include Molly Munger and her brother, Charles Munger Jr., the children of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Vice Chairman Charles Munger. The others
are hedge-fund executive Thomas Steyer and insurance company
founder George Joseph, the organization said.  California is among 24 states that allow unelected
individuals to take their ideas directly to voters. The 11
measures on November’s ballot are the most in a single
California election since 2008.  Molly Munger, a lawyer in Los Angeles, has donated $44.1
million in support of Proposition 38, her plan to increase taxes
to help schools.  Charles Munger Jr., a physicist who lives in Palo Alto,
gave a combined $36.5 million, the bulk of which went to the
Small Business Action Committee, a group that supports
Proposition 32, which would ban corporations and unions from
using payroll-deducted funds for political purposes.  The group also opposes Proposition 30, a tax-increase plan
offered by California Governor Jerry Brown, a 74-year-old
Democrat, that competes with Molly Munger’s proposal.  Steyer, the founder of $20 billion hedge fund Farallon
Capital Management LLC, has given $29 million mostly in support
of Proposition 39. The measure would require multistate
businesses to calculate their California income-tax liability
based on the percentage of their sales in the state.  Insurance Proposal  Joseph, the founder and chief executive of  Mercury General
Corp. (MCY) , donated $16.4 million mainly in support of Proposition
33, which would allow auto insurers to set prices based on
whether a driver was previously covered by insurance.  The record for financial support of California ballot
measures was set in 2008, when $477.7 million was raised,
including $107 million for a proposal to end same-sex marriages,
according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics,
based in Helena,  Montana .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  