-- Canadian Dollar Declines for Third Week as Risk Aversion Rises
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-27T04:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/canadian-dollar-declines-for-third-week-as-risk-aversion-rises.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened for a third
week versus its U.S. counterpart, the longest stretch of losses
since June, on concern demand for natural resources will decline
as investors question global-growth prospects.  The currency touched the lowest level since August
yesterday as crude oil, the nation’s largest export, depreciated
for a second week. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said on
Oct. 24 that the need for higher interest rates has become
“less imminent,” a day after strengthening the case for
tightening monetary policy. Statistics Canada is scheduled to
report changes in October unemployment on Nov 2.  “We didn’t manage to pick up much, if any, traction in the
Canadian dollar,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
which oversees about $250 million, said in a telephone
interview. “The big macroeconomic drivers certainly felt like
they faded, pulling crude and the Canadian dollar lower.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to 99.69 cents per U.S. dollar
in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0031. The currency
touched 99.94 cents, the least since Aug. 7.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number
of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on an
advance in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop --
so-called  net longs  -- was 89,088 on Oct. 23, compared with net
longs of 93,750 a week earlier.  Employment Markets  Canadian government bonds were little changed, with the
yield on the benchmark 10-year bond end the week at 1.83
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in June
2022 rose 7 cents to C$108.02.  Bank of Canada policy makers this week kept their benchmark
rate at 1 percent, where it’s been more than two years. Carney
had suggested in an Oct. 15 speech that the central bank’s
quarterly monetary report that the economic forecast would
reflect a slow global recovery. He strengthened the case for a
gradual reduction of stimulus on Oct. 23.  Canadian  unemployment  was unchanged in October, according
to median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In
September, employment rose more than five times faster than
economists predicted. The jobless rate rose to 7.4 percent from
7.3 percent as the labor force grew by 72,600, Statistics Canada
said Oct. 5. The job gain exceeded all 24 forecasts in a
Bloomberg economist survey with a median of 10,000.  ‘Macro Concerns’  “The bank isn’t going to be moving rates anytime soon,”
John Curran, a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a phone interview from
Toronto. “I don’t know why people are getting so excited about
that. It should be clear to most people, but global macro
concerns should be forefront on peoples’ minds.”  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter after climbing 1.3 percent in the prior quarter,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. The median
forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.8
percent gain.  “A stronger U.S. GDP release is positive for Canada;
however the slew of disappointing earnings and forecasts have
weighed heavily on the Canadian dollar,”  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, said in
an e-mail. “The most important upcoming risks for Canada’s
dollar are the U.S. election and nonfarm payrolls. A surprise in
either could be the catalyst that breaks currencies,
particularly the euro, out of recent ranges.”  Crude Oil  U.S. employers probably added about 125,000 jobs in
October, and the unemployment rate is likely to have climbed to
7.9 percent, the last major economic data before the
presidential election on Nov. 6. Per-share profits declined 0.4
percent and sales fell 1.9 percent for the 273 companies in the
S&P 500 that reported results so far as the index headed for the
first simultaneous decline in revenue and income since 2009.  Crude oil for December delivery fell 4.2 percent to settle
this week at $86.24 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Prices are down 13 percent this year.  “You’ll see the Canadian dollar remain at subdued levels
in this backdrop,” Curran said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  