-- China’s Industrial Profits Rise for First Time in Six Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-27T07:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/china-s-industrial-profits-rise-for-first-time-in-six-months.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits rose in September for the first time in six months,
adding to signs economic  growth  is picking up following a seven-
quarter slowdown.  Net income rose 7.8 percent from a year earlier to 464.3
billion  yuan  ($74.3 billion), the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said today in Beijing. That compared with a 6.2 percent decline
in August, the year’s largest drop.  Today’s report followed data showing industrial  production 
and retail sales accelerated in September and a manufacturing
gauge rose in October. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
economy will keep showing “positive changes,” according to a
report last week by the official Xinhua News Agency.  “As upstream commodity prices are falling, Chinese
corporate profits have room to rise,”  Wang Tao , chief China
economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong, said before today’s report.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , which develops and
operates power plants across China, said Oct. 24 that its third-
quarter profit rose 757 percent to 2 billion yuan.  Industrial companies’ profits in the first nine months of
the year declined 1.8 percent to 3.5 trillion yuan, according to
today’s statement. That compares with a 3.1 percent drop in the
first eight months and a 27 percent gain in the same period in
2011. The government began reporting monthly year-over-year
profit changes in October 2011.  The previous profit declines have weighed on stocks this
year, with the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index down 6 percent
so far in 2012. The gauge dropped 1.7 percent yesterday.  Prevent Slowdown  Revenue for industrial companies in the first nine months
increased 10.2 percent from a year earlier to 65.7 trillion yuan,
today’s statistics bureau report showed. Sales  rose  29.6 percent
in the January-September period of 2011.  Preventing any further slowdown is a chief challenge for
the ruling Communist Party as it begins a once-a-decade
leadership transition with a congress set to start Nov. 8 in
Beijing, where Vice President  Xi Jinping  will probably become
head of the party. At the annual session of the legislature in
March, Xi is likely to succeed  Hu Jintao  as president and Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  may succeed Wen as premier.  China’s economy  will probably rebound in the fourth quarter,
 Jia Kang , a Ministry of Finance researcher, said at a conference
in Beijing today. The nation will achieve its full-year growth
target of 7.5 percent and “the rebound in the fourth quarter is
likely to extend into next year,” Jia said at an event at  Peking
University .  Capital Flight  China’s foreign-exchange regulator said yesterday that the
nation is not suffering from capital flight, even as growth in
foreign reserves eased “significantly” in the third quarter.  The country’s third-quarter current account surplus was
$70.6 billion, bringing the nine-month surplus to $147.8 billion,
the State Administration of Foreign Exchange said yesterday.
Capital and financial accounts recorded a three-month deficit of
$71 billion, bringing the nine-month gap to $85.4 billion, it
said.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.4 percent from a
year earlier in the July-September period, slowing from 7.6
percent in the second quarter, according to government data.
Industrial production in September rose a more-than-estimated
9.2 percent from a year earlier.  China’s factory-output growth will be faster this quarter
than in the previous three months, helping the nation achieve
its target for economic expansion in 2012,  Zhu Hongren , chief
engineer at the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology ,
said at an Oct. 25 briefing.  The preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’ index
released Oct. 24 by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was
49.1 for October, up from a final level of 47.9 for September.
Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  