-- Christie Orders New Jersey’s Barrier Islands, Casinos Evacuated
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-10-27T18:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/christie-orders-new-jersey-s-barrier-islands-casinos-evacuated.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
declared a state of emergency today, as Hurricane Sandy barreled
toward the U.S. East Coast and appeared headed to strike land
near  Delaware  Bay.  Christie said the state is prepared for hurricane-force
winds along portions of New Jersey’s Atlantic Ocean coastline.
Delaware Bay, a body of water, separates Delaware from the
southern coastline of New Jersey.  The governor ordered the mandatory evacuation of all the
state’s barrier islands south of Sandy Hook and the closing of
the state’s 12 casinos, both at 4 p.m. tomorrow. Emergency
shelters are being activated in all 21 counties and 1,000
National Guard members have been deployed, he said.  “Everyone’s saying, ‘This is crap, it isn’t going to
happen -- the weathermen always get it wrong, so I’m just going
to hang out here,’” Christie told reporters today in the
coastal community of Middletown, in central New Jersey. “Please
don’t, OK? We have to be prepared for the worst here.”  Rick Fuentes, head of the New Jersey State Police, said a
landfall near Delaware Bay could send a storm surge up the
Delaware River, adding to the flooding threat in some portions
of western New Jersey.  Lowering Reservoirs  The system, which has killed as many as 43 people in the
Caribbean, remained on track to hit the region sometime late on
Oct. 29 or early Oct. 30. The cyclone is expected to bring high
winds, rain and a tidal surge that may inundate some coastal
areas. In addition, power to millions of people may be cut and
airplanes grounded due to the storm.  Christie said the cyclone, dubbed “Frankenstorm’ by the
National Weather Service, may knock down trees with its high
winds, and the fact leaves are still on many trees may lead to
more broken limbs, which compound outages. He said the storm may
leave some people without power for as many as 10 days.  In addition, he said some communities along the Hackensack
and Passaic rivers need to prepare for flooding due to
torrential rains. Christie yesterday ordered the state to begin
lowering reservoirs to prevent flooding.  Christie, who said he was forced to cancel an Oct. 30
campaign event with Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
in  Nevada , warned residents to stay off roads unless necessary
and to avoid using generators indoors or “jerry-rigging”
extension cords to deal with outages.  “If it looks stupid, it is stupid,” he said. “That’s the
Jersey rule.”  Greg Matula, a spokesman for NuStar Energy LP, said in an
e-mail the company is in the process of shutting down its
refinery in the riverfront community of Paulsboro. The company
has shut its Virginia Beach, Virginia, facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  