-- Christie Orders N.J.’s Islands, Casinos Evacuated
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-10-28T09:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/christie-orders-new-jersey-s-islands-casinos-evacuated-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of surname in headline.)  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
declared a state of emergency yesterday, as Hurricane Sandy
barreled toward the U.S. East Coast and appeared headed to
strike land near  Delaware  Bay.  Christie said the state is prepared for hurricane-force
winds along portions of New Jersey’s Atlantic Ocean coastline.
Delaware Bay separates Delaware from the southern coastline of
New Jersey.  The governor ordered the mandatory evacuation of all the
state’s barrier islands south of Sandy Hook and the closing of
the state’s 12 casinos, both at 4 p.m. today. In  New York  City,
authorities began preparing a schedule for a shutdown of the
city’s subway, bus and commuter-train systems.  “Everyone’s saying, ‘This is crap, it isn’t going to
happen -- the weathermen always get it wrong, so I’m just going
to hang out here,’” Christie told reporters yesterday in the
coastal community of Middletown, in central New Jersey. “Please
don’t, OK? We have to be prepared for the worst here.”  Rick Fuentes, head of the New Jersey State Police, said a
landfall near Delaware Bay could send a  storm surge  up the
 Delaware River , adding to the flooding threat in some portions
of western New Jersey.  Winds, Power Outages  Christie said the cyclone, dubbed “Frankenstorm” by the
 National Weather Service , may knock down trees with its high
winds and the fact leaves are still on many trees may lead to
more broken limbs, which compound power outages. He said the
state is anticipating some outages may last as long as 10 days
after the storm passes.  In addition, he said some communities along the Hackensack
and Passaic rivers need to prepare for flooding due to
torrential rains. Christie has ordered the state to begin
lowering reservoirs to prevent flooding.  In  New York City , plans are being made to start closing
down subway, bus, and commuter train systems at 7 p.m. today.  Joe Lhota, chairman of the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority , whose 8.5 million daily riders make it the biggest
U.S. transit service, said the agency has developed a
contingency plan for shutting service, and will decide if it
will be implemented today. If it does, service disruptions will
begin at 7 p.m. today with all subway and bus service stopping
by 3 a.m. Oct. 29. The last trains on the Long Island Rail Road
and Metro-North commuter lines would leave New York City at 7
p.m., he said at a press conference in New York.  Hurricane Plan  “No decisions have been made yet, but the planning is
going on,” Lhota said. “All of our 8.5 million daily customers
need to prepare for the storm and be ready to complete their
travels by 7 p.m. Sunday.”  The MTA’s hurricane plan is to close down service if winds
are sustained at 39 mph or higher, the agency said in an e-
mailed statement. Another update is planned for today, when a
final decision will be announced, Lhota said.  There haven’t been any weather-related delays yet at Newark
Liberty International Airport,  LaGuardia Airport , and  John F.
Kennedy International Airport , said Pat Foye, director of  the
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey , which operates them.
More than 300,000 passengers pass through the three New York
City-area airports on 3,000 flights on an average Saturday, Foye
said.  Dangerous Conditions  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  told reporters during a
City Hall briefing yesterday that the storm “could do a lot of
damage.”  The mayor said the city’s major concern is the risk of
property damage and dangerous conditions from a storm surge that
could flood coastal areas.  He will decide by this afternoon whether city schools
should be closed tomorrow. “We would very much like to have the
schools open,” he said. “Our kids need to go to school and a
lot of  New Yorkers  depend on their kids going to school so they
can go to work to make a living. If it was dangerous of course
we obviously would not do it,” he said, referring to keeping
the schools open.  Delaware Governor Jack Markell ordered a mandatory
evacuation of coastal areas effective at 8 p.m. yesterday with a
goal of completing the evacuation in 24 hours.  States of Emergency  The Democratic governor also declared a limited state of
emergency for his state.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has declared a state of
emergency in New York.  Christie, who said he was forced to cancel an Oct. 30
campaign event with Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
in  Nevada , warned residents to stay off roads unless necessary
and to avoid using generators indoors or “jerry-rigging”
extension cords to deal with outages.  “If it looks stupid, it is stupid,” he said. “That’s the
Jersey rule.”  Emergency shelters are being activated in all 21 counties
and 1,000 National Guard members have been deployed, he said.  The system, which killed at least 58 people in the
Caribbean, remained on track to hit the region sometime late on
tomorrow or early Oct. 30. The cyclone is expected to bring high
winds, rain and a tidal surge that may inundate some coastal
areas.  Greg Matula, a spokesman for  NuStar Energy LP (NS) , said in an
e-mail the company is in the process of shutting down its
refinery in the riverfront community of Paulsboro. The company
has shut its Virginia Beach, Virginia, jet fuel storage
facility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ; Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
9921 or  fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  