-- Mediobanca First-Quarter Net Surges 92% on Fewer Writedowns
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-10-27T14:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/mediobanca-first-quarter-profit-surges-92-on-fewer-writedowns.html
Mediobanca SpA, (MB)   Italy ’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, said fiscal first-quarter
profit almost doubled after year-earlier writedowns on Greek
bonds weren’t repeated.  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to 109
million euros ($141 million) from 56.8 million euros a year
earlier, the Milan-based firm said in a statement today. That
beat the 95.2 million-euro average estimate of five  analysts
surveyed  by Bloomberg. The lender booked about 70 million euros
of writedowns on financial assets a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Alberto Nagel is cutting costs and
diversifying business to boost profit at the Milan-based bank
after the company booked writedowns of more than 400 million
euros last year for impairments on equity stakes and loans.  “Revenue will remain under pressure in the current
environment, so we will continue to work on cost cutting as well
as on defending margins,” Nagel said at the annual shareholders
meeting in Milan today. First-quarter results “were helped by
market trends and the lack of writedowns,” he said.  Total revenue  in the quarter fell 5 percent to 453.4
million euros as higher income from trading was offset by lower
profitability at the equity-accounted companies, whose
contribution declined to 28.1 million euros from 73 million
euros. Income from trading rose to 62.5 million euros from 3.8
million euros a year earlier, boosted by a positive market
performance in the period.  Mediobanca’s loan-loss provisions increased to 111.4
million euros from 102.8 million euros a year ago, while
operating costs declined 12 percent to about 174 million euros.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was unchanged at 11.5 percent as of Sept.
30. The bank’s “sound ratios don’t need to be boosted through a
capital increase,” Nagel told shareholders.  Mediobanca is “reviewing the bank’s equity exposure to
reduce the volatility of results,” Nagel said. The company is
also trimming the weight of loans “through a more selective
process,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  