-- Euro Pares Monthly Gain as Spanish Jobs, German Confidence Drop
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-27T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/euro-pares-monthly-gain-as-spanish-jobs-german-confidence-drop.html
The euro fell versus the dollar,
paring a third monthly gain, as reports showed Spanish
unemployment climbed to a record and German business confidence
unexpectedly fell amid  Europe ’s three-year-old debt crisis.  The yen declined versus the greenback for a second week on
speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will expand monetary stimulus at a
policy meeting Oct. 30. Europe’s 17-nation currency dropped
versus most major peers as data showed services and
manufacturing in the euro region contracted in October more than
economists predicted. The U.S.  unemployment rate  rose in
October, a Labor Department report next week may show.  “The data was not terribly supportive of the euro this
week,” Charles St-Arnaud, a New York-based economist and
foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Risk sentiment was kind of
more sideways. There was nothing really that would’ve supported
the euro.”  The euro dropped 0.7 percent to $1.2938 this week in New
York, trimming its gain for October to 0.6 percent, which would
be the least since March. The single currency weakened 0.2
percent to 103.05 yen, paring a monthly gain to 2.8 percent.
 Japan ’s currency fell 0.4 percent to 79.65 per dollar, losing
for two consecutive weeks for the first time since March.  Net Shorts  Futures traders increased their bets the euro will fall
against the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
showed. The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds
and other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared
with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 55,219 on
Oct. 23. That compared with 53,495 a week earlier. Net shorts
reached a record 214,418 on June 8.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was the biggest
winner among its 16 most-traded peers, climbing 0.9 percent to
82.29 U.S. cents. The Norwegian krone was the worst performer,
sliding 2 percent to 5.7729 per dollar.  The euro has lost 2.2 percent this year versus nine
developed-nation peers, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen is the biggest loser, dropping 5.7
percent. The greenback has fallen 2 percent, while New Zealand’s
dollar is the best performer, rising 4.5 percent.  The shared currency fell as an index of  German business 
climate dropped this month, the Ifo institute in Munich said.
The gauge fell to 100, from 101.4 in September. A Bloomberg News
survey forecast an increase to 101.6.  ‘Surprising’ Data  “For the German Ifo, the current assessment was weaker and
expectations did not rise, which might’ve been a bit
surprising,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in an Oct. 24 telephone interview. “That’s
one of the things leading to weakness in the euro.”  Spain’s unemployment rate rose to 25.02 percent in the
third quarter, from 24.6 percent in the previous period, the
National Statistics Institute said yesterday in  Madrid .  A composite index of euro-area manufacturing and services
industries unexpectedly declined to 45.8 in October, from 46.1
in September, London-based Markit Economics said. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey forecast an increase to 46.5. A number below
50 indicates contraction.  The yen slid to a four-month low versus the dollar on
speculation the Bank of Japan will expand monetary stimulus next
week. The Nikkei newspaper reported the central bank may
increase its asset-purchase target by 10 trillion yen ($125
billion) to 90 trillion yen.  Stimulus speculation was fueled by a report that showed
Japanese exports fell 10 percent last month, the most since the
2011 earthquake.  ‘Fairly Soon’  “The deterioration in the export figures caught the
market’s attention and pretty much accelerated the expectation
that the central bank may do something fairly soon,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at Credit
Agricole SA, said Oct. 22 in a phone interview.  The Canadian dollar depreciated versus the greenback for a
third week, the longest since June, amid debate on the central
bank’s interest-rate stance and on concern demand for the
country’s natural resources will decline as investors question
global-growth prospects.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.3 percent to 99.69 cents per U.S.
dollar. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0031.  ‘Less Imminent’  Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney said Oct. 24 the need
for higher interest rates has become “less imminent,” a day
after strengthening the case for tightening monetary policy.
Carney told reporters in Ottawa that over time rates are more
likely to go up than not. He didn’t elaborate on timing. The
bank has kept its  key rate  at 1 percent since September 2010.  “Carney’s statements that a rate increase is ‘less
imminent’ pushed dollar-Canada into unwinding,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
in Toronto, said in an Oct. 24 telephone interview. “We’re back
and forth now trying to discount when the next rate hike is
going to be.”  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, tumbled 4.2
percent this week, the biggest drop in a month, to $86.28 a
barrel in New York.  The greenback gained versus the euro as the Federal Reserve
maintained asset-purchase programs without suggesting it’s
closer to boosting stimulus, reducing concern additional
measures will debase the currency.  The Fed said in a statement after a two-day policy meeting
ended Oct. 24 that the U.S. economy is still growing modestly
and unemployment remains elevated. The central bank maintained a
pledge to hold the key  interest rate  at virtually zero until at
least mid-2015.  ‘Clear Message’  “It’s still a strong-dollar environment,” David Mann,
regional head of research for the Americas at Standard Chartered
in New York, said that day in a phone interview. “It was a
clear message of steady as she goes. There have been some better
numbers, and none of that is wavering their determination to
follow through on QE3.”  The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish
krona,  increased  0.5 percent to 80 and touched 80.27, the
highest level since Sept. 11.  The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent this month,
from 7.8 percent in September, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast before the Labor Department’s employment report on Nov.
2, four days before the presidential election. Employers added
125,000 jobs, another survey projected, after increasing
payrolls in September by 114,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  