-- Indonesia Holds 11 Over Alleged Plot to Attack U.S. Embassy
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-28T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/indonesia-holds-10-over-alleged-terror-plot-against-u-s-embassy.html
Indonesian authorities arrested 11
people suspected of plotting to attack the  U.S. Embassy  in the
capital, Jakarta, police said.  Three were held in the central Java city of Solo and had
explosive materials and bombs ready to be detonated, police
spokesman Boy Rafli Amar said in mobile-phone  text messages  on
Oct. 27. Three were held in Bogor, western Java, with bomb
components and ammunition, two in Palmerah, Jakarta, with
ingredients for explosives and one in Kebon Kacang, Jakarta. Two
others were arrested in Madiun, eastern Java, in possession of
bombs and bomb-making materials, he said.  The arrests were made and Oct. 26 and Oct. 27, Amar said
without giving details of when the attacks were to take place.  Indonesian police said earlier this month they received
information about a possible terrorist threat over the Oct. 12
memorial service for the 2002 Bali bombing that killed 202
people, 88 of them Australians. The attack was blamed on Jemaah
Islamiyah, a group linked to al-Qaeda.  The detained suspects may be from the group Hasmi, or
Harakah Sunni untuk Masyarakat  Indonesia , which means Sunni
Herald for the People of Indonesia, the police spokesman said.
One of those detained in Solo was Abu Hanifah, the suspected
leader of Hasmi, he said.  Shopping Center  In addition to the U.S. Embassy, Hasmi planned to attack
the U.S. consulate-general in Surabaya, the capital’s Plaza 89
shopping center across from the  Australian Embassy , PT Freeport
Indonesia’s office, and the police Mobile Brigade command center
in Srondol, central Java, the spokesman said.  The two alleged masterminds of the Bali bombing, Noordin Top and Dulmatin, were killed during police raids in Indonesia
in 2009 and 2010.  Indonesia, home to the world’s largest population of
Muslims, has stepped up raids against terrorist suspects since
bombings in 2009 at Jakarta’s JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton
hotels killed nine people, including the two attackers. They
were the first terrorist attacks in the country by Islamic
militants in almost four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  