-- Obama, Romney Watch Polls and Weather in Final Sprint
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-10-28T12:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/obama-romney-watch-polls-and-weather-in-final-sprint.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican  Mitt Romney  entered the final nine-day stretch of the
multibillion dollar presidential contest that has become focused
on tightening polls and worsening weather.  As Obama courted supporters in New Hampshire and Romney
picked up an  endorsement  from the Des Moines Register in  Iowa 
while campaigning in Florida, Hurricane Sandy moved closer to
landfall on the U.S. East Coast, forcing the candidates to
compete with images of the threatening storm.  “New Hampshire, I still believe in you -- I need you to
keep believing in me,” Obama told voters at an outdoor rally in
Nashua yesterday. “We’ll win New Hampshire again. We’ll finish
what we started.”  Eager to avoid the appearance of putting politics before
public safety, both campaigns canceled events and adjusted
travel schedules. En route to the rally in Nashua, White House
aides stressed that preparing the country for flooding, intense
wind storms, and potential power outages remained the
president’s top concern.  “We’re taking this day by day just like the administration
is and just like state and local authorities are,” said
campaign spokeswoman  Jen Psaki . The White House said late last
night that Obama was canceling planned events tomorrow night in
Northern  Virginia  and the following morning in Colorado Springs
because of Sandy.  Critical States  Several of the states that could end up in the path of the
storm are considered critical to the strategies of both
campaigns: Virginia, New Hampshire and  North Carolina .  A Washington Post poll shows Obama holding a narrowed lead
over Romney in Virginia, 51 percent to 47 percent among likely
voters, down from his lead of 52 percent to 44 percent in mid-
September. The latest survey, of 1,228 likely Virginia voters,
conducted Oct. 22-26, has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points and demonstrates how important the last week
of campaigning may be for both men.  Romney lost a day of campaigning in Virginia, when he
canceled events to avoid diverting resources from storm
preparation on the advice of Republican Governor  Bob McDonnell .
Instead, he’ll return to  Ohio  and join running mate  Paul Ryan  on
a bus tour.  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said he’s scrapping his
plans to campaign for Romney in  Nevada  on Oct. 30 as Sandy
barreled toward his state.  Rally Canceled  President  Joe Biden ’s rally yesterday in coastal Virginia
Beach, Virginia, was canceled to keep emergency responders
focused on “ensuring the safety of people who might be impacted
by the storm,” an e-mail sent by the campaign said.  The storm could also make it difficult for voters to cast
in-person early ballots, a part of the Obama campaign strategy.  The closeness of the race has intensified the contest
between Obama and Romney for the battleground states. The nine
states where both campaigns say the election will be decided
account for 110 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win
the presidency.  Iowa Endorsement  Romney’s endorsement last night by the Des Moines Register,
its first of a Republican presidential candidate in 40 years,
came from the largest newspaper in the swing state of Iowa. The
paper said Obama’s best efforts to resuscitate the economy have
“fallen short” and Romney would bring a “renewed sense of
confidence” that would spark investment.  “Let’s win this,” Romney said in an e-mail to supporters
yesterday, asking for donations to help his campaign expand the
number of competitive states.  Campaigning in Florida on the first day of early voting,
Romney continued his effort to cast himself as the candidate of
change, saying his opponent has run a re-election campaign
centered on small ideas and petty attacks.  “All across America, people are paying a great deal of
attention to this race,” Romney told 10,000 supporters in
 Pensacola , who met the candidate with chants of “10 more
days.”  Romney supporters insist that momentum is on their side,
pointing to national polls showing their campaign with a slight
lead. They’re working to turn the heightened enthusiasm into
greater turnout by targeting Republican counties like Escambia,
Florida, where the former  Massachusetts  governor campaigned
yesterday.  Fourth Quarter  “We’re ahead. It’s the fourth quarter,” Florida Senator
Marco Rubio, a Romney backer, told reporters. “We’re getting
close to the two-minute warning but we got to win the game.”  Rubio said Romney’s two rallies yesterday in Kissimmee and
Land O’Lakes were in parts of Florida with a “significant
Hispanic population” and Romney’s free-enterprise message would
resonate.  “When big government dominates an economy, people get
stuck and they can’t climb,” Rubio said. The fast-growing
Puerto Rican community in Osceola County is entrepreneurial, he
said.  A banner hung behind the stage at the Romney rally at an
airplane hangar in Kissimmee, saying “we need a genuine
recovery” in Spanish. An announcer introduced Romney, Rubio and
Representative  Connie Mack , who is challenging Democratic
Senator  Bill Nelson , in Spanish as well as English.  In a state that’s 22.9 percent Hispanic, Kissimmee’s
Osceola County is 46.3 percent Hispanic, and Democrats outnumber
Republicans.  The Miami Herald has endorsed Obama, as did the  New York 
Times last night.  “President Obama has shown a firm commitment to using
government to help foster growth,” the Times said in its
editorial.  New Hampshire  While Romney campaigned in the tossup state with the most
electoral votes at stake, Florida, Obama focused on New
Hampshire, trying to cut off one of his Republican challenger’s
possible paths to a win through smaller states.  “We don’t know how this thing is going to play out,” he
told volunteers in Manchester. “These four electoral votes
right here could make all the difference.”  Tailoring his stump speech slightly for anti-tax  New
Hampshire  voters, who pay no state income tax, Obama hammered
his opponent for raising taxes and fees as governor of
Massachusetts.  Massachusetts Taxes  “There were literally cradle-to-grave tax hikes and
fees,” Obama said, pointing to increases in the cost of
marriage and death certificates in the state under Romney. As
governor, Romney raised fees by $260 million a year, according
to the Massachusetts Department of Administration and Finance,
to avoiding raising tax rates on state residents.  Four years ago, the president won every county in the tiny
state. Now, Obama aides say that a tighter race makes repeating
that feat unlikely.  The Romney campaign sees the candidate’s close ties to the
Granite State, neighbor to his home state of Massachusetts, as
helping erase Obama’s advantage. Romney spends much of the
summer at his lakeside home in New Hampshire. Both Romney and
his wife, Ann, are scheduled to be in the state early next week
for events.  Ad Buys  In recent days, Romney augmented his advertising in New
Hampshire to match Obama by expanding his reach from Manchester
to air spots on Boston stations that reach southern New
Hampshire.  Both the Obama and Romney campaigns are airing ads on
stations in Portland, Maine, that reach some New Hampshire
voters. Obama also is advertising on stations in Burlington,
 Vermont , that feed into New Hampshire.  Fueling the advertising buys is the roughly $2 billion,
evenly divided, that the campaigns, parties and groups that
support them have raised for the campaign. The numbers
underscore the partisan parity going into the Nov. 6 election as
well as the partisan price tag.  With only four electoral votes, New Hampshire doesn’t carry
the same weight as more populous Florida, Virginia, and Ohio.
Yet, if the race is close, the tiny battleground state could
make all the difference: Just ask former Democratic presidential
candidate  Al Gore . In 2000,  George W. Bush ’s win in the state
helped him build his  Electoral College victory  of just 271
votes.  A CNN/ORC International poll released Oct. 23-25 found
Obama ahead of Romney, 50 percent to 46 percent, among likely
voters in Ohio. No Republican presidential nominee has been
elected without carrying the state. The Oct. 23-25 survey of 741
likely voters had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist College survey taken
Oct. 23-24 showed Obama with a 50 percent to 47 percent edge in
Nevada and tied with Romney at 48 percent in Colorado.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist  survey  of likely
voters in Iowa Oct 15-17 showed Obama up by 8 points. The poll
had an error margin of plus or minus 2.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Nashua, New Hampshire at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Pensacola, Florida at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  