-- Treasury Real Yields Turn Positive as Inflation Slows
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-27T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/treasury-real-yields-turn-positive-as-inflation-slows.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
exceeded the  Federal Reserve ’s preferred inflation gauge for the
first time since 2011 as a report showed price increases slowed
during the third quarter.  Yields on the benchmark debt  traded  close to a five-week
high as Treasury sold $99 billion of notes this week. They fell
yesterday as European-debt concern resurfaced after  Spain ’s
jobless rate exceeded 25 percent. The Fed, in its last meeting
before the Nov. 6 presidential election, retained its program of
$40 billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed debt aimed
at spurring the three-year economic expansion. A report Nov. 2
is forecast to show the U.S. added 125,000 jobs this month while
the  unemployment rate  increased to 7.9 percent, according to
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We’ve seen a rise in real yields as the market’s focus
has shifted away from  risk aversion  tied to  Europe  and has
started to focus on domestic issues,” said  Adrian Miller , a
fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said.
“Everyone expects inflation to be a problem down the road, but
those problems aren’t here yet and inflation continues to wane.
The slow growth story and uncertainty about the direction of the
recovery is still front end center.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped one basis point this
week, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.75 percent in New York,
after rising as much as 1.85 percent, the highest level since
Sept. 17, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent note due in August 2022 climbed 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 29/32.  Futures Swap  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed to
a net-short position in two-year note futures in the week ended
Oct. 23, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 5,546  contracts  on the Chicago
Board of Trade.  Last week, traders were net-long 46,170
contracts.  Traders decreased  net-long position  in 10-year note
futures. Speculative long positions outnumbered short positions
by 79,296 contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-long
positions fell by 56,669 contracts, or 42 percent, from a week
earlier.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was greater than the
pace of core consumer price increase during the third quarter
for the first time since December as yields exceed consumer
price gains by 45 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  Inflation Levels  Inflation measured by the  personal consumption expenditures
index , a gauge preferred by Fed, rose 1.3 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, less than the central bank’s goal
of 2 percent, according to data from the Commerce Department
yesterday in  Washington .  Negative real yields were in place during the second
quarter when the PCE figure of 1.7 percent exceeded the yield on
the 10-year note of 1.65 percent by five basis points. At the
end of the first quarter, both leveled at 2.2 percent after
inflation picked up. The 10-year note had exceeded inflation by
almost 60 basis points at the end of the fourth quarter 2011.  The Treasury held three note auctions totaling $99 billion
this week. The $29 billion sale of seven-year notes on Oct. 25
drew of the least demand since May 2009, while concern the U.S.
economic recovery is faltering drove record demand from a group
of investors that includes pension funds and insurance companies
at the government’s auction of $35 billion of two-year notes on
Oct. 23.  Cash Totals  The note sales and a $7 billion auction of 30-year
inflation-linked bonds on Oct. 18 raised $54.8 billion of fresh
cash, as maturing securities held by the public totaled $51.2
billion, according to the  U.S. Treasury .  Benchmark 10-year notes dropped after the Fed ended its
policy meeting Oct. 24 without saying whether it will continue
with Treasury purchases after the expiration of its so-called
Operation Twist in December. Employment and growth are central
themes in the campaigns of President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney .  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a faster-than-forecast 2
percent annual rate in the third quarter. Gross domestic
product, the value of all goods and services produced in the
U.S., rose after climbing 1.3 percent in the second quarter,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. The
median forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 1.8 percent gain.  Economic Pace  “It’s a little bit better than expectations,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“Consumption was weaker than thought. It’s a mixed bag
altogether.”  Structural headwinds, the  budget deficit  and the fiscal
cliff will dominate the economic debate no matter who wins the
presidential election, said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross .  “It means lower growth,” Gross, who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “The structural
issues are really related to an excessive amount of debt, an
excessive amount of leverage that’s been built up over 10 or 20
years.”  Spanish unemployment exceeded 25 percent in the third
quarter as a deepening recession left one in four workers
jobless, a government report showed yesterday, adding to concern
the region’s debt crisis hasn’t been contained.  “There’s still a flight-to-quality bid being generated by
concern for Europe,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income
trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “It’s a roller-coaster ride.”  The benchmark yield will drop to 1.73 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings. The rate will
rise to 2.33 percent by the close of 2013, the responses show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  