-- Romney Says Obama Fails on Economy as Storm Cuts Campaign
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-10-27T17:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/romney-says-obama-fails-on-economy-as-storm-cuts-campaign.html
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ,
without providing further details of his own plans, used what
his campaign billed as a major economic speech to denounce
President  Barack Obama ’s policies and leadership.  In a speech in the battleground state of  Iowa , Romney said
the president “doesn’t have any prospect of meeting the
challenges of the times.” He also again pledged to begin
balancing the  federal budget , create 12 million jobs over four
years and quicken the pace of U.S. economic growth to 4 percent
annually.  Adopting the theme that helped Obama win the presidency in
2008, Romney said he and running mate  Paul Ryan  represent “real
change, change that offers promise, promise that the future will
be better than the past.”  With Hurricane Sandy headed up the Atlantic coast, Obama
was campaigning today to a rally in Nashua,  New Hampshire , one
of the nine states where both campaigns say the election will be
decided. The nine states account for 110 of the 270 Electoral
College votes needed to win the presidency.  “New Hampshire is going to be very important. We don’t
know how this thing is going to play out,” he said today.
“These four electoral votes right here could make all the
difference.”  Storm Preparation  White House aides stressed that preparing the country for
flood, intense wind storms, and potential power outages remained
the president’s top concern. The president convened a conference
call with top weather and security officials from Air Force One,
as he traveled to the rally.  “We’re taking this day by day just like the administration
is and just like state and local authorities are,” campaign
spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters.  Romney is campaigning in the swing state of  Florida , where
he told a rally in  Pensacola  today that Obama “is shrinking
from the magnitude of the times,” falling short on promises to
cut the deficit, protect Medicare and reduce unemployment.  ‘Frankenstorm’ Threat  The threat of “Frankenstorm,” a nickname assigned by the
 National Weather Service , is already affecting the campaign
schedule along the East Coast. Romney’s campaign cited the storm
in canceling a weekend campaign event in Virginia Beach,
Virginia. The campaign is evaluating whether to go ahead with
two other Virginia events.  If the storm hits  Washington  early next week, it could also
affect the president’s travel plans.  Romney’s Iowa speech yesterday came hours after the U.S.
Commerce Department said gross domestic product rose at a 2
percent annual rate in the third quarter after climbing 1.3
percent in the prior three months. The median forecast of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.8 percent gain.  Romney called the figures disappointing, and said Obama’s
“misguided” policies “slowed the recovery” from the
recession the Democrat inherited when he took office. Romney
recited his five-point economic plan without offering new
specifics.  Economic Reports  The GDP report is one of two to be released by the
government before voters go to the polls on Nov. 6 in a
presidential race in which the economy is the dominant issue. On
Nov. 2, four days before Election Day, the Labor Department will
issue unemployment data for October.  Payrolls rose 114,000 in September after climbing 142,000
in August, while the  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-year
low of 7.8 percent, the first time it has been under 8 percent
in 43 months.  Obama said on Oct. 25 that it was Romney who was proposing
solutions -- such as lower tax rates for all Americans,
including the wealthiest -- that have failed.  “We just tried that philosophy in the decade before I took
office,” Obama said in  Cleveland . “And we know what happened.
It didn’t work.”  In  Ohio , a pivotal state with a history of supporting
winning presidential candidates, a CNN/ORC poll of its likely
voters released yesterday shows Obama ahead. The president was
backed by 50 percent and Romney by 46 percent in the Oct. 23-25
survey of 741 likely voters. The poll’s margin of error is plus
or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Taxing the Wealthiest  Romney said yesterday in Iowa that it’s Obama’s push to
raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans and his attempts to jump
start the economy that haven’t succeeded.  “This is not the time to double down on trickle-down
government policies that have failed us,” the former
Massachusetts governor said. “It’s time for new, bold changes
that measure up to the moment and can bring America’s families
the certainty that the future will be better than the past.”  Obama has had a series of positive economic reports in
recent weeks to point to as he argues that his policies are
helping to accelerate the recovery from the worst recession in
more than seven decades.  Retail sales in September and August had the best back-to-
back showing since late 2010. Cars and light trucks sold at a
 14.9 million  annual pace in September, the strongest since March
2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group, as Chrysler Group
LLC and  General Motors Co. (GM) , which were bailed out under Obama,
reported gains.  Another area of improvement is the housing market as
record-low  mortgage rates  stoke demand.  When Obama took office, gross domestic product was
shrinking at an annual rate of 8.9 percent and unemployment was
at 7.3 percent. The  jobless rate  peaked at 10 percent in October
2009. While it fell to 7.8 percent last month, the slow climb
out of the recession has increased the number of discouraged
workers by 17.1 percent.  Gross federal debt has increased 45.5 percent to $16.2
trillion.  Still,  consumer confidence  has risen from 37.4 at the time
of Obama’s inauguration in January 2009 to 70.3 last month,
indicating increasing optimism. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) 
has jumped 64.8 percent and household net worth has climbed 22.4
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  