-- Sicilians Vote Today in Key Preview of Post-Monti Italy
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-28T09:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/sicilians-vote-today-in-key-preview-of-post-monti-italy.html
About 4 million Sicilians can have
their say today in  regional elections  that amount to a key test
before a national vote next year set to shape  Italy ’s future.  Voters, weary of party-funding scandals and the austerity
of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government, are getting new-look
politicians who aim to please by swimming to Sicily and
renouncing sex. Sicilians are to elect the regional assembly and
government amid forecasts that no winner will emerge from the
polling stations.  “It’s a dress rehearsal,” said  James Walston , a politics
professor at  Rome ’s American University. “It will give us a
first barometer reading on the state of the parties.”  Political power in Italy is up for grabs as the dominant
parties of the last two decades struggle to shake the taint of
corruption, recession and Monti’s tax increases. The theatrics
around Sicily’s vote showcase the outsiders and establishment
forces vying to replace Monti in the national vote due by May.
Italians will watch to see whether Beppe Grillo, who swam the
3.5 kilometers (2.2 miles) from the mainland to the island, can
turn his anti-austerity stance into votes. Pier Luigi Bersani,
the frontrunner in the national race, is backing Rosario
Crocetta, an openly gay ex-mayor who vowed chastity if he wins.  Grillo’s Gains  Newer voices like that of Grillo, a former comic turned
political gadfly, are using the race in Sicily to convince
policymakers at the national and European levels that voters are
poised to repudiate  austerity .  “If Sicily changes, Italy changes,” Grillo said on his
blog. “And then, perhaps, Europe changes,” he said on Oct. 26
in the final rally of his election tour.  Grillo’s 5 Star Movement will be the biggest opposition
party on the Sicilian ballot, and a showing of more than 10
percent should be considered a success, said Vincenzo Emanuele,
a political  researcher  at Luiss University in Rome.  The country’s two main parties are running against each
other in the regional contest, resuming a rivalry that was
interrupted in November when former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty party and Bersani’s  Democratic
Party  came together to back Monti, an independent.  On the eve of the vote, Berlusconi threatened to topple the
government, saying its economic policies are deepening the
country’s fourth recession since 2001. The People of Liberty
Party will “decide whether to immediately withdraw our
support,” Berlusconi, 76, told reporters yesterday near Milan.  Hung Parliament  There has been little polling in Sicily, though a survey of
national voting preferences published Oct. 26 by the Trieste-
based SWG Institute put Grillo at 22 percent. That places 5 Star
second only to the Democratic Party, with 25.4 percent, and
ahead of People of Liberty, which got 15 percent.  That kind of showing could lead to a hung parliament in
Sicily, and may force the People of Liberty and the Democratic
Party to join forces again. Such an outcome may increase the
chances of Monti serving a second term should the national vote
produce similar political gridlock that would necessitate
another grand coalition.  “Political fragmentation means it’s certainly possible to
have an hung parliament in Sicily,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Nomura International Plc in London. “For the same
reasons, this may happen again in the national elections next
year. Should that be the case, a hung parliament in Rome would
pave the way to a broad coalition led by a technocrat, Monti
himself or someone else.”  ‘No Monti Day’  In a showing of opposition to the Italian government’s
austerity drive, thousands of protesters yesterday attended a
 rally  in Rome branded “No Monti Day” organized by unions.  Back in Sicily, the party of Berlusconi, who on Oct. 26 was
found guilty by a Milan court of a  tax fraud , is seeking to
appeal to voters with former parliamentarian Nello Musumeci.
Berlusconi said yesterday that he won’t run for prime minister
in the national election, though he intends to remain in Italian
politics.  Bersani, of the center-left, tapped Crocetta, who won fame
as the mafia-fighting mayor of Gela in the south of Sicily.
Crocetta also has the backing of a centrist party that has
opposed same-sex unions.  “If I were to become Sicily’s president, I would say
farewell to sex,” Crocetta said in an Aug. 20  interview  with
news website KlausCondicio. “I will consider myself married to
my region and its inhabitants.”  Sicilian Mafia  The campaign is taking place in the country’s poorest
region, where the  jobless rate  is almost twice the national
average of 10.6 percent and where organized crime saps economic
growth. The early election was called after the resignation of
regional President Raffaele Lombardo, who was indicted for
alleged links with the Sicilian mafia.  “Any significant move toward anti-austerity or non-
conventional political forces such as Grillo could be dangerous
for market confidence, and increase nerves ahead of the April
general election,” said Biagio Lapolla, a rate strategist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London .  Voting opened at 8 a.m. with polls closing at 10 p.m.
Results won’t be available until tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  