-- Syrian Troops Battle Insurgents as Cease-Fire Violated
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-10-27T16:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/syrian-troops-battle-insurgents-as-cease-fire-violated.html
A car bomb exploded in the Syrian
city of Deir Azzour and government warplanes carried out raids
on the second day of a United Nations-brokered cease-fire,
according to reports by state television and the opposition
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  The Deir Azzour explosion happened near a church, said
Syrian TV, which alleged the opposition had breached the cease-
fire intended to coincide with the Muslim holiday of Eid al-
Adha. The air attack by forces loyal to President Bashar al- Assad on a building in the city of Arbeen marks the first use of
warplanes since the cease-fire began, the U.K.-based Observatory
said in an e-mail.  The fighting is a “clear violation of the cease-fire,”
said the Observatory, which put the number of civilians killed
at 33, with another 17 deaths among soldiers and rebel fighters.
The army blamed “terrorists” for breaking the truce, including
attacks in Idlib, Homs, Deir Azzour, Daraa and suburbs of
Damascus.  At least 35,000 people have been killed since the uprising
against Assad’s government began 19 months ago, according to the
Observatory. The UN has registered more than 350,000 Syrians who
have fled from their homeland to escape the conflict that has
spilled over into Lebanon and  Turkey .  Fighting broke out in the Damascus suburbs in the early
hours of today, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said by phone. The opposition Local Coordination
Committees said 146 people were killed across the country
yesterday. There were at least 287 violations of the truce, it
said in a separate e-mailed statement.  Government Camp  A car bomb exploded near the Omar bin al-Khattab mosque in
Damascus yesterday, leaving dozens dead or wounded and
destroying several homes, the Observatory said. Syrian TV
reported five deaths and 32 injuries in the blast.  “It was always very unlikely that the cease-fire was going
to work,” Torbjorn Soltvedt, a senior Middle East analyst at
Bath, U.K.-based risk-advisory firm Maplecroft, said yesterday
by phone. “None of the underlying issues have been addressed.
As the opposition is so fragmented, a fully effective cease-fire
was going to be very hard to achieve.”  Fighting broke out early yesterday at a government camp
near Maarat al-Numan in Idlib province between rebels and pro-
Assad forces, the Observatory said. At least nine soldiers were
killed when rebels bombarded a building inside the government’s
Wadi al-Deif encampment, and four opposition fighters died
during battles around its perimeter, the Observatory said on its
 Facebook page .  Right to Respond  Syrian TV said Oct. 25 that the army would recognize the
cease-fire while reserving the right to respond to rebel
attacks.  The agreement to respect the truce negotiated by UN special
envoy Lakhdar Brahimi during Eid al-Adha, the Muslim feast of
sacrifice, is the first time since April that the two sides said
they would stop fighting. While neither upheld the previous
cease-fire, arranged by Brahimi’s predecessor,  Kofi Annan , that
truce slowed the pace of killing for a few days.  More than 140 Syrians were killed in fighting Oct. 25, the
Observatory said on its Facebook page, adding that 71 civilians
including five children and 29 rebels were among the dead.  “A comprehensive cease-fire is unimplementable,” Ayham Kamel, a Middle East analyst at Eurasia Group Ltd., said by
phone from  London  yesterday. “The cease-fire is an opportunity
to de-escalate and reach a lower level of violence.”  The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said it
would send 550 metric tons of supplies to 13,000 Syrian families
in previously inaccessible areas if the truce holds. About 1.2
million people in  Syria  need emergency humanitarian aid, the
Geneva-based agency said in an Oct. 25 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  