-- Hungary to Take Over Credit From Debt-Laden Municipalities
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-10-27T12:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-27/hungary-to-assume-2-8-billion-in-municipality-debt-orban-says.html
Hungary ’s central government will
take over 612 billion forint ($2.8 billion) of local council
debt to ease the burden on municipalities and avoid a breakdown
in their operations.  “We have started a war on debt from the first moment of
our governance” and “now the time has come for us to open a
new front in this war and save our villages, towns, hamlets,”
Prime Minister Viktor Orban said at a conference in Budapest
today.  The government will consolidate the entire debt load of the
1,700 municipalities that have 5,000 inhabitants or less,
amounting to 97.3 billion forint, Orban said. The central budget
will also take over some debt from larger local councils
totaling 515 billion forint, he said.  Hungary’s 3,200 local councils are struggling to repay
their debt, much of which is denominated in Swiss francs, after
the forint weakened and a grace period on bond principal
repayments ran out in 2011. Municipalities have increasingly
borrowed in foreign currencies since 2007 after the government
reduced funding to cut the budget  deficit , which in 2006 was the
widest in the European Union at 9.3 percent of economic output.  The forint has weakened 59 percent against the Swiss franc
since the middle of 2008, when the bulk of franc-denominated
bonds were issued.  IMF Delays  Municipal debt stood at 1.2 trillion forint at the end of
2010, of which 47 percent was in bonds, Orban said. By the end
of last year, the amount declined to 983 billion forint, of
which 413 billion forint was in francs, according to data from
OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender.  The government, which has turned to the International
Monetary Fund and the European Union for financial aid to reduce
its financing costs, took over 180 billion forint of debt from
counties last year. Talks with international lenders have been
delayed several times because of Orban’s refusal to adhere to
economic and legal conditions set by the IMF and the EU.  Under the debt consolidation plan announced today, the
state will take over about 40 percent of the credit amassed by
municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants or more, Orban said. The
exact share of debt assumed will depend on the tax revenue of
the individual regions, he added.  Hungary, mired in its second  recession  in four years, is
seeking to narrow its budget deficit to below the EU’s limit of
3 percent of economic output to avoid the suspension of EU
development funds. The bloc may not end its excessive deficit
procedure against Hungary because it sees the shortfall
breaching the limit, the daily Magyar Nemzet reported today.
Still, the EU doesn’t plan to freeze development funds,
according to the report, which cited people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  