-- 
L-3 to Spin Off $2 Billion Unit as Whitworth Challenges

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-07-28T21:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/l-3-spins-off-2-billion-services-unit-as-whitworth-challenges.html
L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ,
challenged by Ralph Whitworth of Relational Investors LLC to
break up, said it would spin off a $2 billion unit that provides
services to the U.S. government.  L-3, based in New York, said in a statement today that the
new publicly traded company, to be called Engility, will be
created in the first half of 2012 with a proforma operating
income of $179 million and 10,000 employees. It will be headed
by Tony Smeraglinolo, who is currently vice president of the
company’s services division.  The spinoff “separates the business that has become non-
strategic to us,” L-3 Chief Executive Officer Michael Strianese
said in a phone interview. “We don’t compete on commodity work,
we do very specialized, unique work” for the Pentagon and
intelligence agencies, he said.  By separating the unit, L-3 will avoid conflicts of
interest that may arise when one business has work overseeing
the contracts of another unit, Strianese said. The new company
will be free to bid on contracts it otherwise may not have been
able to seek as a unit of L-3, Strianese said.  Relational Investors in June said it was L-3’s largest
investor and called for a spinoff of low-performing assets
because L-3 was underperforming the market. Even before
Relational announced its stake in L-3, Strianese had said the
company was examining its portfolio with a view to divesting
non-core units.  L-3 rose 77 cents, less than 1 percent, to $79.89 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 13 percent this year.  Retaining Aircraft Work  L-3 will retain work on  cyber security , intelligence and
security contracts under a renamed unit to be called National
Security Solutions, the company said. The company has decided to
keep its aircraft maintenance and modernization unit that
retrofits military aircraft because “we have intimate knowledge
of several platforms” including F/A-18 fighters, C-130
transports and P-3 surveillance planes, Strianese said in the
interview.  Relational had sought to have the aircraft modernization
unit separated as well, one person familiar with the strategy
said in June.  Engility, the new company, will offer systems engineering,
technical and operational support services to the Pentagon as
well as to other U.S. and international customers, L-3 said.  Mergers, Acquisitions  With the spinoff, L-3’s “appetite for mergers and
acquisitions hasn’t changed,” Strianese said. “But we are very
focused on value and what we pay,” he said, adding that prices
for defense companies available for purchase “are way too
high.”  The company is unlikely to “replace sales” lost by the
spinoff of the government services unit, Strianese said.  Asked if L-3 has held discussions with Relational on the
spinoff, Strianese declined to discuss “conversations with
shareholders.”  L-3 announced its second-quarter results today. Earnings
for the quarter rose 6.6 percent, aided by acquisitions and
sales of reconnaissance systems. Full-year profit will be higher
than forecast because of a lower  tax rate , the company said.  Net income rose to $243 million, or $2.26 a share, from
$228 million, or $1.95 a year earlier, beating analysts’
estimates of $2.12 a share. Sales declined 5 percent to $3.77
billion, the company said in a statement.  Full-year profit will be in the range of $8.65 to $8.75 a
share, compared with an earlier estimate of $8.50 to $8.60 a
share, on sales of $15.5 billion to $15.6 billion. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect $8.56 a share on sales of $15.5
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  