-- 
‘Incredible Hulk’ Copyright Is Marvel’s in Ruling Against Co-Creator Heirs

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-29T00:32:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/-incredible-hulk-copyright-is-marvel-s-in-ruling-against-co-creator-heirs.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel
Entertainment owns the rights to the Incredible Hulk and X-Men
comic-book characters, a federal judge said, ruling against the
heirs of the superheroes’ co-creator Jack Kirby.  The children of the late cartoonist didn’t have the legal
right to terminate the comic-book publisher’s copyrights for the
characters, U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in  Manhattan 
said today in a court order. Marvel said it owned the rights
because Kirby was an employee of the company.  “This case is not about whether Jack Kirby or Stan Lee is
the real ‘creator’ of Marvel characters,” McMahon said in her
order. “It is about whether Kirby’s work qualifies as work-for-
hire under the Copyright Act of 1909.” The Kirby works “were
indeed works for hire,” she said.  The decision affects the rights to the characters in movies
as well as comic books. The 2008 Marvel-produced film “The
Incredible Hulk” grossed $263.4 million worldwide, according to
 boxofficemojo.com . Burbank, California-based Disney bought
Marvel last year for $4.2 billion.  “We are pleased that in this case, the judge has confirmed
Marvel’s ownership rights,” Disney said in a statement e-mailed
by  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman.  In 2009, Kirby’s adult children sent 45 notices to Marvel
to terminate license renewals for the characters in comics
published from 1958 to 1963. Marvel sued in January 2010,
seeking a judgment that the termination notices were invalid.  ‘Intend to Appeal’  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s ruling and
intend to appeal,” Marc Toberoff, a lawyer for the Kirbys, said
in an e-mail. “Sometimes you have to lose to win.”  Kirby, who died in 1994, also created or co-created the
Fantastic Four and the Avengers. His heirs said their father was
a freelance artist paid by the page who received no benefits
from Marvel. Stan Lee, who worked for Marvel as an editor, is
credited as co-author of the Hulk.  Kirby’s adult children, Lisa, Barbara, Neal and Susan,
asked the court to declare the termination notices valid because
their father owned his work.  “The uncontroverted evidence shows that Marvel had no
legal obligation to purchase Kirby’s artwork, and that Kirby,
who worked out of his basement and paid for his own supplies,
bore the financial risk of creation not Marvel,” they said in
their motion for summary judgment.  Marvel said in court papers that Kirby granted the company
rights to the characters in 1972 and that his children waited
too long to make their copyright claims.  Freelance Work  Martin Goodman founded Marvel’s predecessor company, Timely
Comics, in 1939, according to court papers. In the 1950s, after
the  U.S. Senate  began hearings on the effects of comic books on
children, the company fired its artists and had them submit art
as freelancers working out of their homes, the Kirbys said in
court filings.  Disney fell 12 cents to $39.40 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 5
percent this year.  The case is Marvel Worldwide Inc. v. Kirby, 10-00141, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York federal courtt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  