-- 
Labour Says Cameron Broke Pledge With U.K. Health-Spending Cut

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-28T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/labour-says-cameron-broke-pledge-with-u-k-health-spending-cut.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
broke a pledge to increase spending on health, the opposition
 Labour Party  said, citing Treasury figures.  Spending in real terms on the  National Health Service  was
102 billion pounds ($167 billion) in the fiscal year that ended
in March, below the 102.8 billion pounds a year earlier,
according to analyses released by the Treasury this month.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the spending
plans for last year were set out by Labour before his
 Conservative Party  took office in May last year.  “Cameron has broken his NHS pledge,” lawmaker John Healey, who speaks for the Labour Party on health, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “He put up posters pledging to cut the
deficit, not the NHS, but we see how the Tory-led government has
already cut spending on the NHS in the first year.”  The policy agreement signed by Conservatives and the
Liberal Democrats after last year’s general election said that
their coalition would “guarantee that health spending increases
in real terms in each year of the parliament.”  Spending in the current financial year, which started in
April, will increase in real terms, Osborne said. He insulated
health spending from 6 billion pounds of departmental budget
cuts last year.  “This is a massive own goal from Labour -- attacking their
own NHS spending plans,” Osborne said in a statement released
by his party. “Under Labour spending plans, NHS spending fell;
under this government’s spending plans, it is projected to
rise.”  Cameron has made winning voters’ trust on the  NHS , which
provides free health care to U.K. residents, one of his top
priorities. He was forced to drop sections of Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley’s Health and Social Care Bill, which aimed to
transfer of about 60 percent of the NHS budget from local boards
to groups run by community doctors and to extend a competitive
market in health-care provision.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  