-- 
Lacker Says Fed Stimulus Could Lift Inflation, Not Growth

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-07-28T23:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lacker-says-fed-stimulus-could-lift-inflation-not-growth-2-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said additional monetary stimulus would
likely raise inflation further while not providing a substantial
lift to economic growth.  “Given current inflation trends, additional monetary
stimulus at this juncture seems likely to raise inflation to
undesirably high levels and do little to spur real growth,”
Lacker said in a speech before the Dulles Regional Chamber of
Commerce in Chantilly, Virginia.  Federal Reserve policy makers meet Aug. 9 to assess the
economy and monetary policy. U.S. central bankers have kept
their benchmark lending rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 and expanded the central bank’s balance
sheet to $2.8 trillion in total assets in an effort to support
growth. Lacker said the debate over the debt limit in Washington
may cause businesses to pull back on investment.  “There are a wide array of things that I think are
impeding businesses’ willingness to make risky commitments,”
Lacker told reporters after his speech. The fiscal stalemate in
Washington may “contribute adversely” to business investment
decisions, he said.  Standard & Poor’s   Standard & Poor’s placed the U.S. AAA rating on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there is a 50 percent chance it
would be cut in the next 90 days even if an agreement is reached
by the Aug. 2 deadline for the U.S debt ceiling. S&P said it
needs to see “a credible solution to the rising  U.S. government
debt  burden.”  Lacker said a lower  credit rating  on U.S.  Treasury
securities  or higher volatility may require the Fed under normal
procedures to alter its collateral rules on U.S. government
debt.  “We might need to re-evaluate the discount window haircuts
on Treasury securities if it was warranted,” Lacker told
reporters. “We have an existing discount window policy and the
principles there apply to all securities.”  The Fed’s  Beige Book , a survey of regional economies
released yesterday, said economic activity slowed in eight of 12
Fed districts. The recovery, which began in June 2009, has
failed to pull the  unemployment rate  below 9 percent in all but
two of the past 24 months of expansion.  Lacker said there is a “tremendous amount of uncertainty”
about what the level of full employment is in today’s economy.
He said it could be high now given problems in labor markets,
such as difficulty in matching workers to jobs.  Gross Domestic Product  Lacker called the rebound in gross domestic product
“disappointing” and said it remains to be seen if the economy
rises to previous trend rates of around 3 percent annual growth
or settles at a lower trend rate.  “When coming out of a recession, real GDP has typically
grown several percentage points faster than the 3 percent long-
run trend rate,” Lacker said. “This time, real GDP has risen
at a 2.75 percent annual rate since the end of the recession.”  Economists at firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co, and Bank of America-Merrill Lynch cut
estimates for third-quarter growth to an annualized rate of 2.5
percent, down from earlier projections of as much as 3.25
percent.  Orders for durable goods unexpectedly dropped in June,
raising the risk of a slowdown in business investment in the
second half of the year. At the same time, inflation has moved
up. The personal consumption expenditures price index, minus
food and energy, rose 1.2 percent for the 12 months ending May,
up from 0.8 percent for the 12-month period that ended in
January.  “If inflation risks materialize, I think we would need to
respond by initiating exit even if growth remained
disappointing,” Lacker told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  