-- 
Lacker Says More Fed Stimulus Would Increase Inflation Rather Than Growth

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-07-28T17:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lacker-says-more-fed-stimulus-would-increase-inflation-rather-than-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said additional monetary stimulus would
likely raise inflation further while not providing a substantial
lift to economic growth.  “Given current inflation trends, additional monetary
stimulus at this juncture seems likely to raise inflation to
undesirably high levels and do little to spur real growth,”
Lacker said in a speech before the Dulles Regional Chamber of
Commerce in Chantilly,  Virginia .  Federal Reserve policy makers meet Aug. 9 to assess the
economy and monetary policy. U.S. central bankers have kept
their benchmark lending rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 and expanded the central bank’s balance
sheet to $2.8 trillion in total assets in an effort to support
growth.  The Fed’s  Beige Book , a survey of regional economies
released yesterday, said economic activity slowed in eight of 12
Fed districts. The recovery, which began in June 2009, has
failed to pull the  unemployment rate  below 9 percent in all but
two of the past 24 months of expansion. Lacker called the
rebound in gross domestic product “disappointing” and said it
remains to be seen if the economy rises to previous trend rates
of around 3 percent annual growth or settles at a lower trend
rate.  “When coming out of a recession, real GDP has typically
grown several percentage points faster than the 3 percent long-
run trend rate,” Lacker said. “This time, real GDP has risen
at a 2.75 percent annual rate since the end of the recession.”  Third-Quarter Growth  Economists at firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co, and Bank of America-Merrill Lynch cut
estimates for third-quarter growth to an annualized rate of 2.5
percent, down from earlier projections of as much as 3.25
percent.  Orders for durable goods unexpectedly dropped in June,
raising the risk of a slowdown in business investment in the
second half of the year.  The economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
April to June period, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The Commerce Department releases the second-
quarter gross domestic product report tomorrow.  The Fed’s preferred near-term measure of inflation, the
personal consumption expenditures price index, minus food and
energy, rose 1.2 percent for the 12 months ending May. That’s
below the FOMC’s longer-run preference range for the full index
of 1.7 to 2 percent. Lacker said he expects inflation to average
2 percent over the coming year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  