-- 
Ackermann Move to Chairman Role Would Skirt Deutsche Bank Governance Rules

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-07-29T10:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/ackermann-move-to-chairman-skirts-governance-rules-bank-espoused.html
Josef Ackermann , a beacon of
corporate Germany as chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
for the last nine years, may become the first top manager to
skirt rules the lender espoused to toughen management
supervision.  Ackermann, 63, is set to replace Clemens Boersig as
chairman of Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board next year, when
 Anshu Jain , the head of investment banking, and  Juergen Fitschen , who steers the Frankfurt-based lender’s domestic
business, move up to share the CEO role.  That will make Deutsche Bank the first  DAX Index (DAX)  member to
seek an exemption to German corporate governance rules
introduced in 2009 that call for a two-year grace period before
a CEO can accept the role of supervisory board chairman. The
guard change throws into question Ackermann’s independence in
supervising executives he helped groom for the top job.  “Moving from the CEO post to head of the supervisory board
is a severe violation of the tough corporate governance
standards in  Germany ,” said Klaus Fleischer, a professor for
banking and finance at the University of Applied Sciences in
Munich. “There is the risk that Ackermann will keep to being
deeply involved in the day-to-day business instead of overseeing
his successors. The two-year ban has been introduced to prevent
exactly that.”  Two-Tiered System  In Germany, corporate law requires listed companies to be
headed by a two-tier system with a management board responsible
for day-to-day operations and a supervisory board, whose main
task is to oversee the management board and appoint its members.
Half of the supervisory board members represents employees while
the other half is elected by shareholders. The supervisory board
chairman has two votes in case of a draw.  The corporate governance rules broke the German tradition
of CEOs ending their careers in the supervisory board chairman’s
seat. Deutsche Bank Chairman  Clemens Boersig , who assumed the
role after stepping down as finance chief in 2006, has
repeatedly endorsed the Corporate Governance Code, in the bank’s
annual reports and on its  website .  “The supervisory board is regarded as a pillar of
corporate governance in German companies,” Boersig said in a
 2006 speech  after taking the chairman position. “Not only does
it have to be a governor, but also a critical companion and a
competent sparring partner.”  Complied  Of BASF SE, Bayer AG and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, DAX
companies that have had CEO changes since the new rules were
introduced, all have complied. Former BASF CEO Juergen Hambrecht
moved to take the chairman job at Fuchs Petrolub AG when he
retired from the Ludwigshafen-based chemical maker in May.  Werner Wenning, who stepped down as CEO of Bayer last year
after more than 40 years at the Leverkusen-based drugs and
chemical company, is now the top oversight steward at energy
company EON AG.  Wolfgang Mayrhuber , Lufthansa’s CEO from 2003 to
2010, became supervisory board chairman of semiconductor company
Infineon Technologies AG in January.  While Ekkehard Schulz, the former CEO of ThyssenKrupp AG,
joined the steelmaker’s supervisory board as a member in
January, he didn’t become chairman.  Schulz was able to join the board by garnering the support
of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, which
owns about 25 percent of the steelmaker’s  voting rights .
Deutsche Bank aims to make use of the same 25 percent hurdle in
its bid to have Ackermann elected chairman at the 2012
 shareholders’ meeting .  Exception  A clause in the 2009 rules grants an exception for CEOs
becoming chairmen if they have the support of shareholders
controlling at least 25 percent of the voting rights. Such an
extraordinary appointment should be “justified to the general
meeting,” according to the  corporate governance code .  “It’s not specific to Ackermann, but rather the
fundamental question of whether it’s smart for a company and
company culture,” said Wolfgang Bosbach, a member of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union and the chairman of
the all-party interior committee. “A supervisory board chairman
has a completely different role to a CEO.”  Klaus-Peter Mueller, who chairs the Commission of the
German Corporate Governance Code, declined to be interviewed for
this article. Mueller, the supervisory board chairman of
Deutsche Bank’s cross-town rival  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  since May 2008,
is one of seven supervisory board chairmen at DAX Index
companies who assumed the role directly after retiring as CEO.  ‘Know-How’  “A management board member has know-how relating to the
company,” Mueller said in a  statement  two months before the law
was implemented in July 2009. Given the “fast-moving nature of
national and international developments,” a two-year gap
carries the risk of inside knowledge being lost, he said.  Ackermann, in 2007, said he wouldn’t follow the German
tradition of a CEO retiring to the supervisory board chairman
post. He declined to be interviewed for this article. Ackermann
will concentrate on his role as CEO until May, Stefan Baron, his
spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News’s
interview request.  “I am absolutely convinced that a chief executive, under
normal circumstances, shouldn’t switch to the supervisory
board,” Ackermann said, according to a 2007  Manager Magazin 
report. The same year, he said he would make a “bad supervisory
board chairman” because he’s too involved in the business “and
wouldn’t be able to let go,” according to  Die Welt  newspaper.  Greek Crisis  As recently as April of this year, in an interview with  Die
Welt , Ackermann repeated that he wouldn’t take the chairman role
at Deutsche Bank.  Since then, European leaders have agreed on a 159 billion-
euro ($228 billion) plan to prevent the Greek debt crisis from
spiralling and empowered their 440 billion-euro rescue fund to
buy debt across stressed euro nations.  They also persuaded private investors to help foot the
bill, a step Ackermann, as chairman of the Institute of
International Finance, said “should have solved the Greek
problem,” in an interview with Germany’s ARD television on July
22.  Ackermann said  Europe ’s lenders and insurers are “hit
hard” by their role in the deal and writedowns banks will take
on Greek holdings will amount to 21 percent under the plan. The
Deutsche Bank CEO attended the July 21 gathering in Brussels of
government leaders and bankers who hashed out the plan.  Merkel, Papandreou  In his nine years at the helm of Deutsche Bank, Ackermann
has gained statesman-like status as he steered the lender
through the credit crunch, following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., without a state bailout.  He counselled German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on the rescue
of property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG in 2008, and
stood beside Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on June 30 in
Berlin to announce an agreement by banks and insurers to roll
over Greek debt holdings.  In February 2010, he traveled to  Athens  to meet with
 Greece ’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  as the southern
European country’s indebtedness endangered other euro-zone
nations and Europe’s financial system. He led an effort among
German firms to assist Greece and shore up confidence in the
country, two people with knowledge of the situation said in
April of that year.  Deutsche Bank’s shares have dropped 45 percent in Frankfurt
trading from the 69.284-euro closing price on May 23, 2002, when
Ackermann became CEO. That’s less than the 54 percent decline in
the same period for the 49-company Stoxx 600 Banks Index, and
the 83 percent slump in Commerzbank, the second-largest German
bank. Deutsche Bank fell 1.4 percent to 37.785 euros as of 10:55
a.m. local time today.  ‘Makes Sense’  Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board member Marlehn Thieme
said on July 12 she urged Ackermann to become chairman “so that
his skills and network will remain at the bank.”  Some investors concur with Thieme, and indicated they would
support Ackermann’s election.  “In this case we’ll vote with a bit of stomach-ache for
the solution, even if it isn’t the best result from a corporate
governance perspective,” said Lars Labryga, a Berlin-based
board member at SdK group that represents private investors.
“We’ll be among the shareholders needed to approve”
Ackermann’s election as Deutsche Bank chairman, he said in a
July 26 phone interview.  “It’s a very tough situation,” Labryga said. “You need
someone of the caliber of Joe Ackermann for us to vote for this.
We represent the interests of individual shareholders and with
respect to Deutsche Bank, this makes sense.”  The new leadership will take over at a time of stricter
rules on capital and liquidity that make it harder for banks to
generate the returns they did before the financial crisis.
Deutsche Bank is also integrating acquisitions, including
Deutsche Postbank AG, to cut its dependence on  investment
banking  and raise pretax earnings from  consumer lending , money
management and transaction banking.  German ‘Flagship’  Having the trio of Jain, Fitschen and Ackermann running the
company would help it manage regulatory issues and macroeconomic
risks, JPMorgan Cazenove analysts led by Kian Abouhossein said
in a July 24 note.  Deutsche Bank’s decisions to appoint co-CEOs and seek
Ackermann’s election as chairman “provide for both renewal and
continuity and thus for the pre-condition of continued
success,” the lender said in a July 25 statement.  The bank is seeking Ackermann’s election so it “will
continue to profit from his knowledge, experience and
professional network,’ it said. “Deutsche Bank will take all
necessary steps to fulfil the legal pre-conditions for this
move.”  Ackermann, who was closely involved in the decision-making
process, endorsed the plan and said he was willing to “continue
serving the bank in this new capacity,” in the statement.  “It was good that the automatism of CEOs crowning their
careers by becoming head of the supervisory board was broken,”
said SdK’s Labryga. “With Deutsche Bank being such a flagship
of German business, many companies that don’t have the same
merits will seek to go back to the old ways.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  