-- 
Lactalis Arranges $11 Billion Loans to Fund Parmalat Takeover, Refinancing

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-07-28T12:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lactalis-arranges-11-billion-loans-to-fund-parmalat-takeover-refinancing.html
Groupe Lactalis,  France ’s biggest
cheesemaker, obtained 7.5 billion euros ($10.8 billion) of loans
to fund its acquisition of Italian dairy company  Parmalat SpA (PLT) 
and refinance existing debt.  The deal is the second-largest financing package for a
European, Middle Eastern or African borrower this year, behind
only Glencore International AG, according to Bloomberg data. It
includes a 1.65 billion-euro one-year loan; a 1 billion-euro
two-year loan; a three-year facility for 750 million euros; a
five-year, 3 billion-euro loan; and a five-year, 1.1 billion-
euro revolving credit, according to Credit Agricole CIB, which
is arranging the debt.  The deal also helps refinance about 4 billion euros of
Lactalis’s existing loans, two people with knowledge of the deal
said May 27.  Lactalis, the maker of President cheese, increased its
stake in Parmalat to 83.3 percent and agreed to pay 2.46 billion
euros for the remaining shares, according to a statement on July
8. The Laval, France-based company gained management control of
Parmalat last month after shareholders approved nine board
appointments sought by the French company.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis and Societe Generale SA arranged
the financing for the bid along with  Credit Agricole , according
to the statement. Twelve banks joined during the syndication
process including Commerzbank AG, BNP Paribas SA and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  Glencore Loan  Glencore, the world’s largest commodity trader that sold
shares in the biggest initial public offering this year, raised
the most for an EMEA company in 2011 with its $11.9 billion deal
in May. It agreed to pay 110 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate.  Combining Lactalis and Parmalat creates the world’s largest
dairy company with annual turnover of as much as 15 billion
euros, according to the statement.  Parmalat’s share price has plummeted by more than a quarter
to 1.865 euros since the unsolicited bid was announced April 26.  Details of the financing are as follows:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  