-- 
Madoff Trustee Settles With Tremont Funds for $1 Billion

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/madoff-trustee-makes-1-billion-settlement-with-tremont-after-ponzi-scheme.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm,  Irving Picard , reached a settlement with more than a dozen
funds associated with hedge-fund firm Tremont Group Holdings
Inc. by accepting a cash payment of more than $1 billion.  Among the parties settling were Oppenheimer Acquisition
Corp., an affiliate of the Oppenheimer mutual funds that bought
Tremont, and Oppenheimer’s parents, MassMutual Holding LLC and
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., the trustee said in a
statement today. As part of the deal, the Tremont funds will be
allowed to make claims on the Madoff estate of about $3 billion.  Picard sued Tremont and related entities for $2.1 billion,
saying they ignored warnings that Madoff could be running a
Ponzi scheme and profited from it, according to a complaint
unsealed in March. The payment from Tremont, the second-biggest
so-called feeder into Madoff’s multibillion-dollar fraud, will
add to the $2.6 billion in the fund for Madoff customers, Picard
said today.  While the trustee believes he would prevail at trial, “he
also recognizes the benefits of avoiding protracted
litigation,” said Marc Powers, a lawyer for Picard.  The $3 billion in claims on the Madoff estate allowed to
Tremont will give its investors “the potential to recover a
substantial portion of their losses incurred as a result of
Madoff’s fraud,” said Montieth Illingworth, a spokesman for the
hedge fund firm, in an e-mailed statement.  Fairfield Deals  The settlement follows two deals in May with funds related
to the Fairfield Greenwich Group, the biggest feeder fund in
Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .  In those agreements, Picard dropped
efforts to collect about $4 billion in transfers, and the funds
in return reduced their claims on the bankrupt Madoff estate.  Picard’s biggest settlement was his $5 billion share of a
deal with the estate of Jeffry Picower, among the larger
individual investors with Madoff. Counting that money, which is
tied up in a court challenge, he said in the statement he has
raised more than $8.6 billion, or almost half of the $17.3
billion in principal lost by Madoff customers who filed claims.  The case is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings Inc., 10-5310,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 