-- 
Lafarge Says Inflation, Currencies to Impact Profit Growth

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-07-28T06:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lafarge-says-cost-inflation-currencies-to-impact-profit-growth.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest
cement maker, said rising costs and foreign exchange
fluctuations weighed on second-quarter profit and will hurt
earnings growth for the full year.  Current operating profit declined to 702 million euros ($1
billion) from 838 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated 741 million euros. Sales were unchanged,
and net income dropped 12 percent.  The company is “working to improve results” this year,
Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont said on a conference call
with journalists. “But we have to take into account an
environment that’s more contrasted, more complex and more
volatile than forecast.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Lafarge’s credit rating to below
investment grade in March, saying profitability will struggle to
recover because of rising raw material prices and political
turmoil in  Egypt . Lafont has pledged to reduce debt by at least
2 billion euros this year, with a 50 percent dividend reduction,
asset sales and cost cuts.  Falling Debt  Net debt was 14.3 billion euros at the end of the second
quarter, compared with 15.2 billion euros a year earlier and 14
billion euros at the end of 2010.  Lafarge said today it is on track to meet its debt-cutting
goal for the full year. The company has already sold or agreed
to sell 1.8 billion euros of assets this year, the CEO said.  This month, Lafarge entered exclusive talks to sell most of
its European and South American gypsum business to Etex Group
for 850 million euros, and its Australian gypsum unit to Knauf
International GmbH for 120 million euros.  In May, it agreed to sell U.S. cement and concrete assets
with an enterprise value of $760 million to Cementos Argos SA.
Three months earlier, Anglo American Plc and Lafarge agreed to
combine U.K. building-material operations with the aim to
generate annual cost savings of at least 60 million pounds. All
four transactions have yet to be completed.  Lafarge’s net income fell 12 percent in the second quarter
to 289 million euros from 329 million euros a year earlier, when
it booked a capital gain. The French company reiterated forecast
that cement demand in its markets will grow by 2 percent to 5
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 