-- 
Aflac Says Buybacks Held Up as ‘Stupid Debt Deal’ Eludes Congress, Obama

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-28T17:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/aflac-says-buybacks-held-up-as-stupid-debt-deal-eludes-congress-obama.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the world’s largest
seller of supplemental health insurance, said the outlook for
share repurchases is unclear due in part to uncertainty caused
by the showdown in Congress over the federal debt limit.  “We gotta get the stupid debt deal done in the U.S., for
one thing,” Chief Financial Officer Kriss Cloninger said today
on a conference call with analysts and investors. “Who knows
how that’s going to affect world markets.”  President  Barack Obama  and Congress face an Aug. 2 deadline
to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and steer the U.S.
government away from the threat of default. Columbus, Georgia-
based Aflac said that while it plans to increase the rate of
buybacks, it hasn’t decided by how much.  “Whether we’re in a position to apply $1 billion or $2
billion to share repurchases, we just haven’t determined yet,”
Cloninger said. “Because we do still have a fairly uncertain
outlook, I think, as far as other economic developments.”  Aflac is focusing on repurchases after a review of its
worst-performing holdings in the first half. Aflac posted more
than $1 billion of investment losses as it sold and took
impairments on securities issued by European banks.  “My big concern is not so much the effect on U.S.
treasuries, but what overflowing effect it might have to  Europe 
and, you know, even  Japan ,” Cloninger said. “Particularly if
it impacted  interest rates  in Europe or economic conditions in
Europe, which I doubt that it would.”  Portugal, Greece  Aflac’s biggest market is Japan, and the company bought
yen-denominated bonds of European banks to back policies.
Second-quarter profit dropped 52 percent to $280 million on
writedowns tied to banks in Portugal, Greece and Ireland, Aflac
said yesterday.  Aflac advanced $2.39, or 5.4 percent, to $46.54 at 12:52
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after Chief
Executive Officer Dan Amos said the sale of underwater
securities has been “substantially completed.”  The insurer, with a market value of about $22 billion,
bought back 4.1 million shares in the first half of the year,
according to yesterday’s statement.  Aflac joins commercial property insurer Travelers Cos. in
expressing frustration over the debt ceiling debate. New York-
based Travelers, the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , told analysts on a July 21 conference call that it
didn’t know what would happen if the U.S. defaulted.  ‘It’s Unimaginable’  “It’s unimaginable, right?” Travelers CEO Jay Fishman
said. “Unthinkable, that a sovereign entity that has a printing
press in the basement, somehow makes a decision to stop
printing.”  Obama administration officials will brief the public no
earlier than after financial markets close tomorrow on
priorities for paying the nation’s bills if the U.S. debt limit
isn’t raised, a Democratic Party official said. A Treasury
official said in an e-mail earlier today the department would
provide more information on how the government would operate in
the absence of borrowing authority.  “It’s a terrible problem,” William Berkley, CEO of
insurer W. R. Berkley Corp., said on a July 26 conference call.
“We’ve become so politicized that no one seems to put our
nation’s interest first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  