-- 
African Farmers Fight For Bigger Share of U.S. Food Aid as Drought Spreads

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-07-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/african-farmers-challenge-adm-for-bigger-share-of-u-s-food-aid.html
In an emergency session in  Rome  on
July 25, the  United Nations  called for $1.6 billion in aid to
stop a famine in Somalia. In next-door  Ethiopia , Abebech Toga,
was trying to help the Horn of Africa feed itself.  Toga, a farmer in her 30s, is a designated trainer for a
United Nations program called Purchase for Progress. She teaches
fellow farmers to time corn and coffee sales to get better
market prices, to reduce moisture in harvested crops so higher-
quality products result, and other skills.  Purchase for Progress is the signature program of Josette Sheeran, who served in the U.S. State Department under President
 George W. Bush  before running the UN’s World Food Program, the
globe’s biggest food-aid agency. When she joined the WFP in
2007, she looked for new ways to combat famine.  “What we began to ask,” says Sheeran, “is how do we
purchase in a way that helps it be a solution to hunger?”  She says the WFP found the answer in what’s called P4P,
which uses the agency’s buying power to integrate the world’s
poorest farmers into the global food economy. The drawback is
that if the model takes off, some Americans could lose their
jobs, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 1 edition.  For decades, rich countries bought their own farmers’
surplus crops -- usually from giant grain traders such as Archer
Daniels Midland Co. -- and shipped them to countries facing
famine and drought. This eased crises while failing to build a
sustainable farm economy locally. In the 1990s the WFP began
buying food in regions closer to famine-struck areas, mainly
from large agribusinesses in  Africa  and  Asia .  Aid ‘Revolution’  Under the P4P experiment, which Sheeran describes as part
of a food-aid “revolution,” small farmers get a guaranteed
customer as well as a clearly set price -- a benefit U.S.
growers have enjoyed since the first U.S. crop futures exchange
opened 160 years ago in  Chicago .  With P4P staffers guiding the transactions, the WFP agrees
to buy grain and other crops from these farmers. The contract
helps growers become better credit risks so they can take out
loans to buy yield-boosting seeds and fertilizers. Specialists
train them in how to make their goods appealing to other buyers
such as local hospitals and schools.  Ultimately, the goal is for the WFP to exit the stage as
farmers find other regular customers. The UN says that the five-
year pilot project has given more than 500,000 farmers in 20
countries lessons in boosting yields and securing credit.  Better Ugandan Corn  In  Uganda , farmers received one-third more income when
their corn quality improved; in South Sudan, food from small
farmers sustained tribespeople fleeing attacks by the Lord’s
Resistance Army, a paramilitary group.  The  program , now undergoing a UN-commissioned midpoint
evaluation, says it has put $30 million in the pockets of poor
farmers. It’s testing different approaches, working with farmers
in some places and small food processors in others.  Although it will never fully replace rich-world donations
or handle dire emergencies by itself, P4P adds another element
to the “toolbox” of fighting hunger, says Sheeran.  Where things could get sticky for her is in the support she
gets from the U.S. government. P4P has received U.S. aid since
its start in 2008, when a surge in food prices prompted a search
for new solutions to the problem of world hunger.  Most of the more than $35 million the U.S. has committed to
P4P goes to buying food from local farmers. Other donors include
the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, and the governments of Europe and  Canada . P4P, says
Buffett, is “the best way we can address hunger and poverty.”  Programs Vulnerable  The intense pressure to cut U.S. government spending makes
American funding for P4P and other local food purchase programs
vulnerable, says Gawain Kripke, director of policy and research
for Oxfam America, the U.S. arm of the global aid group. Kripke
says the traditional players in U.S. food aid aren’t doing
enough to help small farmers join the system.  “Commodity and shipping interests are more concerned with
using taxpayer dollars to pad their profits than in seeing U.S.
assistance used efficiently,” he says. “Congress has been
unwilling to break this stranglehold.”  Yesterday, the U.S. House subcommittee that controls
foreign-aid spending decided to roll back its overseas
development account, which includes P4P dollars, by 20 percent.  “This could severely reduce funding available for critical
long-term  food security  and agricultural development programs,”
said Rick Leach, chief executive officer of WFP USA, a
Washington-based advocate for the  World Food Program .  Protecting Jobs  The argument for the traditional approach is that the U.S.
government’s practice of buying from ADM and others, then
shipping the grain on U.S. ships, generates jobs. Donating U.S.
food maintains about 33,000 shipping-related jobs and keeps the
domestic merchant marine available for defense needs, according
to  USA Maritime , a coalition of shipping companies and maritime
unions.  Those programs “are a proven and effective approach to
getting food to the world’s hungry,” says James Henry, the
group’s chairman, via e-mail. If local food purchases really
took off, U.S. companies such as ADM and  Liberty Maritime Corp. ,
a Lake Success, New York-based shipper, could lose about $1
billion a year in revenue, according to a U.S. Agriculture
Department breakdown of commodity-aid contracts.  U.S. support for food aid would wither if the bulk of the
funds shifted toward buying directly from farmers in famine-
prone regions, says John Gillcrist, former chairman of the  North
American Millers’ Association . His own company, Bartlett Milling
Co., has sold grain to aid programs.  Quicker Delivery  Aid agencies and shippers are cutting delivery times and
warehousing more food near famine-prone areas, so there’s no
reason to tinker with a successful model, Gillcrist says. ADM
referred questions on food aid to the millers’ group.  Sheeran’s supporters say farmers such as Toga deserve the
chance to help break the cycle of famine.  “We have relied too much on taking our commodities and
responding to emergency after emergency,” says Representative
James McGovern, Democrat of  Massachusetts . “We should be
encouraging local sustainability.”  Sitting in her mud-walled home, Toga puts it simply: “We
want to be better farmers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 