-- 
Agco to Spend Up to $350 Million in China for Tractor Production

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-28T21:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/agco-to-spend-up-to-350-million-in-china-for-tractor-production.html
Agco Corp. (AGCO) , the maker of Massey
Ferguson and Challenger farm equipment, will invest $300 million
to $350 million over several years to design and manufacture
tractors in China, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Martin
Richenhagen said.  The investment will include engineering expenses and
building a factory to assemble tractors with up to 125
horsepower and components such as axles and engines, Richenhagen
said in an telephone interview yesterday from the company’s
Duluth, Georgia, headquarters. Components may be exported for
tractor assembly in other countries, he said.  Construction of the factory may begin in October and it may
start production by the end of 2012, Richenhagen said. The
company is acquiring land for the project and Richenhagen
declined to disclose the location. Agco’s board will vote on the
project later this year.  “It’s a huge market,” Richenhagen said. “We will have a
pretty good payback from lower costs.”  Agricultural equipment makers including Agco and Moline,
Illinois-based Deere & Co. are investing in developing nations
as farms in  China  and  India  mechanize to help meet rising food
demand. Agco in April announced plans to acquire an 80 percent
stake in Shandong Dafeng Machinery Co. to add corn, grain, rice
and soybean harvesting machines to its portfolio of products for
the Chinese market.  Agco fell $3.18, or 6.4 percent, to $46.35 at 4:15 p.m. on
the New York Stock Exchange after the company said it expects
earnings for the third quarter will be unchanged from the same
period last year. Second-quarter net income more than doubled to
$133.7 million, or $1.36 a share, from $62.9 million, or 66
cents, a year earlier, the company said in a statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 