-- 
AIA Interim Profit Beats Estimate, Sending Shares to Record

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-07-29T08:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/aia-posts-stronger-than-expected-first-half-profit-declares-dividend.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, reported a stronger-than-
estimated 24 percent increase in first-half profit, sending its
shares to a record in Hong Kong trading.  Net income climbed to $1.31 billion in the six months to
May, from $1.06 billion a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based
company said in a statement to the city’s stock exchange. That
beat the average estimate of $1.09 billion by five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker, 53, set out to
revive agent productivity and new policy sales after assuming
leadership a year ago of the largest Asia-wide insurer by the 15
markets it operates in. The value of new business, Tucker’s key
focus, surged 32 percent to $399 million in the first half,
paving the way for future earnings growth.  The result “reflects success of management focus on higher
margin products,” Credit Suisse Group AG’s Hong Kong-based
analyst Arjan van Veen said in an e-mail.  The group declared its first dividend of 11  Hong Kong  cents
for the six months. Its shares climbed 3.4 percent to a record
HK$28.65 at the close of Hong Kong trading.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts expected AIA’s value of new business to have grown 19
percent to 25 percent in the six months. The gauge measures
projected future after-tax profits of new policies sold in the
period, minus the costs of holding capital in addition to
regulatory reserves to support the business.  Premiums Grow  New business margin, or value of new business as a
percentage of annualized new premium, widened by 2.3 percentage
points to 36 percent, AIA’s statement said.  Annualized new premiums, which include all of the
annualized first-year premiums and 10 percent of single premiums,
rose 23 percent as the number of agents and their productivity
increased in most of its markets, it added.  Embedded value, the estimated net worth of a life insurer
excluding new business using actuarial and investment return
assumptions, expanded 11 percent since November to $27.4 billion.  “This is an on ongoing journey,” said Tucker in a call
with journalists. “While we see material growth, we’re really
just getting started.”  AIA, which listed in Hong Kong in October, has been on a
recovery path from troubles at bailed-out parent  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 and a failed attempted takeover
by  Prudential Plc. (PRU)   Higher Margins  AIA increased the number of active agents by 9 percent
during the period and boosted agent productivity by 17 percent
from a year ago, the statement said.  It introduced higher-margin traditional  life insurance ,
accidental and health policies in its largest markets including
Hong Kong,  Thailand  and  Singapore , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts Mancy Sun and Philippa Rogers said in a June 19 report.  It has also pushed agents to sell more riders, supplemental
products attached to a basic policy typically for additional
fees, they added.  AIA, which reports its results in dollars, further gained
from appreciating currencies in the markets it operates in,
Credit Suisse analysts said.  AIA declared it maiden dividend as its solvency ratio
increased by 19 percentage points to 356 percent over the six
months. The interim dividend is expected to account for about
one-third of the full-year payment.  ‘First Step’  It may pay out 20 percent to 30 percent of its 2011
earnings in dividends, Citigroup and Barclays analysts estimated
before the results announcement. Tucker declined to reveal the
internal target ratio for dividend payout.  “This is the first step the company has taken to utilize
its excess capital,” Barcalys analysts Mark Kellock and Thomas
Wang said in a report today. “We see it as the first step taken
to improve capital efficiency.”  Yet the European and U.S. debt crises may limit the
company’s willingness to adopt an “aggressive” dividend policy,
they added.  AIA seeks to match its local insurance liabilities with
long-term investments in Asian bonds and stocks, Tucker said.
The debt crises will not have a major impact on the insurer’s
operations.  “We don’t have exposure to U.S. treasuries,” he added.
“We have very tiny exposure to the countries in  Europe  and the
sovereign issues there.”  Too Early  It is too early to tell whether global economic conditions
and investment environment would call for a revision of its
operating assumptions, including investment yield, Tucker said.  Tucker, who said there was “at least one more big job in
me” upon stepping down as Prudential group CEO in 2009, has
“no immediate plan” to retire from AIA, he said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Prudential attempted a $35.5 billion bid for AIA last year.
The talks collapsed in June 2010 after AIG, which was selling
assets to repay a U.S. government bailout, rejected Prudential’s
revised offer of $30.4 billion after the British insurer’s
shareholders baulked at the original price tag.  Shares of AIA, whose 54 percent profit surge in 2010 beat
analysts’ estimates, advanced 27 percent this year through
yesterday, the best performer of the 12 stocks in the  Hang Seng
Finance Index. (HSF)  The index declined 6 percent in the same period.  Citigroup has a HK$30.2 price target for the stock, valuing
it at 1.7 times this year’s estimated embedded value, a reported
dated today said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  