-- 
Airlines Shouldn’t Gain on Ticket-Tax Lapse, LaHood Says

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-07-28T16:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/airlines-shouldn-t-gain-on-tax-lapse-lahood-says-correct-.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said airlines shouldn’t have raised fares by the amount
of excise taxes they stopped collecting July 23, when the
 Federal Aviation Administration ’s revenue-raising authority
expired.  “They’re collecting this money and it’s going to their
bottom line and I think that is not right,” LaHood said at a
White House press briefing in Washington today. “It’s not fair
for them to do that, and I made that known to them.”  Although the airlines aren’t collecting ticket taxes, many
travelers are still paying the same price for their tickets. Air
passengers who bought tickets before the tax lapsed for travel
on or after July 23 may be entitled to a tax refund. The
 Internal Revenue Service  said yesterday it asked airlines to
repay eligible customers who request refunds. Those who don’t
receive one from the airlines can submit claims to the IRS.  Congress has been deadlocked over extending the FAA’s
funding because of a dispute over ending subsidies to 13 rural
airports. The House included the cuts in a bill it passed to
continue the agency’s authority through Sept. 16. Senate
Democratic leaders oppose the cuts and have refused to consider
the House’s legislation.  Industry Letter  Steve Lott , a spokesman for the  Air Transport Association ,
the industry’s Washington-based trade group, referred to the
letter ATA sent yesterday to senators  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat and chairman of the Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee, and Maria Cantwell, a Washington
Democrat and chairwoman of the panel’s aviation subcommittee.  The letter was a response to one by Rockefeller and
Cantwell July 26, urging airlines to pass the savings from the
lack of tax collection to customers. ATA President  Nicholas Calio  wrote that airlines can’t pass all taxes and fees onto
their customers and  “are merely seeking to function as
responsible businesses that are able to recover their costs.”  LaHood also said as many as 70,000 construction workers
have been idled because about $2.5 billion in grants for airport
projects around the country has been suspended. The  trust fund 
that pays for those projects is funded with ticket and other
aviation taxes, such as those on fuel and cargo, which lapsed
when the FAA’s collection authority expired.  “For all of my friends on Capitol Hill who give speeches
every day about jobs, the importance of jobs, putting people to
work, this is not the time to be laying off 70,000 construction
workers,” the former Republican Representative from  Illinois 
said. LaHood served in Congress from 1995 to 2009.  Another 4,000 FAA employees, including engineers, program
analysts and computer specialists, have been furloughed since
July 23. Air traffic controllers, considered essential, continue
to work.  “Safety is not compromised,” LaHood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrea Snyder at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net  