-- 
Alabama County Will Negotiate Another Week to Avert Record Muni Bankruptcy

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-28T21:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/alabama-s-jefferson-county-commissioners-put-off-vote-on-bankruptcy-filing.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , extended
negotiations for a week about a possible settlement that would
avert the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Talks among the governor, the system’s court-appointed
receiver and creditors owed more than $3.1 billion on sewer-
system bonds will be extended until Aug. 4, according to a news
release from David Carrington, president of the County
Commission.  “We’ve waited three years,” Commissioner Jimmie Stephens
said in a news conference in Birmingham. “I’m willing to give
them three, four, five, six days.”  The threat of bankruptcy has loomed over Jefferson County,
home to Birmingham, Alabama’s biggest city, for three years as
officials sought to spare residents from the ballooning sewer
rates that would be needed to finance its debt.  The commission canceled a meeting that been scheduled today
to consider a filing, according to the news release.  Creditors offered to reduce the county’s debt by about one
third of the total, Commissioner Sandra Little Brown told
reporters. Little Brown, who this week said the chances of
bankruptcy were 80 percent, said Carrington briefed her and
other commissioners on the plan, which they hadn’t seen.  Money for Water  The plan would require an 8 percent increase in sewer bills
that would be in place longer than the three years the county
had offered, she said. She didn’t say how long the elevated
rates might last.  Stephens said such rate increases are beyond what the
county deems reasonable.  David Perry , Alabama’s finance director, said the plan
didn’t tell county officials how much they should raise
residents’ bills.  “The only condition is that the rate increases would have
to be sufficient to service the new debt level,” he said in a
telephone interview. The county also would be allowed to pay the
debt with other revenue, such as from sales taxes, he said.  The counteroffer envisions a significant state role and
would require a special legislative session, Perry said.
Lawmakers might need to create an independent sewer authority
and pledge the state’s “moral obligation” to back the debt, he
said.  Fresh Issue  A $2 billion  bond issue  by a new authority at 8 percent
interest would require a total 27.2 percent revenue increase
over the first three years and 3 percent annual increases
starting in 2015 over the 32-year life of the debt, according to
a summary prepared by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  for the receiver’s interim
report issued last month.  Little Brown said she now put the odds of bankruptcy at 85
percent.  “I think we’re really about where we were before this
happened,” she said. “We’re just going to give the governor
some time.”  Governor Robert Bentley said the week-long pause would
allow him to perform a thorough review of the plan.  “I believe this offer deserves serious consideration,” he
said in a statement.  Bond Dump  The crisis erupted in 2008 when investors dumped the
county’s floating-rate bonds, which were used to refinance the
fixed-rate sewer debt, after companies that insured them lost
their top credit ratings because of investments in subprime
mortgages. Banks providing backstop guarantees on the debt
required the bonds to be paid off early, a step Jefferson County
couldn’t afford to make.  A bankruptcy filing would leave banks such as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , individual investors and the bond insurers
Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. and Syncora Guarantee Inc.
facing hundreds of millions of dollars in losses. It may also
burden county residents with higher taxes or sewer bills, which
have risen more than fourfold since 1997 as the cost of the
sewer system soared.  Michael Corbally, a spokesman for Syncora, declined to
comment on the county’s situation in an e-mail. Calls to
JPMorgan for comment today weren’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  