-- 
Alcatel-Lucent Plunges Most Since 2008 on Sales Concern

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T16:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/alcatel-lucent-profit-beats-estimates-on-equipment-sales-in-americas-asia.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA,  France ’s largest
telecommunications equipment maker, fell the most in almost
three years in Paris trading as second-quarter sales missed
estimates and amid concerns that the U.S. market is slowing.  Alcatel dropped 15 percent to 2.86 euros, the biggest
decline since Oct 15, 2008. The drop followed a 21 percent stock
plunge yesterday for U.S. competitor  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) ,
which also missed analyst estimates for quarterly revenue and
said it’s “cautious” about the second half of 2011.  Second-quarter sales at Alcatel totaled 3.9 billion euros
($5.6 billion), less than the average 4.17 billion euros
predicted by 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Paris-based
Alcatel said it’s sticking to its full-year margin target. Chief
Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen has pledged to restore the
manufacturer to consistent profitability by the end of 2011 in a
three-year turnaround that has included divestments.  “The company is not yet at the stage” where it can be
called a turnaround,  Thomas Langer , an analyst at WestLB in
Dusseldorf,  Germany , said by phone. Negative cash flow of 350
million euros in the second quarter is among indicators that
should make investors cautious, he said.  Margin Target  The French company said it’s still aiming for adjusted
operating profit to exceed 5 percent of sales. Alcatel, which is
vying with Ericsson AB and Huawei Technologies Co. to roll out
fourth-generation mobile-phone networks to serve devices such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, said it will grow faster than competitors.  Alcatel returned to profit in the second quarter with 43
million euros in net income versus a 184 million-euro loss a
year earlier.  Verwaayen is focusing Alcatel on supplying network gear to
telecommunications operators such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
and  AT&T Inc. (T)  The French company said on July 20 that it’s
exploring options for the enterprise division, which sells
office phones and related equipment.  “You have seen a massive shift in where we put our dollars
and euros and yen to work,” Verwaayen said today on a
conference call with reporters.  Consolidation among telecom operators, such as the proposed
takeover of Deutsche Telekom AG’s U.S. mobile unit by AT&T, may
reduce network spending by eliminating duplication, hurting
equipment suppliers.  Juniper’s Plunge  Juniper, the second-largest maker of Internet networking
equipment, fell the most in more than a decade yesterday and
extended the decline today with a 2.6 percent drop to $24.01 as
of 12:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading.  Second-quarter sales amounted to $1.12 billion while, at
best, third-quarter revenue may match that figure, Sunnyvale,
California-based Juniper said. That compares with analyst
estimates of $1.15 billion for the second quarter and $1.22
billion for the third.  Alcatel’s North American revenue, which accounts for about
40 percent of total sales, declined 0.3 percent in the second
quarter compared with the first three months of the year, the
company said in a statement. Verwaayen said today that “the
second half of the year will be strong” in the U.S.  WestLB’s Langer said the comments were “very vague.”  The stock decline today wiped about 1.21 billion euros from
Alcatel’s value. About 118 million shares traded today, almost
five times the average daily volume in the last three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  