-- 
Algal Scientific Seeks Funds for Fertilizer-Eating Algae Project

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-28T10:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/algal-scientific-seeks-funds-for-fertilizer-eating-algae-project.html
Algal Scientific Corp. , a U.S.
developer of algal biomass for use in fertilizer and biofuels,
said it’s seeking $3 million to help produce algae that remove
pollutants from industrial sewage.  The Plymouth, Michigan-based company is raising $500,000 to
complete demonstration plants and will seek the remaining funds
in the next six to nine months, Chief Science Officer Geoff
Horst said in a telephone interview. The plants will use algae
to treat wastewater by soaking up pollutants including nitrogen
and phosphorus, found in fertilizers.  Fresh-water contamination caused by high levels of those
chemicals costs the U.S. about $4.3 billion a year, according to
research by  Kansas State University . The country’s  Environmental
Protection Agency  is urging states to set targets for reducing
the amount of fertilizer seeping into fresh water, requiring
polluters to treat more of their sewage.  “We are focused primarily on cleaning up a customer’s
wastewater,” Horst said on July 26. “The revenue generated
from the biomass is really just gravy on top of that.”  Algal Scientific’s technology may help prevent so-called
dead zones in rivers and lakes caused by excess chemical
nutrients commonly found in fertilizers. Those nutrients feed
water-based plants, squeezing out oxygen needed for fish to
survive.  Current methods of removing nutrients from wastewater are
complex and energy-intensive, Horst said. Removing phosphorus
requires adding aluminum or iron chloride, while nitrogen must
be converted to nitrates and then nitrogen gas to be released.  Algal Scientific’s system is at least 35 percent more
efficient than a traditional sewage plant that uses air pumps,
and can produce about 2.2 pounds (1 kilogram) of biomass for
every 260 gallons (1,000 liters) of treated waste, Horst said.  About 33 billion gallons of sewage is treated every day in
the U.S., accounting for 3 percent of national energy use,
according to the  Water Environment Research Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 Bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  