-- 
Amazon.com Mirrors Apple’s Market-Value Surge: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/amazon-com-mirrors-apple-s-market-value-surge-chart-of-the-day.html
Amazon.com’s stock-market value
exceeded $100 billion yesterday for the first time, and anyone
looking at how closely the world’s largest online retailer has
tracked  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  might have predicted as much.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows this by comparing the market
capitalization of the two companies during the past five years.
Amazon.com’s value jumped ninefold in the period as Apple’s rose
more than sixfold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Both companies have profited from surging demand for
digital products. Sales of Kindle e-readers helped Amazon.com
exceed analysts’ average estimates for second-quarter earnings
and revenue in a Bloomberg survey. The Seattle-based company’s
market value rose to $101 billion yesterday.  Apple’s profit more than doubled in the comparable quarter
and sales rose 82 percent as buyers snapped up the Cupertino,
California-based company’s iPhones and iPad tablet computers.
The share price surpassed $400 this week for the first time,
bringing Apple closer to toppling Exxon Mobil Corp. as the
world’s largest company by market value.  Amazon.com and Apple both sell music downloads and
smartphone software. They may soon compete in the tablet
business as well: The Wall Street Journal and others have
reported that Amazon.com will introduce a tablet this year.  “This could be critical to its success in broader digital
media,” Steve Weinstein, an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities, wrote two days ago in a report about Amazon.com. A
well-received tablet would make the stock more attractive, he
wrote. Weinstein, who is based in  Portland ,  Oregon , currently
has the equivalent of a “hold” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  