-- 
Amazon Challenges Netflix, Hulu With NBC Universal Film Deal

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/amazon-challenges-netflix-hulu-with-nbcuniversal-streaming-movie-deal.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  reached an agreement
letting customers view certain movies from Universal Pictures
online, stepping up competition with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC.  The deal with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  adds films to
Amazon Prime’s streaming-video service, the Seattle-based
company said in a statement today. Oscar-winning movies such as
“Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” “Gosford Park,” and
“Elizabeth” are part of the pact.  Amazon Prime is a membership program that gives subscribers
discounts on shipping for a $79 annual fee. In a push to
challenge Netflix and Hulu, Amazon said in February it would
offer Prime customers unlimited access to an online video
library. Last week, Amazon announced an agreement with CBS that
expanded that library to more than 8,000 movies and TV shows.
The NBC deal today propels that catalog to more than 9,000.  “This notches up the competitive bar,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co in  San Francisco ,
in an interview. “Amazon is incrementally doing these deals
with the content providers, and over time we think they will
have a compelling alternative to Netflix.”  Amazon rose $1.38 to $223.90 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has climbed 24 percent this year.
Netflix fell $2.80 to $266.62, and had increased 52 percent this
year.  Challenging Netflix  The deal is a direct challenge to Netflix two weeks after
that company boosted prices for some subscribers by as much as
60 percent, said  Tony Wible , an analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, in an interview.  Amazon and other online-video services will “try and win
over some of those subscribers that are now upset with
Netflix,” Wible said.  Amazon Prime isn’t a threat to Netflix, Chief Executive
Officer Reed Hastings said in a July 25 letter to shareholders.  “We have vastly more streaming content, are available on
more streaming devices and are purely focused on subscription
video streaming,” he  said  in the letter. “So far, we haven’t
detected an impact on our business from Amazon Prime.”  A Netflix spokesman declined to comment beyond remarks made
by Hastings in the letter.  Amazon’s deal with NBC includes some of the same content
Netflix already offers its customers. Netflix renewed a contract
with NBC earlier this month.  Netflix had 24.6 million domestic customers at the end of
June. The company offers more than 20,000 movies and TV shows
online, according to  Steve Swasey , a spokesman, and charges
$7.99 a month, or $95.88 a year, for unlimited streaming video.  Hulu Exclusivity  Hulu, a Los Angeles-based Web service that streams TV
shows, may be less affected by the Amazon deal because it offers
more exclusive content, including recently aired TV shows not
available on Netflix or Amazon, Wible said.  Hulu, owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp . and NBC
Universal, is soliciting takeover bids. The company is offering
suitors five years of access to shows, including two years of
exclusivity, two people with knowledge of the situation said
July 19.  The website had 875,000 paid subscribers at the end of
June, Hulu said earlier this month. Hulu streams a limited
selection of movies and TV shows for free, and offers more
content to customers who pay $7.99 a month. Paying subscribers
can also stream the content to phones, tablets and TVs.  Christina Lee, a Hulu spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  