-- 
Ambani Bonds Posting Best Month on Cash From BP: India Credit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-29T04:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/ambani-bonds-posting-best-month-on-cash-from-bp-india-credit.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s bonds are
posting their best monthly advance on speculation proceeds from
selling stakes in oil and gas fields to BP Plc will help  India ’s
biggest company by market value cut debt and boost profits.  Yields on the Mumbai-based energy producer’s 4.5 percent
dollar notes due October 2020 fell 43 basis points, or 0.43
percentage point, in July, the most since they were sold nine
months ago, to 5.014 percent, according to ING Groep NV prices.
Beijing-based Cnooc Ltd.’s similar-maturity 4.25 percent debt
yield fell by 26 and the yield on 6 percent bonds due 2017 from
SK Innovation Co. of  Seoul  rose by three, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance will get $7.2 billion
from London-based BP for the stakes after receiving government
approval last week. After India raised  interest rates  to the
highest level since 2008, the cash will help Reliance cut its
670.4 billion rupees ($15.2 billion) of debt and reduce issuance
amid the steepest rupee borrowing costs in more than two years,
according to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  “Reliance has the luxury and the advantage of having a
large cash pile, which gives them flexibility in this difficult
financial environment,” Pierre Faddoul, a Singapore-based
credit analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management that oversees $301
billion, said by phone yesterday. “And the BP deal will help
give them technology to raise output.”  Rising Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised its repurchase rate by
a total 175 basis points this year as it seeks to quell
inflation at 9.44 percent, the highest rate of the so-called
BRIC nations. The cost of issuing rupee debt for five years by
Indian companies rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , their second-
lowest investment grade, has climbed 105 basis points this year
to 12.216 percent, the highest level since March 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Reliance’s five-year debt against
default has dropped as the company’s net income rose 17 percent
from a year earlier to 56.6 billion rupees in the three months
ended June, according to a statement released this week.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Reliance’s bonds have
dropped to 185.1 basis points from this year’s high of 196.1
reached on June 27, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  The cost to protect against a default of  State Bank  of
India, which some investors view as a proxy for sovereign debt,
has climbed seven basis points this month to 194.5.  Accelerate Development  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point
equals $1,000 a year on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt for five years.  BP agreed in February to buy a 30 percent interest in 23
blocks operated by Reliance. The size of the deal may swell to
$9 billion should output at the blocks increase, the Indian
company said in a Feb. 21 statement. BP’s investment will
accelerate development and production from Reliance’s fields,
Chairman Ambani said on Feb. 22.  Manoj Warrier, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Reliance,
declined to comment on the bonds’ performance when contacted by
mobile phone yesterday.  “The BP deal gives them a better chance of increasing gas
output,” Mehul P. Sukkawala, a Mumbai-based credit analyst at
S&P, said in an interview on July 27. “This will help improve
their credit profile.” S&P rates the company BBB, one level
above the firm’s rating for India.  Positive Outlook  The ratings service raised the credit outlook on Reliance
to positive from stable after the refiner announced the BP deal
in February.  Europe ’s second-biggest oil firm has expertise in
deep-water drilling that Reliance could use to reverse a drop in
gas output, according to S&P. Production at Reliance’s KG-D6
field, India’s largest gas deposit, fell 18 percent to 156.2
billion cubic feet in the three months ended June.  The difference in yields between five-year Indian corporate
bonds rated BBB and similar-maturity government debt has dropped
to 378 basis points from this year’s high of 418 reached on
April 25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s 10-year government bonds dropped for a third day
yesterday. The yield on the 7.8 percent notes due April 2021
rose two basis points to 8.47 percent, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The yield is 550 basis points higher than
for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Rupee bonds have earned 3.5 percent in the past year,
beating the returns on five of the 10 Asian local-currency debt
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘Fairly Opaque’  Investors are concerned that Reliance may not be able to
reverse the declining output at the KG-D6 field, according to
research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. The company’s ability
to protect its refining margins is also crucial, said  Neil Beveridge , a senior oil and gas analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
in  Hong Kong . Reliance’s profit from turning crude into fuels in
the three months to June 30 was $10.30 a barrel, the highest in
almost three years.  “Their guidance on gas production remains fairly opaque,”Beveridge said in an interview yesterday. “Refining margins are
at the top of the cycle and Reliance will be depending a lot on
exploration and production for earnings growth. The big question
is, when will that happen?”  The rupee has advanced 1.4 percent against the dollar in
July, the biggest monthly gain since March. The currency was
little changed at 44.08 per dollar today after touching a three-
year high of 43.8550 on July 27, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Reliance’s 2020 notes will drop to about 4
percent by March, according to Raj Kothari, a London-based bond
trader at Sun Global Investments Ltd.  “Bond yields will fall further considering they have all
this surplus cash and plans to reduce debt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  