-- 
Hamleys ‘Optimistic’ for Christmas After 4-Month Toy Sales Rise

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-07-28T11:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hamleys-optimistic-for-christmas-after-4-month-toy-sales-rise.html
Hamleys Plc, the U.K. toy retailer
whose London store is a tourist attraction, said it’s
“optimistic” about Christmas after sales in the first four
months of its fiscal year rose.  Revenue from stores open at least a year in the U.K. and
Ireland rose 15 percent, while comparable sales at franchises
outside those two countries rose 28 percent during the 17 weeks
through July 23, the privately held  retailer  said in a statement
today. That compares to growth of 1 percent in the year ended
March 26 for the entire business.  Sales have picked up in the U.K. as shoppers spend more
each shopping trip, such as the 100-pound ($163) Rock on Elmo
toy at its Regent Street store, Chief Executive Officer Gudjon
Reynisson said in an interview. Landsbanki Islands Hf., an
Icelandic bank that’s the retailer’s biggest shareholder,
rejected a 60 million-pound bid from Global Banking Corp. for
Hamleys, Sky News said in February.  “We are allowing ourselves to be a little bit optimistic
for Christmas this year,” Reynisson said. On a possible sale,
the CEO said “nothing has been decided and our shareholders are
very supportive of us and happy with our progress.”  The 250-year-old toy store chain plans four new franchised
outlets this year in Riyadh, Kuwait, Bangalore and Delhi. The
retailer’s owned outlets in Dublin, Glasgow and several British
airports have performed well in a “tough” market, the CEO also
said.  Online Toy Sales  U.K. retail sales fell 0.6 percent on a same-store basis in
June, according to the  British Retail Consortium , following a
2.1 percent decline in May.  The international business, which now makes up 23 percent
of total sales and includes 8 stores, is run with franchise
partners. Reynisson said he is looking at opening outlets in
south-east  Asia ,  Russia  and  Turkey  and has a partner lined up in
 Vietnam .  Hamleys is also considering extending its online delivery
beyond 20 countries in  Europe , he said.  Landsbanki Islands, the failed Icelandic bank, owns 64
percent of the business, a company owned by investor David Rowland’s family has 34 percent, and management owns the
remaining 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  