-- 
Manchester City Says It Signed Striker Sergio Aguero From Atletico Madrid

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-28T18:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/manchester-city-says-it-signed-striker-sergio-aguero-from-atletico-madrid.html
Manchester City  signed  Atletico
Madrid  striker  Sergio Aguero  as it tries to improve on its
third-place finish last season in English soccer’s Premier
League.  Aguero, 23, joined on a five-year contract, City said on
its website. Financial details weren’t revealed, although U.K.
media said the transfer fee is a club-record 38 million pounds
($62 million). In all, he’ll cost City a total 90 million pounds
in fees and his 200,000 pound-a-week salary, the Sun reported.  “I asked my agents to do everything they could because
this was a good club and I’d always wanted to play in the
Premier League,” Aguero said in an interview with City’s
television station broadcast on the club’s website. “It’s a
good club and it felt right.”  City’s league position in 2010-11 earned it a place in the
coming season’s  Champions League , its first participation in the
elite club competition. Boosted by the investment of Abu Dhabi’s
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , who bought the club in 2008,
City last season won its first trophy in 35 years, the F.A. Cup.
Since then it’s already added defenders Gael Clichy from Arsenal
and Stefan Savic from Partizan Belgrade, bringing off-season
spending to almost 50 million pounds.  Aguero began his professional career with Buenos Aires team
Independiente before joining Atletico in 2006.  He was a gold medal winner with Argentina at the 2008
Olympics and represented the nation at the 2010 World Cup, and
in this year’s Copa America, reaching the quarterfinals in both.  At Atletico he scored 74 goals in 175 league games, and
helped the club beat Fulham 2-1 in the 2010 Europa League final.  Cartoon Character  Nicknamed “Kun” for his likeness to a Japanese cartoon
character, Aguero is the son-in-law of former  Argentina  player
and coach Diego Maradona. Aguero had been seen as a possible
replacement for City striker Carlos Tevez, whose potential move
to Brazil’s Corinthians recently collapsed.  Sheikh Mansour has spent more than $1 billion on City since
purchasing it in September 2008 as the club tries to close the
gap on rival Manchester United, which last season won its record
19th league title. As well as signing Tevez from United, players
recruited have included Kolo and Yaya Toure, Emmanuel Adebayor,
Gareth Barry, James Milner and Spain’s David Silva.  “I think we are a team that in the future will be fighting
every year to win major trophies, and let’s hope it’s quite a
few major trophies,” Aguero said.  After a deal announced earlier this month, City will earn
more than 300 million pounds in a 10-year sponsorship agreement
with  Abu Dhabi ’s Etihad Airways. City’s accounts for the year
ended May 31, 2010, show it lost 121.3 million pounds, 31
percent more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 