-- 
Marchionne Creates Single Management Team to Oversee Fiat-Chrysler Merger

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-07-28T21:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/marchionne-creates-single-management-team-to-oversee-merged-fiat-chrysler.html
Sergio Marchionne , chief executive
officer of  Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, signaled how
important the U.S. market is to the carmakers by keeping direct
control of North American operations under the single management
team he announced today for the two companies.  “Marchionne’s decision to keep the role of overseeing the
business in  North America  shows that the center of gravity of
the combined entity will be in the U.S.,” said Gianluca Spina,
chairman of the business school at Polytechnic University of
Milan. “The integration process is going extremely fast, as is
Marchionne’s style.”  Beyond North America, Marchionne set up regional chiefs in
charge of Fiat and Chrysler operations in South America,  Europe 
and  Asia , effective Sept. 1. Fiat gained control of Chrysler as
part of the U.S. automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy reorganization.  The executives will be part of a “group executive
council” of 22 managers including the CEO, Turin, Italy-based
Fiat said in a statement distributed today by the Italian
exchange. Nine of those executives, excluding Marchionne, come
from Chrysler’s operations and one,  Alfredo Altavilla , is a
Chrysler director.  “We have now reached the right moment to step on the
accelerator of the Fiat-Chrysler integration,” Marchionne said
in the statement. The council is the highest decision-making
body at Fiat outside of the board of directors, the statement
said.  Marchionne’s Plan  Marchionne, 59, aims to merge the carmakers to reduce costs
and achieve a target of more than 100 billion euros ($140
billion) in revenue by 2014. The executive said in May that the
timing of a merger hasn’t been decided, adding that it’s not
likely this year.  Gianni Coda, head of purchasing at Fiat, was appointed to
run operations in Europe,  Africa  and the  Middle East . Cledorvino
Belini, head of Fiat in  Brazil , will oversee  South America ,
Fiat’s most profitable market, and Michael Manley, who runs the
Jeep brand, will be in charge of boosting sales and profit in
Asia.  Fiat and Chrysler are now a “fully consolidated group,”
Exane BNP Paribas analyst Thierry Huon said in a July 27
research note. “We acknowledge that management has done a very
good job of putting Chrysler back on track, but we believe that
the profitability of this venture in the short term is still too
dependent on Brazilian and U.S. car demand.”  Committee Members  Among the 22 executive committee members are some who
worked with Marchionne when he started considering the Chrysler
acquisition in 2008. They include Stefan Ketter, as head of
manufacturing technology; Harald Wester, who has been head of
Fiat engineering; Alessandro Baldi, head of Fiat’s treasury, who
has been on Marchionne’s staff for more than 20 years, and
Altavilla.  Marchionne also put executives on the panel who helped him
turn around Chrysler, including Olivier Francois, who had worn
duel marketing hats at Chrysler and Fiat, and Richard Palmer,
who becomes chief financial offer of the group.  The elevation of Chrysler executives to the executive
council illustrates the growing role the U.S. operations play in
Fiat’s future, said  Joe Phillippi , principal of consulting firm
AutoTrends Inc. in Short Hills,  New Jersey .  “Chrysler is very, very important and they recognize that
there’s a lot Chrysler has, despite the troubles of the past two
years,” Phillippi said in a phone interview.  ‘Dating Period’  “We have gone through a pretty long dating period here,
over two years to get know the organizations and we’ve
established all the right relationships between the two
organizations to now implement an integration plan,” Marchionne
said July 26 in a conference call with analysts.  Fiat increased its Chrysler stake to 53.5 percent July 21.
The Italian carmaker expects to hold 58.5 percent of the third-
biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011, after getting 5
percent in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler.  The United Auto Workers union’s retiree health-care trust,
a voluntary employee beneficiary association or VEBA, will have
the remaining 41.5 percent. Fiat will end up paying about $2
billion to reach the 58.5 percent holding.  Fiat disagrees with the VEBA about the value of Chrysler,
Marchionne said July 26 on the conference call. Selling its
stake in capital markets remains the best way for the VEBA to
“monetize” their interest, he said. Fiat has enough cash for
the purchase, the CEO said.  Fiat revised its full-year earnings targets this week after
consolidating Chrysler from June 1. Fiat forecasts 2011 earnings
before interest, tax and one-time items, which it calls trading
profit, of about 2.1 billion euros ($3 billion) and revenue of
more than 58 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  