-- 
Areva Faces Asset Writedown as It Cuts Nuclear New-Build Outlook

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-07-28T10:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/areva-faces-asset-writedown-as-it-cuts-nuclear-new-build-outlook.html
Areva SA, the world’s biggest
supplier of nuclear fuel and services, may write down the value
of uranium mines as  Japan ’s nuclear crisis dims prospects for
atomic plant projects over the next 20 years.  Costs tied to new installations and development also will
be evaluated as Areva prepares forecasts, Chief Executive
Officer Luc Oursel said today on a conference call. He didn’t
provide guidelines on the size of possible writedowns. The
company prepares forecasts by the end of the year.  Germany ,  Switzerland  and other nations have already decided
to shutter sites following the March disaster in Japan, where an
earthquake and its ensuing tsunami crippled a Fukushima nuclear
plant. Areva’s backlog fell 2.1 percent in the first half to
43.1 billion euros from a year earlier as Japanese and German
customers canceled orders.  Oursel, who took over as chief last month, said he’s
“confident” Areva may keep its target of a 30 percent share of
new construction of possible plants in the regions it serves
because its third-generation reactors meet stricter safety
requirements.  Areva expects new construction of nuclear reactors to
represent 304 gigawatts of power by 2030, with about two-thirds
of that in markets the company targets. Areva projects 584
gigawatts of nuclear energy capacity worldwide by 2030, down
from a previous prediction of 659 gigawatts.  Areva already booked 87 million euros of provisions and
depreciations in the first six months of the year, citing the
“foreseeable short-term level of activity” at its reactors and
services unit. Revenue fell 9.2 percent in the second quarter to
2.02 billion euros, the company said yesterday.  German and Japanese clients account for 17.5 percent of
Areva’s backlog, and some 700 million euros of these orders may
be cancelled or renegotiated, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  