-- 
U.S. Sovereign Credit Rating Cut Would Threaten Trade in Asia, ADB Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-28T05:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/asia-faces-rising-price-pressures-adb.html
A cut in the U.S.’s sovereign
ratings may weaken the dollar and make Asian goods more
expensive, hurting the region’s trade outlook, the  Asian
Development Bank  said today.  A depreciating dollar would also lead to financial losses
for Asian nations who hold U.S. Treasuries, Iwan J. Azis, head
of the ADB’s Office of Regional Economic Integration, told
reporters in Beijing today.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have said they may cut the U.S.’s top-level sovereign
ranking if officials fail to resolve a stalemate over raising
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and reducing spending. Asia
still relies on U.S. and European demand for its goods, even as
Group of 20 members push to rebalance the world economy so that
Asia depends more on domestic consumption.  “If the U.S. sovereign rating is cut to AA, it will
increase the borrowing costs and put pressure on the dollar and
it is likely to depreciate further, which will definitely cause
financial losses for emerging Asian nations including China for
their holdings of Treasury bills,” Azis said.  S&P, which rates the U.S. AAA, said July 14 that the chance
of a downgrade is 50 percent in the next three months and it may
cut the rating as soon as August if there isn’t a “credible”
plan to reduce the nation’s deficit.  Inflation Pressures  Asian policy makers need to tackle rising inflationary
pressures in their economies even as global growth weakens, the
ADB also said.  The region can use monetary and fiscal policies as well as
exchange rates to ease price pressure, the Manila-based lender
said in its  Asia  Economic Monitor report today. Asian economies
also face the risk of increased financial market volatility and
destabilizing capital flows, the ADB said.  Asia’s central banks have enacted the steepest increases in
borrowing costs as the region led the global recovery from the
2009 recession, with China,  India ,  Thailand  and  Taiwan  raising
rates in recent weeks. Still,  Europe ’s debt crisis and rising
U.S. joblessness have threatened demand for exports and wiped
more than $2 trillion off stocks worldwide since the beginning
of May.  “With robust growth moderating only slightly, many
emerging East Asian economies face the challenge of controlling
inflation and managing capital inflows in a difficult external
environment,” the ADB said. “Inflationary pressures are rising
in the region on strong domestic demand and high commodity
prices, fueled by continuing capital inflows.”  Growth Forecast  The lender’s forecast for growth of 7.9 percent this year
in emerging East Asian economies may be revised lower, according
to the report today, which was prepared by the ADB’s Office of
Regional Economic Integration. The economic forecasts remain
unchanged from its April predictions for now.  Inflation in many Asian economies has risen above 10-year
averages, and have either breached or approached the upper end
of official targets, possibly because policy makers delayed
removing monetary stimulus as their economies recovered from the
global slump, the ADB said.  “With the region’s economies recovering strongly in 2010
and continuing robust growth in 2011, output gaps have narrowed
significantly or closed in many economies, thus contributing to
rising inflation,” the lender said. “Elevated food and
commodity prices and robust domestic demand could push inflation
higher yet.”  Stocks Rise  Growth in Asia has outpaced the rest of the world,
attracting foreign funds and helping boost currencies and stock
markets in the past year. All of Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies except the  Hong Kong dollar , which is pegged to its
U.S. counterpart, have risen in the past 12 months. The MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks excluding  Japan  climbed
more than 18 percent.  “Authorities could adopt a strategy allowing currencies to
appreciate somewhat faster, while keeping tabs on interest-rate
hikes to avoid excessive ‘search-for-yield’ capital inflows,”
the ADB said. “This strategy would support domestic demand
while dampening inflationary pressures and help global
rebalancing. It would also add a lever to help manage capital
flows and their domestic economic impact.”  In China, where gross domestic product surged 9.6 percent
in the first half from a year earlier, the ADB said the growth
performance suggests that measures taken to tighten monetary
policy have yet to impact the economy.  China  Rates  Inflation has breached the government’s 4 percent ceiling
every month this year and the People’s Bank of China has raised
lending rates five times since mid-October.  “Authorities are expected to keep tightening monetary
policy and rolling back fiscal stimulus to counter rising
inflation and economic overheating,” the ADB said. “But the
weak external environment and tighter monetary stance is
expected to help growth moderate to more sustainable levels in
the months ahead.”  China’s manufacturing may contract this month for the first
time in a year, according to preliminary purchasing managers’
data released by HSBC Holdings Plc. released July 21.  Asia accounted for 35 percent of world exports in 2009,
compared with 25 percent a decade earlier, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  