-- 
Asian Stocks Slide Amid U.S. Debt Impasse, China Loan Clampdown

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-28T10:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/asian-stocks-decline-as-u-s-debt-deadline-looms-goods-orders-fall.html
Asian stocks fell for a third day
this week as U.S. lawmakers failed to break a deadlock over
raising the federal debt limit, and durable goods orders in the
world’s biggest economy unexpectedly declined.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the No. 1 carmaker, slid 2.2 percent in
Tokyo.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s biggest
publicly traded lender, fell 1.5 percent.  China  Construction
Bank Corp. led Chinese lenders lower after the government
prohibited banks from renewing loans to local financing
vehicles.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company
by market value, retreated 2.3 percent in Sydney after oil and
metal prices declined. Nan Kang Rubber Tire Co. surged in Taipei
after a newspaper said development of land by the company may
reap sales of $3.5 billion.  “There’s increased nervousness in equity markets as the
debt ceiling deadline draws near,” said  Tim Schroeders , who
helps manage $1 billion in global equities at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in  Melbourne . “A de-rating of  U.S. debt  down the track
could reduce monetary liquidity, and some bank earnings may be
hurt. Exporter-led earnings are increasingly at risk under such
a volatile backdrop.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1 percent to 137.63 as of
7:38 p.m. in  Tokyo . More than three stocks fell for each that
rose on the gauge. The measure is headed for a decline this week
as forecasts for higher earnings at companies from Canon Inc. to
Baidu Inc. were overshadowed by concern the U.S. may default on
its debt if lawmakers can’t reach an agreement on raising the
government’s borrowing limit by Aug. 2  Regional Declines  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.5 percent, sliding
below the 10,000 yen level for the first time in a week and its
biggest drop in over a month. South Korea’s Kospi index declined
0.9 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 1.6
percent.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 0.1 percent,
reversing an earlier drop of 1.4 percent, while the broader Hang
Seng Composite Index slipped 0.1 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index retreated 0.5 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed after rising as much as 0.6 percent today. The index
sank 2 percent yesterday in  New York  as lawmakers indicated they
were no closer to reaching a compromise on the federal debt
limit, while a government report showed orders for durable goods
unexpectedly decreased.  The S&P 500’s biggest decline since June 1 came as House
Speaker John Boehner’s reworked deficit-cutting plan gained
support among Republicans, while Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid said his competing proposal to avert a potential U.S.
default is the only “true compromise.”  Stocks extended declines after the U.S. Commerce Department
yesterday said bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years fell 2.1 percent in June after a 1.9 percent gain in May
that was smaller than last reported. The median forecast of 76
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.3 percent
increase. Demand for business equipment, including machinery and
computers, also dropped.  Partial Greek Default  Declines also followed  Standard & Poor’s  saying that Greece
will partially default on its debt once European officials push
through a plan that will see bondholders foot part of the bill
of a second bailout agreed to last week in Brussels. The rating
company also cut its ranking for Greece to CC, two steps above
default, from CCC.  A measure of consumer discretionary stocks including
exporters such as Toyota and Honda Motor Co. in the Asia-Pacific
gauge dropped 1 percent today.  Toyota, which counts  North America  as its biggest market
for sales, slid 2.2 percent to 3,185 yen. Honda, the automaker
which receives 83 percent of its revenue abroad, declined 1.9
percent to 3,085 yen in Tokyo. Samsung Electronics Co., a South
Korean consumer and industrial electronics maker that gets about
85 percent of its revenue abroad, lost 1 percent to 837,000 won
in Seoul. The companies were among the biggest drags on the MSCI
Asia Pacific index.  ‘Risk Avoidance’  “In addition to the recent debt impasse in the U.S.,
investors need to be more conscious about the deterioration of
the actual economy,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about
$600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Risk avoidance is increasing again.”  The U.S. government may lose its AAA credit rating even if
lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a default, Mohamed A. El-Erian,
whose Pacific Investment Management Co. is the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News on
July 24. BlackRock Inc., Franklin Templeton Investments, Loomis
Sayles & Co. and Western Asset Management have also said that
the nation faces the loss of its top-level grade.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the largest-listed Japanese
holder of  U.S. government debt , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, fell 1.5 percent to 397 yen. Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender by market value, slumped 1.8
percent to A$20.65. Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Australia’s No. 3, lost 1.4 percent to A$20.99.  A Heavy Drag  Banks as a group were the heaviest drags on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index among its 10 industry groups.  Chinese banks fell after commercial lenders were banned
from rolling over or renewing their loans to local-government
financing vehicles, according to a statement posted on the China
Banking Regulatory Commission’s website today.  China Construction Bank slid 0.9 percent to HK$6.30 in Hong
Kong. Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (601988)  slumped 0.5
percent to HK$5.96. Bank of China Ltd. declined 0.7 percent to
3.03 yuan in Shanghai.  Raw-material and energy producers dropped the most among
the 10 industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after
crude oil dropped for a second day in New York, while the  London 
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals including copper
and aluminum slid 0.2 percent yesterday.  Copper, Oil Falls  BHP retreated 2.3 percent to A$42.03, the biggest single
drag on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,
Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, slumped 1.6
percent to A$38.92. Inpex Corp., a Japanese energy exploration
company, declined 2 percent to 590,000 yen.  Crude oil for September delivery slid as much as 0.6
percent to $96.80 a barrel today, its second day of declines.
Copper in London dropped as much as 0.3 percent to $9,750 a
metric ton, also falling for a second day.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.8 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  Among stocks that advanced, Nan Kang Rubber jumped 6.9
percent to NT$58.70 in Taipei, the biggest gain on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. The Commercial Times newspaper reported the
company’s plans to develop land in the Nan Kang district may
reap sales of more than NT$100 billion ($3.5 billion), citing
the chairman of Jaysanlyn Group, the sales agent of Nan Kang
Rubber.  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., which makes as well as
repairs machinery, jumped 3.8 percent to 1,745 yen. The company
boosted its forecast for net income to 3.8 billion yen from 1.5
billion yen for the six months ending Sept. 30, citing higher
sales of parts and cost reductions.  Of 143 companies in the Asia-Pacific gauge that have
reported net income since July 11, 67 have exceeded analysts’
estimates while 57 have fallen short, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Overall, earnings have declined 17 percent, the
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 