-- 
Asiana Air Boeing 747 Freighter Crashes in South Korea Waters; Two Onboard

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-28T10:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/asiana-boeing-747-freighter-crashes-in-korean-waters-correct-.html
Asiana Airlines (020560)  Inc.,  South Korea ’s
second-largest carrier, said the crash of its cargo freighter in
the sea south of Jeju island earlier today caused 200.4 billion
won ($190 million) of damage.  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-400 aircraft was carrying two
crewmembers and 58 tons of cargo to  Shanghai  from South Korea’s
 Incheon International Airport  before problems with the controls,
the airline said in an e-mailed statement. The cost of damage is
based on the book value of the plane, the carrier said in a
separate regulatory filing.  The plane was heading for Jeju when communications were cut
at 4:11 a.m., about an hour after takeoff, Asiana said. Rescue
workers are searching for the crewmembers and the airplane’s
black-box flight recorder, which may help determine the cause of
the accident, the  Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime
Affairs  said. The airline fell the most in more than four months
in Seoul trading following the crash, its first since 1993.  “The crash may damage Asiana’s reputation if the airline
is found to be responsible,” said Kang Seong Jin, an analyst at
Seoul-based Tong Yang Securities Inc. Insurance will likely
cover the lost cargo and plane, limiting direct costs, he said.  There may have been a fire on board before the crash, the
transport ministry said in a statement.  Insurance Companies  Asiana is focusing on the search efforts and doesn’t have
immediate estimates of losses or damages, Jason Kim, a spokesman
for the airline, said by phone. It’s too early to speculate on
the cause of the crash, he said. The plane was carrying
technology products, paint and other liquids.  The aircraft is insured for $122 million under an agreement
with eight insurance companies, including LIG Insurance Co.,
Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co. and Hyundai Marine & Fire
Insurance Co., Asiana said in the filing.  The airline dropped 4.7 percent, the most since March 14,
to 11,050 won at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul trading. Korean Air
Lines Co., the nation’s biggest airline, gained 0.2 percent.  Asiana had nine 747 freighters and a 767 cargo plane at the
end of March, according to its  website . The company’s sales from
its freight business increased 3.2 percent in the first quarter
to 3.21 billion won, accounting for 26 percent of the total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  