-- 
Stocks Sink as U.S. Moves Closer to Default

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-28T22:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/asia-stocks-oil-drop-on-u-s-debt-impasse-economy-yen-kiwi-strengthen.html
U.S. stocks slid, dragging the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a fourth day, and six-
month Treasury bills sank as lawmakers indicated they were no
closer to an agreement to raise the debt ceiling. The dollar
gained and commodities retreated.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.3 percent to 1,300.67 at 4 p.m. in
New York to extend this week’s loss to 3.3 percent. Futures on
the index fell 0.2 percent at 6:31 p.m. after House Speaker  John Boehner  delayed a vote on debt-limit legislation. The drop in
Treasury bills issued in February that mature just after the
U.S. exhausts the ability to borrow on Aug. 2 sent the yield up
four basis points to 0.15 percent. The Dollar Index rose 0.2
percent. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities fell 0.2 percent.  Stocks erased an early rally spurred by a drop in jobless
claims as Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  vowed to defeat a
Republican debt-ceiling plan in his chamber if it passes the
House later today. Boehner postponed the vote, which had been
scheduled for 6 p.m. in  Washington .  “The market is driven by headlines as investors get
increasingly nervous the closer we get to the deadline without
some kind of clarity,” Carlo Panaccione, who oversees about
$350 million as the co-founder of Navigation Group in Redwood
Shores,  California , said in a telephone interview. “There can
be multiple reasons for Boehner postponing this vote, but people
will fill in the blanks with the worst news.”  Blankfein, Dimon  Bankers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  Jamie Dimon  called on President  Barack Obama  and Congress
to raise the federal debt limit to steer the government away
from the threat of default.  Stocks and Treasuries have moved in tandem twice as often
as they normally do, a sign investors are growing convinced the
U.S. will lose its AAA credit rating and that an impasse among
lawmakers may spur losses in both markets.  The  S&P 500  had risen or fallen together with 10-year
Treasury notes 80 percent of the time in the previous 10 days,
compared with the average since 2000 of 41 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 10-year note rose today, pushing
the yield down three basis points to 2.96 percent, amid concern
the political deadlock will damage the economy.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has repeatedly said
the government’s authority to borrow will run out on Aug. 2
unless Congress raises the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. A
Treasury official said in an e-mail earlier today the department
would provide more information on how the government would
operate in the absence of borrowing authority no earlier than
after financial markets close tomorrow.  Six-Month Bills  Rates on six-month bills maturing Aug. 4 retreated from
their session high of 0.20 percent after an administration
official said the Treasury will give priority to making interest
payments to investors if lawmakers fail to reach an agreement.  Costs to protect  U.S. debt  from default rose for a fourth
straight day, with credit-default swaps climbing two basis
points to 64 points, the highest since February 8, 2010,
according to data provider CMA.  Passage of Boehner’s measure to cut the deficit and raise
the borrowing limit, which all 51 Senate Democrats and two
independents oppose, will lead to negotiations among leaders on
both sides in an attempt to avert a U.S. default.  Most Since June  The S&P 500 tumbled 2 percent yesterday, its biggest loss
since June 1, and has declined 3.2 percent since July 8, the day
before Alcoa Inc. unofficially started the earnings season on
July 11. Stocks retreated even as almost four companies beat
analyst estimates for every one that missed, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In  Europe ’s Stoxx 600, more companies
have trailed projections than surprised positively.  Stocks started the session higher today after jobless
claims fell by 24,000 to 398,000 in the week ended July 23,
fewer than forecast, Labor Department figures showed. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a
drop to 415,000.  Equities headed lower amid fading optimism that lawmakers
will reach a compromise agreement. AT&T Inc. led losses in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average , dropping 2.3 percent. Exxon Mobil
Corp. fell 2.2 percent after reporting second-quarter profit
trailed estimates. Cisco Systems Inc. rallied 2 percent to lead
gains in the Dow after Goldman Sachs advised buying the shares.  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John C.
Williams said in the text of a speech that the central bank
doesn’t have a “magic wand” to help the economy if the U.S.
government defaults on its debts.  ‘Very Grave’  Executives wrote in a letter sent today by the Financial
Services Forum, a Washington-based trade group representing the
largest banks, that the consequences of a default would be
“very grave.”  “A default on our Nation’s obligations, or a downgrade of
America’s credit rating, would be a tremendous blow to business
and investor confidence -- raising  interest rates  for everyone
who borrows, undermining the value of the Dollar, and roiling
stock and bond markets -- and, therefore, dramatically worsening
our Nation’s already difficult economic circumstances,” the
group wrote in the letter to the  U.S. Congress  and the White
House.  Among European shares,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, lost 1.6 percent after
second-quarter profit fell 52 percent, and BASF SE, the world’s
largest chemical company, sank 4.2 percent after signaling
growth will slow. Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa
AG, Europe’s biggest airlines, fell more than 2.8 percent as
earnings missed estimates.  Italian Bonds  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose six basis points to 5.80
percent. The nation sold almost 2.7 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
of 10-year bonds at an average yield of 5.77 percent, compared
with 4.94 percent at an auction June 28. The Spanish 10-year
yield increased six basis points to 5.98 percent. The Greek two-
year note yield jumped 11 basis points to 30.13 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.4 percent, led by
declines in Asian exporters including  Taiwan ’s HTC Corp. and
 South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co.  Turkey ’s lira strengthened
0.9 percent against the dollar and the country’s ISE National
100 Index advanced 2.2 percent, the most in two months, after
central bank Governor Erdem Basci said the Turkish currency
isn’t overvalued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  