-- 
Assertive Credit-Rating Services Wear New Boldness Well: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-28T00:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/assertive-credit-rating-services-are-wearing-their-new-boldness-well-view.html
Just a few years ago, credit-rating
companies were the sleuths who didn’t see.  In addition to awarding strong ratings to Icelandic banks,
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and other dubious enterprises,
companies such as  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  slapped their AAA endorsements on shoddy
securities constructed from subprime mortgages. When the housing
boom exploded, the services’ hurried downgrades were too late to
help anyone.  At a House subcommittee  hearing  yesterday, U.S. financial
regulators acknowledged that the rating companies lately have
been doing a better job. Alarmed by  Greece ’s unsustainable
borrowing, the companies have slashed Greek debt to below
investment grade. Troubles in Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  aren’t
as severe, but those countries are under appropriately close
scrutiny by rating services. Even the U.S. has been tagged for a
downgrade if it can’t sort out its debt-ceiling and spending
problems -- and maybe even if it does.  Now that the companies are taking bolder action, some
 European leaders  are wishing they wouldn’t. There are calls to
revoke the Big Three raters’ European licenses, to encourage the
formation of smaller (perhaps more pliant) competitors, or to
impose penalties for ratings that turn out to be too
pessimistic. One proposal would require raters to give three
days’ notice of possible downgrades to affected countries, so
borrowers can privately lobby for gentler treatment.  Such measures might win spendthrift governments a few extra
weeks to unload more debt on the marketplace, but they wouldn’t
forestall a reckoning. The telltales of trouble -- rising bond
yields and soaring prices for credit-default swaps -- are
impossible to ignore for long, so the sooner the facts are
known, the better.  French Phone Call  Countries already enjoy a 12-hour period to plead their
cases in private before a ratings downgrade is announced. That
suffices; additional delay simply invites a market in inside
information. As Fitch’s president,  Paul Taylor ,  told  Britain’s
House of Lords in May, “You inform the Greeks of a rating
decision and you get phoned up by the French. That is quite
disturbing.”  In the U.S., the raters have described what spending cuts
they deem necessary for the country to retain its prized AAA
credit rating. Although this skirts uncomfortably close to the
political playing field, such specificity is part of the job.
Rating companies can’t limit their work to analyzing the past.
Whether rating a sports arena or a superpower, they must shed
light on future scenarios and their consequences.  Establishing Independence  Rating companies still have far to go to establish their
independence. They collect much of their revenue by charging
issuers for the privilege of being rated, creating ample
potential for conflicts of interest. Congress should weigh
whether laws need to be revised to eliminate such risk. (Decades
ago, rating companies got all their money from investors, their
true clients.)  New rules being developed by the  Securities and Exchange
Commission  will soon require additional disclosure of rating
companies’ methods. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires
regulators to devise new standards for measuring
creditworthiness, abandoning an overreliance on ratings in U.S.
laws. In the process, the agencies must take care not to harm
credit availability, or introduce too much subjectivity. Ratings
should be viewed as just one piece of investment analysis.  Meantime, regulators around the world are redrawing rules
so that ratings work with internal bank analyses and market
prices in assessing risk. Such broader applications will enhance
transparency and aid investors.  The rating companies’ new prominence has put them in the
spotlight. So far, executives from Fitch, Moody’s and S&P have
done a solid job of explaining their most controversial calls.
It appears that public scrutiny and transparency may be the best
medicine for raters and their subjects alike.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 