-- 
AstraZeneca Resolves Most Suits Relating to Seroquel Drug for $647 Million

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-28T16:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/astrazeneca-resolves-almost-all-seroquel-suits-for-647-million.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  has settled almost
all lawsuits that claimed its antipsychotic drug Seroquel causes
diabetes in some users for a total of $647 million.  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, has set
aside the $647 million to resolve 28,461 suits alleging it knew
Seroquel could cause diabetes in some users, the company said in
its second-quarter earnings report. The reserve includes money
that may be used to settle about 250 unresolved cases, company
officials said in the report.  AstraZeneca’s ability to settle the Seroquel liability for
less than $1 billion “may well be a positive surprise for
investors,”  Les Funtleyder , a health strategist and portfolio
manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s a real bargain when you look at what
competitors such as Lilly have paid in settlements over a
similar drug.”  Eli Lilly & Co (LLY) , maker of the antipsychotic drug Zyprexa,
has paid at least $1.2 billion to resolve lawsuits alleging the
drug caused diabetes in some users. That’s on top of $1.42
billion in fines the drugmaker paid the U.S. government to
resolve claims that it illegally marketed Zyprexa.  AstraZeneca, based in  London , announced last summer it had
resolved about two-thirds of the 26,000 Seroquel suits that had
been filed in courts around the U.S. at the time. The company
won the first  jury trial  over Seroquel in March 2010.  250 Cases Left  “AstraZeneca is aware of about 250 Seroquel product-
liability claims in the  United States  that have not been settled
in principle,”  Tony Jewell , a U.S.-based spokesman for
AstraZeneca, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We remain committed to a strong defense effort, but will
continue to participate in good faith in the court-ordered
mediation process for the remaining cases,” he added.  Seroquel, with 2010 sales of $5.3 billion, is the company’s
second-biggest seller, after the cholesterol-reducing drug
Crestor, according to earlier company filings. Of that number,
$3.75 billion in sales were from the U.S., the filings said.
AstraZeneca trails only London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  among
U.K. drug companies.  AstraZeneca officials said in the earnings report that
second-quarter profit fell because of increased generic
competition and government price cuts.  Defense Costs  Profit excluding restructuring and other one-time costs
declined to $1.73 a share from $1.79, the company said today in
a statement. That matched the $1.73 mean estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  AstraZeneca’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one ordinary share, rose 29 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $49.10 at 12:21 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading.  AstraZeneca officials said in the filing that the company
had paid a total of $749 million in legal fees and expenses to
defend against Seroquel claims as of this month. Of that total,
about $134 million is covered by insurance, AstraZeneca said. In
addition, the company agreed last year to pay $520 million to
resolve U.S. allegations that it illegally marketed Seroquel for
unapproved uses.  The $647 million reserve for Seroquel litigation includes
money “to account for the current and anticipated future
settlement costs regarding the Seroquel product liability
claims, past and future defense costs associated with defending
the claims since the fourth quarter 2010,” AstraZeneca said in
the earnings report.  State Suits  The reserve also includes provisions for suits filed by
state attorneys general over the company’s Seroquel marketing,
according to the report. AstraZeneca agreed in March to pay
$68.5 million to resolve claims that it deceptively marketed
Seroquel in 37 states.  Earlier this month, a judge rejected AstraZeneca’s bid to
throw out a case brought by Arkansas Attorney General Dustin McDaniel alleging the drugmaker hid the health risks of Seroquel
when selling it to residents covered by the state’s Medicaid
program.  Since 2006, all Seroquel cases filed against AstraZeneca in
U.S. federal courts have been consolidated in  Orlando ,  Florida ,
for pretrial evidence gathering.  The cases were gathered together as part of the  Multi-
District Litigation  program intended to save money by
streamlining document exchanges and avoiding duplication. The
judge overseeing the federal cases asked  Stephen Saltzburg , a
 George Washington University Law School  professor, to serve as
mediator in hopes of reaching settlements.  Michael Kelly , a Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer for
AstraZeneca who served as the drugmaker’s lead negotiator in the
settlements, didn’t return a call seeking comment. Perry Weitz,
a New York-based lawyer representing some former Seroquel users,
declined to comment on the settlements.  The case is In Re Seroquel Products Litigation, 06-MD-
01769, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
( Orlando ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  