-- 
AstraZeneca Raises Profit Forecast

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-28T07:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/astrazeneca-raises-profit-forecast.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, raised its full-year profit forecast for a
third time, even after second-quarter earnings fell due to
increased generic competition and government price cuts.  AstraZeneca now expects so-called core earnings per share
this year in a range of $7.05 to $7.35, up from $6.95 to $7.25,
the London-based company said today in a statement. On that
basis, second-quarter profit declined to $1.73 a share from
$1.79. That matched the $1.73 mean estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company may increase its share buyback this year to $5
billion from $4 billion previously after the sale of Astra Tech
for $1.8 billion. That, along with beneficial currency movements
in the first half, resulted in the higher forecast, AstraZeneca
said.  “Although more than 50 percent of the increase in guidance
is driven by increased share buybacks, in our view this reflects
strong financial and strategic discipline from management,”
 Justin Smith , a London-based analyst with MF Global UK Ltd.,
said today in a note to investors.  AstraZeneca rose 22.5 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 3,032.5
pence at 8:39 a.m. in London trading. Before today, the stock
had gained 7 percent this year including reinvested dividends,
compared with an 11 percent increase in the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  Generic Competition  Sales rose 3 percent to $8.43 billion from $8.18 billion,
beating the $8.23 billion mean estimate of 24 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Generic competition hurt sales by about $500
million, AstraZeneca said.  AstraZeneca said today it expects to generate between $3
billion and $5 billion in revenue from new drugs by 2014 to meet
its sales target range of $28 billion to $34 billion. Patents on
Nexium for ulcers and antipsychotic medication Seroquel, which
together generated more than $10 billion last year, expire by
2014.  “Spending $5 billion this year is an incredible lack of
insight on what’s going to drive revenue growth in the future,”
Navid Malik, an analyst with Matrix Corporate Capital LLP, said
in an interview today. He has a “reduce” rating on the stock.
“They’re running out of ideas.”  AstraZeneca last week won U.S. approval of the blood-
thinner Brilinta with a safety warning. Reimbursement is in
place in seven countries, the drugmaker said today.  Brilinta Pricing  “We price our products to reflect the value they deliver,
and Brilinta is a more effective treatment option,” Chief
Financial Officer Simon Lowth said in a conference call with
reporters. “Brilinta should be priced at a premium to branded
Plavix.”  The company may have a difficult time competing with
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Paris-based Sanofi’s Plavix if it
sells daily doses of Brilinta at a 20 percent premium to the
world’s second-best selling drug, according to  Tim Anderson , New
York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Bristol-Myers
had sales of $6.67 billion from Plavix in 2010, while partner
Sanofi had 2.08 billion euros ($2.94 billion) from the drug,
which loses its patent next year.  “Coming out with a premium price seems like it will give
payers one more reason to push Plavix ahead of Brilinta,”
Anderson, who expects AstraZeneca to sells its drug at a
wholesale price of about $7.24 for a daily treatment, wrote in a
note to clients. “In less than a year from now, generic
versions of Plavix will be available for pennies on the dollar,
creating a substantial price differential between generics and
Brilinta.”  The diabetes treatment dapagliflozin, which AstraZeneca
would market with New York-based partner Bristol-Myers, failed
last week to win the backing of a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel.  AstraZeneca has settled almost all lawsuits that claimed
its antipsychotic drug Seroquel causes diabetes in some users
for a total of $647 million, officials of the drugmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  