-- 
Astra Second-Quarter Profit Rises 25% on Sales, Unit Earnings

-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-07-28T11:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/astra-second-quarter-profit-rises-25-on-sales-unit-earnings.html
PT Astra International,  Indonesia ’s
biggest automotive retailer, posted a 25 percent gain in second
quarter profit as low  interest rates  and profit growth at its
units offset supply disruptions caused by Japan’s earthquake.  Net income in the three months ended June 30 rose to 4.3
trillion rupiah ($505.7 million) from 3.4 trillion rupiah a year
earlier, Astra said in a statement to the Indonesia Stock
Exchange today. Sales climbed to 37.6 trillion rupiah from 32.3
trillion rupiah, it said. The Jakarta-based company sells Toyota
Motor Corp. vehicles and Honda Motor Co. motorcycles.  “Even though the earthquake and the tsunami in Japan have
caused supply disruptions to the automotive business, the Astra
Group is confident it won’t impact its achievement by the end of
2011,” President Director Prijono Sugiarto said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The demand prospect for Astra’s products and
services is expected to remain high.”  Toyota temporarily suspended production at all 12 factories
in  Japan  following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that
killed or left missing 23,000 people. Indonesia’s vehicle sales
in April dropped to 60,702 units from 82,058 units a month ago.
Still, first-half vehicle sales have risen 12 percent from a
year earlier, Joko Trisanyoto, marketing director at Astra’s
unit, PT Toyota-Astra Motor, said July 4.  The Indonesian central bank has kept its benchmark interest
rate at near a record low of 6.75 percent since February as
inflation eased, helping sustain demand for vehicles. Consumer-
price increases slowed for a fifth straight month in June to
5.54 percent.  Astra, Indonesia’s biggest company by market value, owns
businesses in among others the coal mining,  palm oil  and
financial services industries. Its heavy equipment unit PT
United Tractors reported yesterday a 34 percent gain in first-
half net income while palm oil unit PT Astra Agro Lestari said
net income surged 69 percent.  “Astra’s outlook is promising given the favorable economic
condition and better purchasing power,” said Akhmad Nurcahyadi,
an analyst at PT BNI Securities in Jakarta who rates the stock
“buy.” “For investors who want exposure to Indonesia the
choices are Astra and United Tractors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberng.net  