-- 
Australia Default Swaps Below U.S., Germany

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-28T03:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/australia-default-swaps-below-u-s-germany.html
Australia  is being seen as a safer
bet than both the U.S. and Germany as concern increases the U.S.
may default and  Europe  struggles to curb deficits.  Investors are paying less to insure Australian government
bonds than Treasuries or German bunds for the first time since
April 26, 2010. Credit-default swaps to cover the South Pacific
nation’s debt for five years traded at 57.69 basis points
yesterday, according to CMA prices in  New York . U.S. swaps were
at 62.47 and German contracts at 62.25.  Australia’s plan to run a 2013 budget surplus contrasts
with the inability of President Barack Obama and House Speaker
John Boehner to lift a $14.3 trillion  U.S. debt  cap. Australia
expects net borrowings to peak at 7.2 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, when the  International Monetary Fund  gauges
U.S. debt will be 77 percent of GDP. The U.S. faces “massive
consequences” if its impasse leads to default, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said yesterday.  “The relative fiscal position in Australia is very strong
and we have very low net government debt outstanding,” said
Janu Chan, an economist in Sydney at St. George Bank Ltd. “In
the case of the U.S. there is a heightened risk of a short-term
default or a downgrade by the credit ratings agencies and that’s
driving up the cost of insuring against default.”  The Australian dollar climbed 23 percent over the past 12
months versus the greenback and traded at $1.1029 as of 1:03
p.m. in Sydney. It yesterday reached $1.1081, the strongest
since it was freely floated in 1983. The Aussie has gained 12
percent over the past month against the 17-nation euro.  ‘True Haven’  The U.S., Germany and Australia have the highest credit
ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .
Both companies put the U.S. under review for a ratings downgrade
this month as talks on raising the debt limit stall.  Australian  government bonds  are a “true safe haven,”
National Australia Bank Ltd. Chief Markets Economist Rob
Henderson said at a conference in Melbourne on July 26.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said in May Australia’s government
will end 23 years of spending growth amid the biggest-ever
mining-investment boom.  Former Chinese central bank adviser Yu Yongding yesterday
repeated his call for  China  to reduce its Treasury holdings amid
an impasse among U.S. policy makers.  U.S. ‘Not Safe’  “U.S. bonds are not safe, but people think they are
safe,” Yu, a researcher at a Beijing institute under the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told reporters at a briefing
in Mumbai,  India . “That is a mirage.”  White House economic adviser  Gene Sperling  said yesterday
debt talks in Congress are at a “stalemate” and both sides
need to reach a compromise before Aug. 2, when the U.S. hits its
ceiling on borrowing. Neither of the competing proposals from
Senate Democrats and House Republicans are likely to pass
Congress as things now stand, he said.  Australia’s bonds have returned 5.9 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, the best return after  New Zealand 
among 20 developed markets tracked by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  “Investors diversifying away from U.S. dollar assets
continue to favor Australian bonds as a high-grade, higher-
yielding alternative,” Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia rates
strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore , said this week.
“Unfortunately for larger funds and central banks, the market
is just not big enough to meet their demand.”  European Bailouts  While  Germany ’s economy is growing faster than the U.S. and
the rest of the euro zone, bond traders are concerned the
country faces spiraling costs as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  leads
the bailout of cash-strapped partners among the nations that
share the euro.  Credit-default swaps on New Zealand’s debt traded at 68.81
basis points yesterday, the narrowest spread to the U.S. since
Nov. 8. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  U.S. contracts have climbed 12 basis points since June 30,
heading for the biggest monthly advance since August.  The world’s largest economy would experience “headwinds”
to growth and employment, already in a crisis, if its credit
rating were downgraded, El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief
investment officer at Pimco, the world’s biggest manager of bond
funds, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  yesterday.  Default swaps protect bond investors against default and
traders use them to speculate on credit quality. A drop signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an increase
suggests the opposite.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  