-- 
TAV Havalimanlari of Turkey Could Bid to Operate Kenya’s Airport, CEO Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-28T11:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/tav-havalimanlari-of-turkey-plans-a-bid-to-run-nairobi-airport-ceo-says.html
TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) ,
Turkey’s biggest airport operator, may bid to run an airport in
Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital, as it expands its operations in
 Africa , Chief Executive Officer Sani Sener said.  “We have heard that the government of Kenya is planning to
put out a tender, and we are interested,” Sener said in an
interview on the sidelines of a conference in Franschhoek,
outside Cape Town, today. “We will look at public-private
partnerships in Africa, but it is up to governments to call for
tenders.”  TAV plans to add African airports to the two it already
runs in Tunisia as companies including  Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO)  AO, the
carrier known as Turkish Airlines, increase routes to the
continent, Sener said in a panel discussion earlier.  Turkish
Airlines  ordered 10 planes for new flights in Africa, it said on
July 5. These include a route between Istanbul and Kigali,
Rwanda.  TAV said in March it is targeting revenue growth of 15
percent in 2011 by expanding abroad. It would look at all growth
options, including government asset sales, building new airports
or buying existing private ones.  “We will select locales” with sound political leadership
and economic policies, Sener said. “ South Africa  we will
definitely look at.”  More involvement from business is needed in the airline
industry to open up African skies and grow passenger numbers,
said Monhla Hlahla, chief executive officer of Airports Co.
South Africa, the state-owned airports operator.  Open-Skies Policy  African airports handled 28.2 million passengers in the
five months through May 31, a decline of 17 percent compared
with the year-earlier period, according to Airports Council
International data. Africa accounted for 2.3 percent of airline
passengers.  “Domestically, an open-skies policy has made our lives
much better,” Hlahla said. “Internationally, however, you come
up against sovereign countries. Until the private sector in the
continent plays a role in defining the future of air travel,
that situation won’t change.”  The Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, the East African
nation’s biggest, is located in Nairobi, as is Wilson airport,
according to the  Kenya Airports Authority’s  website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  