-- 
Lawsuit on Shell Drilling May Become ‘Backdoor’ Ban, Odum Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-07-28T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lawsuit-on-shell-drilling-may-become-backdoor-ban-odum-says.html
A lawsuit by environmental groups
over  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico
may become a “backdoor moratorium” that curtails U.S.
development, said  Marvin Odum , the company’s U.S. president.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council  of  New York  and
Oakland, California-based Earthjustice said Obama administration
approval of a Shell exploration plan for the Gulf’s deep waters
violates environmental laws and should be withdrawn, according
to June 9 petitions.  “This suit has the potential to virtually halt exploration
in the Gulf, serving as a backdoor moratorium,”  Odum said in
remarks prepared today for a speech at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in Washington. “Many of us here today may have
different opinions on the drilling moratorium in the Gulf after
last year’s spill. But it was long and painful both in terms of
jobs and economic losses.”  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, was first to win
approval for its deep-water drilling plans after the BP Plc oil
spill led the U.S. to toughen the environmental reviews. The
April 20, 2010, explosion of a drilling rig led President  Barack
Obama  to ban deep-water exploration until mid-October.  Odum said the U.S. regulatory system is “reactionary” and
overburdened. He cited Alaska, where The Hague-based company
hasn’t been allowed to drill after spending more than $2 billion
to acquire offshore leases.  “There are some encouraging signs,” he said.  “The
president created a cabinet-level interagency working group on
energy development and permitting in Alaska. This is an
important step and recognition that the current regulatory
apparatus was not up to the challenge of efficiency permitting a
project such as this.”  Shell needs about 35 permits to drill as many as two wells
a year in the  Beaufort Sea  and as many as three a year in the
Chukchi Sea from 2012 through 2013. These waters may produce
700,000 barrels of oil per day for 40 years, Peter Slaiby, Shell
Alaska’s vice president, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  