-- 
Tax Trio Would Put an End to Euro Arson: Perotti and Zingales

-- B y   L u i g i   Z i n g a l e s   a n d   R o b e r t o   P e r o t t i
-- 
2011-07-28T00:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/tax-trio-would-put-end-to-euro-arson-commentary-by-perotti-and-zingales.html
The latest effort by European policy
makers to contain the debt crisis offers only temporary relief
for the euro area.  The involvement of private creditors is a step in the right
direction, though it is quantitatively too limited, and the
buyback program may end up rewarding banks’ shareholders and
bondholders. Most importantly, the plan doesn’t address a
fundamental problem: Any support designed to backstop Spain and
 Italy  would be funded mostly by Germany, the region’s largest
national economy.  The latest measures still involve two massive transfers of
wealth. The first is from German taxpayers to those of southern
 Europe . If the aim is to destroy the idea of Europe for a
generation, we could do no better. The resentment of German
taxpayers will weigh on the continent for decades. To get a
sense of the reaction, consider that Italy was unified 150 years
ago, yet even small transfers of taxpayer money from the
Treasury to the south of the country prompt the Northern League
political party to call for secession.  The second movement of funds in the European rescue is from
taxpayers to banks. The 2008 bailouts of the financial industry
generated enough populist anger. This time, we may face a
revolt.  Even putting aside political considerations, the current
plan has big economic drawbacks, which can be summarized in two
words: moral hazard. Most policy makers, and many economists,
think that when a house is on fire, you first extinguish the
flames, and then you catch the arsonists. But if you put out the
blaze in a way that makes it impossible to catch the arsonists,
you are almost certain to have a lot more fires later.  Fair Alternative  Yet there is an alternative that is fair to taxpayers and
still preserves the incentives for the future. In addition, it
would enhance transparency and accountability by relying on
three visible and dedicated taxes. There is no free lunch, and
this proposal would be costly to investors, particularly holders
of bank debt and of distressed sovereign debt.  The first part of our proposal is a eurotax on bank debt --
not on bank profit (an idea that was killed at the meeting of
European leaders on July 21). Such a levy would have the double
advantage of raising revenue and penalizing careless creditors.
By assessing the tax based on the previous month’s credit-
default-swap prices, it would also serve to reward the good
banks and punish the bad ones.  Sovereign-Debt Tax  The second eurotax would be imposed on sovereign debt, and
also would be proportional to the previous month’s CDS prices.
This would force creditors to take a haircut, without triggering
a default. It would be applied to the stock of debt but not to
future issues, so it wouldn’t affect the marginal cost of
borrowing. As with the bank tax, it would have the double
benefit of raising revenue and of penalizing careless creditors.
In this respect, it is the opposite of a debt-buyback program,
which will reward creditors by increasing the market value of
sovereign debt.  Our proposal has one potential downside: By decreasing the
value of debt, it might push banks below their  capital
requirements , and possibly into default. However, with the
revenue raised, the European Union would be able to make the
banks an offer they couldn’t refuse: Either they recapitalize
immediately in the private market or they are recapitalized by
European authorities. This ensures the banks won’t fail. The
equity that is raised in this way wouldn’t be held by a national
government, but by the European Financial Stability Facility,
the temporary bailout fund, reducing the risk of political
influences on management.  ‘Blue Bond’  The third measure is a variant of a proposal advanced last
year by the economists Jacques Delpla and  Jakob von Weizsaecker :
The first 60 percent of each country’s debt would be converted
into a “blue” bond, which would be guaranteed by the EU; the
rest would float as junior, national debt, or “red” bonds that
would be subject to market discipline.  Any variant of eurobonds must address two problems. The
first is how to minimize a country’s temptation to free ride on
 Germany  by ending their funding for the blue bond. The second is
to make clear who is paying, a transparency that is missing in
the standard eurobond proposal. We recommend that the blue bond
be funded by a pre-specified fraction of the revenue from the
value-added tax. Under this proposal, it is clear from the onset
that each country will be required to participate at a level
commensurate with its gross domestic product; and all taxpayers
will be able to determine exactly how much they are being asked
to sacrifice to save a specific nation. This would increase the
accountability of all governments involved.  There is no reason why Europe should continue to protect
the arsonists who caused this crisis. This plan shows that it is
possible to put out the fire, catch those who lit it, avoid free
riding, and preserve equity and transparency.  ( Robert Perotti  is professor of economics at  Bocconi
University  in Milan.  Luigi Zingales  is professor of finance at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writers of this column:
Roberto Perotti at  roberto.perotti@unibocconi.it ;
Luigi Zingales at  Luigi.Zingales@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  