-- 
Bachmann Says U.S. Will Retain Credit Rating Without Debt Rise

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/bachmann-says-u-s-will-retain-credit-rating-without-debt-rise.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann  said she has “no doubt” the U.S. will
maintain its top credit rating, even as she reiterated her
opposition to any increase in the country’s debt ceiling.  “We will not lose the full faith and credit of the  United
States ,” the Minnesota congresswoman said today in  Washington .  Bachmann blamed recent market volatility on the lack of a
clear plan to reduce national deficits, as Congress remains
deadlocked on raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit as an Aug. 2
deadline for a potential default approaches.  “The markets know when politicians and serious about
spending cuts and the markets know when politicians are not,”
she said in an appearance at the  National Press Club .  Repeating comments she has made in  Iowa  and other campaign
stops in recent weeks, Bachmann attacked all the proposals for a
debt-limit increase, including one by House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, scheduled for a vote later today.  “I will not be casting my vote for that bill,” she said.
“I cannot. I am committed to not raising the debt ceiling.”  Boehner’s plan would provide an immediate $900 billion
boost in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling while cutting $915
billion in spending and tying a future borrowing increase to
enactment of more deficit reductions later this year. President
Barack Obama and Democrats who control the Senate have said they
oppose Boehner’s two-step approach and instead are pushing for
resolving the debt issue through 2012.  ‘Say No’  “We need leaders who are willing to say no” to any debt
limit increase, said Bachmann, arguing the sole focus should be
on spending cuts.  Bachmann, 55, voted last week against a Boehner-backed bill
that, along with raising the debt limit and making spending
cuts, included a balanced budget amendment to the U.S.
Constitution. That measure, which the Senate defeated, “simply
did not go far enough to fundamentally restructure how this city
spends the Americans people’s money,” she said.  She directed her toughest criticism at Obama, accusing him
of using “scare tactics” in the debate on the debt limit and
“passing the baton of leadership to Congress.”  Standard & Poor’s , which has given the U.S. a top AAA
ranking since 1941, said on July 14 that the chance of a
downgrade within three months is 50 percent, and a reduction may
occur as soon as August if there isn’t a “credible” plan to
reduce the nation’s deficit.  Banker Concerns  Bankers, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
chief  Jamie Dimon , called on Obama and Congress today to raise
the debt limit to steer the government away from the threat of
default that would threaten the nation’s credit status.  The government may lose its AAA credit rating even if
lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a default, Mohamed A. El-Erian,
whose Pacific Investment Management Co. is the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News on
July 24. BlackRock Inc., Franklin Templeton Investments, Loomis
Sayles & Co. and Western Asset Management have also said that
the nation faces the loss of its top-level grade.  Bachmann declined to say whether she would continue to
support Boehner as speaker if he helps in the adoption a debt
ceiling increase.  She also refused to answer questions about practices at a
Christian counseling center in  Minnesota  that she owns with her
husband and that he operates. ABC News reported that that the
clinic attempts to “cure” patients of homosexuality through
prayer.  “I’m extremely proud of my husband,” she said, as he sat
by her side. “My husband is not running for the presidency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  