-- 
Bank of America Sued by Countrywide Financial Investors Alleging Fraud

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-28T21:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/bank-of-america-is-sued-by-countrywide-financial-investors-alleging-fraud.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, faces a new securities-fraud lawsuit filed by
former Countrywide Financial Corp. investors including BlackRock
Inc. that opted out of a $624 million settlement last year.  Countrywide, acquired by Bank of America in 2008, misled
shareholders about its finances and lending practices, according
to the complaint filed today in federal court in  Los Angeles .
Plaintiffs including the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System and funds managed by BlackRock, T. Rowe Price Group Inc.
and TIAA-CREF are the largest group of those who rejected the
deal, saying the terms were inadequate.  “These prominent institutional investors made every effort
to amicably resolve their claims for recovery of damages caused
by the massive and pervasive fraud at Countrywide without filing
formal litigation, but were unsuccessful,” their attorney,
Blair Nicholas, a partner at Bernstein Litowitz Berger &
Grossmann LLP, said in an e-mail. The investors hope to
“maximize” their returns in a jury trial, he said.  For Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, the suit is the latest challenge resulting from
his predecessor’s purchase of Countrywide. The lender agreed
last month to pay $8.5 billion to settle disputes from
bondholders, including New York-based BlackRock, over defective
Countrywide mortgages, contributing to a record $8.83 billion
second-quarter loss.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, had no immediate comment on the lawsuit.  In February, U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los
Angeles approved the class-action settlement, which included
$22.5 million that was set aside for possible separate accords
after about 30 members withdrew. Investors may choose to opt out
of a class action to seek more money in separate lawsuits, as
did retirement funds from Michigan, Oregon and  California .  The case is In re Countrywide Financial Corp. Securities
Litigation, 11-cv-06239, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  