-- 
EU Banks Told to Reveal How Many Staff Make 1 Million Euros

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-28T14:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/banks-bonus-policies-to-be-scrutinized-by-european-regulator.html
Banks will be quizzed by the
European Union’s top banking regulator on the number of
employees who make more than 1 million euros ($1.43 million) in
a review of implementation of pay and bonus rules.  The European Banking Authority will also gather aggregate
data on compensation broken down by business area, the regulator
said in a statement on its website today.  The move “is a further step towards greater disclosure of
remuneration,” the EBA said. The London-based agency said it’s
seeking “a common approach across the EU” for gathering pay
data.  Regulators across the world are targeting bankers’ pay and
bonuses to prevent a repeat of the excessive risk taking and
focus on short-term profits that they say contributed to the
global financial crisis following the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in September 2008. They have called for
payouts to be linked to success, instead of rewarding failure.  The bigger question is “what purpose disclosure of these
pay figures serves and what genuine insight it will give into
systemic risk in the system,” Rob McIvor, spokesman for the
Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , said in a telephone
interview. “Our conclusion is probably very little, if any.”  The EBA’s call for banks to disclose details on pay stems
from an  EU law  adopted in November 2010.  Salary, Bonus, Pension  The data on bankers paid more than 1 million euros should
encompass the business area involved and the main elements of
salary, bonus, long-term awards and pension contributions,
according to the EU law. It stated the information should be
published by the EU’s banking agency in “aggregate” form.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, has said further action may be needed in the 27-
nation region to prevent “unjustifiable” bonuses.  “What matters is whether people are being paid to take
inappropriate risks,” McIvor said. “Certainly with all the
changes seen in the banking sector since 2007, in terms of the
way people are incentivized, one would expect the answer to be
negative.”  AFME represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA.  “There is still sufficient reason from the current pay
levels and performance of these institutions to say that there
needs to be an examination of how the relationship between pay
and performance can be more accurate,” said Chris Roebuck, a
visiting professor at the Cass Business School in  London ,
referring to investment banks. “The evidence would suggest that
it is not.”  Lenders should disclose the main criteria used to decide on
bonus awards, international regulators at the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  said earlier this month.  Banks should also reveal figures on how much they cut
planned bonuses and claw back money already paid out when
individual bankers or the firms perform worse than expected, the
Basel group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  