-- 
Banks Should Cut ‘Footballer Pay’, Say U.K. Fund Managers

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-07-29T11:38:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/banks-must-cut-footballer-pay-to-reward-owners-say-u-k-funds.html
European and British investment
banks should slash pay and cut jobs to redress the balance
between employees and shareholders, according to three of the
U.K.’s largest institutional investors.  Banks such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which are among the top 10 investment
banks in  Europe  by revenue, raised base salaries and hired more
staff following the 2008 credit crisis even as the shares
tumbled and the banks cut or halted dividends. Now, shareholders
have had enough.  “Investment banks are like football clubs,” said Julian Cane, who helps manage 106 billion pounds ($173 billion) at  F&C
Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  in London, who says he’s “underweight” in
Barclays shares. “Being a footballer must be great fun and very
lucrative. But owners of football clubs rarely make any money.
It’s better to play for the club than to own it.”  Last year, Barclays paid 22 pounds to employees for every 1
pound paid to its owners, while at Deutsche Bank the ratio was
16 to one. UBS hasn’t paid its investors a cash dividend since
2006, while giving 16.9 billion Swiss francs ($21.1 billion) to
its personnel last year.  Barclays handed 11.9 billion pounds over as compensation,
against 531 million pounds in dividends, according to filings.
Deutsche Bank gave staff 12.7 billion euros ($18.1 billion) in
compensation and benefits for 2010, while shareholders got 816.4
million euros in dividends.  ‘The Same Trough’  Falling revenue from sales and trading of stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities at investment banks has driven stock
prices lower. Rising capital requirements have also forced firms
to reduce return-on-equity targets. UBS and Credit Suisse, both
Zurich-based, this week announced thousands of job cuts. It may
not be enough, investors say.  “Their cost-to-income ratios are too high compared to the
volatility of their revenues,” said Will James, who helps
manage 157 billion pounds at Standard Life Plc and holds  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA and Societe Generale SA stakes. “They’re all feeding
from the same trough and that trough is getting smaller. They
need another leg of cost cutting.”  The STOXX Europe 600 Banks Index is the second-worst
performing industry group of the wider STOXX 600 Index this year
after the basic resources sector. The measure has dropped 18
percent compared with a 5 percent drop in the wider index. Along
with their holdings of European sovereign debt, the banks have
been hurt by clients’ risk aversion, leading to lower sales of
stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies.  Cost-to-Income  While investors are feeling the pain, employees are still
being rewarded.  Barclays Capital , the investment bank of London-
based Barclays, said in April pretax profit declined by 33
percent in a “challenging” market. Compensation costs were 44
percent of revenue, compared with 43 percent for 2010.  Credit Suisse’s cost-to-income ratio at its investment bank
rose to 91 percent in the second  quarter  of 2011, compared with
81 percent in the second quarter of 2010. The majority of the
bank’s cost is staff compensation. UBS’ investment bank’s cost-
to-income ratio, which was the highest among the nine biggest
investment banks last year, rose to 86 percent in the quarter
compared to 67 percent in the same period in 2010.  “There are some problems with this industry that we’ve
struggled with for the last 10 years or so, such as the
distribution of the profits between the outside shareholders and
the insiders in the bank, whether that’s the senior management
or traders,” said Gerald Smith, chief investment officer of
Edinburgh-based  Baillie Gifford & Co. , which manages 74 billion
pounds. Colleagues at Baillie Gifford may have different views,
he said.  Difficult to Analyze  Fund managers also say it’s difficult to analyze investment
banks, with Bertie Thomson, who helps oversee 186 billion pounds
at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , saying “to understand how
they make money is nigh on impossible.”  “There are bits of UBS and Credit Suisse we like, such as
the private bank and wealth management side,” he said. “But
that’s more than mitigated by the volatility and the opacity you
get from the  investment banking  side. That’s similar for BNP
Paribas. The core French corporate and retail bank is attractive
but the investment banking arm is a cause for concern.”  Spokesmen for Credit Suisse, UBS and Barclays declined to
comment, while a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Following the political backlash from the 2008 banking
crisis, Barclays, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse
and UBS reduced bonuses and introduced claw-back mechanisms if
earnings dropped. To prevent staff from quitting, they raised
base salaries instead.  ‘Fabled Top Performers’  “The total compensation of the fabled top performers is
more or less staying where it was,” said  John Purcell , founder
of executive search firm  Purcell & Co.  “It has just been
reallocated in different ways, usually with a significant
increase in base salary.”  That left banks with higher fixed costs that give them less
flexibility to reduce pay in a downturn, according to Jonathan
Nicholson, a managing director at recruitment firm  Astbury
Mardsen  in London.  “What we now have is a big chunk of compensation now fixed
and the variable amount much smaller, so your ability to shore
up profits if revenues are down is a lot harder,” he said.  That makes redundancies rather than pay cuts more likely,
according to Standard Life’s James, who owns shares in BNP
Paribas and  Societe Generale (GLE) , as well as Scandinavian lenders
 DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR)  and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB. (SHBA)   ‘Difficult to Cut’  “It’s difficult to cut pay when people are on fixed
salaries, so they’ll need a round of efficiency savings and
redundancies,” he said. “The industry as a whole didn’t take
enough capacity out after the credit crunch. Now it’s time to
strip out the fat.”  Credit Suisse and UBS,  Switzerland ’s two largest banks,
this week announced plans to cut costs after adding employees
and raising pay in the last two years. Credit Suisse added 3,100
staff including investment bankers and wealth managers since the
end of 2009, bringing the total to 50,700 by June 30.  The bank yesterday announced plans to cut about 2,000 jobs
after second-quarter profit tumbled 52 percent on lower earnings
from trading.  It’s a similar story at UBS. Switzerland’s largest bank
scrapped its 2014 profit target this week after second-quarter
net income fell 49 percent and announced plans to cut 2 billion
francs in costs.  Dividends Fall  Banks’ dividends have also fallen. Credit Suisse paid 1.30
francs per share in dividends for 2010 compared with 2.50 in
2007, while Barclays paid a final dividend of 2.5 pence a share
for 2010 compared with 11.5 pence in 2007. Deutsche Bank paid a
dividend of 75 euro cents per share for 2010 compared with 4.50
euros for 2007.  “It wasn’t that long ago they went through a near-death
experience after which they were saying investment banking is an
exciting area and they were building it up again,” said Baillie
Gifford & Co.’s Smith. “That behavior has put us off the
sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  