-- 
RBS, Barclays Profit May Decline on Investment Banking and Insurance Costs

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-07-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/barclays-rbs-profit-may-drop-on-trading-and-insurance-costs.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s second- and third-biggest banks,
will probably say first-half earnings were hurt by a drop in
investment banking revenue and by provisions for mis-sold
 mortgage insurance .  Barclays will post net income of 1.29 billion pounds ($2.1
billion) for the six months to June 30, down from 2.43 billion
pounds a year earlier, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. RBS will swing to a 1.1 million-
pound loss from a 9 million-pound profit, according to the
median of four analysts.  “Investment banking revenues are going to be the focus for
the market given weak second-quarter figures from U.S. and
European banks,” said  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel
Securities Ltd. “They are going to slow, but how slow will be
key.”  European banks this week reported falls in investment
banking revenue as the continent’s sovereign debt crisis reduced
income from the sales and trading of stock, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest banks, said that second-quarter earnings
at their securities units dropped about 71 percent and Deutsche
Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. posted earnings that missed
analyst estimates.  Revenue at  Barclays Capital  will drop to 6.1 billion pounds
from 7.1 billion pounds, Morgan Stanley analysts including Chris
Manners wrote in a note to clients this week. RBS may report 4
billion pounds of revenue at its global banking and markets
division from about 4.8 billion pounds, Manners said.  Weaker Earnings  “The market has become increasingly concerned about the
investment banking revenue environment, and so far the global
investment banks have generally reported weaker earnings than
consensus expectations,” Credit Suisse analysts including Carla Antunes-Silva wrote in a note to investors this week. “For
Barclays, expectations are relatively low.”  Revenue at Barclays’s fixed income, currencies and
commodities business may tumble about 26 percent to 3.67 billion
pounds in the first half, Antunes-Silva wrote. Revenue at RBS’s
rates, currencies and commodities division slid 26 percent to
1.29 billion pounds, Antunes-Silva wrote.  U.K. banks, including Barclays, RBS, Lloyds,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  will post a combined profit of
more than 5.2 billion pounds for the first-half, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. RBS and Lloyds will
probably post a loss, the analysts estimate.  British banks are also being hit by compensation claims
from customers who were improperly sold personal-loan insurance.
Barclays will include details on such provisions when it reports
first-half earnings on Aug. 2, with RBS following suit on Aug.
5.  Future Claims  Barclays said in May it had earmarked 1 billion pounds to
settle claims with clients who bought the insurance, which
covers payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness
or unemployment. Edinburgh-based RBS, which had already made a
provision of 100 million pounds, said at the time that it would
set aside an additional 850 million pounds. Banco Santander SA,
Spain’s biggest bank, this week set aside 620 million euros
($885 million) to cover future claims in the U.K.  Payment protection insurance generated as much as 5.5
billion pounds in annual revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5
million policies sold in 2006, according to estimates by the
Financial Services Authority.  RBS has declined 7.1 percent to 36.3 pence a share this
year in London trading, while Barclays is down 13 percent to
227.9 pence a share.  The table below shows analyst median estimates for the
first half of 2011 in million of pounds for Barclays and RBS. 