-- 
BASF Shares Drop Most in Four Months as Company Signals Slowdown in Growth

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-28T11:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/basf-shares-drop-most-in-four-months-as-company-signals-slowdown-in-growth.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical company, forecast growth will slow in the second half
as customers are becoming more cautious about placing orders.  The maker of polymers and catalysts saw an economic
slowdown at the end of the second quarter, and some clients in
 China  are destocking, it said today in a statement. Second-
quarter earnings were little changed at 2.24 billion euros
($3.21 billion). Analysts had estimated 2.4 billion euros.  BASF led chemical shares lower, falling as much as 6.1
percent and leaving Kurt Bock spending his first results day as
chief executive officer defending the company’s performance vis-
a-vis market hopes. The Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company
plans further price increases in the second half to offset raw-
material inflation and help it reach a goal of boosting profit
by more than 10 percent.  “The outlook isn’t very pleasing,” said Oliver Schwarz, a
Hamburg-based analyst at Warburg, which rates BASF “buy.”
“When they say that demand will be stable they mean that there
is no demand growth. We didn’t expect it to collapse to zero.”  BASF dropped as much as 4.01 euros to 61.85 euros, its
biggest one-day drop since March 15. It traded at 62.03 euros at
12:58 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has gained 3.9 percent this
year for a market value of 57 billion euros.  Raw-Material Headwind  Quarterly sales rose 14 percent to 18.5 billion euros,
missing an 18.8 billion-euro estimate. Net income, at 1.45
billion euros, also missed an estimate of 1.5 billion euros. A
prolonged shutdown of a cracker also dented results.  Bock, now in the job 12 weeks, is counting on moisturizer-
ingredient maker Cognis, purchased last year, to help meet
targets. Raw-material costs rose 15 percent in the first half.
While the company has raised chemical prices an average of 20
percent, it takes longer to push through those raises in
consumer-related products such as food additives, said Chief
Financial Officer Hans-Ulrich Engel.  U.S. rival  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  yesterday reported profit that
exceeded estimates on demand for basic chemicals and plastics.
Pricing power is greater in petrochemicals and plastics because
market supplies are tighter, BASF’s Bock said today.  “In the second half, we will have to raise our prices some
more,” Engel said. “We have been successful in passing on
higher costs.”  The chemical maker today raised its expectations for the
price of oil this year to $110 a barrel from $100. It also
predicts an average exchange rate of $1.40 per euro instead of a
previous $1.35 estimate.  BASF’s outlook assumes no oil production in  Libya  this
year. Wintershall, the oil and gas unit, had a 36 percent drop
in quarterly profit hurt by the halt in operations in the North
African country. The company stopped production at its eight  oil
fields  there in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  