-- 
Bayer Second-Quarter Net Rises 41% on Higher Crop-Chemical, Plastics Sales

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-07-28T07:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/bayer-second-quarter-net-rises-41-on-higher-crop-chemical-plastics-sales.html
Bayer AG’s second-quarter profit
rose 41 percent as revenue growth at the company’s two chemical
divisions offset declining sales of its top-selling multiple
sclerosis and birth-control drugs.  Net income increased to 747 million euros ($1.07 billion)
from 530 million euros a year earlier, the Leverkusen, Germany-
based company said today in a statement. Core earnings per
share, which exclude one-time items such as litigation costs,
totaled 1.29 euros, matching the average estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bayer is relying on agricultural chemicals and plastic
materials to drive growth, forecasting that sales gains at the
prescription-pharmaceutical division won’t match expansion at
rivals. Bayer’s goal to increase earnings at the plastics unit
at a faster rate than sales this year has become “increasingly
ambitious,” the company said today.  The plastic materials unit forecast is “the one weak point
in this good set of numbers,” said Sebastian Frericks, a
Frankfurt-based analyst for Bankhaus Metzler, in a telephone
interview. Frericks recommends buying the shares. “Profit was
respectable, marginally better than I expected.”  Bayer fell 1.18 euros, or 2.1 percent, to 56.35 euros at
9:30 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. Before today, the stock had
returned 32 percent in the past year, including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 21 percent return for the Bloomberg
 Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Drug Sales  The Betaferon injection for treating multiple sclerosis,
Bayer’s top-selling drug, is competing with Novartis AG’s new
Gilenya pill, while the Yaz and Yasmin contraceptive pills lost
patent protection in Europe this month. Betaferon sales dropped
9.6 percent in the quarter and the contraceptives declined 9
percent.  “We expect continued pressure on the two most important
product franchises for pharma,” Daniel Wendorff, a Frankfurt-
based analyst at Commerzbank AG with a “hold” recommendation
on Bayer’s stock, said in a report to clients before the results
were released.  Revenue rose 0.8 percent to 9.25 billion euros, missing the
average estimate of 9.54 billion euros. Sales at Bayer’s
HealthCare unit fell 2.3 percent to 4.2 billion euros. Revenue
from the cancer drug Nexavar dropped 8.1 percent.  Stroke Treatment  Bayer is awaiting regulatory approval this year for
Xarelto, a blood thinner, for use by patients with irregular
heartbeats who face the risk of a stroke. Bayer estimates the
medicine may generate more than 2 billion euros in annual sales
once its wider use is approved.  Revenue at the MaterialScience plastic ingredient and
resins unit rose 3.5 percent to 2.78 billion euros. Sales and
Ebitda before items in the third quarter will likely be at their
year-earlier level, Bayer said.  Sales at the CropScience pesticide and seed-treatment
division increased 3.1 percent to 1.94 billion euros. The
business “continues to trend positively,” and Ebitda before
items may rise by more than 20 percent this year if the season
progresses well in the second half, Bayer said.  Bayer reiterated an April 28 forecast that group revenue
will rise within a range of 5 percent to 7 percent this year,
while earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and excluding special items will exceed 7.5 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  