-- 
Berlusconi Survives Confidence Vote in Senate Amid Attempt to Pass Decree

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-29T09:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/berlusconi-confidence-vote-looms-as-italian-bond-yields-surge-on-tremonti.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  survived a confidence vote on a bill critics say will
help shield him from prosecution, ending a week of turmoil after
bond yields rose on speculation Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
may quit.  The government won the Senate ballot by 160 to 139 votes as
it seeks to pass a decree allowing defendants to call an
unlimited number of witnesses. Opposition members say the bill
may allow Berlusconi to drag out his four trials until the
statute of limitations kicks in. The amended legislation will
now go to the lower house Chamber of Deputies.  The decree “means never getting to the end of a trial,”
Luca Palamara, head of the National Association of Magistrates,
said in a statement yesterday. “This measure has been dictated
by the need to resolve certain cases and doesn’t bring about any
improvement in the efficiency of trials.”  The motion, the 48th confidence vote used by Berlusconi to
end debate and drive through legislation, concludes a week when
 Italy ’s struggle to avoid becoming the next victim of  Europe ’s
debt crisis intensified. Borrowing costs surged as the country
sold 8 billion euros ($11.4 billion) of debt at an auction
yesterday on speculation that Tremonti may resign and Europe’s
rescue fund won’t stop contagion.  Italian 10-year bond yields fell five basis points after
the vote to 5.85 percent as of 11:14 a.m. in Rome. The
difference in yield, or spread, over 10-year German bonds
narrowed one point to 326, after reaching 337 points during
intraday trading yesterday, the most since July 18.  Graft Probe  Tremonti, widely credited with keeping Italy’s public
finances in check during the financial turmoil of the last three
years, came under pressure yesterday as newspapers including
Corriere della Sera published alleged details of his dealings
with Marco Milanese, a former aide who is under investigation by
Naples prosecutors for alleged graft.  Tremonti said on July 8 that the probe had prompted him to
move out of an apartment in  Rome  that had been provided to him
by Milanese, who denies wrongdoing. In a letter published in
today’s Corriere della Sera, the minister admitted he made
“mistakes,” while denying any “unlawful acts” related to the
use of the apartment. Tremonti, who isn’t under investigation,
said in an interview today on state broadcaster RAI that he’s
not planning to step down. “I would like to keep doing my
job,” he said.  Credit Ratings  Confidence in Italy has waned over the past two months as
both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service warned that
they may cut its credit rating. Sluggish economic growth and
political instability may threaten efforts to reduce the euro-
region’s second-largest debt, which stands at almost 120 percent
of gross domestic product, the rating companies said.  Today’s vote came amid tension in Berlusconi’s coalition
government, which has two years before its term is due to end.  Members of the  Northern League , a key government partner,
joined the opposition on July 20 in approving a request by
prosecutors to arrest a ruling party lawmaker. Still, the League
backtracked on a pledge to nix an extension of funding for
military missions abroad yesterday, and closed ranks with the
premier’s People of Liberty party in approving today’s measure.  Investor concern that Europe’s rescue fund may not prevent
debt-crisis contagion is also contributing to higher Italian and
Spanish bond yields. European Union leaders at a July 21 summit
declined to increase the size of the 440 billion-euro fund as
part of an array of additional measures unveiled to fight the
crisis. The extra steps still require approval by euro-region
nations before they can be implemented.  ‘European’ Problem  Asked at yesterday’s news conference whether rising Italian
bond yields were due to “speculation,” Tremonti said the
problem was “European” and would slowly be resolved.  “The issue isn’t just one of speculation, which can play a
role, but one of confidence in a currency based on a common
market and also 17 countries,” he said. “What we have seen in
the last year is the difficulty in putting together all these
countries, these parliaments.”  Finance Ministry Director General Vittorio Grilli, speaking
next to Tremonti at the briefing, called on European leaders to
speed up the implementation of changes to the region’s bailout
fund, saying that the slow process is making investors nervous.  “There is no getting away from the fact that the funding
costs for Italy continue to trend higher,” said  Peter Chatwell ,
a fixed-income strategist in  London  at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank. “Making the EU summit plan and toolkit a
reality, rather than a mere objective, seems the likely
requirement for this trend to turnaround.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  