-- 
Bloomberg Link Gathers Finance Leaders For Chile Economic Summit

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-28T17:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/bloomberg-link-gathers-finance-leaders-for-chile-economic-summit.html

Press Release  Features Experts on the Chilean Economy, Including Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain; Former Pres. of Banco Central de  Chile 
Vittorio Corbo; and Jorge Selaive, Chief Economist, BCI  New York -- As Chilean President Sebastian Pinera’s government
sets in motion its plans to attain developed-nation status for
his country by the end of the decade, Bloomberg LINK will
convene leaders from both the public and private sector, as well
as top financial experts, to focus on the country’s economy at
the Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit.  The Summit, to be held on Tuesday, August 23rd at Museo de Artes
Visuales in Santiago, Chile, will examine the economic outlook
for Chile by analyzing the country’s public and private sectors,
and will look at President Pinera’s goal to raise Chile’s GDP
per capita to European levels such as  Portugal  and create one
million new jobs during his four year term. Among other topics,
speakers will offer their insights on whether or not Chile can
become  Latin America ’s next financial hub by discussing how the
Pacific Accord may impact Chile’s marketplace and how the nation
can close its  income gap  and diversify its economy.  “Chile has become one of Latin America’s most interesting
emerging market success stories,” said  Robert Bierman , head of
Bloomberg LINK. “Participants at the Bloomberg Chile Economic
Summit will discuss how the country can take the next steps in
development and sustain its rapid growth.”  Key speakers include:  -José Ignacio Bordali, Director of Global Clients and Investment
Banking Division, BBVA Chile  -Juan Andres Camus, Chairman and Co-founder, Celfin Capital
Claudio  -Fernando Coloma, Superintendente de Valores y Seguros, Chile  -Vittorio Corbo, Former President, Banco Central de Chile  -Alan Farcas, Managing Director, Endeavor, Chile  -José de Gregorio, Governor, Central Bank of Chile  -Felipe Larrain, Minister of Finance, Chile  -Claudio Melandri, CEO,  Banco Santander , Chile  -Jorge Selaive, Chief Economist, Banco de Crédito e Inversiones
(BCI)  -Guillermo Tagle, Partner and CEO, IM Trust  The conference is being sponsored by GBM Latin America.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/chile .  Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBchile.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212 617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net   #<112915.6059925.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
 