-- 
Brazil, India, S. Africa Planning Mission to Syria on Violence

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-28T19:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/brazil-india-s-africa-planning-mission-to-syria-on-violence.html
Brazil, India and  South Africa ,
which have blocked  United Nations  pressure on Syria’s government
to end repression of protesters, will send envoys to Damascus to
seek an end to the violence, according to South Africa’s
ambassador to the UN.  The three emerging political and economic powers, which in
2003 formed the coalition known as IBSA, plan to send deputy
foreign ministers on the mission, according to South African
Ambassador Baso Sangqu.  “The goal is to engage Syria, understand where they are,
and see if we can assist them to overcome the difficulties they
have,” Sangqu said in an interview. The mission expects to be
in Damascus soon, he said.  As elected members of the UN  Security Council ,  Brazil ,
India and South Africa have combined to put off action on a U.S.
and European draft resolution condemning the Assad regime’s
attacks on anti-government protesters. Western diplomats say
that support from the three might dissuade China and  Russia  from
vetoing it.  Activists, analysts and Syrian refugees say the uprising,
which has caused a reported 2,000 deaths, will intensify during
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which starts next week. The
protesters are calling for democracy and civil rights in a
country, ruled by the Assad family for four decades, that has
been a key opponent of U.S. and Israeli policy in the Middle
East and a power-broker in neighboring Lebanon.  Tally of the Dead  Britain’s Ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, said the  Security
Council  was told during a closed briefing today that the
situation in Syria was “deteriorating.” The U.S., Britain,
Colombia,  France ,  Germany , Nigeria and Portugal were among
council members calling for action, including a day-by-day tally
of deaths read off by France’s Ambassador  Gerard Araud .  “I made the case that the Security Council should not
remain silent,” Lyall Grant said. UN Under-Secretary-General
Lynn Pascoe reported that a “large number of civilians were
still being killed by the regime, peaceful protesters were being
repressed, the number of refugees is increasing and the number
of civilian prisoners in detention is increasing,” Lyall Grant
said.  Western powers would like to hear about alternative efforts
to end the violence, he said.  Brazil,  India  and South Africa are aspiring permanent
members of the Security Council that have reshaped the political
dynamic in the UN’s principal policy making panel.  “The dynamics of the Security Council are not what they
used to be,” Portugal’s Ambassador Jose Moraes Cabral said.
“There are new forces, different groupings and, of course, one
must take account of them.”  The IBSA nations “reflect a view of the world that is
different from the American and former colonialist European
view, in that they are very prickly about developing-nation
sovereignty,” Jeff Laurenti, UN analyst at the New York-based
Century Foundation research group, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  