-- 
Brazil Competes With Thailand With Start of Rice Exports to South Africa

-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-28T09:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/brazil-competes-with-thailand-with-start-of-rice-exports-to-south-africa.html
Brazil has begun shipping rice to
 South Africa , competing with  Thailand , the largest source of the
grain for  Africa ’s biggest economy.  A shipment of rice from Brazil’s Santa Catarina state left
 Sao Paulo  bound for South Africa this week, Tarciano da Silva,
an export agent for a rice export union in the state, said in an
interview on the sidelines of the Rice Africa Outlook conference
in Durban, South Africa yesterday. Brazil is South America’s
biggest rice producer.  “We began exploring markets in 2009 when we formed the
union Sindarroz,” said da Silva. “We identified South Africa
as the best potential market for our par-boiled rice. Yesterday
we closed our first shipment from 18 of these mills, and we are
aiming at an initial average of 40 containers per month.”
That’s equivalent to 1,000 metric tons.  South Africa, the third-biggest rice importer in Africa
after  Nigeria  and  Ivory Coast , has almost doubled its
consumption of the grain since its first all-race elections in
1994 to 760,000 tons a year, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture forecasts. The increasing wealth of the country’s
black majority has led to a shift to rice and bread as staple
foods, away from corn meal, in which the country is self-
sufficient.  Forty-two rice mills in Santa Catarina formed an export
 union  in 2008 to export the state’s surplus rice production, da
Silva said. The mills specialize in par-boiled rice, a staple
food of the southern Brazilian state with the highest standard
of living in South America.  “Instead of having a surplus for the domestic market which
will reduce the price, the mills will export their surplus,”
said da Silva.  Thai Competition  Sindarroz aims to compete with Thai rice. The Brazilian
rice will be pre-packed, he said. The exporting mills are aiming
to increase their production by about 30% over the next year,
according to da Silva.  Brazil ’s annual production is forecast at 7.9 million tons
this year, according to the USDA. South Africa produces almost
no rice.  Rice prices on the Chicago Board of Trade have risen 18
percent this year, with rice for September delivery trading at
$16.805 per 100 pounds today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  