-- 
Brazil Central Bank Says Inflation Outlook Improved, Signaling Rate Pause

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-07-28T15:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/brazil-central-bank-says-inflation-outlook-shows-more-favorable-signs.html
Brazil ’s central bank said today the
inflation outlook improved and that domestic demand is easing,
reinforcing bets policy makers may keep interest rates unchanged
in August after increases at every meeting this year.  Policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate to 12.50
percent this month, the fifth straight increase, in a bid to
slow price increases running at a six-year high. Inflation,
which breached the upper limit of the government’s target in
April and will continue to accelerate in the third quarter, will
start slowing toward target in the final three months of the
year, policy makers said in the  minutes  of their July 19-20
meeting.  The Monetary Policy Committee “understands that the
prospective outlook for inflation, since the last meeting, shows
more favorable signs,” the central bank said in the minutes
published on its website today.  While traders increased bets today that policy makers won’t
raise interest rates in August, economists continue to forecast
the government will fail to bring inflation back to the mid-
point of its target next year, according to a central bank
survey.  “The minutes reinforce my bets that the central bank won’t
raise rates in August,” Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Small changes in the text signal that the central
bank’s biggest concerns about inflation have been dissipated.”  Interest Rate  Futures  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing from
October 2011 to April 2013 were either unchanged or fell today.
The yield on the January 2013 contract dropped one basis point
to 12.67 percent at 11:26 a.m. New York time.  Economists, who expect the central bank to raise the
overnight rate by a quarter-point to 12.75 percent next month,
forecast consumer prices will rise 6.31 percent this year and
5.28 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate in a
central bank survey published July 25. Annual inflation, which
quickened in the past 10 months, accelerated to 6.71 percent in
June.  The government targets inflation of 4.5 percent and has a
plus or minus 2 percentage point leeway. The central bank said
it seeks to bring inflation back to 4.5 percent in 2012.  According to both the bank’s reference and market scenarios
outlined in  the  minutes  of the July meeting, inflation won’t
slow to “around” the 4.5 percent target until the first half
of 2013. Prices will remain above the target this year and next,
the central bank forecast shows. “High and growing
uncertainties” in the global economy make it harder to identify
the persistence of recent price pressures, the minutes says.  ‘Supply Shocks’  The central bank said the effects of “supply shocks” from
the end of last year and beginning of 2011 have already affected
consumer prices. That signals the “worst” patch for inflation
is over, said Folchini. The bank also said the global economic
outlook deteriorated and that prices of key commodities dropped,
reinforcing the view that they plan to keep rates unchanged, he
said.  As in the statement accompanying the bank’s decision,
policy makers removed from the minutes language committing
themselves to raising rates for a “sufficiently long period.”  “The most important aspect was that the central bank
removed a comment indicating a gradual approach,” said Leonardo Sapienza, chief economist for Banco Votorantim SA in  Sao Paulo .
Sapienza said that the bank left the door open for another rate
increase in August. “They see the same risks that they saw
before,” he said.  Borrowing Costs  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher borrowing costs, spending cuts and measures to
slow credit growth to tame inflation. At the same time, it has
been adopting measures to try and weaken its currency that
reached a 12-year high this week.  Chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Luciano Rostagno
expects policy makers to increase rates again by a quarter point
in August before pausing.  “The central bank indicates more that the cycle is near
the end than that it ended in July,” Rostagno said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  