-- 
Brazilian Real Falls for a Second Straight Day on U.S., Europe Debt Crises

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-07-28T22:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/brazilian-real-declines-for-second-day-on-u-s-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Brazil ’s real declined for a second
day as debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe  and a new tax on
investments in foreign-exchange derivatives in the South
American country sapped demand for the currency.  The real fell 0.7 percent to 1.5672 per dollar, extending
its two-day loss to 1.8 percent, the biggest since May. The
currency plunged 1.1 percent yesterday to 1.5555.  The real weakened as U.S. stocks declined and investors
speculated that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail the
global economic recovery, while concern mounted that U.S.
lawmakers will fail to agree on the federal government’s debt
ceiling by next week’s deadline.  “The real is following the international market,” said
Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA
in  Sao Paulo . “With the international scene so bad, equities
falling, the real is accompanying this,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Brazil’s currency fell the most in more than a month
yesterday after the government said it will levy a 1 percent tax
on some net short dollar positions by investors in the country’s
futures market. The so-called IOF tax that will be charged daily
on the notional value of short dollar positions over $10 million
held in the futures market and the government may increase it up
to 25 percent if needed.  October Start  Brazil will begin collecting the tax on Oct. 5 because
authorities need extra time to develop a system for collecting
the money, the  Finance Ministry  said today. The government
decided to postpone the tax collection after consulting with
representatives of the financial system, the ministry said in a
statement.  Dollar loan rates in Brazil plunged to the lowest level
since April after the tax weakened the real in the futures
market, increasing currency hedging costs for foreign investors.  The cupom cambial contract due in January, a measure of the
annual costs of borrowing dollars in Brazil, fell 75 basis
points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 2.59 percent, the lowest
level since March 30, according to trading on BM&FBovespa SA in
Sao Paulo. It was the biggest one-day drop since September 2008.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most actively-traded in Sao Paulo today, were
unchanged at 12.47 percent. The yield on the contract due in
January 2014 rose nine basis points to 12.83 percent, the
biggest jump since June 30.  Brazil’s central bank sees a “more favorable” outlook for
consumer price increases even as its forecast shows inflation
converging to target only in 2013, according to the minutes of
its July 19-20 meeting.  Inflation, which quickened in the past 10 months,
accelerated to 6.71 percent in June. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  As in the statement accompanying the bank’s decision,
policy makers removed from the minutes language committing
themselves to raising rates for a “sufficiently long period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  