-- 
Pound Gains Versus Euro, Gilts Climb on British Asset Appeal Amid Turmoil

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-07-28T15:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/british-pound-holds-loss-versus-dollar-after-miles-warns-on-rate-rises.html
The pound gained versus the euro and
gilts rose amid concern that the U.S. and euro-region nations
will struggle to contain their debt burdens, increasing the
relative appeal of British assets.  Gains by British bonds left the yield on the 10-year gilt
within two basis points of that on similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. A U.K. retail-sales index fell and  Bank of England 
policy maker  David Miles  said attempts to slow inflation too
quickly risk stalling the recovery, prompting investors to pare
bets on higher interest rates. Investors speculated that the
sovereign-debt crisis will derail the economy and concern
mounted U.S. lawmakers will fail to agree to raise the federal
debt ceiling by next week’s deadline.  “The focus is on the U.S. debt situation and also what’s
going on in  Europe , in  Italy ,  Greece  and Ireland,” said Chris Huddleston, a trader at Investec Bank Plc in London.  The pound was 0.5 percent stronger against the euro at
87.57 pence at 4:19 p.m. in London. It was little changed at
$1.6336 after reaching $1.6439 yesterday, the most since June
14. Britain’s currency declined 0.2 percent to 127.08 yen.  U.K. 10-year yields fell two basis points to 2.97 percent.
Two-year yields dropped one basis point to 0.67 percent.  The Confederation of British Industry’s retail-sales gauge
fell to minus 5, the lowest since June 2010, from minus 2 in
June, the London-based business lobby said in a report today.
Britons curtailed spending on groceries and home improvement,
the survey showed.  Energy Inflation  Inflation “is likely to move higher in the near term,
largely as a result of higher prices for domestic energy, before
coming down again,” Miles said in a speech late yesterday at
the  London  School of Economics.  Investors have pushed back expectations for the next rate
increase to beyond June 2012, according to forward contracts on
the sterling overnight interbank average. At the start of last
month, they were betting on a February 2012 increase.  Bank of England officials said this month that the weakness
in the economy may persist “longer than previously thought” as
they kept the key  interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  “The Monetary Policy Committee is moving toward a more
dovish stance,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “I can’t see a rate
hike in the next year. I think they will remain on hold until at
least the second half of next year, and that will undermine the
pound further.”  Gilts Versus Treasuries  The 10-year gilt yielded 1.7 basis points more than similar
Treasuries, down from a 2011 high of 35 basis points on June 8.
The spread was less than one basis point yesterday, the least
since April 2010. The British securities yielded 33 basis points
more than German bunds, from as much as 64 basis points in
January.  Gilts have returned 4.6 percent since the end of 2010,
compared with 3.4 percent for Treasuries and 2.3 percent for
German bunds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities lost 2.9 percent, the indexes showed.  The British economy barely grew in the second quarter, data
this week showed, suggesting the central bank will keep rates at
a record low to aid the recovery.  Sterling has fallen 8.5 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  