-- 
BT Profit Rises; Wins Broadband Market Share From Virgin Media, TalkTalk

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-28T11:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/bt-quarterly-operating-profit-rises-2-6-on-demand-for-broadband-lines.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line phone company, posted a higher fiscal first-quarter
profit as it won high-speed broadband clients and market share
from rivals TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc and  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)   BT, which is rolling out its high-speed fiber services,
added 141,000 net broadband customers to its retail unit in the
three months through June, it said today. TalkTalk and Virgin
Media Inc. both reported subscriber losses. Pay-TV operator
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc, which also offers broadband
services, is scheduled to report earnings tomorrow.  “BT and Sky have been the winners and pretty much everyone
else has been the losers,” BT Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said today. “Customers are voting with their feet.”  BT, based in  London , is building out its high-speed fiber
services to counter declining revenue from its traditional
fixed-line offerings. The company plans to spend 2.5 billion
pounds ($4.1 billion)for a faster network serving two-thirds of
British homes by 2015. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and costs from job cuts climbed 2.6
percent to 1.44 billion pounds in the fiscal first quarter, BT
said today. Analysts had estimated 1.42 billion pounds.  BT climbed as much as 3.4 percent to 197.2 pence in London
trading and was up 2.3 percent as of 11:44 a.m., valuing the
company at 15.2 billion pounds. The stock has risen 8.5 percent
this year, while the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 index dropped 1.5
percent.  Divided Market  TalkTalk said today its rate of client losses increased and
Virgin Media yesterday said it lost customers for the first time
in two years. Virgin, which is rolling out its 100 megabits-per-
second broadband service, lost 36,000 net customers in the three
months through June as it pushed subscribers to take faster,
more expensive broadband offerings. Revenue climbed 3.9 percent
in the period.  The U.K. market is dividing “between premium customers who
are willing to pay for premium content and connectivity and
those who are more price sensitive,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein.  BT said today it had a pension deficit of 1.8 billion
pounds at the end of June, compared with a deficit of 1.4
billion pounds at the end of March.  BT said in May a regulator’s review of its pension funding
program was halted, ending a year of talks over the scale of the
recovery plan. The watchdog said at the time that it still had
“substantial concerns” about an agreement with the trustees of
BT’s pension program to pay down the liability.  The company today reiterated its full-year forecast and
said it is making “progress towards delivering our financial,
operational and growth goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  