-- 
ICAP, Madoff, Bundesbank-Lehman, UBS, Ally in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-28T11:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/bundesbank-lehman-ubs-rosenbauer-ally-in-court-news.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of trades between banks, and Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA
agreed to settle their dispute over 38 brokers in  Singapore  who
defected from ICAP to its Swiss rival.  “Parties, including the individual employees involved,
have managed to reach an amicable resolution of the disputes,”
ICAP said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  James Ient, chief financial officer of Tradition’s
Singapore unit, and Suresh Nair and Christopher Daniel, the
brokers’ lawyers, confirmed the settlement. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  ICAP’s Singapore unit sued the 38 employees in September in
a bid to stop them from defecting. ICAP also sued Tradition, the
world’s third-largest inter-dealer broker, for recruiting them.
ICAP’s former brokers countersued for breach of employment
contracts and restraint of trade.  The settlement was reached ahead of a month-long trial that
was scheduled to start Aug. 1 at the Singapore High Court.  ICAP, based in  London , handled $1 trillion in daily trades,
according to court papers filed last year. The company said the
brokers’ defection would have placed long-standing relationships
with clients, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , at risk.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. v. M. Divakaran & Ors
S724/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Liquidator Loses Bid to Sue UBS in Bankruptcy Court  The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm lost a bid to
pursue a $555 million lawsuit against UBS AG in bankruptcy
court, according to a court filing yesterday.  A district judge said she would handle the suit along with
a $2 billion lawsuit against the Swiss bank by trustee  Irving
Picard , as the two were related.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, seeking a total of
$2.6 billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s
fraud by setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing “to
look the other way” at irregularities. He told U.S. District
Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan this month he would drop some
claims from the $555 million suit and ask UBS only to return
money taken from the Ponzi scheme before its 2008 collapse.  By doing so, he removed the claims that raised questions
about his “standing” to sue UBS in that case, leaving only a
claim to recover transfers that would “ordinarily” be handled
by a bankruptcy court, McMahon said in a written order
yesterday. She agreed to UBS’s request that she handle both
cases in district court because Picard alleged in both cases
that UBS didn’t take money out of the Ponzi scheme “in good
faith,” she said.  “That issue should not be litigated simultaneously in two
separate courts,” McMahon said, referring to allegations that
UBS knew Madoff was running a criminal enterprise. UBS in
addition was entitled to a jury trial, which U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  couldn’t handle unless both parties
consented, McMahon said.  The cases are Picard v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 11-cv-04212 and 11-cv-
04213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Bundesbank, Lehman in U.K. Battle Over $4.2 Billion CDO Deal  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. asked a U.K. judge to block
 Germany ’s central bank from seizing control of a 2.9 billion-
euro ($4.2 billion) securitization vehicle set up weeks before
Lehman’s collapse.  Lehman in 2008 packaged a group of European commercial real
estate loans and sold 2.1 billion euros of senior notes in the
security to the Bundesbank.  The central bank’s lawyers told a London court yesterday
the securitization, known as Excalibur Funding No. 1, has been
in technical default since January. Lawyers for Lehman, which
holds 722 million euros of junior debt in Excalibur, argued it
has enough cash to meet obligations.  Under the terms of the 2008 securitization deal, if
Excalibur defaults, the Bundesbank as senior noteholder could
force it to sell assets and return cash to investors. New York-
based Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with assets
of $639 billion, sparking a global contraction in the credit
markets and a flurry of litigation around the world.  If Excalibur were wound down, Lehman would lose most of the
722 million euros invested in it as a result of losses in the
underlying portfolio of collateralized debt obligations.  Judge Michael Briggs said he would decide the Bundesbank
case next week.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment on the case. A Bundesbank spokesman said the bank
wouldn’t comment on pending court decisions.  The Bundesbank case is LB RE Financing No.3 Ltd. v.
Excalibur Funding No.1 Plc, 11-01164, U.K. High Court of Justice
(Chancery Division).  For more, click here.  XO Accused of Fabricating Depressed Stock Price to Aid Icahn  Former  XO Holdings Inc. (XOHO)  Chief Executive Officer Carl
Grivner sought to keep the telecommunications provider’s stock
price low so billionaire Carl Icahn could get a tax benefit, an
investor lawsuit claims.  In a series of e-mails dated Aug. 8, 2008, Grivner, who was
then CEO, told company director Peter Shea “there is a
significant reason for keeping the stock below $2 for as long as
possible,” according to documents filed in state court in New
York. The e-mails are cited in a lawsuit over a 2008 preferred-
stock sale and Icahn’s takeover offer for the company.  Icahn, who holds a majority of XO’s shares, said in January
that he would buy all of the company through his ACF Industries
Holding Corp. The suing shareholder alleges the deal undervalues
XO. Investor Youlu Zheng argued in an amended complaint filed in
March that Icahn, 75, manipulated the value of the company’s
stock and diluted the holdings of minority shareholders.  “Using his power over the XO board of directors, Icahn has
milked every penny possible into his own pocket,” Zheng said in
court papers filed in March.  “We entirely disagree with the premise that Mr. Icahn or
anyone else on behalf of XO was trying to keep the price low,”
Herbert Beigel, a lawyer for Icahn, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Icahn did “everything humanly possible to
increase XO’s revenue” after the company emerged from
bankruptcy in 2003, including generating about $10 million in
revenue a month.  The case is Zheng v. Icahn, 650499/2010, New York  Supreme
Court , New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Lehman Officials Win Dismissal of Some Fraud Claims  Former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  officials won the
dismissal of some claims in a securities-fraud lawsuit brought
by buyers of more than $31 billion of the defunct investment
firm’s securities.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York yesterday
granted parts of a motion to throw out claims in the class-
action, or group, lawsuit. The suit names as defendants five
former top Lehman officers, nine former directors, Lehman’s
outside auditor Ernst & Young LLP and 51 underwriters of Lehman
securities.  The plaintiffs -- a group of pension funds, companies and
individuals -- claimed Lehman’s financial statements contained
misstatements and omissions about the firm’s use of “Repo 105”
transactions, risk-management policies, liquidity risk, credit
risk and the value of real estate held by Lehman.  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank,
filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2008 with assets of
$639 billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Securities and ERISA
Litigation, 09-MD-2017, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Strauss-Kahn Accuser Misquoted on Recorded Call, Lawyer Says  A recorded conversation by the woman who accuses Dominique
Strauss-Kahn of sexually assaulting her in a New York hotel was
mischaracterized regarding her remarks about the former
International Monetary Fund chief’s wealth, her lawyer said.  The 32-year-old immigrant spoke to a friend imprisoned in
Arizona within a day of the May 14 incident, a person familiar
with the matter said earlier this month. She told the friend,
“Don’t worry. This guy has money. I know what I’m doing,”
according to the person, who didn’t want to be identified
because the information wasn’t public. The information came from
a digest of the tape translated from the accuser’s native
Fulani.  “We all listened to that tape over and over again,” the
lawyer, Kenneth Thompson, told reporters yesterday after meeting
for almost eight hours with prosecutors at the office of
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. “What she said was,
‘He is powerful and rich,’ during one conversation,” he said.
“She never said, ‘He’s got a lot of money. I know what to do’”
as it was made public.  Thompson said certain things were “merged together” in
the quote that made its way into news reports.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for Vance, declined to
comment yesterday on the tape and the meeting. “This is a
pending criminal case,” she said in a statement. “We will have
no comment on evidence, or any meetings between prosecutors and
witnesses, civil attorneys, or defense counsel.”  Thompson, a former federal prosecutor representing the
hotel housekeeper, said the discussion with prosecutors
yesterday went well.  It was the first meeting between the alleged victim,
Nafissatou Diallo, and prosecutors since late June, when her
credibility was called into question.  Strauss-Kahn’s next scheduled court appearance is Aug. 23.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  UBS Sued Over $4.5 Billion Mortgage-Backed Securities Sale  UBS AG was sued by U.S. regulators over $4.5 billion in
residential mortgage-backed securities sold to Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, the mortgage companies operating under government
control.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which regulates the two
enterprises, sued UBS and several executives of UBS’s Mortgage
Asset Securities Transactions unit in federal court in Manhattan
yesterday, claiming they misstated the risks of the investments.  “Defendants falsely represented that the underlying
mortgage loans complied with certain underwriting guidelines and
standards, including representations that significantly
overstated the borrowers’ capacity to repay their mortgage
loans,” the FHFA said in its complaint.  The suit, which seeks unspecified damages, targets 16
securitizations sponsored by UBS from Sept. 28, 2005, and Aug.
30, 2007.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. UBS Americas
Inc., 11-cv-5201, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Lehman Loses U.K. Supreme Court Ruling in Belmont Notes Case  A Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. unit lost a case at the
U.K.’s highest court over whether it should be paid before
bondholders in two swap agreements.  The Supreme Court dismissed an appeal of a 2009 ruling that
Lehman’s claim to collateral shouldn’t take precedence over the
noteholders. The court said the underlying contract in the case
should be upheld unless there was an intention to evade
insolvency laws.  The  U.S. bankruptcy court  in New York ruled in favor of
Lehman in the same dispute, creating a split between the laws in
the two countries. Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008
with assets of $639 billion, sparking a global contraction in
the credit markets and a flurry of litigation around the world.  The case centers on two swap agreements related to credit-
linked notes, valued at around $12.5 billion when Lehman went
bankrupt. At issue was who should get collateral backing the
notes, Lehman or noteholders. The transactions, named Dante
after the entity that issued the notes, specified that investors
have priority in the event of a Lehman default. U.S. bankruptcy
law typically protects a debtor’s assets.  Lehman said in a statement that the ruling won’t affect the
U.S. bankruptcy court case and it will seek negotiations to
resolve disputes involving special-purpose vehicles.  “The judgment affirms lower court decisions in England
that have been in force for two years,” Locke McMurray, head of
derivatives legal at Lehman, said in a statement. The U.S.
court’s “flip clause” decisions remain “the law of the case
within the consolidated Lehman bankruptcy proceedings.”  “Today’s ruling is of significant importance to the rating
of synthetic credit-linked notes under multijurisdictional
arrangements with a swap counterparty,” law firm Lawrence
Graham LLP said.  The case is Perpetual Trustee Co. v. BNY Corporate Trustee
Services Ltd. and Lehman Brothers Special Financing Ltd., U.K.
Supreme Court.  The U.S. case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. BNY
Corporate Trustee Services Ltd., 09-01242, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Iveco Magirus Fined $25.3 Million; Rosenbauer Escapes Penalty  A German company that makes fire-fighting and civil-
protection vehicles, Iveco Magirus Brandschutztechnik GmbH, was
fined 17.5 million euros ($25.3 million) for price fixing on
fire trucks with turntable ladders.  Rosenbauer International AG (ROS) ’s Metz Aerials GmbH unit was
also part of the cartel, the German cartel office said in a
statement yesterday. Rosenbauer wasn’t fined because it reported
the violations in 2010. The cartel office conducted raids in May
2010.  “Price-fixing isn’t alone in causing serious economic
harm,” Andreas Mundt, president of the German Bundeskartellamt,
said in the e-mailed statement. “Agreements between so-called
competitors can unhinge the system of public tenders.”  The fine can be appealed, the agency said, adding it was
based on a settlement with Iveco Magirus. The cartel colluded on
prices of trucks with revolving ladders from 1998 until November
2007. Iveco Magirus and Rosenbauer hold almost all of the market
for the vehicles, the cartel office said.  Iveco Magirus, based in Ulm, Germany, said in a statement
the violation went back several years and happened under
different management. Iveco Magirus ended the infringing
behavior in 2007, it said.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ally Financial Sues Ex-Worker Over Secret Foreclosure Data  Ally Financial Inc., among the five largest U.S. mortgage
originators and servicers, sued a former employee who
moonlighted as a foreclosure defense attorney over claims she
stole confidential information.  Ally terminated the employee, Tanya L. Blackwell, last week
for failing to disclose “a clear conflict” of her dual
employment as a foreclosure specialist for Ally’s GMAC unit and
as a practicing foreclosure defense attorney, according to
papers filed July 26 in federal court in Philadelphia.  Before her termination, Blackwell allegedly improperly
obtained confidential company information including organization
charts for Ally’s foreclosure operations, according to the
complaint.  Blackwell worked in GMAC’s Residential Capital unit in Fort
 Washington , Pennsylvania, as a member of the Collateral
Remediation team, according to the complaint. During her
employment with Ally, Blackwell also operated the Law Office of
Tanya L. Blackwell in Philadelphia and Washington and described
her practice on her LinkedIn web page as a “plaintiff only
firm,” Ally said in court papers.  Blackwell didn’t immediately return phone messages left at
her law offices in Philadelphia and Washington seeking comment
on the complaint.  The case is Ally Financial Inc. v. Blackwell, 11-cv-4694,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia)  Jefferson County Lawyer Is ‘Walking History of Bankruptcy’  Kenneth Klee was about to go on a Mexican vacation in 1975
when he got a call from his office in the U.S. House of
Representatives, where the young lawyer was helping Virginia
Republican M. Caldwell Butler rewrite the federal bankruptcy
code.  New York City  was preparing to file bankruptcy in the
middle of a fight with city unions over expensive labor
contracts. Klee was ordered back to Washington to quickly draft
the section of the code governing municipal bankruptcies.  One of his contributions to the proposed law made clear
that cities could cancel union contracts, a right that was in
doubt under court rulings at the time, Klee said in an
interview. Giving New York that power helped persuade the unions
to compromise in labor talks, Klee said. The labor deal kept the
city out of bankruptcy, Bloomberg News’ Steven Church and Martin
Z. Braun report.  “Ken Klee is literally a walking legislative history of
bankruptcy,” said New York bankruptcy attorney Martin J.
Bienenstock of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, in an interview. Bienenstock
has worked opposite Klee in bankruptcy cases including Texaco
Inc.  Klee, 62, may have a chance to participate in the biggest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history this week if Jefferson
County, Alabama, decides to file for protection from its
creditors. Klee and his Los Angeles law firm, Klee, Tuchin,
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, were hired July 26 to represent the
county. County commissioners may decide today to file.  Jefferson County, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been under fiscal stress for more than three
years after a $3 billion sewer-bond refinancing collapsed during
the credit crisis.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 