-- 
HTC Didn’t Infringe FlashPoint Imaging Patents, Judge Says

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-28T18:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/htc-didn-t-infringe-flashpoint-imaging-patents-itc-judge-says.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, didn’t infringe digital-imaging patents
owned by closely held licensing company FlashPoint Technology
Inc., a U.S. International Trade Commission judge said.  FlashPoint failed to show HTC violated its  patent rights 
for imaging devices used in mobile phones, commission Judge Paul Luckern said in a  notice  posted on the agency’s website today.
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,
which had also been targeted, settled with Peterborough, New
Hampshire-based FlashPoint before the judge could rule.  The decision -- pending review by the full six-member
commission -- clears one of the cases HTC is involved in at the
ITC as companies including Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics
Co. use their patents to try to beat back competition in the
expanding smartphone market. HTC, which makes phones such as the
Droid Incredible and EVO 4G that use Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, said two weeks ago it was found to have
infringed two Apple patents, a ruling the company is appealing.  “Intellectual property plays an increasingly important
role in the development and implementation of new technologies,
and HTC has placed highest priority in IP protection,” Grace Lei, general counsel for Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, said in a
statement today about the FlashPoint case.  The dispute centered on technology related to the way
digital cameras operate, including focus and flash settings, and
automatic rotation of the image depending on how the camera is
held, according to the complaint.  S3 Graphics  FlashPoint, whose founders include former employees of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s imaging business, said it developed its own digital
operating system for cameras, and ceased research in 2007 to
focus on licensing its patents.  Companies that license FlashPoint patents include  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EK) , Samsung Electronics Co.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Nikon
Corp. and Apple, according to the complaint.  The ITC is quasi-judicial U.S. agency in Washington that
arbitrates trade disputes and has the power to block imports of
products that infringe U.S. patents.  HTC agreed this month to pay $300 million for S3 Graphics
Inc. after an ITC judge in a third case found that Apple’s
operating system for Mac computers infringed two S3 patents for
graphics technology. The operating system for the iPhone, iPad
and iPod touch didn’t use the S3 inventions, the judge said. HTC
also has a case against Apple at the commission.  Google’s Android was used on 39 percent of smartphones in
the U.S. last quarter, compared with 28 percent for Apple’s iOS
and 20 percent for RIM’s BlackBerry platform, Nielsen Inc. said
today.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Imaging
Devices, Complaint 337-726, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  