-- 
Canada Won’t Commit New Funding for Renewable-Energy Program, Oliver Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-28T21:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/canada-won-t-commit-new-funding-for-renewable-energy-program-oliver-says.html
Canada won’t commit new funding to a
C$1.4-billion ($1.47 billion) program used by companies such as
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and TransAlta Corp. to fund renewable-energy
projects, Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver said today.  Canada plans to cut C$4 billion in spending annually to
help it balance its budget by the fiscal year starting April
2014. Oliver said spending restraint was one reason his
department hasn’t renewed the ecoEnergy for Renewable Power
program, which funded wind farms developed by Suncor and
TransAlta as well as solar-power projects developed by Enbridge
Inc.  “You’ve got to make choices. You’ve got to make decisions.
Things have to be affordable,” Oliver said in a telephone
interview with Bloomberg News.  Oliver, who is part of the committee that’s reviewing
spending, said the government is trying to balance fiscal
prudence and promoting “clean-energy” technologies. Groups
such as the Canadian Wind Energy Association have  called on  the
government to renew the program.  The government said today it will invest C$53 million in 17
clean-energy projects across the country, including C$2 million
for Solantro Semiconductor Corp. of Ottawa, a company developing
technology to improve the performance of solar cells.  Oliver said the government is focusing on projects with
commercial applications. “Clean energy funding is designed to
have a practical purpose, either in the marketplace or to
develop alternative approaches,” he said.  The ecoEnergy for Renewable Power program provides C$1.4
billion over 14 years to fund projects that generate electricity
from renewable sources such as wind and solar power.  The government said earlier this month said it would invest
another C$400 million in a program that provides grants to
homeowners to make energy-saving renovations.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said his government will run
a C$32.3 billion  budget deficit  in the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 