-- 
Canadian Dollar Is Little Changed as U.S. Debt-Limit Voting Gets Started

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-07-28T21:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/canada-dollar-set-for-a-second-monthly-advance-on-crude-oil-haven-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar was little changed
as crude oil prices declined and U.S. lawmakers began voting on
raising the country’s debt limit.  The currency rose against nine of its 16 major peers. The
loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, headed for a second
straight monthly gain as economists predicted a Canadian
government report tomorrow will show the country’s output
expanded in May after stalling in April.  “For the most part, the movements in the Canadian dollar
have been tracking the movements in oil,” said  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research at the online trader GFT Forex in
New York.  “If Canada’s not benefiting from higher oil prices,
then there’s nothing really to fall back on in an environment
where the  U.S. economy  is in trouble both on a fiscal and
monetary basis.”  The Canadian currency traded at 94.93 cents per  U.S. dollar 
by 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 94.98 yesterday. It has
gained 1.5 percent this month, from 96.34 cents on June 30 and
touched 94.07 cents on July 26, the strongest since Nov. 9,
2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0534.  Policy Stance  Bank of Canada policy makers on July 19 kept the benchmark
policy rate at 1 percent and said borrowing costs will rise,
omitting the word “eventually,” which had appeared in previous
statements.  “The optics for Canada are good,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada , by phone from Toronto. “Investors are pricing in a rate
increase between now and the end of the year, and that’s helping
the Canadian dollar along.”  Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds rose one
basis point to 1.48 percent, pushing the price of the 2 percent
note due in August 2013 down 2 cents to C$101.02. The yield on
the 10-year note was unchanged at 2.88 percent.  Statistics Canada  will report gross domestic product for
May tomorrow. Economists predict output rose 0.l percent during
the month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 24 economists. GDP was unchanged in April.  Oil Prices  Crude oil futures were little changed at $97.44 a barrel
after gaining as much as 0.6 percent in  New York .  “Crude oil is still trading at the higher end of the
recent range, and ultimately that continues to be a benefit to
the loonie,” Spitz said.  The U.S. House of Representatives began voting on a debt-
limit increase proposal that confronts unified Democratic
opposition in the Senate. House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio 
gained support among fellow Republicans for his plan to raise
the debt ceiling after reworking the legislation to cut $917
billion over 10 years, more than his original approach.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug. 2 if the
debt ceiling isn’t raised.  Concern over the political and economic situation in the
U.S. may weigh on the Canadian dollar until the end of trading
tomorrow, according to a note today from analysts at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit led by  David Tulk , the firm’s
chief Canada macro strategist.  Second-quarter U.S. GDP, which will be released tomorrow,
probably rose 1.8 percent at an annual rate, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 84 economists.  “External risks are a more significant as a driver” of
the Canadian dollar, the TD Securities analysts said. “Soft
U.S. growth prospects and worries about the U.S. fiscal
situation suggest that, perhaps regardless of the tone of the
Canadian data, the Canadian dollar will head into the weekend
with a slightly weaker bias.”  Canada’s dollar has weakened about 2.1 percent this year
versus the currencies of nine other developed nations in the
fourth-worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 7.4 percent
and the Japanese yen is off 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  