-- 
Cemex Is Worst Junk in U.S. Bond Market as Losses Pile Up: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-28T21:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/cemex-is-worst-junk-in-u-s-market-on-losses-mexico-credit.html
Bonds sold by Cemex SAB, the largest
cement maker in the Americas, are posting the biggest losses
among major issuers of junk debt in the U.S. after the company
posted its seventh straight quarterly loss.  Notes issued by Monterrey, Mexico-based Cemex have lost 3.5
percent this month, compared with an average return of 1.4
percent for the 50 biggest issuers of dollar debt rated below
investment grade, according to Bank of America Corp. indexes.
Yields on the company’s 9 percent bonds due in 2018 rose 122
basis points, or 1.22 percentage point, to 9.93 percent.  Cemex bonds are slumping as a slowing expansion in the U.S.
reduces revenue and fuels concern the company will fail to meet
debt level limits agreed to when it took out a $15 billion bank
refinancing loan in 2009. The company struggled to drum up
enough demand for a $650 million bond sale on June 23, prompting
it to shelve the plan for two weeks before changing the terms
and paying a premium of 97 basis points over its existing bonds.  “Everybody was afraid of bad results, and there was a
loss,” Natalia Corfield, an analyst at ING Groep NV in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “I’m not seeing catalysts
for outperformance.”  The yield on the notes due in seven years rose 110 basis
points since they first traded Jan. 5, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The securities yield 621 basis points
more than Mexican government bonds of similar maturity, wider
than the 466-basis-point gap in January.  Debt Levels  Cemex is rated B by  Standard & Poor’s , five levels below
investment grade and six levels below the Mexican government.
Cemex was rated as high as BBB in 2007 before its $14.2 billion
acquisition of Rinker Group Ltd. swelled debt levels just as the
U.S. credit crisis throttled growth in what was then its second-
biggest market, leading to the 2009 loan refinancing with banks.  Cemex might be forced to renegotiate the terms of the $15
billion refinancing agreement with banks after the company’s
net-debt-to-Ebitda ratio rose to 7.16 times at the end of June.
A covenant under the financing agreement calls for a ratio of
net-debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 7 times.  “Banks will probably amend the covenants, but there will
be an extra cost for the company,” Corfield said.  Cemex will comply with the covenants, Chief Financial
Officer  Fernando Gonzalez  told analysts on a conference call
July 22.  Jorge Perez , a Cemex spokesman, declined to comment.  Cemex’s shares fell 49 centavos, or 5.8 percent, to 7.94
pesos at 4:10 p.m. New York in  Mexico  City trading, the largest
drop in six months and the lowest level since March 31, 2009.
The shares have tumbled 37 percent this year.  Put Option  Net debt at the end of June was $17.8 billion, up from
$17.6 billion a year ago. Net debt may climb in the third
quarter because of a put option that could require Cemex to pay
about $355 million and assume $17 million of debt for its
partners’ stake in a U.S. ready-mix concrete joint venture. The
 put option  is due in September and Cemex has said it’s searching
for a buyer to avoid having to make the acquisition.  Cemex is the biggest Mexican issuer of international bonds
after raising $2.45 billion this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company, which has sold bonds, shares
and assets to repay about half of the $15 billion  bank loan , is
planning to sell notes backed by accounts receivable this week.  Cash Flow  The cement maker’s second-quarter loss narrowed to $294
million from $306 million a year earlier. The company had
negative free cash flow of $351 million in the first half of
2011, widening from negative free  cash flow  of $38 million a
year earlier.  The second-quarter numbers were “disappointing,” said
 Alonso Madero , who helps manage about $5.5 billion in debt,
including Cemex bonds, at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico.  “With fears of a recession in the U.S., one has to be
sensible and not take bonds of companies that could be in
trouble,” he said.  Cemex notes yield 786 basis points more than U.S.
Treasuries with similar maturity, compared with 640 when the
notes were first sold. By comparison, the spread over Treasuries
for similar-maturity bonds sold by Jona, Switzerland-based
Holcim Ltd., the world’s second-biggest cement maker, fell 23
basis points to 221 in the same period.  La Nina  “Bonds are fairly attractive because disappointing results
were partly caused by bad weather,” Eric Ollom, a credit
strategist at Citigroup in  New York , said in an interview. The
“third quarter could generate a positive surprise. Given the
negative sentiment, it could provide an upside for the bonds,”
Ollom said.  The La Nina weather phenomenon generated more rain than
normal across the U.S. this year, according to the National
Center for Atmospheric Research. The Mississippi and Ohio rivers
have set flooding records from  Illinois  to  Louisiana .  Cemex reached an agreement with bankers in October last
year to amend covenants on net debt-to-Ebitda ratio because the
company would have been out of compliance. The banks raised the
ratio to 7 times for the end of this year from 5.25 times in the
original financing agreement and to 6.5 times at the end of next
year from 4.75 times. At the end of 2013, net debt to Ebitda
must be 4.25 times or lower.  The company may have to seek another amendment or waiver to
the covenants if it can’t improve the ratio from current levels,
according to Carlos Legaspy, the president of Precise Investment
Management in  San Diego , which owns more than $10 million of
Cemex bonds.  Extra Yield  “It’s the same thing as last year. They were very
confident they would meet it,” Legaspy said. “They didn’t and
the banks gave them a waiver.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to
125 at 5:25 p.m. New York time, according to JP Morgan.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 11.7243 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point to 111, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rate Futures  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in April fell four basis points to 5 percent.  Cemex bonds have also underperformed the 0.4 percent return
this month for similarly-rated Latin American debt, according to
Credit Suisse AG indexes.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 7.4 percent from a year earlier to $615
million in the second quarter. In the U.S., Ebitda was a loss of
$22.3 million compared with a gain of $16.6 million a year ago.  Europe ’s debt crisis is also cutting into Cemex’s revenue.
The region accounted for 34 percent of sales in 2010.  “It’s out of their hands,” Legaspy said. “It’s based on
the macro recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  