-- 
CEZ to Buy Energotrans, Sell Mibrag Mine to Focus on Heat

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-07-28T16:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/cez-to-buy-energotrans-sell-mibrag-mine-to-focus-on-heat-1-.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the largest Czech power
producer, agreed to buy Energotrans and sell its 50 percent
stake in  Germany ’s Mibrag coal mine as the company focuses
operations on electricity distribution and heat production.  The companies’ boards approved the deals, Prague-based CEZ
said today in a statement, without giving the transaction costs.  “CEZ must consolidate its position in regulated sectors
such as power distribution and heat production,” the company
said in the e-mailed statement. “These areas generate stable
income independent of the situation on the market.”  The utility will sell the Mibrag stake, including a project
to build a coal-fired power plant, to its partner Energeticky a
Prumyslovy Holding, which owns the other half. The German market
has become “riskier” following the country’s decision to phase
out its nuclear power plants and focus on developing renewable
energy sources and gas plants, CEZ said in the statement.  Energotrans operates brown coal power stations in Melnik,
the  Czech Republic , and owns a pipeline that delivers heat to
Prague. CEZ will build an 800-megawatt gas-fired power plant in
Melnik to replace aging coal facilities, the company said.  “CEZ has been targeting the asset for a long time in order
to consolidate the Melnik site and gain the ability to supply
co-generated heat to Prague,”  Jan Tomanik , an analyst at Wood &
Co. brokerage, wrote in a note.  Mibrag’s two mines, near Leipzig, produce almost 20 million
metric tons of brown coal, or lignite, a year, according to EP
Holding. It also owns and operates three power plants with a
combined output of 208 megawatts, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  