-- 
Chavez Removes Death From Slogan Amid Cancer Fight, Vows to Rule Past 2031

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-29T00:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/chavez-says-chemotherapy-may-make-him-as-bald-as-yul-brynner.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
called on his government to remove the word death from a
military slogan and said that he plans to rule past 2031 as he
prepares for a new round of chemotherapy in the “coming days.”  Chavez, speaking from a balcony at the presidential palace
for a celebration of his 57th birthday today, said that while
he’s currently in a “quarantine” of sorts while receiving
treatment, he expects to live another 57 years and to win
another presidential term in elections next year.  Chavez, who was jailed in 1992 for leading a failed coup
after serving as a paratrooper and tank commander, called on his
government to change a military slogan that he promoted from
“Fatherland, Socialism or Death,” to “Fatherland, Socialism
or Victory. We will live and conquer.”  “Here there won’t be any death,” Chavez, who was dressed
in a bright yellow shirt in place of his normal olive green
jacket and red shirt, said. “We can’t choose between victory
and death, we must live and conquer.”  The self-declared socialist revolutionary underwent surgery
in Cuba on June 20 to remove a baseball-sized tumor discovered
by doctors during a June 11 operation on an abscess. He returned
from a second trip to Cuba on July 23, saying tests hadn’t shown
any signs of more cancerous cells and that he would need further
treatment.  In another conversation broadcast by  state TV  this morning,
Chavez said he felt “like a phoenix” that was “being reborn”
and for the first time gave a prognosis for his illness.  “We estimate that by the end of the year I will have
passed this hard, cautious, very, very strict phase,” he said.
“This will be several months, until the end of the year, but
I’ll serve my government duties and next year I’ll be the
candidate again and win again,” he said later from the balcony.  The chemotherapy treatment will “inevitably” make him
lose his hair “for a few months,” he said. Chavez joked that
he’ll end up looking like the Russian-born Hollywood actor  Yul
Brynner , star of movies from the 1950s through the 1970s such as
“The King and I” and “The Ten Commandments.”  “In a few days you will surely see Chavez bald,” the
former paratrooper said in a phone call broadcast on state
television yesterday evening. “Do you remember Yul Brynner?
I’ll be Yul Chavez.”  He said that treatment has lowered his white blood cell
count, making him susceptible to contamination. The treatment
has also lowered his red blood cell count, meaning physical
activity is limited because his body is producing less oxygen,
Chavez said.  The South American leader denied opposition claims that his
government is divided between civilian and military factions
today after publicly denying that he was preparing his brother
or daughter to succeed him.  Chavez said that his socialist movement is “various steps
ahead of the chaos,” in reference to the sovereign debt
problems in  Europe  and the U.S. and said that capitalism is
going bankrupt.  “The Yankees are broke. It’s a good thing that they don’t
owe us money since they don’t have any to give,” Chavez said.
“Should we give a small loan to the gringos? Should we give
Obama a loan?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  