-- 
Chesapeake Profit Rises as Utica Shale Discovery Announced

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T21:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/chesapeake-s-second-quarter-profit-rises-as-oil-output-climbs.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most
active U.S. oil and natural-gas driller, said second-quarter
profit rose as it announced an Ohio oil and gas discovery.  Net income rose to $467 million, or 68 cents a share, from
$235 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, Chesapeake said in a
statement today. The shares rose 38 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$33.81 at 5:17 p.m. after the close of trading on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Profit was 4 cents a share higher than the average of 28
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, excluding such items as
quarterly adjustments to the value of future contracts.  Chesapeake raised its drilling budget by $500 million to as
much as $6.5 billion this year and next, citing higher costs for
fracturing well bores and increased drilling in the Utica shale.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , has leased 1.25 million
acres in the Utica Shale, a formation that stretches beneath the
Eastern U.S. from  Tennessee  into  Canada . Chesapeake said its
acreage in the Utica, which is concentrated in Ohio, may be
worth as much as $20 billion. It is seeking to sign a contract
with a joint venture partner by the end of the year.  The Utica is “likely most analogous, but economically
superior to, the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas,” according to
the statement.  “They’re saying it’s as good as or better than the Eagle
Ford,” Biju Perincheril, a New York-based analyst for Jefferies
& Co. said today in an interview.  Perincheril, who rates the shares “buy,” and owns none,
said results for the quarter were 2 cents better than his
estimate, apparently on higher production of oil and petroleum
liquids.  More Rigs  “This is huge news for Ohioans and I’m simply thrilled to
hear it,”  Ohio  Governor John R. Kasich said in a statement.  Chesapeake said it will increase its rig count in the Utica
from five to eight this year, and may have as many as 20 rigs in
the field by the end of 2012 and 40 rigs by 2014, according to
the statement.  Chesapeake is spending half this year’s drilling budget on
oil and petroleum liquids, which it says will comprise 25
percent of production next year, up from about 10 percent last
year, according to an  investor presentation  posted earlier this
month.  The company’s earnings have been damped in the past few
quarters by its spending on the conversion from gas to oil,
 Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst with RBC Capital
Markets LLC, said in an interview before the earnings were
released.  Rising Production  Production of oil and petroleum liquids rose 62 percent
from a year earlier to 7.2 million barrels for the quarter,
Chesapeake said in the statement. Total output rose 9 percent to
the equivalent of 3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day.  The earnings were released after the close of regular
trading on U.S. markets. The shares have 18 buy ratings, 13
holds and a sell from analysts.  Chesapeake is operating 159 drilling rigs, the most among
U.S. exploration and production companies, according to  data 
from Baker Hughes Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  