-- 
Chile Salmon Farmer Multiexport Gains as Virus Concern Recedes

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T21:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/chile-salmon-farmer-multiexport-gains-as-virus-concern-recedes.html
Chilean salmon farmer  Multiexport
Foods SA (MULTIFOO)  ended a three-day losing streak today after authorities
said a virus recently confirmed at one fishing center had not
affected production, quelling fears of an outbreak.  Multiexport, the only salmon farmer that is a member of
Chile’s benchmark IPSA index, rose 3.1 percent to 157.12 pesos
at 4:30 p.m., after falling 17 percent in the previous three
sessions.  A single production center, operated by producer Acuimag
SA, had confirmed presence of the virus, and it is currently
without any fish, Chile’s fishing regulator Sernapesca said in a
report posted today on its website. Acuimag Chief Executive
Officer Jorge Torrejon was not immediately available to
comment, an assistant said by phone.  The agency reported July 22 that it had detected the
presence of infectious salmon anemia (ISA) virus in 23 fishing
centers in southern  Chile . They included one operated by
Multiexport, Santiago-based brokerage Euroamerica Corredores de
Bolsa wrote yesterday. An outbreak of the ISA virus decimated
Chile’s salmon industry in 2007.  “There have been no reports of the strand that causes
mortality,” Patricia Pellegrini, an analyst at Santiago-based
brokerage firm Larrain Vial SA, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. Salmon prices have risen in the last
week, ending a downtrend, Pellegrini said.  Other salmon farmers also recovered today. AquaChile SA,
Chile’s largest salmon producer, rose 2.1 percent to 357.4 pesos
after falling 11 percent in the three previous sessions, while
Cia. Pesquera Camanchaca SA, which did an initial public
offering of shares in December, rose 3.4 percent to 60 pesos,
after falling 8.1 percent in the same period of time.  To contact the reporter on this story: Eduardo Thomson in
Santiago at   ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David
Papadopoulos at   papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 