-- 
Chile Behind Uruguay Converge on Brazil for World-Best Expanding Retailers

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-07-28T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/chile-behind-uruguay-converge-on-brazil-for-world-best-expanding-retailers.html
South America  is the next retail
frontier as  Brazil , Uruguay and  Chile  top  China  and  India  for
new expansion opportunities.  The region made the biggest gains in an annual ranking of
the top 30 emerging countries for retail development, according
to a report by management consulting firm A.T. Kearney. That
improvement puts four South American countries in the top 10 for
the first time, said Hana Ben-Shabat, a New York-based partner
at A.T. Kearney who started the ranking 10 years ago.  South American markets are increasingly attractive to
foreign companies because of their “very healthy” retail
spending and large urban populations with rising disposable
incomes, Ben-Shabat said. Latin American markets are showing
strength coming out of the recession, which helps keep sales
accelerating, she said.  “The region is ready for that next wave of modern retail
growth,” Ben-Shabat said. “It makes sense to invest in brands
in those markets because you’re going to have some large
percentage of consumers who are young today and who are going to
grow with the brand into the long-term.”  Uruguay ranked second on the  Global Retail Development
Index , moving up six spots from last year, while Chile came in
third after placing sixth in 2010. These countries trail Brazil,
“now one of the developing world’s most attractive markets for
retailers,” according to the report. Chile’s economy grew 9.8
percent at an annual rate for the three months ended March 31,
compared with 6.8 percent for Uruguay and Brazil’s 4.2 percent.  Credit Bubble?  Companies ranging from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, to  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
world’s largest maker of luxury goods, are flocking to the
continent even amid concerns about a credit bubble.  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index has fallen 20 percent from a
November high on investor concern about rising inflation. In
December, the  central bank  increased reserve and capital
requirements to slow consumer lending. Chile and Uruguay have
raised their benchmark rates within the past two months.  South American economies have embraced domestic demand-led
growth, while their governments generally take a “hands-off”
approach by, for example, resisting price controls, according to
 Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based economist for  Latin America  at
4Cast Inc., a global market analysis firm. They are “very, very
receptive to foreign capital investments,” he said.  India and China placed in the index’s top three for several
years before dropping to fourth and sixth, respectively, this
year. The lower rankings are indicative of the faster pace of
growth in South American economies and not a sign of falling
retail potential in India and China, Ben-Shabat said. Because
their markets are already “mature,” companies are considering
second- and third-tier cities for expansion, she said.  ‘Masters of Globalization’  The index, now in its 10th year, is developed using 25
macroeconomic and retail-specific variables to help companies
prioritize their global expansion strategies.  Wal-Mart and  France ’s  Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, are “masters of globalization,” having made
developing-market expansion a priority, according to the report.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart entered Brazil in 1995 and
Chile in 2009 and now operates 484 and 290 stores, respectively,
in these countries, the  company said  in June.  Chile, along with Mexico and China, had the best
comparable-store sales growth and also “the highest percentage
sales increase for the quarter compared to last year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said on a May 17 conference call.  Failed Merger  Carrefour, meanwhile, has more than 650 retail locations in
Brazil, according to its 2010 annual report. The retailer, based
near Paris, will continue to pursue growth opportunities in
Brazil even after a proposal to merge with Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar failed this month, Chief
Financial Officer Pierre Bouchut said last month.  Another French competitor, Saint-Etienne-based  Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , set up franchises with grocers in Uruguay
in the 1990s. The company’s 53 Uruguayan stores made up 3
percent of total international revenue as of Dec. 31, according
to its 2010 annual report. In Brazil, Casino has more than 1,600
stores; they make up 42 percent of global sales.  Uruguay has “very attractive economic and retail
fundamentals,” including high consumption per capita, an
export-oriented economy, a tourism-centered service sector and a
favorable environment for foreign investment, said  Almacenes
Exito SA (EXITO) , which is planning to buy a stake in Uruguayan
supermarkets from majority shareholder Casino.  Exito used the A.T. Kearney report as part of its analysis
for the purchase, it said in a statement.  Second-Smallest  Uruguay is “riding Brazil’s coattails” as it approaches
the peak of its window of opportunity for investment, according
to A.T. Kearney. Almost 95 percent of the population has easy
access to urban areas where modern retailing prospers. The
country’s physical size -- among the smallest in South America -
- is appealing to retailers that want to test concepts before
entering other regional markets, Ben-Shabat said.  For Uruguay, a strengthening middle class with healthy
disposable income and a population concentrated in the capital
of Montevideo are appealing for retail investment, Tuesta said.
Still, foreign companies may find it difficult to open a large
operation in this country of about 3.3 million people unless
they’re interested in a regional strategy, he said.  It’s common for grocery stores and other food-related
companies to be the first to enter developing markets, according
to Ben-Shabat. They pave the way for other types of retailers,
she said. Paris-based LVMH, which sells leather bags for more
than $2,700, has stores in the capitals of Uruguay and Chile.  Match for Gap  San Francisco-based  Gap Inc. (GPS)  plans to open its first South
American franchise store in Santiago in October, followed by one
in Concepcion, Chile in November, according to Stefan Laban,
senior vice president of strategic alliances. The market is a
“great match” for Gap’s target customer, he said.  The company, the largest U.S. apparel chain, operates about
3,100 stores in eight countries and more than 180 franchise
locations in 25 countries.  “Chile has a strong retail market with a large, city-
centered customer base that appreciates casual American style,”
Laban said. “Substantial opportunity exists for us in South
America and we are exploring other markets in the region.”  With a population of almost 16.9 million, Chile has become
one of the region’s promising retail markets, driven by
government incentives to stimulate consumption, increased
middle-class disposable income and an urban population,
according to the A.T. Kearney report. Retailing in Chile, which
places consistently among the index’s Top 10, is projected to
grow 10 percent in 2011, the authors said.  Credit Volatility  Still, foreign companies may encounter hurdles in
developing markets, where high levels of growth may be offset by
consumer credit volatility. In addition, outside of the largest
cities, the population of these countries is largely rural,
which limits expansion opportunities.  Inflation is also a concern, even for the region’s biggest
economy. Brazilian prices rose 6.71 percent in June, marking a
six-year high and the 10th straight month of increases. It was
the longest streak of annual quickening since 1993-1994, when
the country replaced the cruzeiro with the real amid
hyperinflation of as much as 4,923 percent.  Brazil also has raised its overnight  interest rate  five
times this year and doubled a tax on consumer credit, to 3
percent a year.  The pace of price increases rose to the highest levels in
more than a year in both Uruguay and Chile. Uruguayan household
debt via the banking system, including mortgages, grew in 2010
to 21.4 percent as of the end of 2010, according to a financial
stability report from the Central Bank. The report compared
total credit with household disposable income.  Slowing Sales  At the same time, Chilean retail sales have slowed. After
averaging 16.4 percent annual growth in the first quarter, they
fell to an average 8.6 percent in April and May and sales are
projected to rise to 10 percent in June, according to the median
forecast of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Retailers may underestimate the level of competition in
these developing markets, where they must vie with both local
and other foreign companies, Ben-Shabat said. In China,  Mattel
Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest toymaker, closed its only Barbie store
in March, less than two years after opening, while Best Buy has
closed stores in Turkey and China.  “Just because we invented modern retailing, some people
think we know it best,” Ben-Shabat said.  Once retailers establish a presence in Brazil, Uruguay and
Chile, a regional approach to other burgeoning markets in the
region may make sense, Ben-Shabat said.  Peru , eighth in this
year’s index, could attract some of the same foreign retailers,
particularly as its infrastructure -- including shopping centers
and supply chain routes -- expands, she said.  Peru Appeal  Several Chilean retailers have already opened stores in
neighboring Peru. Cencosud SA operates 64 supermarkets and
hypermarkets under the brands Wong and Metro, and Ripley Corp.
has 15 stores in Peru. The country’s “constant economic
growth” led to 21 percent revenue growth for  SACI Falabella (FALAB) ’s
57 supermarkets and stores for the quarter ended March 31, the
company said May 13.  With a comparably younger population -- the median age is
26.2 years old -- and potential for more urbanization, Peru will
grow even faster than Chile and Uruguay, Tuesta said. He
projects that GDP growth will stabilize at about 6.5 percent in
the next five years after fluctuating between 0.2 percent and
9.8 percent in the past decade.  The government has historically “gone out of its way” to
grant benefits to foreign investment, though investors have been
concerned that President-elect Ollanta Humala, who assumes
office today, may not be as business-friendly as his
predecessor, Tuesta said.  “The risk, as always, is how long these countries can
drive growth without the global economy rebounding,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  