-- 
China High-Speed Rail Crash That Killed 39 Likely Caused by Signal Fault

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-07-28T07:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/china-high-speed-rail-crash-that-killed-39-likely-caused-by-signal-fault.html
A Chinese high-speed railway crash
that killed 39 people was likely caused by a design flaw in a
signaling system, state-run Xinhua News Agency said, citing a
preliminary investigation by the Shanghai Railway Bureau.  Duty officers in Wenzhou, the station closest to the site
of the July 23 crash in southeast China, also didn’t know that
the signals could be wrong and weren’t focused enough on safety,
the report said, citing An Lusheng, head of the Shanghai bureau,
which oversees rail operations in the area of the accident.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged a greater focus on rail safety
and an “independent” investigation into the accident after
visiting the crash site today. The government fired three
officials, including An’s predecessor, following the crash and
started a two-month review of railway safety.  “The deadly accident has reminded us to attach more
importance to the safety of high-speed railway construction,”
Wen said, according to Xinhua. “Without safety, high-speed
trains will lose their credibility.”  Wen also said that if corruption was found to have
contributed to the crash, it would be punished. Victims’
families will receive “reasonable” compensation, he said.
Payouts will be 500,000 yuan ($77,600) per victim, Xinhua said
yesterday, citing an unidentified official.  Lightning Strike  The results of the investigation may be released around
mid-September, Xinhua said today, citing Luo Lin, the head of
the State Administration of Work Safety who is overseeing the
probe.  In the disaster, a high-speed train that stopped after a
lightning strike was rear-ended by another locomotive. The crash,
which pushed four coaches off a viaduct, also injured 192 people,
according to the Ministry of Railways. Two Chinese-Americans and
an Italian woman were among those killed.  The crash happened after lightning hit the signaling system,
which caused a warning light at Wenzhou South Station to fail to
turn from green to red, causing the collision, An said,
according to Xinhua.  Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of
Signal & Communication Co. apologized to the families of people
killed or injured in the crash and said it would cooperate with
the investigation, according to a  letter  posted today on its
website. The company, a unit of state-owned  China  Railway Signal
& Communication Corp, didn’t say what equipment it had supplied
or designed.  Upgraded Line  The stretch of track where the crash occurred had been
upgraded for high-speed railways, so trains were only able to
run as fast as 250 kilometers per hour (155 miles per hour). By
contrast, trains on purpose-built lines, including the Beijing-
Shanghai railway, travel as fast as 300 kph.  China has improved its rail technology over the past few
years as it invests in research and development, said T.C. Kao,
a professor with the  University of Illinois ’s Railroad
Transportation & Engineering Center. The country, which opened
its first bullet-train line in 2007, plans to have 16,000
kilometers of high-speed track by 2015.  “They have to develop the country on a fast track, and
when you do that, inevitably there will be some hard lesson you
have to learn,” Kao said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Frederik Balfour at   fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  