-- 
China Stocks Fall for First Time in Three Days on Growth Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-28T07:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-debt-impasse-goods-orders.html
China’s stocks fell for the first
time in three days as a drop in American durable-goods orders
and a stalemate over the U.S. debt limit boosted concerns global
economic growth will falter.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the nation’s
largest bank, sank to a six-month low as regulators tightened
oversight of wealth-management services. Anhui Conch Cement Co.,
the nation’s largest producer of the building material, dropped
the most in more than two months after Shanghai Securities News
reported cement companies are cutting prices on slumping demand.
China Shipping Container Line Co. slid 2.3 percent after
forecasting a first-half net loss.  The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 0.5 percent to
2,708.78 at the 3 p.m. local-time close, following a two-day,
1.3 percent gain. The CSI 300 Index sank 0.6 percent to 2,981.  “The global uncertainty added to bearish sentiment in the
market along with the concerns over China’s fundamental growth
pattern,” said Hao Kang, a Beijing-based  fund manager  at ICBC
Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., which oversees about $8.7
billion. “The government’s tone on tightening and fighting
inflation hasn’t changed and that would remain as downward
pressure on stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 3.5 percent this year as
the People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  three times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves six
times to contain inflation, which has quickened to the fastest
pace in three years. The gauge trades for 12.4 times estimated
profit, more than the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.9 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  PetroChina Output  China’s inflation may slow to 4 percent or less by year-end
from 6.4 percent in June,  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said at a briefing in  Hong Kong  yesterday.
 Monetary policy  may shift from “tight” to “more neutral”
after September, Qu said.  The Shanghai Composite pared a decline of as much as 1.4
percent in the afternoon session after the official Xinhua News
Agency reported PetroChina Co.’s daily oil and gas output
overseas rose 30,000 tons in the first half of the year from a
year earlier. PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer,
closed 0.7 percent higher at 10.80 yuan after sliding as much as
2.1 percent.  The U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 2 percent
yesterday, its biggest decline since June 1, as lawmakers
sparred over separate plans to raise the federal debt limit and
avoid a default by Aug. 2. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have said they may downgrade the U.S.’s top AAA rating
if lawmakers fail to resolve the stalemate.  ‘ Double Dip ’  Bookings for U.S. goods meant to last at least three years
fell 2.1 percent in June after a 1.9 percent gain the previous
month, the government reported. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News had projected a 0.3 percent increase.  “It’s a slowdown,” Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio
strategist at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo Funds Management,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Unfortunately, we
are at a point where, depending upon what comes out of
 Washington , that could determine whether or not this does become
a double dip.”  Exports to the U.S. accounted for about 17 percent of
 China ’s total shipments in the first six months, according to
the Asian country’s  customs bureau .  Former Chinese central bank adviser Yu Yongding repeated a
call for China to reduce its Treasury holdings amid an impasse
among policy makers on raising the U.S. debt limit.  Biggest Drags  “U.S. bonds are not safe, but people think they are
safe,” Yu, a researcher at a Beijing institute under the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , told reporters at a briefing
in Mumbai yesterday. “That is a mirage.”  Financial companies including banks were the biggest drags
on the CSI 300 Index today. China’s banking regulator tightened
oversight of wealth-management services, banning practices such
as buying each other’s products that may help lenders bypass
restrictions on deposit rates and loan quotas.  Banks, which face curbs on deposit rates, shouldn’t use
wealth-management products to pay more for funds, the China
Banking Regulatory Commission said in a  statement  on its website
yesterday.  ICBC lost 1.9 percent to 4.20 yuan, its lowest close since
Jan. 26.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second biggest
lender, retreated 1.1 percent to 4.66 yuan.  Anhui Conch  The regulator also urged banks to take steps to control
credit risks on road and railway projects. State-controlled
entities should use government funds as collateral for road
projects, instead of the right to collect tolls, according to
the statement. Builders can’t borrow more money to repay
existing loans or make interest payments, the regulator said.  Anhui Conch slumped 3.7 percent, the most since May 16, to
25.23 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co. fell 4.6 percent to 25.16 yuan.  Some Chinese cement companies have cut prices by 40 yuan to
50 yuan per ton due to increasing supply and falling demand,
 Shanghai  Securities News reported, citing an unidentified
industry analyst. Cement prices fell 0.5 percent last week from
the previous week, a fifth week of declines, the newspaper
reported, citing an online database.  China Shipping Container, the second-largest carrier of
sea-cargo boxes, dropped 2.3 percent to 3.37 yuan, the lowest
close since July 16. The company said it expects a net loss in
the first half because of higher  oil prices  and weakness in the
container shipping market.  China Merchants Energy Shipping Co., the country’s largest
operator of international  oil tankers , slid 0.8 percent to 3.62
yuan. The company’s first-half net profit fell 55 percent from a
year earlier, according to a statement to Shanghai’s exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  