-- 
China’s HNA Said to Be in Exclusive Talks for GE SeaCo Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-07-29T07:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/china-s-hna-said-to-hold-exclusive-talks-to-buy-ge-shipping-container-unit.html
HNA Group Co., the airline and hotel
operator controlled by China’s Hainan province, is in exclusive
talks to buy the shipping-container lessor co-owned by  General
Electric Co. (GE) , a person with knowledge of the matter said.  HNA may reach a deal within a week if the lessor, known as
GE SeaCo, opts to proceed with a sale, said the person, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
The price under discussion values GE SeaCo at more than $1
billion, or about $2.5 billion including debt, the person said.  “The fundamentals for container leasing are pretty good
right now,” Art Hatfield, a Morgan Keegan & Co. analyst in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , said in a telephone interview. “Despite the
fact that there’s too many ships out there, there’s a fairly
tight container market.”  A successful bid for SeaCo, the world’s fifth-biggest
container lessor, would be the latest demonstration of Chinese
companies’ appetite for global acquisitions. Purchases in the
past year include a $2 billion Norwegian chemicals operation and
a General Motors Co. parts division.  HNA prevailed in an auction that also drew interest from
 Textainer Group Holdings Ltd. (TGH) , the largest container lessor, and
private-equity firm Kelso & Co., according to people with
knowledge of those firms’ interest.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  “As we stated previously, we continue to work through our
strategic alternatives process, and really have nothing further
to add,” said Dori Abel, a spokeswoman for the  GE Capital  unit
at Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  Tong Fu, a spokesman for HNA Group, said he wasn’t aware of
such a bid. Textainer Chief Financial Officer Ernest Furtado
confirmed that the company is no longer involved in the bidding.
George Matelich, a principal at Kelso, declined to comment about
the SeaCo sale.  Led by Chairman Chen Feng, HNA began as the province’s
regional airline and was once known as Hainan Airlines Co., its
website says. It bought other carriers and is now  China ’s
fourth-largest aviation company, the  website  says. HNA’s
operations include airports, hotels and department stores.  In May, HNA agreed to buy a 432 million euro ($619 million)
stake in a Spanish hotel chain. The company said this month it
may bid for  Hochtief AG (HOT) ’s airport-operating unit, bringing it
control of airports in Hamburg, Sydney, Budapest and  Athens . It
also agreed to invest in Turkish cargo carrier, ACT Airlines Inc.  Joint Venture  GE Capital formed Barbados-based GE SeaCo as a 50-50 joint
venture with Sea Containers Ltd. in 1998. Sea Containers, based
in Hamilton, Bermuda, later filed for bankruptcy and emerged in
2009, with control of the company in the hands of former
creditors.  Sea Containers’ successor,  SeaCo Ltd. (SEAOF) , confirmed in
February that an investment bank was hired to review “strategic
alternatives” for GE SeaCo. Deutsche Bank AG is the investment
bank, and it is also working to assemble financing for HNA’s bid,
one of the people with knowledge of the matter said.  With a fleet of 950,000 twenty-foot equivalent units, GE
SeaCo is the world’s fifth-largest, according to a ranking
included in a Textainer regulatory filing. Textainer, based in
Bermuda and run from  San Francisco , has 2.3 million TEU.  In May, another one of the top leasing companies changed
hands when  Chicago ’s Pritzker family sold Triton Container
International Ltd. to a pair of private-equity firms, Warburg
Pincus LLC and Vestar Capital Partners. Bermuda-based Triton is
the second-biggest container lessor, according to the Andrew
Foxcroft ranking in the Textainer document.  Freight Demand  Container lessors are benefiting from growing freight
demand, limited supply and climbing prices for new units. The
cost of a new-cargo box rose to a record this year, according to
the World Shipping Council, a Washington-based trade group.  Higher prices are prompting shippers to lease rather than
buy, said Brian Sondey, chief executive officer of lessor  TAL
International Group Inc. (TAL) , on an April conference call. The
Bloomberg U.S. Container Leasing Index, which includes shares of
Textainer and TAL, returned almost 100 percent since the start
of 2010.  The GE SeaCo stake is among finance assets grouped together
to wind down or sell as CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  reshapes GE to focus
on industrial units. He is shrinking the portion of total
revenue from GE Capital as well as its assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  