-- 
Chris Ruffle Plans New China Fund After Leaving Martin Currie

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-29T06:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/chris-ruffle-replaced-as-manager-of-martin-currie-china-funds-after-probe.html
Chris Ruffle , who co-managed the
best emerging market hedge fund last year according to Hedge
Funds Review, plans a new China offering after he parted company
with Martin Currie Ltd. today following an investigation into a
conflict of interest.  Heartland Capital Management Ltd., in which Ruffle holds a
70 percent stake and Ke Shifeng the remainder, will in early
November acquire Martin Currie’s interest in a China joint
venture between the companies, Ruffle said by phone from  San
Francisco . Ruffle, 52, said Ke will join him at the firm that
will include Martin Currie’s team of 12 analysts in Shanghai.  Ruffle, who was responsible for co-managing  31 percent  of
Edinburgh-based Martin Currie’s assets, said he is setting up
trading, legal and compliance systems for Heartland so that it’s
ready in November “as a fully functioning, fully SEC-licensed
fund management company to offer people who want to invest in
 China .” Martin Currie will retain all its assets in Greater
China, except for about $150 million, Ruffle said.  His departure from Martin Currie was agreed to by
regulators in London and  Washington  after an examination of
transactions in an unlisted convertible bond issued in 2009 by
Ugent Holdings Ltd., a Chinese maker of printer cartridges,
Martin Currie said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Ruffle,
in a telephone interview, denied any wrongdoing.  “In light of recommendations made in those reviews, and
following extensive dialogues with Chris Ruffle and with our
regulators, Martin Currie has concluded that it must now part
ways with Chris Ruffle,” said Willie Watt, Martin Currie’s
Chief Executive Officer, in the statement.  World Beater  Martin Currie  is losing a manager who spent much of the
past two decades building a China business with more than 3
billion pounds ($4.9 billion) in assets managed. London-based
Hedge Funds Review chose the Martin Currie China Hedge Fund that
Englishman Ruffle co-managed with Ke as the best in emerging
markets last year, and London-based HFMWeek selected it as the
best fund in the same category in 2009.  Ke will assume Ruffle’s responsibilities, Martin Currie
said. The company is also recruiting two new fund managers and a
head of research for the region, it said.  Ke declined to comment in a telephone call today.  In April, Martin Currie said in its annual report that the
company entered into a transaction that “may have presented a
conflict of interest.” The company then said in May it was in
talks with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
U.K. Financial Services Authority and was helping them with
their enquiries.  Conflict of Interest  An investment made in 2009 in Ugent by Martin Currie on
behalf of the U.S.-listed China Fund that Ruffle co-managed with
Ke led to a conflict of interest because the Scottish firm was
also investing client money in Ugent’s parent company, the
Scotsman reported, without citing a source. The conflict of
interest resulted in a $20 million compensation agreement with
investors, according to the newspaper’s website.  Martin Currie, which oversaw 10.1 billion pounds of assets
as of June 30, down 11 percent from the end of 2010, said it had
resolved the issue with the client concerned.  Both investments were “fully discussed within Martin
Currie within valuation committees and reported to the board,”
Ruffle said today. “I think it was in the best interests of
both groups of investors. It was fully disclosed but
unfortunately was not captured in the minutes of the board
meeting of the fund and that was the problem.”  Castle Builder  Based in  Shanghai  since 2002, Ruffle started working for
Martin Currie in 1994, according to the firm’s  website .
Originally from Bradford in  England , Ruffle speaks Chinese
fluently and has a penchant for building castles.  In 1992, while living in  Taiwan , Ruffle bought sight-unseen
for 50,000 pounds the ruins of Dairsie Castle near  St. Andrews 
in  Scotland , which he rebuilt. In 2006, he began construction of
another castle near Yantai in China’s Shandong province that was
completed in 2009. There he founded Treaty Port Vineyards, a
winery that began selling its first vintage in May.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net 
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   Ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  