-- 
N.J. Gov. Christie Leaves Hospital After Treatment

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-07-28T23:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/christie-being-treated-at-new-jersey-hospital-for-asthma-spokesman-says.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
was released from a hospital today after being treated for
symptoms related to his chronic asthma.  “I hope to go home, get a little sleep, and I will be back
to work tomorrow,” Christie told reporters during a 28-minute
briefing outside Somerset Medical Center in Somerville. “I feel
great now. I’m a little tired, but I feel fine and relieved.”  Christie, 48, who uses an inhaler daily, felt uncomfortable
and “a little bit slight of breath” this morning while en
route to an event in Hillsborough, said a spokeswoman for the
governor, Maria Comella. He checked into the hospital emergency
room at 10:30 a.m. and released about 6:30 p.m.  Christie, who has acknowledged being overweight in
television interviews, said recently he has been on a diet, and
that his motivation for losing weight is his four children. He
said after leaving the hospital that he plans to work with a
personal trainer. His weight wasn’t a contributing factor to his
asthma attack, he said.  The governor, who has gained national attention for his
spending cuts, has been urged by other Republicans to run for
president. He has said repeatedly that he has no plans to seek
the office in next year’s election.  Breathing Problems  The governor was in a state trooper-driven vehicle on his
way to sign bills for open-space preservation funding at a farm
in Hillsborough, in Somerset County, when he began to have
breathing problems,  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie,
told reporters there shortly before noon.  Christie walked into the hospital emergency room at the
same time his bill signing was scheduled to start, according to
Comella. He was given “routine tests as a precautionary
measure,” Drewniak said. A heart attack was ruled out.  An electrocardiogram, chest x-ray, blood-pressure and
blood-chemistry tests all came back normal, Comella said. The
governor, who was diagnosed with asthma when he was 15, most
recently had a physical in the fall and got a “clean bill of
health,” she said.  “The governor is extremely grateful for the quality of
care he is receiving this morning and has nothing but praise for
the world-class doctors, nurses and staff,” Drewniak said in a
statement.  Jessica Jackson, a spokeswoman for Somerset Medical Center,
said all information on Christie’s condition would be released
through the governor’s office and declined to comment further,
citing health privacy laws.  No Show  The governor’s wife, Mary Pat, and brother, Todd, were with
him at the hospital, Comella said. Mary Pat left the hospital at
about 3:15 p.m. without speaking to reporters.  Christie’s monthly “Ask the Governor” radio show,
scheduled for tonight, has been canceled, Comella said.  The incident was “one of those mornings when his asthma
impacted him a little bit more than usual,” Comella said. “The
governor is fine. He’s feeling great. He should be back to work
tomorrow morning in the Statehouse.”  Control of the state hasn’t been transferred to Lieutenant
Governor Kim Guadagno, said  Kevin Roberts , a Christie spokesman.  Christie’s predecessor, one-term Democrat  Jon Corzine ,
spent 18 days of his term at a hospital in Camden,  New Jersey ,
after he was critically injured in a 2007 car accident. Then-
Senate President Richard Codey served as acting governor while
Corzine was hospitalized. New Jersey created a lieutenant
governor position starting with the 2009 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  