-- 
Citigroup South African Cash Equities Trader Nkomo Quits, Explores Options

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 
2011-07-28T08:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/citigroup-south-african-cash-equities-trader-nkomo-quits-explores-options.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  South African cash-
equities trader Owen Nkomo quit to explore other opportunities.  Nkomo left the Johannesburg-based brokerage of Citigroup
yesterday after more than two years with the company, Quintus
Kilbourn, the head of South African equities, said by telephone
from the city today. Citigroup will fill his post, he said.  Nkomo, 33, is looking at “more appealing opportunities,”
he said by mobile phone, declining to give details on his plans
because he is still involved in talks with “strategic
partners.”  Nkomo leaves amid consolidation and increasing competition
in the industry. Religare Capital Markets Ltd., the investment
banking and institutional securities unit of  India ’s  Religare
Enterprises Ltd. (RELG) , said on July 25 it bought control of Noah
Financial Innovation Ltd., a South African broker.  Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest bank, last year
ended its South African stock-brokerage joint venture with
Credit Suisse Group AG because both firms wanted to control
their own units in Africa’s biggest economy. Renaissance
Capital, the Russian emerging-markets investment bank with
operations in Africa, last year bought the securities business
of Barnard Jacobs Mellet Holdings Ltd.  “The broking industry in  South Africa  is under severe
pressure at the moment with the advent of tighter competition,”
Nkomo said. “With such competition in the market, and ever
improving execution technology, there’ll definitely be continued
pressure on commissions in the South African broking industry.”  Nkomo previously worked at the South African units of
Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co., both based in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  