-- 
Citigroup Ends Short in Treasury 10-Year Note Futures: Technical Analysis

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-07-28T16:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/citigroup-ends-short-position-in-u-s-10-year-notes-technical-analysis.html
Citigroup Inc. cut its short
position in Treasury 10-year note futures as the price hasn’t
fallen as expected, according to a research note citing
 technical analysis .  “It really didn’t do anything,” said  Tom Fitzpatrick ,
chief technical strategist in New York, in a telephone
interview. “We had a setup that made it look very much like it
was going to make a break to the downside, which it did a couple
times, but we just didn’t follow through.”  Citigroup set up the short position June 24 in the futures
on the note maturing in September 2011 when it traded at 124
14/32. It fell as low as 121 22/32 on July 1 before rallying
back to as much as 124 23/32 today, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  In terms of yield, a daily close above a 3.22 percent for
the 10-year note may indicate a move toward 3.76 percent. A
daily close below 2.81 percent would question any move upward
and may indicate renewed losses in yield toward 2.67 percent,
which is the 76.4 percent Fibonacci retracement level, according
to the note.  With little movement in the Treasury market, even with the
concern the U.S. will fail to pay its bills if legislators can’t
strike a deal to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2, it’s unlikely
anything will trigger the move Citigroup had expected,
Fitzpatrick said.  Direction Danger  “There’s the danger, if you can’t go down when you’re
getting that type of uncertainty, that you might actually swing
back in the other direction,” said  New-York  based Fitzpatrick.
“It’s had every chance to go down, it’s had every headline to
go down, it hasn’t done so, so it just doesn’t look to be the
right trade.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rallied today, sending
its yield down four basis points to 2.94 percent in New York. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that securities
tend to rise or fall by specific percentages after reaching a
new high or low. It’s based on a formula developed by a medieval
mathematician, Leonardo of Pisa, known as Fibonacci, who studied
the reproduction rate of rabbits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  