-- 
City of Vallejo, California, Wins Court Approval of Reorganization Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-28T20:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/city-of-vallejo-california-wins-court-approval-of-reorganization-plan.html
Vallejo,  California , the biggest
U.S. city in bankruptcy, won approval of a plan to exit court
protection by cutting interest payments to its bank and reducing
benefits to retirees.  The approval comes on the same day that elected officials
in Jefferson County, Alabama, agreed put off for at least a week
a decision on whether to file the largest municipal bankruptcy
in U.S. history in order to negotiate with state officials and
creditors.  Bankruptcy saved Vallejo tens of millions of dollars in
reduced labor costs, said attorney R. Dale Ginter, who
represented retirees in the case who were forced to accept
reduced benefits.  “At the end of the day the city did save more than they
spent,” on legal and other fees on the case, Ginter said in an
interview.  Municipalities that file bankruptcy under Chapter 9 of the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  have more power over their creditors than
bankrupt corporations, which must use Chapter 11, Ginter said.  Vallejo, a onetime U.S. Navy town of about 120,000 on  San
Francisco Bay , sought protection from creditors in May 2008
after the recession eroded tax revenue and unions rejected wage
cuts.  Restricted Funds  The plan doesn’t alter securities tied to designated
revenue sources, such as about $175 million in water revenue
bonds, and other special tax obligations secured by special
revenue of the city’s restricted funds, according to the
documents.  The Jefferson County commission canceled a meeting today
that it had scheduled to consider filing bankruptcy, David Carrington, commission president, said in a news release.  The threat of bankruptcy has loomed over Jefferson County,
home to Birmingham,  Alabama ’s biggest city, for three years as
officials sought to spare residents from the ballooning sewer
rates that would be needed to finance more than $3 billion in
bonds issued to upgrade the system.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Michael S. McManus in  Sacramento ,
California, said he would sign an order approving Vallejo’s plan
of adjustment after the city works out final wording with
attorneys for Union Bank NA, the city’s primary creditor in the
case.  “I don’t see any impediment to confirmation of this
plan,” McManus said at a hearing today.  Repaid Principal  Under Vallejo’s plan, Union bank would be repaid all of the
$46 million in principal it is owed. The  interest rates  on the
Union Bank loans will drop from a maximum of 7.25 percent to
maximum of 2.5 percent, according to a disclosure statement that
describes the city’s plan.  Retirees were forced to pay more for their health benefits
under the plan and the city negotiated new, lower-cost union
contracts while in bankruptcy, Ginter said.  In the near future, it may be more difficult for the city
to borrow money because of the bankruptcy, Ginter said. Once the
economy improves, that will change, he said.  “I personally think cities are more wary of the credit
markets than they need to be,” Ginter said. “Yesterday’s loss
was yesterday’s loss and today’s profit is today’s profit.”  The case is In re City of Vallejo, 08-26813,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 