-- 
McKinsey Says Global Capital Markets Resume Growth After Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-07-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/mckinsey-says-global-capital-markets-resume-growth-after-crisis.html
The three-decade expansion in global
capital markets has resumed after being truncated by the
financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a report by  McKinsey & Co.   The world’s financial stock, comprising equity-market
capitalization and outstanding bonds, rose $11 trillion to an
unprecedented $212 trillion at the end of last year, the New
York-based firm’s research division said in the study of 75
countries released today.  The report reflects on how emerging economies have led the
recovery in global economic growth since the 2009 recession
while government deficits drove the recent expansion of debt
markets.  “The recovery of financial markets remains uneven across
geographies and asset classes,” said the McKinsey analysts, who
include London-based Charles Roxburgh.  The increase in equity and debt has driven greater
capitalization of stock markets, which was in turn propelled by
new issuance and stronger earnings expectations, McKinsey said.  The overall amount of outstanding debt increased by $5
trillion. Lending in emerging markets was particularly fast with
 China  adding $1.2 trillion of net new credit over the year.  While the value of all debt rose $5.5 trillion from 2009 to
$158 trillion, government debt accounted for 80 percent of the
net new borrowing, the report said. Non-financial companies took
advantage of low  interest rates  to issue $1.3 trillion of bonds,
more than 50 percent more than the pre-credit-crisis rate.  Cross-Border Flows  Cross-border capital flows climbed to $4.4 trillion after
two years of declines, McKinsey said. They remain 60 percent
below their peak because of a contraction in lending between
banks, the report said. Flows into developed economies were 20
percent more volatile than those into emerging markets,
reflecting a desire to invest in such faster-growing nations.  Latin America  received $254 billion, more than China,  India 
and Russia combined. Emerging markets are also becoming more
important foreign investors, spending $922 billion in 2010
compared with $280 billion in 2000.  Japan remains the world’s largest net foreign creditor with
net assets of more than $3 trillion, ahead of second-place
China’s $2.2 trillion.  The McKinsey analysts warned that after two years of
contraction, so-called global imbalances are growing again and
could return to their previous proportions as the U.S. current-
account deficit and the surpluses in China and  Germany  that fund
it increased again last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  