-- 
Clooney, Madonna to Screen Own Movies at Venice Film Festival

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-28T12:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/clooney-madonna-pacino-polanski-to-screen-movies-at-venice-s-festival.html
Movies directed by  George Clooney 
and Madonna will get red-carpet premieres at this year’s  Venice
Film Festival , with Madonna’s recounting the love story between
the American divorcee Wallis Simpson and King Edward VIII.  The festival opens Aug. 31 with Clooney’s “The Ides of
March,” about a naive press spokesman who gets caught in an
ugly web of backroom politics during a presidential campaign,
organizers said at a Rome news conference. Clooney is in the
cast, as are Ryan Gosling and Paul Giamatti.  Also premiering at Venice are Roman Polanski’s “Carnage,”
starring Jodie Foster and Kate Winslet, about two sets of
parents who meet to discuss their sons’ school spat; and  Al Pacino ’s “Wilde Salome,” his take on Oscar Wilde and his play
“Salome.” Pacino co-stars with  Jessica Chastain  (recently seen
in Terrence Malick’s “The Tree of Life.”)  In a festival media release, Pacino described the film as
his “most personal project.”  “I wouldn’t want to present ‘Wilde Salome’ in any other
place but  Venice ,” said Pacino, who has Italian roots.  Madonna’s “W.E.,” which she also wrote, has a dual plot:
It’s about the 1930s affair that led King Edward VIII to
renounce the British throne for Wallis ( Andrea Riseborough ), and
about a modern-day wife who falls for a Russian security guard.  Clooney and Polanski will both compete for the top Venice
prize, the Golden Lion. So will the U.K. artist-director Steve McQueen, with “Shame” -- the story of a promiscuous young man
whose errant little sister ( Carey Mulligan ) moves in. The lead
is played by  Michael Fassbender , who was Bobby Sands in
McQueen’s previous work, “Hunger,” about Northern Ireland.  Out of the official competition is director Steven Soderbergh with “Contagion,” an action movie about a deadly
global pandemic.  Matt Damon , Winslet and Jude Law star.  The festival, which takes place on Venice’s Lido Island,
ends Sept. 10.  To contact the writers on the story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 