-- 
Compass Says Organic Revenue Rises 4.5%, Confirms Expectations

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-07-28T07:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/compass-says-organic-revenue-rises-4-5-confirms-expectations.html
Compass Group Plc (CPG) , the world’s
largest catering company, reported third-quarter organic revenue
growth that beat analyst estimates, and confirmed its
expectations for the full year on prospects for new business.  Organic revenue growth in the three months ending June 30
slipped to 4.5 percent, after adjusting for the impact of
acquisitions, disposals and exchange-rate swings, the Chertsey,
England-based company said today in a statement. That was less
than the 5.5 percent growth a year earlier and compares with the
4 percent median growth estimate of three analysts.  Compass said “new business wins” and a high retention
rate led sales growth in the quarter. The operating margin in
the quarter was in line with a year earlier after the March
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , which Compass has said will cut
second-half profit by 20 million pounds ($32.7 million).  “As we look out to the rest of the year, we are encouraged
by the pipeline of new business and the ongoing opportunities we
have to generate further efficiencies,” the company said in the
statement.  Compass fell 0.4 percent to 579.5 pence at 8:06 a.m. in
London trading, giving the company a market value of 11 billion
pounds. The benchmark FTSE 100 index, which includes Compass,
dropped 0.7 percent.  Compass said that in North America and its rest-of-the-
world division “like-for-like revenues are positive,” while
conditions are “more challenging” in the U.K. and much of
continental  Europe .  Compass reported organic growth of 6.8 percent in  North
America , its biggest market, and 7.9 percent in the rest of the
world. The caterer reported growth of 1.7 percent in continental
Europe and a 1.5 percent decline in the U.K. and Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  