-- 
Congo Government Asks U.S. to Use OECD Guidance for Conflict-Mineral Rules

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-28T14:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/congo-government-asks-u-s-to-use-oecd-guidance-for-conflict-mineral-rules.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo
appealed to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
prevent forthcoming conflict-mineral rules from causing a “de-
facto embargo” on trade from the Central African nation.  The SEC, which is writing regulations for companies dealing
in minerals from war-torn eastern Congo, should follow due-
diligence guidance developed by the  United Nations  and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Mines
Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  wrote in a July 15 letter published on
the commission’s website.  The UN and OECD recommendations “define due diligence as a
continuous process, proactive and reactive, by which companies
take reasonable measures in good faith to identify and respond
to risks that contribute to conflict,” Kabwelulu said. The
result “will allow companies to make a positive contribution to
peace and sustainable development.”  Kabwelulu’s letter is the Congolese government’s first
written request to the SEC about the guidelines, which the
commission was asked to develop last July under the Dodd-Frank
Act to help cut the link between Congo’s mineral trade and armed
groups. The SEC rules, which are expected as early as next
month, will apply to U.S. companies involved in the trade in tin
ore, tantalum, tungsten and gold shipped from Congo and nine
neighboring countries.  Conflict Funding  Conflict in eastern Congo began in the mid-1990s and
continues to this day, with armed groups and some members of the
national army supporting themselves through the sale of natural
resources.  Increased scrutiny of companies working in the region has
caused mineral buyers including Traxys SA, Malaysia Smelting
Corp. and Amalgamated Metals Plc to curtail or eliminate their
purchases, and most trade from eastern Congo ground to a halt
April 1. That month, electronics-industry groups implemented new
guidelines for mineral smelters to ensure their products were
“conflict-free.”  The new rules left tens of thousands of people out of work,
according Paul Yenga Mabolia, head of Promines, a World Bank
program assisting Congo’s mining industry.  “Nobody was prepared and there was no program to alleviate
the impact of the law,” he said by phone from Kinshasa, Congo’s
capital, yesterday. “Almost everything came to a standstill.”  Congo’s Mines Ministry has dispatched teams to validate
mine sites that aren’t linked to armed groups so trade can
resume. Motorola Solutions Inc. announced in an e-mailed
statement on July 7 it would create a pilot program to monitor
tantalum purchases from Congo so the country can remain “a
viable source of conflict-free minerals.”  Congo accounted for 9 percent of the world’s tantalum, a
mineral used in mobile phones and video-game consoles, and 4
percent of tin ore production in 2009, according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 