-- 
Consumer Bureau Plans Enforcement Based on FTC’s ‘Stable’ Model

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/consumer-bureau-plans-enforcement-based-on-ftc-s-stable-model.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau plans to follow enforcement procedures “based
largely on the existing, stable model” used by the Federal
Trade Commission, according to a document on the bureau’s
website.  The bureau, which began operations July 21, used the
document to outline how it will seek documents, conduct hearings
and deal with witnesses as it begins oversight of financial
firms’ dealings with consumers.  Because the rules track what the FTC already does, “they
present an existing, stable model of investigatory procedures
that should not impose new compliance costs,” the bureau said
in the document.  President  Barack Obama  proposed creating the consumer
bureau as part of what became the Dodd-Frank Act after lenders
were accused of reaping profits by preying on borrowers before
the subprime mortgage crisis. The agency, which will operate
independently, will regulate products ranging from home
mortgages to payday loans.  The posted rules by themselves give little insight into how
forceful the consumer bureau will be in dealing with lenders,
according to Howard Beales, a former FTC official who is now
professor at George Washington University in Washington. The
bureau could choose to resolve issues through supervision, the
process of examining bank books and nudging them to make
changes, rather than through lawsuits.  ‘Framework for Enforcement’  “This says what the framework for enforcement is,” Beales
said in a July 26 interview. “It says nothing about the mix
between supervision and enforcement.”  Peggy Twohig, the bureau’s assistant director for non-bank
supervision, and Steve Antonakes, the assistant director for
large-bank supervision, hinted in a July 22 blog post that the
agency may rely heavily on supervision.  “Generally as a last resort, examiners will coordinate and
work closely with CFPB’s enforcement staff to implement
appropriate enforcement actions to address violations of law
that harm consumers,” Twohig and Antonakes wrote.  The consumer bureau also posted  rules  governing how it will
conduct reviews in which firms can contest administrative
penalties. Those procedures will be similar to those used by
prudential regulators such as the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, said
Richard Riese, a senior vice president at the American Bankers
Association Center for Regulatory Compliance.  “It doesn’t get much visibility because very few processes
go all the way to administrative adjudication,” Riese said in
an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  