-- 
Copper Rises as Strike at World’s Biggest Mine in Chile Spurs Supply Woes

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-28T18:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/copper-may-gain-as-escondida-strike-lower-production-fuel-supply-concern.html
Copper rose after BHP Billiton Ltd.
canceled shipments from  Chile ’s Escondida mine, the world’s
biggest source of the metal, as a strike extended to seven days.  Workers vowed to step up efforts to secure improved bonuses
and benefits as management called the strike illegal and refused
to negotiate. Prices also gained after  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel reported lower copper output.  “Near term, we’ve got supply tightness with the strike at
Escondida,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC in
Chicago, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Longer term,
we’re looking for Chinese buying to pick up. There’s also
underlying demand from the U.S. and Japanese auto industry.”  Copper futures for September delivery rose 2.3 cents, or
0.5 percent, to close at $4.4695 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York . The metal has climbed 38 percent in the past
year, reaching a record $4.6575 on Feb. 15, as mining companies
struggled to keep pace with rising consumption.  The price may rise to $5 by the end of the year, Lesh said.
China is world’s leading copper user, followed by the U.S.  World demand may exceed output by 377,000 metric tons this
year, according to the International Copper Study Group. The
strike at Escondida has cut output by about 15,000 tons,
 Barclays Capital  said in a report.  Copper also gained as jobless claims in the U.S. dropped
last week to a three-month low, and the number of contracts to
purchase previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly rose in June,
bolstering prospects for the economy and metal demand.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose $35, or 0.4 percent, to $9,814 a ton ($4.45 a
pound).  Nickel also gained in London. Aluminum, lead, tin and zinc
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  