-- 
Copper May Rise as Strike Adds to Supply Concern, Survey Shows

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/copper-may-rise-as-strike-adds-to-supply-concern-survey-shows.html
Copper may advance on concern supply
will fail to meet demand as a strike continues at the world’s
biggest mine, a survey showed.  Seven of 14 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 50 percent, said prices will rise next week. Five
predicted a drop and two forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was up 1.6 percent for this week at $9,834
a metric ton by 4 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal Exchange.  The strike at the Escondida mine in  Chile  entered a seventh
day yesterday, forcing operator BHP Billiton Ltd. to declare
force majeure. The labor action has cut output by about 15,000
tons and may cost 2,500 tons for each additional day,  Barclays
Capital  said in a report yesterday.  “Labor issues in Chile and expectations of a widening
deficit” may drive copper higher, Bart Melek, an analyst at TD
Securities in Toronto, said by e-mail July 27. A likely
agreement on raising the U.S. government’s debt ceiling probably
will support prices, he said.  World demand for the metal is set to exceed output by
377,000 tons this year, according to the International Copper
Study Group. Force majeure is a legal clause invoked when
companies are unable to meet supply obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of July 22.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
71 of the past 147 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 7 Bearish: 5 Hold: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  