-- 
Corporate Treasurers Preparing for ‘Unthinkable’ U.S. Downgrade, Default

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-28T22:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/corporate-treasurers-preparing-for-unthinkable-u-s-downgrade-default.html
Corporate treasurers are preparing
for a downgrade of and potential default on U.S. Treasuries by
shortening the average maturity of their holdings and moving
more money into insured bank accounts and money-market mutual
funds.  While companies aren’t selling Treasuries, they are
reinvesting cash from maturing securities in the shortest
available instruments, consulting firm Treasury Strategies Inc.
said in an e-mailed statement today, citing discussions with
clients.  “Corporate treasurers are preparing for the unthinkable,”
Anthony Carfang, a partner in the Chicago-based firm, said in
the statement.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has repeatedly said
the government’s authority to borrow will run out on Aug. 2
unless Congress raises the debt ceiling. Republicans and
Democrats have been unable to agree on an increase in the debt
cap or budget cuts, leading to concerns that the U.S. will lose
its AAA credit rating.  Companies consider a downgrade “highly likely” and
believe a default on bond payments “a much lower probability,”
Treasury Strategies said.  The firm said companies may be discouraged or prevented
from piling into insured deposits by banks.  “Treasury Strategies believes some banks may begin capping
the deposits they accept from a customer and paying a negative
 interest rate  above the cap,” the company said. “A negative
rate of as much as 0.30 percent is still less expensive than
buying a Treasury bill and protecting it with a credit-default
swap.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value, less the
value of the defaulted debt, if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations.  Money-market funds, while they also own Treasuries, can be
safer than direct ownership of Treasuries because the holdings
are more diversified, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  