-- 
Credit Suisse’s Dougan Plans to Cut About 2,000 Jobs as Profit Drops 52%

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-28T07:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/credit-suisse-plans-to-cut-about-2-000-jobs.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, plans to cut about 2,000 jobs after second-
quarter profit fell 52 percent on lower earnings from trading.  Credit Suisse dropped as much as 4 percent in Swiss trading
after reporting net income of 768 million Swiss francs ($956
million), less than the 1.06 billion-franc average estimate of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  is eliminating about 4
percent of the workforce to help the bank save 1 billion francs
in annual costs beginning next year, after increasing staff in
2010 to win market share. Earnings at the investment bank
tumbled 71 percent as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and
concerns over the global economic outlook increased risk-
aversion among clients.  “The investment bank is a catastrophe,” said  Dirk Becker ,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who put the
stock “under review” today. “After the financial crisis, Credit
Suisse expanded the investment bank but then the hoped-for
volumes didn’t materialize.”  Credit Suisse fell 72 centimes, or 2.5 percent, to 28.54
francs by 9:26 a.m. in Zurich, bringing the decline this year to
24 percent. That compares with the 13 percent decrease in the
46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index,
and a 15 percent slump at  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank.  Unit Breakdown  Pretax profit at the investment bank dropped to 231 million
francs from 784 million francs a year earlier as revenue from
sales and trading of stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities
tumbled 41 percent. The private bank, which caters to wealthy
clients, reported a 3.6 percent decline in earnings to 843
million francs. Profit from asset management jumped to 202
million francs from 22 million francs.  “The markets were very challenging in the second
quarter,” Dougan, 51, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today, adding that it’s “hard to say” when conditions may
improve. “Clearly things continue to be challenging.”  The biggest job cuts will occur at the investment bank,
Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  said on a conference call
with reporters. About 500 positions will be eliminated in
Switzerland, he said.  Credit Suisse also booked 142 million francs of
restructuring costs in the quarter. The total charges related to
the reorganization are expected to amount to 400 million francs
to 450 million francs, the bank said.  UBS Scrapped Targets  UBS, also based in Zurich, said two days ago that it won’t
be able to reach its profit target by 2014 because of a
“weakening economic outlook” and announced plans to cut costs
and jobs to save as much as 2 billion francs over the next two
to three years. Second-quarter profit dropped 49 percent at UBS.  Dougan cut Credit Suisse’s profitability goal in February,
blaming stricter  capital requirements , and now aims for a return
on equity of more than 15 percent over the next three to five
years, down from a previous goal of more than 18 percent.
Tougher rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
and Swiss regulators will require the bank to hoard more capital
for its securities business.  Credit Suisse added 3,100 staff since the end of 2009,
bringing the total to 50,700 by June 30. The bank brought on
employees in wealth management and investment banking, including
client advisers and salespeople for its credit, rates and
foreign-exchange trading businesses.  Management Change  “Our hope was that obviously client transaction volume
would recover, that we would see eventually an increase in the
interest rate environment, which is good for our business,”
Dougan said in the interview. “A lot of what has happened,
particularly in the second quarter if you look at the volatility
of the market, the challenges that we’ve seen, those are the
things that obviously have carried on for longer than we
probably would have expected.”  Clients at the private bank added 11.5 billion francs of
net new assets in the quarter. Credit Suisse said today that
Hans-Ulrich Meister will become CEO of private banking on Aug.
1, adding to his role as head of  Switzerland . Current CEO Walter Berchtold will become chairman of private banking.  U.S. Probe  Credit Suisse is a target of a criminal investigation by
the  U.S. Department of Justice  over former cross-border private-
banking services to American customers, the company said earlier
this month. Eight bankers, including Credit Suisse’s former head
of North America offshore banking, were charged with conspiring
to help American clients evade taxes through secret bank
accounts. The bank said at the time that it’s cooperating with
the U.S. authorities “subject to our Swiss legal obligations.”  The management change at the private bank isn’t related to
the U.S. investigation, Dougan said.  “Obviously these are issues that we take very seriously,”
he said. “We’re going to do everything we can to try to get to
a resolution of these matters as quickly and as cleanly as
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  