-- 
Credit Agricole Sees Greek Impact of Up to EU850 Million

-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 
2011-07-28T17:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/credit-agricole-sees-2q-greek-impact-of-up-to-850-million-euros.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets, said losses at its Greek unit and costs
tied to  Europe ’s aid plan for the country will lower its second-
quarter profit by as much as 850 million euros ($1.22 billion).  Credit Agricole still expects to post a net profit for the
period when it publishes earnings on Aug. 25, the Paris-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  The French bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, said it “welcomes” the effort of euro-region leaders
to provide additional support to Greece. The participation of
its Emporiki Bank of Greece SA in a program to involve private
investors will result in an estimated 71 million-euro impairment
to the unit’s Greek government bond holdings. Increased funding
costs and higher-than-expected loan defaults at Emporiki will
also contribute to a loss of about 451 million euros at the unit
in the quarter, the bank said.  “The current and expected situation for the coming
quarters makes reaching Emporiki Bank’s goal for breakeven of
its financial results by the end of 2012 more difficult,”
 Credit Agricole  said in the statement. The unit “will continue
to implement its restructuring plan, which will keep bearing
results, adjusting it whenever necessary to the economic
environment, in order to return to breakeven as soon as
possible,” the French lender said.  Emporiki will continue to seek local sources of funding,
such as deposits, to reduce Credit Agricole’s need to finance
the unit. Those efforts have already lowered the refinancing
from the French bank by about 1 billion euros since the end of
March, Credit Agricole said.  Credit Agricole plans to write down the remaining 359
million euros of goodwill it carries tied to Athens-based
Emporiki in the second quarter. Overall, the support plan for
 Greece  will have an impact of about 150 million euros for Credit
Agricole.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  