-- 
Credit Suisse Working to Resolve U.S. Probe on Client Tax, CEO Dougan Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 
2011-07-28T08:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/credit-suisse-working-to-resolve-u-s-probe-ceo-dougan-says.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, is working to resolve a criminal
investigation in the U.S. over alleged  tax evasion  by some
clients, Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said.  “These are issues that we take very seriously,” Dougan
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “Clearly we’re
going to do everything we can to try to get to a resolution of
these matters as quickly and as cleanly as possible.”  The bank said this month that it’s a target of a criminal
investigation by the  Department of Justice  over former cross-
border private-banking services to U.S. customers. Eight
bankers, including Credit Suisse’s former head of North America
offshore banking, were charged with conspiring to help U.S.
clients evade taxes through secret bank accounts.  The bank said it’s been conducting an internal
investigation and is cooperating with the U.S. authorities
“subject to Swiss legal obligations.”  In 2008, U.S. prosecutors conducted a probe into whether
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, helped Americans evade
taxes. In February 2009, UBS avoided criminal prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion, and
giving the U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250
accounts to avoid criminal prosecution. It later turned over
data on another 4,450 accounts, and, in October, the U.S.
dropped its criminal case against UBS.  Dougan said it’s not “appropriate to speculate” how
Credit Suisse may resolve the investigation. “There are
obviously not just Credit Suisse issues, there are broader
industry implications and there are also government-to-
government issues there as well,” he said.  Management Change  The bank, in its quarterly report, said it understands that
certain U.S. authorities are also investigating other Swiss and
non-U.S. financial institutions. The Swiss government is in
talks with authorities in the U.S. to resolve the issue of
untaxed assets held by Americans in Swiss bank accounts, a
government official said last month.  Credit Suisse also said today that Hans-Ulrich Meister will
become CEO of private banking on Aug. 1, adding to his role as
head of  Switzerland . Walter Berchtold, the current CEO, will
become chairman of private banking. The management change isn’t
related to the U.S. probe, Dougan said.  “In fact, I think Walter has done probably more than just
about anybody to build out a completely compliant platform, to
build our onshore business,” Dougan said. “We clearly do have,
I think, a state-of-the-art compliant platform. Obviously that
doesn’t mean that we haven’t had issues in the past. And it
doesn’t mean that we in all cases do exactly the right thing now
with every individual.”  In the fall of 2008, when the bank began closing its cross-
border business with U.S. clients, it had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment of bankers
in February. The  Justice Department  said “conspiracy dates back
to 1953 and involved two generations of U.S. tax evaders
including U.S. customers who inherited secret accounts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 