-- 
Croda to Ease Price Increases as Raw-Material Inflation Slows

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-07-28T14:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/croda-to-ease-price-increases-as-raw-material-inflation-slows.html
Croda International Plc (CRDA)  has pushed
through the bulk of the price increases that the U.K. maker of
cosmetic ingredients needs as the rate of raw-material cost
inflation slows, Chief Executive Officer Mike Humphrey said.  “What we’re seeing, which seems to be contrary to a number
of other people, is that the increase in raw-material prices is
softening,” Humphrey said in a phone interview today.
“Generally, they are not rising much at the moment.”  Croda charged some customers 20 percent more for its
products in the first half, while any further moves will be
“relatively minor,” Humphrey said. The Goole, England-based
company today reported pretax profit of 124.8 million pounds
($204 million) for the period, in line with analysts’ estimates.  Humphrey announced his retirement today after 13 years at
the helm, a period when Croda’s market value has increased by
almost seven times, making it a candidate to enter the U.K.’s
benchmark FTSE 100 Index. Stephen Foots, the manufacturer’s
consumer-chemical division head for  Europe , will take over as
CEO in January.  “The succession is likely to be smooth, and the new
incumbent should be well received by investors,” Martin Evans,
a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in London, said in a report to
clients.  Profit Rises  First-half net income rose 35 percent to 86 million pounds
while sales increased 9.3 percent to 559.6 million pounds. The
company predicted “further progress” in the second half. Croda
unveiled a new dividend policy today, saying it aims to pay out
40 percent to 50 percent of sustainable earnings.  Croda fell 40 pence, or 1.9 percent, to 1,890 pence as of
2:11 p.m. in London trading after dropping as much as 4.7
percent earlier in the day.  Humphrey, credited with refocusing Croda on growth markets,
said the highlight of his tenure was buying skin-cream
ingredient maker Uniqema from the former Imperial Chemical
Industries in 2006. The asset was purchased for $742 million.
Croda hasn’t made any large acquisitions since.  “Acquisitions were a secondary issue,” Humphrey said.
“The problem with many CEOs is that acquisitions are a primary
issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  