-- 
Oil Falls, Heads for Weekly Drop, on U.S. Debt Ceiling Dispute

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-29T07:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/crude-oil-falls-heads-for-weekly-decline-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-dispute.html
Oil fell, headed for the first
weekly decline in five, on concern a failure to reach a deal on
raising the  U.S. debt  limit may cause the nation to default,
threatening the economy of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures slipped as much as 0.6 percent after House Speaker
 John Boehner  delayed a planned vote on debt-limit legislation as
Senate leaders stood ready to kill the measure should it get to
their chamber. Prices also dropped before a report forecast to
show the world’s largest economy grew at the slowest pace in a
year. U.S. crude stockpiles rose for the first time in eight
weeks last week, Energy Department data showed July 27.  “All eyes are focused on the U.S. debt,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty
in Sydney, who predicts oil in  New York  will average $100 a
barrel this year. “We did see a build in inventories. If it
becomes more of a trend rather than a one-off, that’s a worry.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as 55 cents to
$96.92 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $97.05 at 3:15 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract rose 4 cents to $97.44. Prices are down
2.9 percent this week and 1.7 percent higher the past month.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $117.46 a barrel, up 10 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $20.45 a
barrel to New York futures, compared with a record close of
$22.63 on July 14.  Crude in New York is extending losses as prices slide below
the 50-day moving average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Front-month futures have settled for more than a week
above this indicator, at $97.33 today. A breach of technical
support usually means prices will continue to fall.  Debt Vote  The U.S. House won’t vote on Speaker Boehner’s debt-limit
plan, Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the majority whip, or vote-
counter, said yesterday in  Washington . Boehner’s plan failed to
gain enough backing from his own Republican Party members.  Senate Democrats are working to break the impasse over
raising the debt limit by devising a strict enforcement
mechanism to guarantee future deficit savings, according to
Democratic officials.  Negotiators were working to find a solution both sides
could accept. Should the House pass Boehner’s bill, it faces a
veto threat from President  Barack Obama  and a promise by Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of defeat in that chamber.  U.S. gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in the second
quarter, compared with 1.9 percent in the prior three months,
based on the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The Commerce Department report is due today.  Tropical Storm Don  Oil is headed for the first monthly gain in three as the
first storms of the Atlantic hurricane season form, shutting
some production facilities.  Tropical Storm Don temporarily “jogged westward” and is
expected to resume a course across the  Gulf of Mexico  tonight
that has forced some oil and gas rigs to shut down, according to
a U.S. National Hurricane Center bulletin issued before 11 p.m.
East Coast time yesterday. The system is 370 miles (600
kilometers) southeast of  Corpus Christi , packing maximum winds
of 50 miles per hour. It is forecast to go ashore near Corpus
Christi as a tropical storm late tomorrow or early July 30.  Gulf of Mexico  About 6.8 percent of oil production and 2.8 percent of
natural-gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been shut because
of Don, said the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation
and Enforcement.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. has evacuated all employees and
halted production at six of its facilities in the western Gulf
of Mexico, according to an update on its website.  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed 2.3 million barrels to 354
million in the week ended July 22, an Energy Department report
showed on July 27. A 2 million-barrel drop was forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Crude may decline next week, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Thirteen of 32 respondents, or 41 percent, forecast oil
will decrease through Aug. 5. Analysts were split last week,
with 41 percent looking for a gain and 41 percent projecting a
fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  