-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near Lowest in Week on U.S. Economy, Rising Stockpiles

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-28T12:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/crude-oil-trades-near-lowest-in-week-on-u-s-economy-rising-stockpiles.html
Oil traded near its lowest in a week
in  New York  as investors bet that rising crude supplies and
signs of a slowing economy in the U.S. indicate fuel demand may
falter in the world’s biggest consumer of the commodity.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent today after falling to
the lowest in more than a week yesterday. U.S. crude stockpiles
climbed 2.3 million barrels to 354 million last week, an Energy
Department report showed. A 2 million-barrel drop was forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey. Orders for U.S. durable goods
unexpectedly slid in June and Tropical Storm Don formed in the
waters off  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula.  “Yesterday’s DOE report suggested that fundamentals are
weak,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “Weak stock markets and a strengthening dollar also
suggest that the oil price has got to go lower. But supply risks
in the form of tropical storm Don are preventing this for now.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as 89 cents to
$96.51 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $97.45 at 1:34 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday slid $2.19 to $97.40, the lowest close since
July 18. Prices have risen 27 percent over the past year.  Brent oil for September settlement was at $118.12 a barrel,
up 69 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $20.67 a
barrel to New York futures, compared with a record close of
$22.63 on July 14.  Fourth Storm  Crude in New York extended losses as prices traded below
the 50-day moving average for the first time in more than a
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A breach of this,
at $97.39 today, typically means prices will continue to fall.  Don, the fourth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season , was
635 miles (1,025 kilometers) east-southeast of  Corpus Christi ,
 Texas , heading west-northwest at 10 miles per hour with maximum
winds of 40 mph, according to a  hurricane center  bulletin at 5
a.m. New York time.  Supplies of crude oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade,
increased 430,000 barrels to 37.1 million in the week ended July
22, the Energy Department said.  Gasoline inventories rose 1.02 million barrels to 213.5
million. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, surged 3.39 million barrels to 151.8
million, the highest since April 1.  Emergency Supplies  The Energy Department will deliver 30.64 million barrels of
crude oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve in July and
August, according to its website. The department will supply
about 8.7 million barrels this month. The  International Energy
Agency  announced June 23 its members were offering 60 million
barrels of oil from emergency stockpiles to damp prices.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
2.1 percent after a 1.9 percent gain the prior month that was
smaller than last reported, the Commerce Department said
yesterday in  Washington . Demand for business equipment,
including machinery and computers, also dropped.  The economy grew at a slower pace in more parts of the U.S.
since the beginning of June as shoppers restrained spending and
factory production eased, the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige
Book survey released yesterday in Washington.  Oil in New York also declined as a stalemate over the U.S.
debt ceiling pushed the government closer to default. BlackRock
Inc., Loomis Sayles & Co. and Franklin Templeton Investments
said the country faces losing its top-level debt rating as
officials struggle to raise the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.  House Speaker  John Boehner  revised his plan to raise the
debt ceiling as he gained support among fellow Republicans for a
proposal which all 51 Senate Democrats and two independents
pledged to oppose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  