-- 
CSN Boosts Stake in Usiminas, Assesses Investment Options

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/csn-boosts-stake-in-usiminas-assesses-investment-options-2-.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA,
Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker, said it boosted its stake in
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5)  and is studying options
for its investment in the rival company.  Sao Paulo-based CSN, as the company is known, increased its
holdings to 10.2 percent of Usiminas’s preferred stock and 10.84
percent of the common shares, according to a regulatory filing
late yesterday. That’s up from 5.25 percent of preferred shares
and 10.01 percent of common stock as of April 20.  “The company continues assessing strategic alternatives
regarding its investment in Usiminas,” CSN said in the
statement, adding that it doesn’t have any options or an accord
to buy additional shares.  The steelmaker has been buying stock of its bigger
competitor since at least January, when CSN said it may increase
its stake in Usiminas to a level that could alter the rival’s
management or control structure.  Usiminas’s preferred shares, the most-traded class of
stock, rose 1.9 percent to 11.24 reais in Sao Paulo trading. The
common shares gained 2.1 percent to 21.29 reais. CSN rose 0.2
percent to 16.28 reais.  ‘Limited’ Benefits  The move to boost holdings in the rival steelmaker will
likely negatively impact CSN’s earnings results by adding
volatility, said Barclays Capital analyst Leonardo Correa. There
are only “limited” benefits of increasing the stake further,
he said.  “The additional purchases may eventually allow CSN to
elect a board member at Usiminas, as the Brazilian corporate law
requires a minimum 15 percent of voting shares or 10 percent of
preferred shares,” Correa, who has a “neutral” rating on both
stocks, wrote today in a note to customers.  Usiminas Chief Executive Officer Wilson Brumer said July 7
that the company can’t prevent CSN from buying its shares and
that there is a small chance of a change in control in Usiminas.
Previously, he said Usiminas’s controlling investors would keep
their current position for “many years.”  Nippon Steel Corp., Votorantim Participacoes SA and Camargo
Correa SA together hold about 53.8 percent of Usiminas’s voting
stock, according to the company’s  website .  Before today, Usiminas’s preferred shares had lost 42
percent this year, compared with a drop of 39 percent for CSN
and 16 percent for  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .
Robin Stringer at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  