-- 
TCW Lawyer Says Gundlach Secretly Plotted in 2009 to Steal Trade Secrets

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/tcw-gundlach-may-both-lose-by-going-to-trial-over-firing-trade-secrets.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , TCW Group Inc.’s
former investment chief, was accused by the firm’s lawyer of
plotting with colleagues to steal the company’s trade secrets
before he was fired and started a rival money-management firm.  “They tried to steal an entire business from TCW worth
hundreds of millions of dollars,” TCW lawyer John Quinn said in
his opening statement yesterday at a state court trial in Los
Angeles. “They secretly plotted to leave en masse.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of Societe Generale SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, and three other ex-employees in January 2010,
a month after he was fired and more than half of TCW’s fixed-
income professionals had joined his firm, DoubleLine Capital LP.
TCW seeks $375 million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its
trade secrets and clients.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
said in a cross complaint that TCW fired him to avoid having to
pay as much as $1.25 billion in future management and
performance fees for the funds his group managed. Gundlach has
since reduced his damages estimate to about $500 million.  DoubleLine’s lawyer, Brad Brian, said in his opening
statement yesterday that  Societe Generale (GLE)  wanted to monetize, or
cash in on, its investment in TCW and “they were not going to
let Mr. Gundlach stand in their way.” TCW executives had begun
looking at the possibility of forcing out Gundlach as early as
June of 2009, he told the jurors.  Lost Business  While TCW knew it would lose business by firing Gundlach,
the company did it anyway because the lost business would be
offset by not having to pay Gundlach hundreds of millions in
dollars in performance fees for his distressed-assets fund that
had gone “through the roof,” Brian said.  “They knew they were going to owe him a lot of money,”
Brian told the jury.  Brian also said Gundlach and the others didn’t use any
proprietary TCW information they had when they formed DoubleLine
because they didn’t want to get sued and they didn’t need it.  While he was at TCW, Gundlach managed or oversaw about
$70 billion of the company’s $110 billion in assets, according
to the May 14, 2010, amended cross-complaint.  TCW clients withdrew about $25 billion after Gundlach was
fired Dec. 4, 2009. TCW said in its complaint that Gundlach lied
to its clients in a series of webcasts with them in December
2009 to incite them to join DoubleLine and to malign TCW’s newly
acquired fixed-income management unit, Metropolitan West Asset
Management LLC.  First Witness  TCW called as its first witness Rachel Cody, a former TCW
analyst in Gundlach’s group who joined DoubleLine in January of
2010. Cody testified that in February 2009 she overheard people
in Gundlach’s group talk about meeting with Western Asset
Management Co., which she assumed might involve the whole group
moving to the rival Southern California  money manager .  TCW claims Gundlach negotiated with Western Asset
Management to take his business there. Gundlach didn’t want to
sign a new contract at TCW in 2007 because he wanted to be a
“free agent,” Quinn told the jurors.  Quinn said TCW Chief Executive Officer Marc Stern, who had
returned to the company in June 2009, started to look at
alternatives for Gundlach, eventually bringing in Metropolitan
West Asset Management because the money manager had become
increasingly difficult to work with and openly hostile to Stern.  ‘Take His Marbles’  “He was threatening to take his marbles and leave,” Quinn
said. “We’re talking about half the company.”  Brian said Gundlach only started to make arrangements for
setting up his company, including meeting with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and registering a new corporation in  Delaware , after
he became aware he might get fired.  “He wasn’t sure, just as his group didn’t know, what was
going to happen,” Brian said. “He wanted to be ready in case
he was fired.”  The trial may have undesirable consequences for both sides,
said  Geoff Bobroff , an independent fund consultant in  East
Greenwich ,  Rhode Island . Gundlach, who has attracted $13 billion
in assets since his firm opened, may see damage to his
reputation, while TCW Group risks the disclosure of its inner
workings and details such as fees.  “The monetary piece of the trial is less important than
the exposure involved,” Bobroff said in an interview. “TCW
wouldn’t like to have the dynamics of their company and workings
on display.”  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  