-- 
D.R. Horton Climbs as Quarterly Profit Surpasses Estimates on Cost Cutting

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-07-28T21:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/d-r-horton-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-as-homebuilder-reduces-costs.html
D.R. Horton  Inc., the second-largest
homebuilder by revenue, advanced for the first time in a week
after the company reported a quarterly profit that beat analyst
estimates on cost savings.  The stock gained 30 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.90 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That
pared D.R. Horton’s decline for the year to 0.3 percent,
compared with a 6.9 percent slump in the 12-member Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  D.R. Horton has been reducing costs and shifting its focus
to move-up buyers as the U.S. housing market slumps. The  Fort
Worth , Texas-based company lowered selling, general and
administrative costs by 21 percent in its fiscal third quarter,
helping it to top profit estimates as revenue decreased.  The “results reinforce our thesis that the company is
better positioned than many of its peers in its ability to
operate profitably in the current depressed environment,” Adam Rudiger, senior analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co . in  San Francisco ,
said in a note today. Rudiger rates D.R. Horton “outperform.”  The S&P homebuilders index climbed as much as 4.1 percent
today after D.R. Horton’s better-than-estimated earnings and an
increase in pending home resales. The gauge erased the gain to
close little changed after U.S. lawmakers indicated they were no
closer to reaching an agreement to increase the debt ceiling.  New-Home Sales  U.S. homebuilders have struggled to increase sales as
foreclosures, tighter lending standards and an  unemployment rate 
above 9 percent depress demand for houses. Purchases of new U.S.
homes dropped 1 percent in June to a three-month low, the
Commerce Department said July 26.  Pending home sales, which measure contracts to buy
previously owned houses, rose 2.4 percent in June, the National
Association of Realtors said today. Economists had forecast a 2
percent decline, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. While signings are increasing, some contracts may
not translate into closings because of cancellations, said
 Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in New York.  D.R. Horton’s net income for the three months ended June 30
was $28.7 million, or 9 cents a share, compared with $50.5
million, or 16 cents, a year earlier, the homebuilder said in a
statement today. Analysts expected a profit of 6 cents a share,
the average of 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue Decline  Third-quarter revenue fell to $975.4 million from $1.38
billion a year earlier. Orders decreased to 4,874 homes from
4,921. Its sales order backlog, an indicator of future revenue,
increased to 5,600 homes worth $1.2 billion from 4,430 homes
worth $1 billion a year earlier.  “Closings in the third quarter were greater than the first
and second quarter and we expect fourth quarter closings to be
greater than the third,” Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz
said on a conference call today. “We are now solidly in a
position to be profitable for the full fiscal year.”  Tomnitz, who was born in 1948 and served as CEO since 2000,
indicated he has no plans to retire soon.  “I’m staying until we can get back to closing over 50,000
units,” he said. The company closed on about 16,000 homes over
the past four quarters, compared with more than 53,000 during
the peak in 2006.  PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
fell 2.9 percent to $6.80 after the  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-
based company reported a second-quarter loss that was wider than
analysts estimated. The results were hurt by a higher-than-
expected loss from financial services, David Goldberg, an
analyst with UBS AG in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  “We are considerably more positive on DHI than PHM among
the big, national homebuilders,”  Michael Smith , an analyst with
JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco, wrote in a note today,
referring to D.R. Horton and Pulte’s ticker symbols on the New
York Stock Exchange. “Horton beat estimates; Pulte missed.”  Smith rates D.R. Horton “market outperform” and Pulte
“market perform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 