-- 
Danone First-Half Trails Analysts’ Estimates as Raw-Material Prices Rise

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-28T07:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/danone-first-half-trails-analysts-estimates-as-raw-material-prices-rise.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, reported first-half profit that missed analysts’
expectations amid higher costs for financing and raw materials.  Net income rose to 861 million euros ($1.24 billion) from
838 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in an e-mailed statement. That missed the 899.1 million-
euro average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Higher costs for both milk and plastic took a
“particularly heavy toll” in the first half, Danone said,
adding that the effect should be less pronounced in the
remainder of the year. The company fought the spike in input
costs by reducing expenses by 246 million euros in the period
and hiking prices on the products it sells, helping sales growth
accelerate 8.7 percent.  Over the past month “we’ve seen raw materials starting to
stabilize,” implying they may have peaked, Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a conference call with
journalists today. Danone anticipates raw-material costs will
rise between 6 and 9 percent on average this year. Danone’s net
debt expense rose to 88 million euros from 64 million euros in
the first half.  The shares fell as much as 2.07 euros, or 4.1 percent, to
48.60 euros and traded at 49.07 euros at 9 a.m. in Paris. The
company’s stock has advanced 5.7 percent this year, giving
Danone a value of 32.2 billion euros.  Volume Growth  The sales advance, which excludes currency shifts and
divestments, was above analysts’ estimates of a 7.9 percent
gain. Volume growth was 4 percent. Second-quarter revenue
increased 8.8 percent.  “Financing costs have risen more than people were looking
for and that may cause some concern,” said Chris Wickham, an
analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital in  London . “But the sales
numbers were a clear beat and you can fix the financing side
more easily than you can slower growth.”  Revenue from bottled water climbed about 17 percent on a
comparable basis as demand increased in  Japan  following the
March earthquake and tsunami and amid warmer weather in Western
 Europe . Volume in Europe for the whole company dropped 0.3
percent.  Dairy Decline  While sales of dairy products such as Actimel drinking
yogurt, the company’s biggest division, gained 6 percent in the
first half, growth in the second quarter was 5.5 percent as
volume dropped. The company last year acquired a controlling
stake in OAO Unimilk to become the biggest dairy company in
 Russia . Volume fell at Unimilk by 11 percent in the period as
the company focused on selling products with added value.  The owner of the Evian and Volvic bottled-water brands gets
about half its sales from emerging markets after buying a 58
percent stake in the Russian business last year. Danone said in
February it plans to expand in markets such as China, India,
Indonesia and Mexico as well as the U.S.  Danone reiterated its guidance for 2011, saying the
operating margin will probably widen 0.2 percentage point,
excluding certain items. The company expects like-for-like sales
to rise 6 percent to 8 percent.  Like-for-like sales exclude divestments and currency
changes and are reported on a basis that assumed Danone owned
Unimilk in the first half of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  