-- 
Dasa Slumps to 11-Month Low as Regulator May Delay Acquisition

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-28T16:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dasa-slumps-to-11-month-low-as-regulator-may-delay-acquisition.html
Brazilian medical-diagnostics
company  Diagnosticos da America SA (DASA3)  fell to an almost 11-month
low on concern antitrust regulator Cade will delay or block its
acquisition of a rival.  Dasa, as the company is known, slumped 2.3 percent at 12:17
p.m. New York time to 18.25 reais, the lowest since Sept. 3.  Cade’s general attorney, Gilvandro Vasconcelos Coelho de
Araujo, recommended ordering Dasa to keep its administration
separate from MD1 Diagnosticos SA on concern the combined
company would have too much market share, according to an agency
official who asked not to be identified in accordance with
internal policy. Dasa, which agreed to buy MD1 last year, has 15
days to respond to the recommendation before Cade decides
whether to impose the order, the official said.  “The anti-trust process could take some time to be
resolved and may postpone benefits from the integration of the
two companies,” analysts at Banco Bradesco SA, including Rafael
Frade, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Rumors related to
this case could keep some pressure on the stock. Nonetheless, in
terms of synergies, we believe that one of the main gains of
this merger is related to possible renegotiations with medical
suppliers, and this had already been done.”  Dasa, in a filing last night, said Araujo’s recommendation
is a non-binding opinion and the company will have the
opportunity to discuss the issue with Cade to reach a “positive
conclusion.”  In a separate case in May, Araujo issued a report calling
for restrictions on the takeover that created BRF Brasil Foods
SA,  Brazil ’s biggest maker of TV dinners and frozen-meat
products. Cade ultimately approved the deal earlier this month
on the condition that the company stop using some brands and
sell some assets to ensure domestic competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  