-- 
Dassault Systemes Beats Estimates as Companies Spend More

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T08:19:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dassault-systemes-beats-estimates-as-corporate-spending-rebounds.html
  Dassault Systemes SA (DSY) , a French
maker of software used by Daimler AG, reported second-quarter
profit that beat estimates and raised its sales and earnings
forecast for the year as corporate clients boost spending.  Net income climbed to 64.3 million euros ($92.3 million)
from 48.6 million euros a year earlier, the Velizy-based company
said in a statement today. Analysts had predicted profit of 58.5
million euros, according to the average of seven estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Suppliers of computer programs and services are gaining
revenue as corporations boost spending after delaying purchases
during the global economic crisis. The company increased its
full-year forecast to sales growth of 11 percent to 12 percent
at constant rates of exchange and earnings-per-share growth of 8
percent to 12 percent.  “There is a good level of activity back again in aerospace
and automotive,” Chief Financial Officer Thibault de Tersant
said in a telephone interview. “We saw very good growth in
 China ,  India  and Korea.”  Shares rose 1.9 percent to 61.46 euros as of 9:45 a.m. in
Paris, bringing the year-to-date gain to 9 percent.  Dassault is expanding into new areas of technology to
complement its design software, used to make cars and airplanes.
It  announced  a contract with  Benetton Group SpA (BEN)  in the quarter
for software to handle its fashion lines. Software revenue from
new licenses rose 36 percent in the quarter.  The company will make more acquisitions, de Tersant said.  Last year it paid about $600 million for part of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s sales and customer
support unit. It also bought Exalead, a French provider of
search software, for about 135 million euros.  SAP AG, the largest maker of business-management software,
yesterday said it expects to reach the top-end of its full-year
profit forecast as demand rises for mobile and data-analysis
offerings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  