-- 
Debt Fight Slows Business, Consumer Plans, Carmen Reinhart Says

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-28T16:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/debt-fight-slows-business-consumer-plans-carmen-reinhart-says.html
The fight over raising the U.S. debt
ceiling is causing “unnecessary uncertainty” that will lead to
delays in business and consumer plans, said economist Carmen M. Reinhart, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics.  “Seeing a political system that is so fractured cannot be
confidence-building at a minimum,” Reinhart said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “This
kind of uncertainty, unnecessary uncertainty, will generate
delays in plans of consumers, in plans of businesses.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  gained support among
fellow Republicans for his plan to raise the debt ceiling after
reworking the legislation to cut more than $900 billion in
spending over 10 years. The House is expected to vote on the
proposal today. All 51 Senate Democrats and two independents
signed a letter pledging to oppose the measure. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada also offered a budget-cutting plan
on July 25.  Lawmakers are preparing the dueling plans, unable to break
a partisan stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit by Aug. 2. That is the date when the
Treasury Department says its borrowing authority will end.  Consumer Confidence  Consumer confidence  fell last week, the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index reported earlier today, in part on concerns over
the debt-ceiling stalemate.  Reinhart, 55, and Harvard University Professor Kenneth S.
Rogoff are co-authors of the book “This Time is Different:
Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.”  She said today a U.S. default would differ from past
international defaults because the lawmakers would be choosing
not to pay the nation’s debts instead of being forced into
default.  “When you look at the broad international history of
default, defaults are extreme events, they’re the last resort,
you try to fight it you try to do everything you can, but in the
end it’s usually about not being able to pay,” she said in the
radio interview. “This is very different from the flavor we’re
getting out of  Washington  right now.”  Standard & Poor’s  President Deven Sharma told lawmakers
yesterday that the ratings agency would decide whether to
downgrade the nation’s top credit rating based on the long-term
impact of any final measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  