-- 
Default a ‘Black Turkey’ as Advisers Tell Investors Not To Sell

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-07-28T15:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/default-a-black-turkey-as-advisers-tell-investors-not-to-sell.html
As nerve-racking as he finds the
debt-ceiling negotiations, Chris Rainbolt, 36, hasn’t shifted
his portfolio in anticipation of a possible U.S. government
default.  “It’s kind of like you’re standing on a cliff, and as long
as you don’t fall off the cliff you’re fine,” said Rainbolt,
who lives in  Dallas  and works in real estate. “If you do fall
off the cliff, it doesn’t matter what you do.”  Rainbolt is among investors whose financial advisers are
telling them not to sell their stocks or bonds as time runs out
for Congress to pass a deal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S. will
exhaust options for paying all of its bills on Aug. 2.  “There’s really just not a whole lot that you can do,”
said Paul Jacobs, who’s a financial planner based in Atlanta for
Palisades Hudson Financial Group, which manages more than
$1 billion and whose clients have an average of about $20
million in assets. “You can’t just put it all in a money-market
fund, because then if there is a nightmare scenario there’s
really nowhere to hide.”  Al Vazquez said he’s been holding more cash in his clients’
accounts than he normally would, in anticipation of the debt-
ceiling debate coming to a head.  ‘Black Turkey’  “I think there’s a 99 percent chance it will be
satisfactorily resolved,” said Vazquez, an adviser with  LPL
Financial  in Gig Harbor,  Washington . “There is a potential for
a black swan, or maybe in this case a black turkey.” A black
swan is a difficult-to-predict event with wide-reaching
implications.  The U.S. Treasury Department has said Congress must act by
Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling or risk
default. If lawmakers miss that deadline, the government won’t
have money to pay monthly Social Security checks, veterans’
benefits and contracts with businesses, President  Barack Obama 
said in a televised address on July 25.  Interest rates  on credit
cards, mortgages and  car loans  would skyrocket, Obama said.  It may be too late for investors to take defensive steps
because the time to do so is before a crisis, and because the
effects of a U.S. default or downgrade on different investments
is difficult to predict, said Robert Arnott, chairman of  Newport
Beach , California-based Research Affiliates LLC, which oversees
more than $80 billion.  “We’re entering unknown territory,” Arnott said.  Risk Tolerance  Moody’s Investors Service placed the U.S. under review for
a credit-rating downgrade earlier this month. On July 14
Standard & Poor’s put the nation’s rating on “CreditWatch,”
saying there’s a 50 percent chance it will lower the U.S. credit
rating within the next three months.  Talking to clients who are concerned about the debt-ceiling
debate can be an opportunity to reassess their risk tolerance,
said Jane King, president of Fairfield Financial Advisors, which
manages $120 million for about 100 clients.  “If we’re at the right level of risk, stay put,” King
said.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index declined the most in almost
two months yesterday as a stalemate over the debt ceiling pushed
the U.S. closer to default. The dispute over plans to cut the
federal deficit has stolen investor attention away from an
earnings season that has produced higher-than-estimated results
at about 77 percent of  S&P 500  companies that have reported so
far.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, rose 14 percent yesterday to 22.98, the highest in four
months. The index measures the cost of using options as
insurance against declines in the S&P 500.  Investor Withdrawals  Investors withdrew about  $6.8 billion  from stock funds in
the week ending July 20, the most in five weeks, according to
the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute , a fund-
industry trade group. Money-market funds held by retail
investors increased $3.5 billion that week as funds held by
institutions decreased $28 billion. Money-market funds hold
about $684 billion in U.S. sovereign debt and must generally
hold highly rated short-term securities, according to ICI.  “We’re sticking to our mantra of hanging in there and not
getting caught up in the noise of what’s going on,” said Jay
Higgins, a client relationship manager at Minneapolis-based
Riverbridge Partners, which has about $3 billion in assets under
management.  One client wanted to move all of his investments into cash
until a deal on the debt ceiling is in place, and Higgins
persuaded the client not to, he said.  Buying Opportunity  The threat of a U.S. downgrade heightens the need for
municipal-bond investors to diversify among states, said Richard Saperstein, managing director of Treasury Partners, a division
of Chicago-based HighTower Advisors.  A lowering of the U.S. credit rating could lead to a
downgrade of other securities such as municipal issuers and
government agencies, Saperstein said.  “Downgrade or default might be a short-term buying
opportunity because the markets are spooked by what’s coming,”
Research Affiliates’ Arnott said.  Investors should consider increasing their allocations to
commodities, inflation-linked bonds and emerging-markets stocks
and bonds, Arnott said.  Debra Taylor said she’s increased clients’ allocations this
year to precious metals and to certain currencies, including the
Canadian dollar and the Swiss franc. Taylor, an adviser in
 Franklin Lakes ,  New Jersey , has not made any major moves in
anticipation of the Aug. 2 deadline, except when clients have
made specific requests.  Defensive Moves  “I don’t know, at this point, what we could do,” she
said. Selling stocks “would be akin to panic selling, and when
they pulled it together there would be a relief rally and our
clients would miss out on that.”  Some advisers have made defensive moves.  David Carter  has
increased his typical client’s allocation to alternative
investments such as merger-arbitrage and managed-futures
strategies to about 20 percent from about 10 percent during the
last month. Those investments may perform better than
conventional stocks and bonds in a volatile or falling market,
said Carter, who oversees about $1.5 billion as chief investment
officer of New York-based Lenox Advisors.  “It seems a bit cavalier to just assume a solution will be
found, because the stakes are so high,” Carter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Collins in New York 
 Mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 