-- 
Dell, Ferrero, Lucasfilm, EBay, UMG: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-28T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dell-ferrero-lucasfilm-ebay-umg-intellectual-property.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s second-
largest personal-computer maker, and two suppliers were told to
pay $5.4 million to closely held  Convolve Inc.  after a jury
found they infringed a patent related to hard-disk drives.  The federal jury in Marshall, Texas, late yesterday said
Dell should pay $1.5 million,  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  $2.5 million
and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  $1.4 million, according to the verdict sheet
posted on the court’s website.  Convolve, based in Armonk, New York, sued in 2008, claiming
disk drives made by Western Digital and Hitachi for Round Rock,
Texas-based Dell computers infringed its patent 6,314,473. The
patent, issued in November 2001, covers a user interface to
control the drives and reduce vibrations and noise.  Western Digital , based in  Irvine , California, is the
largest maker of computer hard-disk drives, and Tokyo-based
Hitachi is the third-largest, trailing Seagate Technology Plc.
Western Digital said in March it would buy Hitachi’s global
storage business for $4.3 billion in cash and stock.  Dell, Western Digital and Hitachi denied infringement, and
claimed the patent didn’t cover an invention much different than
what others in the field had already done.  “We are pleased that the jury award was only 2 percent of
what the plaintiff asked for in damages,” Steve Shattuck, a
spokesman for Western Digital, said in an e-mail. “We are
evaluating post-trial and appellate options.”  He said the technology feature related to Convolve’s patent
is no longer used in Western Digital products.  The case is Convolve Inc. v. Dell Inc., 08cv244, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of  Texas  (Marshall  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ferrero Wins  Singapore  Ruling Coffee Chain Infringed Name  Ferrero SpA’s Nutella trademark was violated by a Singapore
coffee shop that sold a drink called Nutello, a judge ruled.  The Italian maker of the  Nutella  hazelnut spread, which is
controlled by billionaire Michele Ferrero, sued Sarika
Connoisseur Cafe Pte to stop the owner of the 31-outlet TCC
coffee shop chain from associating its beverage with the food.  Sarika had “passed off by promoting, selling and offering
for sale the Nutello drink as being the product of” Ferrero,
Singapore High Court Judge Chan Seng Onn wrote in a 102-page
ruling July 26. “Because of the similarity on marks and goods,
there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the
public.”  A separate hearing will be held to determine damages,
according to the ruling.  Sarika started selling Nutello in 2007 and stopped in July
2010 when it revamped its drinks menu, according to the ruling.
Ferrero objected in December 2009 to the use of the Nutello name
and sought S$50,000 ($42,000) in damages, Chan wrote.  Ferrero’s lawyers  M. Ravindran  and Sukumar Karuppiah had
argued the Nutella mark was the “lifeblood of the product.”  By infringing the Nutella trademark, Sarika may have
restricted Ferrero’s expansion into Singapore’s drinks industry,
Chan said. Ferrero, based in Alba,  Italy , sells about 2 million
units of the hazelnut spread in Singapore each year, according
to the ruling.  The judge disagreed that Sarika had taken “unfair
advantage of the distinctive character” of Ferrero’s
trademarks. Ferrero “had no other evidence that Nutello sold
better because it was named in a manner similar to Nutella,” he
said.  Ferrero,  which has 21,700 employees, also makes  Ferrero
Rocher truffles  and  Tic Tacs candy . Michele Ferrero and his
family ranked  32nd among the world’s wealthiest  people with $18
billion, Forbes magazine’s U.S. edition reported in March.  The case is Ferrero SpA v. Sarika Connoisseur Cafe Pte.
S9/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  Smucker Seeks Non-Infringement Declaration Over Gingham Lids  J.M. Smucker Co., the company that produces Smucker’s
preserves, Jif peanut butter and Crisco cooking oil, asked a
federal court to declare it isn’t infringing trademarks
belonging to an importer and maker of French preserves.  In a complaint filed July 26 in federal court in Akron,
 Ohio , Smucker said that even though the two companies have a 27-
year-old license agreement, Andros SA claims the trade dress of
its  Bonne Maman  preserves is infringed by Smucker’s packaging.  Smucker received a cease-and-desist letter from Andros in
May claiming the packaging on Smucker’s premium line of
 Orchard’s Finest products  was infringing. The letter
additionally accused Smucker of deliberately placing its product
next to Bonne Maman on retailer shelves.  Both products are packaged with lids bearing a gingham
design. A 1984 royalty-free license between the two companies
permits Andros to use the gingham design on its lids, according
to court filings. Smucker registered the gingham lid as a
trademark in March 1981, according to the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  An exchange of letters between counsel for Orrville, Ohio-
based Smucker and Andros is included in the case file. In a June
10 letter, counsel for Smucker said there was no likelihood of
confusion between the two products and that it hadn’t suggested
the two lines of preserves be placed next to each other on
retailers’ shelves.  In a subsequent letter, Andros said the license agreement
between the two companies needs to be changed and threatened
that litigation between the two companies could be imminent.  Smucker asked the court to declare that the trade dress of
the two companies’ products aren’t likely to be confused, that
it’s not infringing any of Andros’ IP rights, and that the 1984
contract between the two companies is valid and enforceable.  Smucker is represented by Ashley H. Zio,  Angela R. Gott  and
 Timothy P. Fraelich  of  Washington ’s Jones Day.  The case is J.M. Smucker Co., v. Andros Foods USA Inc.,
5:11-cv-01544-JRA, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Ohio (Akron).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lucasfilm Loses in U.K.  Supreme Court  on Stormtrooper Helmet  George Lucas’s production company Lucasfilm Ltd. failed to
convince Britain’s highest court that its U.K. copyrights were
violated by sales of replica Imperial Stormtrooper helmets from
the movie “Star Wars.”  The ruling yesterday by the U.K. Supreme Court in  London 
upheld a December 2009 appeals court finding that British
engineer Andrew Ainsworth, who helped design the white helmets,
didn’t infringe U.K. law by selling the copies, which he cast
from original molds.  The ruling “maintains an anomaly of British copyright law
under which the creative and highly artistic works made for use
in films -- which are protected by the copyright laws of
virtually every other country in the world -- may not be
entitled to copyright protection in the U.K.,” Lucasfilm said
yesterday in a statement.  The company, based in Nicasio,  California , filed the U.K.
case after winning a $20 million judgment against Ainsworth in a
California lawsuit over the helmet sales in 2006. The judge in
that case said Ainsworth’s company, Shepperton Design Studios
Ltd., infringed Lucas’s copyright and made misleading claims
about the helmets’ authenticity.  Lucas had already determined the look of the fictional
soldiers for his 1977 science-fiction epic, before asking
Ainsworth to work on the helmets, Lucasfilm argued.  Lucasfilm didn’t convince the court the helmet qualified as
a sculpture, as opposed to being a purely utilitarian creation.
If the court had deemed it a sculpture, Ainsworth’s online sales
would have been violating U.K. copyright law.  “It was the Star Wars film that was the work of art that
Mr. Lucas and his companies created,” the justices wrote. “The
helmet was utilitarian, in the sense that it was an element in
the process of production of the film.”  People interested in  intellectual-property  protection may
now be watching for Lucasfilm to take its case to the  European
Court  of Justice in Luxembourg, said Thayne Forbes, a managing
director at brand-valuation company  Intangible Business Ltd.   “The Star Wars films are an upmarket, fantasy experience
for the audience, and the merchandise must be reflective of this
or it risks damaging the brand value,” Forbes said. “What
Lucasfilm quite rightly wants to avoid is stormtrooper helmets
and armor being found in cheap plastic-toy territory.”  Yesterday’s ruling gave Lucasfilm a partial victory by
granting it some rights to sue in the U.K. over infringement of
foreign copyrights. That portion of the judgment is an
“important step” in modernizing U.K. law and bringing it into
line with the European Union, Lucasfilm said.  The decision is important for business because it clears up
a long-running controversy over whether U.K. courts can decide
if non-U.K. copyrights have been infringed,  said Nigel Jones , a
partner at London-based Linklaters LLP.  “That uncertainty has now gone,” Jones said. “If you
want to sue here, that is good news. If you want to avoid being
sued here, it may be less welcome.”  The U.K. Court of Appeal in London said in its 2009
decision that Lucasfilm couldn’t enforce the California judgment
in the U.K. and warned Ainsworth about the risks of further
sales in the U.S.  The “surprise” decision from the Supreme Court could lead
to a flood of copyright lawsuits filed in the U.K. over foreign
infringements, said  David Allen , who leads the litigation
practice at Chicago-based Mayer Brown LLP’s London office.  “This will be particularly significant where infringement
takes place in a country with less stable and internationally
respected legal systems than the U.K., for example such as in
the developing world,” Allen said.  Music Companies Best Composers in Indian Copyright Fight  Companies that record music own the copyright rather than
the composer or the lyricist, the Bombay High Court ruled, the
Times of Indian  reported .  The court said the collecting society that represents
composers and lyricists isn’t entitled to royalties or license
fees for the playing of recordings of their music on FM radio
stations, according to the Times.  The only collecting society that can demand licenses or
royalties is Phonographic Performances Ltd., which represents
the recording companies, the newspaper reported.  The court did say that this ruling still permits composers
and lyricists to make a different recording of the same work
without infringing the music companies’ copyrights, according to
the Times.  PayPal Joins Visa, Mastercard in Blocking Payment to Pirates  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit, which enables online funds
transfers, said it will block payments to websites selling
pirated music, Computer Weekly  reported .  The payment company joins  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Mastercard Inc. (MA) ,
which require websites identified with piracy to provide proof
they have rights to the music they are selling, according to
Computer Weekly.  To date the companies have withdrawn payment services from
24 Ukrainian and Russian websites, with another 38 sites under
consideration for similar action, Computer Weekly reported.  The City of London Police are assisting the payment
companies in the anti-piracy campaign, according to Computer
Weekly.  Photographer’s Infringement Suit Against Rihanna Moves Forward  A Los Angeles photographer’s copyright-infringement lawsuit
against the singer known as Rihanna and her recording label can
go ahead, a federal judge in  New York  ruled.  David LaChapelle sued Universal Music Group’s Island Def
Jam unit, Black Dog Films Inc., and singer Robyn Rihanna Fenty
for copyright infringement in federal court in  Manhattan  in Feb.
14. He claimed the music video for Rihanna’s performance of
“S&M,” which was released in January, infringed the copyrights
to a series of his photos.  In the complaint he said the storyboards on which the video
was based contained prints of his photos and were based on his
work. He said the music photo copied the “composition, total
concept, feel, tone, mood, theme, colors, props, settings,
decors, wardrobe and lighting” of his photos.  Because of the video’s “blatant” reliance on his work,
LaChapelle accused the defendants of deliberate infringement.  In her July 19 ruling, U.S. District Judge Shira A.
Scheindlin said LaChapelle successfully asserted that his photos
were actually copied, and that the video duplicated protectable
elements of his work. “An ordinary observer may well overlook
any differences” and find the aesthetic appeal of the video and
LaChapelle’s photo to be the same, she said.  Scheindlin rejected Rihanna’s argument that use of the
photographer’s imagery fell into copyright law’s “fair use”
exception because the video was used to criticize how the singer
is treated by the media.  The judge said this argument was “misguided” and
“commenting on and criticizing Rihanna’s treatment by the media
is unrelated to the photographs and does not require copyright
protectable elements of LaChapelle’s work.”  Although the judge rejected Rihanna’s motion to dismiss the
case for copyright infringement, she did toss out LaChapelle’s
claims for trade dress infringement, unfair competition and
unjust enrichment. The next status conference in the case is set
for Aug. 10.  LaChapelle is represented by  Debra Anne Mayer  of  Shatzkin &
Mayer PC  of New York. Rihanna’s lawyers are  Brad David Rose ,  Tom
J. Ferber  and  Jacob Boyd Radcliff  of New York’s Pryor Cashman
LLP. Island Def Jam was represented by  Amanda Marie Leith  and
 Robert Penchina  of Washington’s Levine Sullivan Koch & Schulz
LLP.  The case is LaChapelle v. Fenty, 1:11-cv-00945, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 