-- 
Democrats Can Lose Debt Fight, Win on Bush Tax Cuts: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-07-28T00:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/democrats-can-lose-on-debt-win-on-bush-tax-cuts-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
Democrats are going to lose this
one. Whatever deal emerges to raise the  debt  ceiling, we can be
pretty sure it won’t include revenue, it won’t include stimulus,
and it will let Republicans pocket a trillion dollars or more in
cuts without offering anything to Democrats in return.  It’s difficult to see how it could end otherwise. Virtually
no Democrats are willing to go past Aug. 2 without raising the
debt ceiling. Plenty of Republicans are prepared to blow through
the deadline. That’s not a dynamic that lends itself to a deal.
That’s a dynamic that lends itself to a ransom.  Yet Democrats will have their turn. On Dec. 31, 2012, three
weeks before the end of President Barack Obama’s current term in
office, the Bush tax cuts expire. Income tax rates will return
to their Clinton-era levels. That amounts to a $3.6 trillion tax
increase over 10 years, three or four times the $800 billion to
$1.2 trillion in revenue increases that Obama and Speaker  John Boehner  were kicking around. And all Democrats need to do to
secure that deal is -- nothing.  In fact, Democrats can just let the Republicans stop them
from doing anything. Imagine that Obama and the Democrats simply
adopt the recommendations of the  Simpson-Bowles / Gang of Six 
deficit reduction plan --  tax reform  that raises $2 trillion
over 10 years and cuts rates for everyone. Republicans will
almost certainly refuse any plan that raises any taxes on
anyone. But if Republicans won’t budge, the Democrats can simply
blame them for the gridlock that enables the Bush tax cuts to
expire.  This scenario is the inverse of the current debt-ceiling
debate, in which inaction will lead to an outcome -- a
government default -- that Democrats can’t stomach and
Republicans think they can. There is only one thing that could
stand in the way of Democrats achieving their revenue goals on
the last day of 2012: the Obama administration.  Republicans -- and even some Democrats -- think that the
Obama administration lives to collect revenue. The truth is
closer to the opposite. Senior administration aides view the
expiration of the Bush tax cuts as less of an opportunity than a
chore. About four-fifths of the cuts go to households making
less than $250,000 a year, and they don’t want to raise taxes on
those folks. They don’t like the politics of the issue, either.
It’s an article of faith among Democratic strategists that
debates on taxes inevitably favor Republicans, allowing
Democrats to be hammered from the right and undermined from the
left. Many Obama aides would prefer to avoid the debate, which
they consider stale and intractable, altogether. They would
rather focus on “ win the future ” issues like infrastructure,
education and energy.  The White House’s strategy in the debt-ceiling negotiations
has reflected its ambivalence, with Obama trying to extract
either as much revenue as Republicans would allow or as little
as Democrats would accept. Obama even offered Boehner a deal in
which the Bush tax cuts would be extended right now, so
Republicans wouldn’t have to fear a subsequent negotiation in
which they lacked leverage. Ultimately, that deal fell through,
which from a public policy standpoint, is probably for the best.  When Obama talks about taxes, a bit of incoherence creeps
into the argument. “We can test the two theories,” Obama has
said, comparing Bush tax policies with the Clinton policies that
preceded them. “You had what happened during the ‘90s, right?
Taxes for wealthy individuals were somewhat higher, businesses
boomed, the economy boomed, great job growth. And then the
2000s, when taxes were cut on wealthy individuals, jobs didn’t
grow as fast, businesses didn’t grow as fast.”  If the Bush tax cuts expire, we’ll go back to the tax rates
of the ‘90s -- the period Obama posits was a golden age. If we
extend the Bush tax cuts for every household making less than
$250,000, then we’re adopting a  tax policy  very similar to what
we had in the slow-growing Aughts. Yet that’s the Obama
administration’s stated preference.  It’s true that 2013 is not an ideal time for a large tax
increase. Nor is it an ideal time for huge spending cuts. So the
question isn’t whether increasing taxes on the middle class is
the perfect policy, but whether it’s better policy than reducing
Social Security checks and infrastructure investment. And not
just in 2013. What happens to the Bush tax cuts may define the
limits of the possible in public policy for a long time to come.  The expiration of the tax cuts next year is the Democrats’
only opportunity to raise significant revenue. If they miss
their big chance, what then? Republicans can’t pass
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget, which slashes social
spending, or anything much like it. But if Republicans can keep
taxes from rising, deficits will continue to mount, and
something like the Ryan budget will become inevitable. A world
in which the two parties can’t agree on tax increases but can
agree on spending cuts is one in which the government eventually
shrinks dramatically. Republicans understand this. Do Democrats?  A year ago, I was less concerned about the Bush tax cuts. I
assumed, as did many in  Washington , that the Republicans’
antipathy to taxes was a negotiating stance. Eventually, we
would strike a “grand bargain” that would reduce spending and
raise revenue substantially. The past few months have proved me
wrong.  Republicans have shown, at least to my satisfaction, that
they will block any and all tax increases, no matter what
incentives they are offered in return and no matter how dire the
consequences of their refusal. Next year’s deadline on the Bush
tax cuts offers Democrats their only chance to negotiate from a
superior strategic position. Republicans will still be able to
refuse to raise taxes. But if they do, it won’t matter.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 