-- 
Deutsche Boerse Earnings Increase as Exchange Cuts Expenses

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-29T16:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/deutsche-boerse-earnings-increase-as-exchange-reduces-expenses.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , seeking to buy
NYSE Euronext to create the world’s largest exchange operator,
said second-quarter profit rose 11 percent as it cut costs.  Net income rose to 178.8 million euros ($255.8 million)
from 160.8 million euros a year earlier, the Frankfurt-based
company said in a statement yesterday. That includes a 16.2
million-euro charge mostly for merger-related expenses, the
exchange said. The average analyst profit estimate was 191.4
million euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “On the headline number it looks ugly but once you strip
out the exceptional it’s only a slight miss and there is nothing
here to fundamentally change the story,” said Richard Perrott,
an exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London  who has a
“buy” rating on the stock. “There is nothing here that makes
me worry. Longer term the company still has good positions in
growing and defensible markets and will benefit from rising
interest rates.”  Total expenses dropped 19 percent to 289.2 million euros,
the exchange said. The shares fell 96 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
51.64 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt .  NYSE Takeover  Deutsche Boerse said on July 14 that shareholders approved
its $9.12 billion takeover of NYSE Euronext, surmounting the
second of three hurdles to gain control of the 219-year-old
exchange company. The all-stock transaction will give Deutsche
Boerse 60 percent of the combined entity, while  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  will run the
organization. NYSE reports results on Aug. 2.  There have been $37 billion of exchange merger
announcements since Singapore Exchange Ltd. said Oct. 25 that it
would pay A$8.35 billion for ASX Ltd., according to Bloomberg
data that include planned, unsolicited and terminated bids. The
Australian government rejected the Singapore deal in April.
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  dropped its 2.13 billion-pound
($3.5 billion) bid for TMX Group Inc. last month, citing a lack
of shareholder support.  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes rose 7
percent to 276.5 million euros from the comparable period a year
ago. That trailed the 289.8 million-euro average forecast of 10
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  European regulators are reviewing the Deutsche Boerse-NYSE
transaction because it would unite venues that handle more than
90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives. They
have set an initial deadline of Aug. 4 to rule on the deal.  Deutsche Boerse  Chief Financial Officer Gregor Pottmeyer
told analysts on a conference call today that the exchange
expects the EU to refer the merger for an in-depth probe. The
exchange expects to receive a “statement of objections” that
details regulators views by October and is still “hopeful” of
closing the deal by the end of 2011, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  