-- 
Dim Sum Debt’s Higher Yields Draw Kokusai, Sompo: China Credit

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-07-28T06:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dim-sum-debt-s-higher-yields-draw-kokusai-sompo-china-credit.html
Japanese investors are buying more
offshore yuan-denominated debt as the world’s lowest bond yields
prompt them to seek higher returns overseas.  Kokusai Asset Management Co. said it wants to add more of
the securities to its holdings, while Sompo  Japan  Nipponkoa
Asset Management Co. will start funds investing in so-called dim
sum bonds today and in August. DIAM Co. and PineBridge
Investments Japan Co. introduced such funds in February,
bolstered by analyst forecasts that the yuan would lead Asian
currency gains for the rest of 2011 and the yen would be the
worst performer.  China, which overtook Japan to become the world’s second-
largest economy in 2010, has raised its lending rate five times
since September to 6.56 percent to cool quickening inflation,
while policy makers in Japan have maintained their benchmark
rate in a range of zero to 0.1 percent since early October. That
gap in key borrowing costs means Chinese dim sum bonds due in
2020 yield 122 basis points more than similar-maturity Japanese
debt, which at 1.08 percent yield the least of 32 bond markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  “There have been an increasing number of investors paying
attention to dim sum bond funds lately,” said Kenji Shimizu, a
senior marketing manager at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa, which
oversees about $51 billion of assets. “People are aiming to
benefit from their higher yields and the yuan’s advance. We are
aiming to get a return of some trading profits plus an average
yield of about 3 percent for our funds.”  Yield Advantage  The average yield on debt included in the HSBC Offshore
Renminbi Bond Index climbed 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage
point, this month through yesterday to 2.98 percent, following a
48 basis point jump in June. That’s still less than half  China ’s
inflation rate, which hit a three-year high of 6.4 percent in
June.  The yield on China’s 2.48 percent dim sum bonds due in
December 2020 climbed 29 basis points in July to 2.30 percent,
based on Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices. The yield on
Japan’s 10-year debt slid six basis points in the same period.
In the onshore market, which global investors are restricted
from investing in, the yield on China’s 10-year notes climbed 20
basis points to 4.09 percent, according to Chinabond data.  “For Japanese investors, expectations for returns from
domestic yields are so low, encouraging people to shift assets
overseas to get better returns,” said Tatsuya Higuchi, senior
portfolio manager in  Tokyo  at Kokusai Asset, which oversees
about $58 billion of assets. “Yields on yuan-denominated
onshore and offshore debt have been rising, and that is boosting
their yield advantage. China has big potential to be a major
destination for Japanese clients.”  Currency Gains  China’s gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, following a 9.7 percent expansion
in the first three months of 2011. Japan’s GDP contracted 1.0
percent in the three months ended March, official data show.  The yuan has strengthened 2.2 percent against the dollar
this year, trailing a 4.5 percent gain in the yen, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s currency, which hit a 17-
year high of 6.4375 per dollar yesterday, was 0.06 percent
weaker today at 6.4472 as of 2:34 p.m. in  Shanghai .  The yuan is forecast to appreciate 2.3 percent this year to
6.30 and a further 4.7 percent to 6.02 in 2012, based on the
median estimates in Bloomberg surveys of analysts. The yen
touched a four-month high of 77.57 per dollar yesterday and is
expected to weaken 8.5 percent to 85 by the end of 2011, before
sliding 5.6 percent more to 90 in 2012, separate polls showed.  ‘Yuan Over Yen’  “If I was going to pick a bet for the two currencies over
the next five years, I would definitely go with the yuan over
the Japanese yen,” said Endre Pedersen, who helps oversee $29
billion of Asian bonds as the managing director of fixed income
at Manulife Asset Management in  Hong Kong . Manulife has
“significant” exposure to the dim sum market, he added,
without elaborating.  Japan’s consumer prices probably rose 0.2 percent in June
from a year earlier, slowing from a 0.3 percent advance the
previous month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey undertaken before the release of data tomorrow.  Demand for Japanese  government bonds  remains resilient as
the nation has the lowest inflation rate in the region and this
keeps drawing funds to the securities, according to Akitsugu Bandou, a senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co.
Inflation erodes the appeal of fixed-income assets.  “Domestic financial institutions dominate Japan’s bond
market,” Bandou said. “What they consider first is how to
avoid risk.”  Credit Risk  China’s credit-default swaps, which traders use to
speculate on changes in debt quality, became cheaper than
Japan’s in January 2010 and have been mostly lower since.  Five-year contracts protecting Chinese government debt fell
one basis point to 87 basis points yesterday, while those for
Japan held at 90, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually in a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Japanese investors bought 310 billion yen ($3.99 billion)
more of overseas bonds than they sold in June, a fifth month of
net purchases, finance ministry figures show. By contrast,
foreign investors sold 978.7 billion yen more of Japanese debt
than they bought last month, the biggest net sales since
September 2008.  Investors from Japan are a “creative group of yield
searchers,” said Adeline Ng, who oversees $1.5 billion in
 Singapore  as head of Asian fixed-income trading at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners, a unit of  France ’s largest bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  