-- 
Dimitar Berbatov Leads Manchester United to 4-0 Win Against MLS All-Stars

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y w i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-28T04:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dimitar-berbatov-leads-manchester-united-to-4-0-win-against-mls-all-stars.html
The gap between professional soccer
in  England  and the U.S. was on display last night in Harrison,
 New Jersey , where Manchester United defeated a group of  Major
League Soccer ’s top players at the league’s All-Star Game.  Dimitar Berbatov  assisted Anderson’s goal to open the
scoring, and the 30-year-old Bulgarian striker added a goal of
his own in the second half as the English Premier League
champion cruised to a 4-0 victory in front of a sold-out crowd
of 26,760 at Red Bull Arena. The victory comes one year after
United, playing without a number of its top players, beat the
MLS All-Stars 5-2.  “It’s not embarrassing,”  David Beckham  of the  Los Angeles
Galaxy  told reporters after the game. “When you play a team
like  Manchester United  you expect it to be hard, you expect them
to play like they played.”  The MLS All-Stars returned five of the 23 players who
dressed for the game last year, taking the field with a lineup
that included former Premier League players  Thierry Henry  of the
New York Red Bulls and Beckham. Henry leads the MLS with 11
goals and Beckham, who won six Premier League titles in his 12
seasons with United, is second in the league with eight assists.  Manchester United’s starting lineup included England
striker  Wayne Rooney , Park Ji-Sung, Nemanja Vidic and Patrice Evra, all of whom sat out last year’s game on the heels of the
 World Cup  in  South Africa .  In 2003 and every year since 2005, the MLS All-Star game
has featured the league’s top players against an elite foreign
club. The MLS team is winless in the last three games, all of
which have come against English clubs.  “We enjoyed it over here, the standard of football is
getting better,” Rooney said after the game.  Park Selected MVP  Berbatov and Rooney exchanged passes in the game’s 20th
minute to leave Anderson wide open in front of the MLS goal. The
23-year-old midfielder fired the ball into the bottom right
corner of the net. Park, selected the game’s most valuable
player, added to the lead with one minute remaining in the half
when he beat two defenders in the box before firing a shot past
goaltender Faryd Mondragon of the Philadelphia Union.  “This is the best team in the world, they have the best
players in the world,” Beckham said in an interview after the
game. “That’s why they’re so successful.”  The MLS All-Stars had a number of scoring opportunities in
the first half, including long-range shots from Brad Davis of
the Houston Dynamo and Beckham that were tipped over the
crossbar by Manchester goalie Anders Lindegaard.  “It was a tighter game than the score line showed,”
United coach  Alex Ferguson  told reporters. “In the first half,
the MLS were a team that was more dangerous than us.”  Welbeck Finishes Scoring  In the 52nd minute, Berbatov lofted a ball over MLS
goaltender Tally Hall. The shot hit the crossbar, and Berbatov
fired home the rebound. After Ferguson removed Rooney, Park,
Berbatov and  Rio Ferdinand  in the 61st minute, Danny Welbeck
finished the scoring.  Omar Bravo of Sporting KC had an uncontested rebound that
he pushed wide halfway through the second half, and Beckham
knocked a free kick into the side netting with less than five
minutes remaining as the MLS All-Stars struggled throughout the
game to finish their chances. Hans Backe, the team’s coach, told
reporters after the game that he was “quite pleased with the
performance,” and that the difference came in the attacking
part of the field.  “The only difference for me was the final third, and that
of course is an important one,” said Backe, who coaches the Red
Bulls. “They took their chances, they are a little bit sharper,
but otherwise we had our chances too.”  Appearance Fees  For the past two weeks, Manchester United has toured the
U.S. playing exhibitions against MLS teams in preparation for
its Premier League season. The Red Devils outscored the American
clubs 14-2 in those games, beating the New England Revolution 4-
1 on July 13, followed by a 7-0 victory over the Seattle
Sounders and a 3-1 win over the Chicago Fire. The team commands
a $2 million appearance fee for each game, according to the New
York Times.  Striker  Javier Hernandez , who punctuated his United debut
with a goal in the 2010 MLS All-Star game, sat out due to a
concussion. Galaxy striker Landon Donovan also missed the game.  “He’s fine,” Ferguson said of Hernandez. “He’s had the
all clear, he’s out of hospital. He’s back in the hotel. We’ll
give him a couple of weeks and I’m sure he’ll be OK.”  United finishes its tour of the U.S. on July 30 with an
exhibition game against Spanish champion Barcelona at FedEx
Field in Landover,  Maryland .  United starts its Premier League season Aug. 14 against
West Bromwich Albion. The Red Bulls travel to  London  to play
Arsenal on July 30.  “I hope we don’t end up embarrassing the league with that
game on Saturday,” Backe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novywilliams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  