-- 
Dish Network Said to Examine Hulu Books in Site’s Sale Process

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-28T17:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dish-network-said-to-examine-hulu-books-in-site-s-sale-process.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  has signed a non-
disclosure agreement to investigate the financials of Hulu LLC,
the online video service that’s selling itself, according to two
people familiar with the situation.  Dish’s move doesn’t necessarily mean that it will make an
offer to acquire Hulu, said the people, who wouldn’t be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo Inc. and  AT&T Inc. (T)  have also expressed interest in
the company, people familiar with the matter said this month.
Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton told the  New York
Times  on June 23 he may be interested in deals for companies
including Hulu.  An acquisition of Hulu would continue a flurry of takeovers
this year for the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider.
Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, has already purchased DBSD
North America Inc., a satellite company that provides voice and
data services, and movie-rental chain Blockbuster Inc. Earlier
this month, Dish won court approval to buy mobile-communications
company TerreStar Networks Inc. for $1.38 billion. Unlike Hulu,
all three acquisitions have been for companies out of bankruptcy.  Clayton has acknowledged that Dish will likely buy more
companies. Chairman  Charlie Ergen  stepped down from the CEO role
in May to focus on corporate strategy, including future
acquisitions.  Hulu is co-owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  Disney CEO Robert Iger told reporters July 6 that Hulu’s
owners are committed to selling the company. Hulu’s price tag
could exceed $2 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and SNL Kagan. Dish hasn’t spent more than $2 billion on an
acquisition since at least 1998, according to Bloomberg data.  Dish rose 1 cent to $31.30 at 1:47 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock market. The shares have gained 59 percent this
year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  