-- 
Franc, Yen Rally as Debt Impasse, Moody’s Spain Review Spur Refuge Demand

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-29T21:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dollar-0-3-from-record-low-versus-franc-before-briefing-on-debt-impasse.html
The Swiss franc and yen rose against
major counterparts as U.S. lawmakers struggled to resolve the
budget deadlock and Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
 Spain ’s rating, spurring refuge demand.  The dollar erased its gain against the euro, fell to a
record versus the Swiss franc and approached a postwar low
against the yen as America’s economy grew last quarter less than
economists forecast. Canada’s dollar was the worst performer
among the most-traded currencies as the nation’s economy
unexpectedly contracted in May.  “There is almost a default reaction in the FX market as
you’re seeing dollar-yen, dollar-Swiss, euro-yen and euro-Swiss
continue to plumb new lows,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New
York Mellon, the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than
$20 trillion in assets under administration. “There is a lot of
gloom out there. It is quite firmly risk-off.”  The Swiss franc appreciated 1.5 percent to 1.1312 versus
the euro at 5 p.m. in  New York , after touching 1.1298, the
strongest level since the shared currency’s 1999 debut. The
dollar fell 2 percent to 78.55 Swiss centimes, from 80.12, after
touching a record 78.54 centimes. The yen advanced 0.7 percent
to 110.54 versus the euro, from 111.34.  Gold futures rallied 0.7 percent to $1,626.88 an ounce. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7 percent in a fifth
consecutive decline. Crude oil for September delivery fell 1.6
percent to $95.86 a barrel. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes
dropped to the lowest level on a closing basis since November.  Turkish Lira  Turkey’s lira, the biggest loser among more than 20
emerging-market currencies in July, fell today after NTV
reported the military’s chief of staff and commanders of the
three main military forces resigned. The currency depreciated
0.7 percent to 1.6885 per dollar, extending its decline this
month to 3.9 percent.  South Korea ’s won slid 0.3 percent to 1,054.07 versus the
dollar on signs  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is slowing. The
currency headed for a weekly drop as Statistics Korea said
industrial production expanded 6.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in nine months. Global funds sold more
local shares than they bought for a fifth day.  The euro fell against the franc and yen as Spain’s Aa2
ratings were placed on review for possible downgrade by Moody’s.
The country’s Prime-1 short-term ratings are unaffected by
today’s action, Moody’s said.  Spain’s Elections  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said at a news
conference in  Madrid  that elections will be held Nov. 20 instead
of March to “project political and economic certainty.” The
ruling Socialist Party has been losing support as it embarked on
austerity measures.  The euro has weakened 2.6 percent in the past month in the
worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Swiss franc posted a sixth monthly gain versus the
dollar, rising 7 percent in what would be the longest stretch of
advances since June 1994. It advanced 7.8 percent versus the
euro in July in the biggest advance since June 2010.  “The Swiss franc and yen are the best bets today,” said
 David Mann , regional head of research for the Americas at
 Standard Chartered  in New York. “This is a reminder that
 ratings agencies  will not be letting up if they don’t see enough
of a consolidation in fiscal policy on either side of the
Atlantic.”  Dollar Versus Yen  The dollar slid 1.2 percent to 76.77 yen, from 77.67
yesterday, after touching 76.73, the lowest level since falling
to a post-World War II record of 76.25 on March 17. The
greenback depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.4399 versus the euro
after gaining 0.7 percent.  President  Barack Obama  said Republicans and Democrats are
in “rough agreement” on their plans to raise the U.S. debt
limit with just four days before a threatened default and the
time for compromise is now.  House Republicans said they have secured the votes to pass
Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan today. Obama opposes that plan.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will take action to
move to a vote on his competing plan, and at the same time held
out hope for a deal with Republican leaders.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said options to
prevent a default will run out on Aug. 2 if the limit isn’t
increased. An administration official said yesterday the
Treasury will give precedence to making interest payments on
 government bonds .  U.S. gross domestic product increased at an annual rate of
1.3 percent in the three months ended June 30, the Commerce
Department reported. The median forecast of 85 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.8 percent advance.  Canada ’s dollar slid 0.6 percent to 95.52 cents versus the
greenback as  Statistics Canada  reported that gross domestic
product fell 0.3 percent in May, compared with a 0.1 percent
advance forecast by economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  