-- 
DuPont Raises Forecast as Paint-Pigment Prices Boost Profit

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-28T20:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dupont-raises-forecast-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
DuPont Co., the most valuable U.S.
chemical maker, raised its 2011 earnings forecast and posted
second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as prices
rose on demand for products such as paint pigment.  Profit in 2011 will be $3.90 to $4.05 a share, excluding
costs for the acquisition of Danisco A/S and a licensing
payment, Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said today in a
statement. That tops the $3.86 average estimate of 13 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. DuPont’s previous forecast was
$3.65 to $3.85, excluding acquisition costs. Second-quarter
earnings without the costs were $1.37 a share, exceeding the
$1.34 average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed.  DuPont, which bought Danisco last month to expand in food
ingredients and biofuels, has beaten profit estimates for 10
straight quarters since  Ellen Kullman  became chief executive
officer. Average prices for its products climbed 11 percent in
the quarter, the most in at least a  decade . Profit gains were
led by an 84 percent increase at the performance-chemicals unit,
the largest maker of titanium-dioxide paint pigment.  “They beat on prices, especially titanium dioxide,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Ticonderoga Securities LLC
who rates the shares “buy,” said in a telephone interview.
Profit from making the white pigment, which adds opacity and
brightness to paints, plastics and paper, more than doubled, he
estimated.  Agriculture Investment  DuPont rose 2 cents to $52.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares gained 4.9 percent
this year.  “We are increasing our earnings outlook for 2011 based on
strong performance year-to-date and confidence in our business
plans for the second half of the year,” Kullman said in the
statement.  Kullman is investing in agriculture, pigments and solar
energy to boost per-share earnings about 12 percent a year
through 2015. DuPont paid 33.4 billion kroner ($6.44 billion)
for Copenhagen-based Danisco, the world’s biggest producer of
food additives and the second-largest maker of industrial
enzymes, which are used in the production of biofuels.  Net income climbed 5.1 percent to $1.22 billion, or $1.29 a
share, from $1.16 billion, or $1.26, a year earlier. Net sales
increased 19 percent to $10.3 billion, beating the $9.87 billion
average estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  Nutrition Unit  Higher prices added 80 cents to per-share earnings in the
quarter, outpacing higher raw-material expenses and other
variable costs of 46 cents, DuPont said. Sales volumes rose 2
percent in the quarter and currency exchange boosted sales by 3
percent.  Sales volumes will increase about 5 percent in the second
half of the year, the same as the first half, Kullman said on a
conference call with analysts.  Pretax operating profit at the performance-chemicals unit
rose to $503 million as titanium dioxide and refrigerants
contributed to 28 percent higher prices. Sales volumes fell 1
percent as floods shut a Mississippi plant and disrupted
shipping, said Karen Fletcher, a company spokeswoman.  Profit at the agriculture unit, DuPont’s biggest business,
rose 11 percent to $826 million on higher sales of pesticides
and seeds. DuPont’s Pioneer unit, the world’s second-biggest
seed company after  Monsanto Co. (MON) , gained market share in North
American corn and soybeans, Kullman said on the call.  Earnings more than doubled to $38 million in the newly
created nutrition unit, which includes Danisco’s food additives
unit. Industrial biosciences, created from Danisco’s enzymes
business, posted $10 million of earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 