-- 
Dynasty Trusts Let Wealthy Duck Estate, Gift Taxes Forever

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-07-28T16:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/dynasty-trusts-let-u-s-wealthy-duck-estate-gift-taxes-forever.html
Jeffrey Thomasson, 52, may pass on
more than $100 million to heirs using an estate-planning
strategy for avoiding gift and estate taxes.  Thomasson, who lives in Indianapolis, said he’s funding a
so-called dynasty trust set up in  Delaware  with $8 million of
equity from the expanding financial advisory business he owns,
 Oxford Financial Group . Putting the assets in a trust, which he
figures could be worth more than $100 million by the time he
dies, means the money should go to his heirs without triggering
federal gift, estate or generation-skipping transfer taxes.  “Why would I want to pay estate taxes on some really,
really big number 30 years from now, if the IRS is giving me
this opportunity?” Thomasson said.  A dynasty trust is used to pass money on to multiple
generations of descendants while paying as little in taxes as
possible. The trusts have no expiration date and there are no
required minimum distributions, meaning their assets may grow
for an unlimited number of future generations. While the trusts
can be set up in many states, Delaware offers extra breaks,
including stronger protection from creditors and potential
exclusion of assets in divorce proceedings.  “It’s an astoundingly powerful vehicle for generating
long-term family wealth,” said Neal Howard, chief fiduciary
counsel for Philadelphia-based  Glenmede , which manages more than
$20 billion on behalf of individuals, families, endowments and
foundations.  Gift Limits  Interest in the trusts has risen because of the higher
individual lifetime gift- and estate-tax exemptions of $5
million available this year and next, which means clients can
put more tax-free money into the trusts, said Carol Kroch, head
of wealth and financial planning for  Wilmington Trust Co. , a
unit of Buffalo, New York-based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)   That limit will drop in 2013 to $1 million and the top
federal  tax rate  on gifts and estates will rise to 55 percent
from 35 percent, unless Congress acts. Gifts that skip a
generation, such as from a grandparent to a grandchild, follow
similar rules.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , based in  Chicago , has set up several
dozen Delaware dynasty trusts on behalf of clients in 2011,
compared with almost none in 2010, said Daniel Lindley,
president of the Northern Trust Company of Delaware, who
declined to provide more specific figures.  Protection in Divorce  Delaware is one of several states, along with  New Jersey 
and  Pennsylvania , that allow so-called perpetuities, or trusts
that may never expire, Lindley said. It’s also an appealing
state because it’s easier to modify existing trusts there, said
James Bertles, managing director of New York-based  Tiedemann
Wealth Management , which oversees more than $6 billion on behalf
of families with $20 million or more. Delaware allows trusts
greater flexibility to invest in certain assets, such as  hedge
funds  and private equity, he said.  The state also offers stronger protections from creditors
and civil litigation, including divorce proceedings, said Ted
Cronin, chief executive officer of Manchester, Vermont-based
 Manchester Capital Management , which directs $1.9 billion and
provides tax- and estate-planning services for families with $25
million or more in assets.  “In effect, it acts as a prenup,” Cronin said.  State Taxes  Most Delaware trusts set up by out-of-state residents don’t
owe state income or capital-gains taxes on accumulations within
the trust, and pay these taxes only when distributions are made,
Bertles said. Some states do tax the undistributed gains and
income of dynasty trusts set up by residents, including
Pennsylvania and  Illinois , according to Glenmede’s Howard. The
trusts owe federal income and capital-gains taxes on distributed
and undistributed investment gains and income.  Dynasty trusts have gained popularity since 1986 when
Congress overhauled the generation-skipping transfer tax and
since then several states, including Delaware, have eliminated
their rules against perpetuities. In New York, by comparison,
trusts may last no longer than the lifetimes of people currently
alive, plus 21 years, said Bertles, who’s based in  Palm Beach ,
 Florida . Connecticut allows for the greater of 90 years or
current lives plus 21 years.  Thomasson said his Carmel, Indiana-based business, which
provides investment-management and financial-planning services
to families with $5 million or more, has been growing at a
double-digit pace in recent years. Assuming that continues, and
assuming he lives until 80, his trust could provide more than
$100 million for heirs by the time he dies, when the shares
would be redeemed.  ‘Whimsical’ Minds  “With the whimsical nature of the minds we have in
Washington D.C., whenever you get an opportunity to do something
from a tax standpoint, you really need to consider taking
advantage of it,” Thomasson said.  A dynasty trust funded with $10 million from a couple today
could be worth as much as $184 million in 50 years, assuming no
intergenerational transfer taxes and a 6 percent annual return,
and before subtracting any federal income or capital-gains taxes
paid on the trust’s investment returns. By comparison, assets
not placed in a trust and taxed twice as an estate in that
period could be worth $39 million at the end of 50 years,
assuming a $1 million exemption and 55 percent top rate.  Potential Growth  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 9.6 percent
annually over the 50 years through December, with dividends
reinvested. A $10 million investment in the index over that
period could be worth about $975 million before taxes.  Clients may fund a trust with cash, stocks or other assets,
said Kara Talbott, a family office services technical adviser
with Oxford. Securities such as stocks and bonds are generally
valued at their current market value at the time they’re placed
into the trust.  Costs to set up a dynasty trust may range from about $3,000
to more than $30,000, depending on the complexity and attorney’s
fees, said Adam von Poblitz, head of estate planning at New
York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s private bank.  While there’s no minimum for setting up a dynasty trust,
clients with about $20 million or more in assets have expressed
the most interest in taking advantage of the full $5 million
exemption, said Joan Crain, a family wealth strategist in  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida, for  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   Boosting Gifts  Some clients increase their gift to the trusts by using the
initial contribution to take out a loan, Bertles said. An
individual can gift a trust $5 million, for example, then sell
the trust $50 million in assets, using the initial $5 million as
a down payment. The trust would issue a promissory note to the
individual for the remaining $45 million.  The notes are treated as intra-family loans and must follow
U.S. Internal Revenue Service rules on repayment and interest
rates. As of July, the  rates  were 2 percent for loans of three
to nine years. Any appreciation of the purchased assets above
that  interest rate  pass on to the trust without triggering the
gift tax, Bertles said.  One client used this strategy to transfer partial ownership
of the family’s growing winery business to his children, Lindley
of Northern Trust said. The client funded a trust with $4
million, which it used to purchase a $40 million share of the
business, he said.  Family Business  The strategy is appealing for families with a closely held
business because they may be able to sell a portion to the trust
at a discount of as much as 40 percent, said Laura Zeigler, a
Los Angeles-based senior vice president for  Bessemer Trust Co. ,
which provides investment-management and financial-planning
services for families with $10 million or more in assets. That’s
because the stakes might be difficult to sell on the open
market.  The trusts are irrevocable, meaning the person starting the
trust has minimal control over the assets once it’s set up, and
generally may change the trust only by going to court or getting
approval from all beneficiaries, said BNY Mellon’s Crain.  “The word ‘irrevocable’ doesn’t always resonate until they
suddenly want the money,” she said.  Individuals who feel hesitant to give such a large sum away
permanently can choose to structure a dynasty trust as an asset-
protection trust, in which case they can name themselves as
beneficiaries in order to take withdrawals under certain
circumstances at the trustee’s discretion, said Northern Trust’s
Lindley.  “If it turns out they’re in dire need of financial
resources they can turn to us and request a distribution,”
Lindley said. If they never need it, the trust’s assets will
pass on to heirs as planned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in  New York  
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 