-- 
Health Spending Will Account for 20% of U.S. Economy by 2020, Study Shows

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-07-28T07:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/health-care-projected-to-be-one-fifth-of-u-s-economy-by-2020.html
Health-care spending will make up 20
percent of the U.S. gross domestic product by the end of the
decade, an increase of more than 2 percentage points from 2009
as government subsidies expand, federal auditors said.  National health expenditures rose 4 percent to $2.6
trillion in 2010 from a year earlier, the  Office of the Actuary 
at the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimates
today in an article in the journal  Health Affairs . Growth will
be fueled by demand from 30 million Americans who will receive
new subsidies under the health overhaul.  Health expenses this decade will rise at an average annual
rate of 5.8 percent, or 1.1 percent more than anticipated U.S.
economic growth. Higher spending on health insurance,
 prescription drugs  and physician services will outstrip rising
hospital costs as younger, healthier Americans enroll in
government-financed health programs, the actuaries report.  “It just rearranges health-care spending so different
people get to take advantage of it,” said Joseph Antos, an
economist at the  American Enterprise Institute , a  Washington 
policy organization, in a telephone interview yesterday. “It
really doesn’t reduce health-care spending.”  Spending on health-care products and services will increase
an average of 6.2 percent in the last five years of the decade
when the coverage expansions from the health law are in effect,
or within one percentage point of expenditures would have been
absent the law.  Coverage Expands  The study indicates the health overhaul will be successful
because “more Americans will get coverage and save money and
health-expenditure growth will remain virtually the same,”
Nancy-Ann DeParle, deputy chief of staff to President  Barack
Obama , wrote on the White House website today.  During 2014, the first year the health overhaul begins
providing subsidies for private insurance and expanding
eligibility for Medicaid, national spending will rise 8.3
percent, according to the findings.  The Office of the Actuary is an independent auditing entity
within the Baltimore-based agency that runs Medicare, the health
program for the elderly and disabled, and Medicaid, a joint
federal-state health benefit for the poor.  National spending on health insurance premiums to companies
led by Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  will
rise 9 percent in 2014, or 4 percentage points higher than they
would have if the health overhaul weren’t law. The increase will
be driven by 14 million people obtaining private coverage
through the state-based health-insurance exchanges the law
creates, the actuaries project.  Added Demand  The actuaries predict that the 23 million people who will
receive health insurance in 2014 that otherwise wouldn’t have
and will be younger and healthier than those now covered,
increasing demand for prescription drugs and physician services.  Spending on prescription medicines from drugmakers led by
New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  will increase 11 percent in 2014, or
more than twice as fast than if the health overhaul weren’t
enacted, according to the projections.  In 2014, spending on hospital services from companies led
by HCA Holdings Inc. of Nashville,  Tennessee , will increase 7
percent, or 1 percentage point higher than projected without the
overhaul. Newly insured people will drive up spending on
physician services by 9 percent in 2014, 3 percentage points
more than projected without the health law, the actuaries
conclude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 