-- 
ECB Says Banks May Tighten Credit Standards in Third Quarter

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-28T09:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/ecb-says-banks-may-tighten-credit-standards-in-third-quarter.html
Euro-area banks expect to tighten
credit standards for companies further in the third quarter even
as loan demand remains subdued, the  European Central Bank  said.  While the pace of credit tightening slowed in the second
quarter, “euro-area banks expect a slight increase in the net
tightening of credit standards for loans to enterprises in the
third quarter,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said today, citing its
quarterly Bank Lending Survey. Banks also reported a
“significantly weaker increase in demand for corporate loans”
in the second quarter and expect only a moderate increase in
demand in the third, the ECB said.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has damped economic
confidence and clouded the economic outlook as the prospect of a
Greek default roils financial markets. At the same time,
financing needs in countries like  Germany  may increase as
companies boost capacity to meet export demand.  Loans to enterprises in the second quarter were affected by
“the assessment of the overall economic situation and the
perception of risks,” the ECB said.  Euro-area banks reported a net increase in demand for loans
to enterprises in the second quarter of 4 percent, compared with
19 percent in the previous quarter.  Market turmoil made banks’ access to money markets in the
second quarter more difficult, the ECB said.  Money Markets  “Euro-area banks reported a deterioration in their access
to money markets, both for very short maturities and for
maturities of more than one week, as well as their issuance of
debt securities,” the report said.  Survey respondents said they expect their access to money
markets to deteriorate slightly less markedly in the third
quarter, while the issuance of debt securities would “remain
problematic,” the report said.  The ECB lifted its benchmark  interest rate  to 1.5 percent
this month even as economies from  Greece  to Portugal struggle to
grow amid a fiscal crisis that’s threatening to engulf Italy and
 Spain . The ECB predicts the euro-region economy will grow 1.9
percent this year.  New capital rules for banks issued under the Basel III
framework are beginning to have an effect on institutions’
balance sheets and their credit standards, the ECB report
showed.  Banks also said credit standards for loans to large
enterprises were tightened as a result of adjustments required
by Basel III. By contrast, “credit standards for loans to small
and medium-sized enterprises and for housing or consumer loans
have been affected only slightly,” the report said.  The ECB surveyed 124 euro-area banks between June 17 and
July 1.  In a separate bank-lending survey for Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, the Bundesbank said domestic institutions did
not change their lending policies in the second quarter and
expect a slight easing of credit standards for small and medium-
sized enterprises and house loans in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in  Frankfurt  at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  