-- 
EcoSynthetix Raises C$100 Million in Initial Stock Sale

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-28T13:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/ecosynthetix-raises-c-100-million-in-initial-stock-sale-on-toronto-bourse.html
EcoSynthetix Inc., a renewable
chemicals company, sold about C$100 million ($106 million) of
shares in an initial public offering to finance research and
development and expand production facilities.  The Burlington, Ontario-based company sold about 11.2
million shares for C$9 each, according to sale documents. That
was at the bottom of the C$9 to C$11 price range. The stock is
expected to start trading Aug. 4 on the Toronto Stock Exchange
under the symbol ECO.  EcoSynthetix specializes in biomaterials that can be used
in industrial manufacturing to make products such as paint,
paper and adhesives, according to a July 27 regulatory  filing .
The company said it developed processes that make lower-cost
“green” alternatives to petroleum-based products using corn,
potato, tapioca and other natural feedstocks.  The company was formed to buy a stake in Michigan-based
EcoSynthetix U.S., which owns the assets including a research
and development facility in Burlington and plants in  Tennessee 
and The Netherlands.  UBS Securities Canada, Canaccord Genuity Corp. and  RBC
Capital Markets  led a group of banks on the sale. The
underwriters have the option to sell another 15 percent after
the sale closes, bringing the total raised to about C$115
million.  “We’re extremely pleased with the way it went; even though
it was a difficult market yesterday it was well over
subscribed,” said Chief Executive Officer John van Leeuwen, in
a phone interview today. “We’re expecting rapid growth in the
industry we’re serving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  