-- 
Meda at 15-Month High Still Seen Rising 30% in Sweden Drug Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i ,   O l i v e r   R e n i c k   a n d   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-07-28T15:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/meda-at-15-month-high-still-seen-rising-30-in-sweden-drug-deal-real-m-a.html
Meda AB (MEDAA) , the Swedish drugmaker that
climbed to a 15-month high on takeover speculation, may cost
bidders at least 30 percent more in an acquisition.  Meda, which was approached by  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  according to two people with knowledge of the
matter, is now valued at 6.7 times its 2012 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Using the median
multiple of 7.1 times for its publicly traded competitors and a
takeover premium of 21 percent in comparable deals, Meda’s
equity may sell for at least $4.8 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than a billion dollars
greater than its current market value.  A sale would help  Sweden ’s second-largest health-care
company recoup some of the 36 percent loss its shareholders have
suffered since Meda rose to a record less than five years ago.
With drugmakers facing a decline in revenue as patents expire,
Meda’s sales in faster-growing emerging markets such as eastern
Europe and Russia may lure bidders trying to bolster growth,
according to YCMNet Advisors. Valeant, which has a history of
doing deals with Meda, may now be interested in buying it after
losing a bid for Cephalon Inc. in May, ABG Sundal Collier said.  “What’s driving acquisition and consolidation right now is
pipeline,”  Michael Yoshikami , chief executive officer and
founder of YCMNet Advisors, which manages $1.1 billion in Walnut
Creek,  California , said in a telephone interview. Meda “is one
of the more appealing companies out there in terms of being able
to buy products. There’s an opportunity for a company to expand
their footprint” in developing markets, he said.  Takeover Speculation  Anders Larnholt, a spokesman for Meda, didn’t return a
telephone call requesting comment after normal business hours.
Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Mississauga, Ontario-based
Valeant, declined to comment.  The approach by Valeant was informal and may not lead to a
deal, said one of the people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the situation is private.  Shares of Meda jumped 6.7 percent yesterday, bringing its
market value to 22.9 billion Swedish kronor ($3.61 billion). Its
closing price of 75.8 kronor was the highest since April 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Meda advanced a further 3.3 percent today to 78.30 kronor
in  Stockholm .  Even with yesterday’s advance, Meda trades at a discount to
its projected 5.23 billion kronor in Ebitda next year. Including
net debt, specialty drugmakers that are commercially profitable
and have market capitalizations of $1 billion or more are valued
at a median of 7.1 times next year’s Ebitda, the data show.  Relative Value  At the industry median, Meda would have an implied equity
value of 25.2 billion kronor, or 83 kronor a share. Apply the
average premium for medical drugmakers in takeovers valued at $1
billion to $10 billion, and Meda would then be worth 101 kronor
a share in an acquisition, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Meda’s controlling shareholder and executives consider that
the current price undervalues the company and may view a figure
of closer to 120 kronor a share as a starting point for any
potential discussions, according to a person briefed on the
matter, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  “Looking at the valuation of Meda, there is definitely
room for a premium,” said Erik Hultgard, an analyst at ABG
Sundal Collier in Stockholm. In addition to Valeant, “there is
definitely, in my view, other companies that could be
potentially interested,” he said.  Nausea, Erectile Dysfunction  Meda sells Bifera, a drug to treat iron deficiency;
 Cesamet , a treatment for nausea from chemotherapy;  Muse , a drug
for erectile dysfunction; and Edluar, which helps patients fall
asleep.  Sales in  Turkey  more than doubled, while  Russia ’s topped 20
percent in 2010, Meda said in its  annual report . Sales in
central Europe, its largest market, accounted for 32 percent of
its revenue last year, and have surged sevenfold in the past
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Analysts project the company will report record 1.57
billion kronor in net income this year, about double the amount
it earned five years ago, according to the data.  Meda is profiting from its presence in emerging markets,
where it estimates that industrywide demand for pharmaceuticals
will increase by 25 percent. That compares with growth of 6
percent in the U.S., it said.  Kristofer Liljeberg-Svensson, a health-care analyst at
Carnegie Investment Bank AB in Stockholm, said Valeant is the
“most likely buyer” for Meda.  ‘Perfect Fit’  Meda has been involved in three transactions with Valeant
since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and the two
companies also have “joint ventures in  Canada ,  Mexico  and
 Australia ,” according to a statement from Meda.  Meda is an attractive target because Valeant gets 74
percent of sales from the U.S. and just 6 percent from  Europe ,
according to Yilmaz Mahshid, an analyst at E. Ohman Jor
Fondkommission AB in Stockholm.  “I would say that would be a very perfect fit,” Mahshid
said in a telephone interview. “It’s like putting two pieces of
a puzzle together.”  Valeant’s interest in acquiring Meda may stem from its
failed bid for Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon, which was
bought by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  of Petach Tikva,
 Israel , according to YCMNet’s Yoshikami.  “They’re going to need to either come out with new
products internally or go out and buy them,” he said. “This is
an opportunity they see to be able to replace Cephalon as well
as expand their presence in other countries.”  Dance Partners  Drugmakers are also turning to acquisitions as patents of
their best-selling treatments expire, leaving them vulnerable to
declining sales as generic makers offer cheaper versions.  Nine out of 10 of the world’s largest drugmakers by sales,
including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  of  New York  and Sanofi in Paris, have U.S.
patents that expire next year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, faces expirations on at
least six drugs in 2012, including its erectile dysfunction pill
Viagra, the data show.  Exclusive rights to Plavix, Sanofi’s blood-thinning drug,
are also set to expire next year. Plavix was the world’s second-
best selling drug.  Meda faces “limited” patent expiration risk, Credit
Suisse Group AG said this month. In addition, five of nine drugs
in Meda’s pipeline have already progressed past so-called phase
3 clinical trials, the last of three stages of human testing
generally required by U.S. regulators.  “With several of the big companies losing key products to
generics, they’re out shopping for something to keep that sales
force active,” said Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee $17
billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Minneapolis . “My
guess is there are going to be a lot of dances going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at +33-1-5530-6277 or  pserafino@bloomberg.net  