-- 
Hedge Funds Trade Autonomy for Partners Amid Cash Drought

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-07-29T08:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hedge-funds-in-asia-trading-autonomy-for-partners-to-battle-cash-drought.html
When Rory Dickson was planning a
fund to invest in Asian consumer-related stocks, uncertainty
over how much money he would start with meant he faced the
prospect expenses would exceed the fees he stood to generate.  Instead of setting up alone, in mid-2010 he teamed with
Coupland Cardiff Asset Management, the London-based hedge fund
group, to start his CC Asian Evolution Fund. They shared his
research driven, stock-picking investment philosophy and could
provide back-office and marketing support, he said.  “I’ve seen a lot of people invest in infrastructure and
just struggle to ever recoup that, limping along for ages,”
Dickson, 41, said in an interview in  Singapore . “I won’t have
to spend days with regulators, risk officers and compliance
people; I just focus on running my fund.”  Asia’s smaller hedge funds are sacrificing autonomy for
organization to help share costs and meet stricter risk
standards demanded by investors in the aftermath of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy and  Bernard Madoff ’s ponzi
scheme. At least 10 firms in Asia are now offering services such
as trade execution and office support, taking a cut of the
manager’s revenue or equity in the fund.  Firms that provide hedge funds with operational functions
are not new to the U.S. and Europe, where companies such as
FrontPoint Partners LLC of Greenwich,  Connecticut , and
Stockholm-based Brummer & Partners have built multi-manager
businesses that offer support to smaller funds. Asian funds,
which typically had tried to remain independent, are now more
tempted to pool efforts after superior returns failed to attract
assets, said  Peter Douglas , principal of Singapore-based GFIA
Pte.  Money Talks  “Managers’ patience and working capital are running out,”
said Douglas, who advises investors seeking to allocate money to
hedge funds and runs a wealth-management firm. “The economics
will prevail and these deals will start to happen.”  Small managers have been losing out as pensions and
endowments shifted to established firms with steady returns and
staff dedicated to risk assessment after the global financial
crisis saw many funds freeze assets. Firms managing more than $5
billion received about two-thirds of the almost $30 billion in
new capital worldwide in the second quarter, according to
Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research Inc.   Philip Tye, the Hong Kong-based co-founder and managing
director of DragonBack Capital Ltd., said smaller hedge funds
can overcome a cash drought by sharing costs to create an
organization with the risk and operating standards of a larger
firm.  ‘Asian Pass’  “There used to be something called the Asian pass:
investors would come to  Asia  and recognize that Asian funds were
generally smaller and they’d give them a bit of a break,” Tye
said. “Now, there’s no such thing as an Asian pass. You are
held to the same standards.”  DragonBack, which managed almost $600 million at its peak
in 2008, turned into a one-stop shop for managers after closing
its hedge funds a year ago. It has already brought onboard
Tempus Asian Strategies Fund, an existing $10 million Asia
equity long/short fund, and has lined up the Sharp Peak Vega
Fund, which seeks to profit from price swings in Asian stock
markets, with between $50 million to $75 million by September.  DragonBack expects two more deals by October, including a
“significant-sized transition of a well-known manager,” said
Robert Lance, DragonBack’s chief executive officer.  Rising Costs  “They will more likely go  cash flow  positive at a much
earlier stage, if not even on day one, because we’ve committed
most of that expenditure that they would otherwise normally have
to do,” Tye said. It currently costs as much as $1 million to
“properly” set up a hedge fund, excluding the ongoing cost of
running the business, he said.  Singapore-based JL Capital decided to offer support
services to other hedge funds to help share its own operational
costs after assets under management fell to about $140 million
from a peak of more than $1 billion.  “It’s a lot more expensive to set up a hedge fund in
Singapore now,” said James Loh, 60, who started the firm’s
Swordfish Fund Ltd. in 2003. “Managers can grow their funds
side by side with a respectable platform.”  Mark Voumard, managing director of Gordian Capital
Singapore Pte, said higher operational costs present a
“significant hurdle for managers looking to launch.”  Funds Closing  “Institutional investors nowadays typically are focused
much more on risk mitigation,” he said. “Therefore a
significant amount of their due diligence and investment process
is focused on the ability of managers to demonstrate that they
can offer operations, legal, compliance and other facilities
typical of a larger manager from day one.”  Gordian manages more than $300 million across strategies
including long-short equities and global macro funds.  With organizational and risk management demands rising,
some managers in Asia are closing. Risk management and
transparency are among the top six factors when assessing a
hedge fund manager, according to a Deutsche Bank AG annual
investor survey. About 100 Asian hedge funds closed down in the
12 months through January, according to Singapore-based
Eurekahedge Pte.  “Investor due diligence is now a much lengthier process
resulting in a substantially longer gestation period before
managers can expect allocations,” Gordian’s Voumard said.  FrontPoint  New regulations in the U.S. and  Europe  are driving
infrastructure enhancements in areas such as compliance, risk
management and investor reporting, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
said in a  report  in June. Singapore is also introducing new
rules to increase oversight of the industry.  For support shops, choosing managers isn’t without risk.  “If one strategy goes wrong, it brings everyone else
down,” GFIA’s Douglas said. “That sort of cross liability is a
risk.”  FrontPoint Partners’ assets fell to $1.5 billion as clients
pulled money after one of the hedge fund’s portfolio managers
was charged with fraud, a person familiar with the matter said
this month. The firm oversaw $7 billion at the start of November,
before Chip Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of its health-care
portfolio, was alleged by prosecutors to have traded on insider
information.  Catalin Burlacu, a former portfolio manager with Millennium
Management LLC’s Asian business in Singapore and  Barclays Global
Investors  in  Tokyo , is considering teaming up with a firm that
can provide his startup, Nexus Alpha Capital Management Pte,
with back-office and other operational support. The firm, which
runs systematic trading, relying largely on computer models to
determine when to buy and sell assets, will need to upgrade its
technology as it increases assets, said Singapore-based Burlacu.  “If an investor knows I’m running on a platform which has
already gone through a certain due diligence, it’s much easier
to get further allocations,” Burlacu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  