-- 
Legg Mason Profit Rises 25% as Market Rally Offsets Client Redemptions

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-28T22:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/legg-mason-profit-rises-25-as-stock-bond-assets-climb-with-market-rally.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the Baltimore-based
 money manager  seeking to reverse 15 straight quarters of
redemptions, said fiscal first-quarter profit rose 25 percent
driven by rising assets in its stock and bond funds.  Net income increased to $60 million, or 40 cents a share,
in the three months ended June 30, from $47.9 million, or 30
cents a share, a year earlier, the firm said today in a
statement. Legg Mason’s shares fell 4.1 percent as its stock
funds had $5.8 billion in withdrawals during the quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  has restructured the
firm and cut jobs to improve profitability and end the
withdrawals, which started as investment returns lagged in 2007
and intensified because of losses stemming from the financial
crisis. Investors pulled $3.7 billion from Legg Mason’s funds
during the quarter, the lowest amount since withdrawals started
in the fourth quarter of 2007. Fixed-income funds attracted $100
million, the first deposits in more than three years.  “The turnaround continues and there are still moving
parts,” Jeff Hopson, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
 St. Louis , said in an interview today. “I was expecting lower
equity outflows and higher flows on the fixed-income side.”  Legg Mason fell $1.24 to $29.30 at 4:03 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, extending yesterday’s 5
percent drop. The stock has lost 8.8 percent in the past two
days, the biggest two-day loss in more than a year. It has
fallen 19 percent this year, compared with the 9.9 percent
decline for S&P’s index of asset managers and custodial banks.  Equity Assets Rise  Legg Mason’s cash funds attracted $2 billion. The company
said it divested $19.4 billion in assets, including the transfer
of $18.1 billion in liquid assets to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
LLC and the sale of its stake in the Barrett Associates Inc.
unit, which manages $1.3 billion.  Fetting, who took over as CEO in January 2008, said in May
that expenses tied to Legg Mason’s Western Asset Management bond
unit will rise by $74 million this year, which will delay the
firm’s goal of improving operating margins to 30 percent.  The costs disappointed the company’s board of directors,
which includes activist investor Nelson Peltz and KKR & Co.’s
 Scott Nuttall , people with knowledge of the matter said in May.
Peltz is the company’s largest shareholder. Nuttall is head of
global capital at New York-based private-equity firm KKR.  Fetting rid Legg Mason’s money-market funds of bad debt at
the height of the financial crisis, which prompted losses for
five straight quarters in fiscal 2008 and 2009. Last year, he
cut jobs, moved some technology functions to investment units
and started to buy back shares after the firm returned to
profitability.  Management Trimmed  In a conference call with analysts and investors today,
Fetting said Legg Mason has overhauled its distribution in the
U.S., adding sales staff and cutting management layers.  “The net expense impact is favorable,” Fetting said on
the call.  Legg Mason’s stock funds, which get higher fees, have
increased assets by 16 percent in the past year to about $181.5
billion, while assets in bond funds rose 2.1 percent to $365.4
billion. The bond funds, run by Western Asset in  Pasadena ,
 California , accounted for about 55 percent of money under
management as of June 30, equity funds for about 27 percent, and
money funds for about 17 percent.  Assets under management dropped 2.2 percent from the prior
quarter to $662.5 billion as of June 30, driven by declines in
assets in money funds and stock funds.  Revenue Increases  Revenue rose 6.4 percent to $717.1 million. Earnings
included a 5 cent-per-share expense to open a $599 million
closed-end fund during the quarter. Expenses climbed 8 percent
to $616.7 million as compensation costs at Western Asset and
other units rose with better performance.  Seven of Western Asset’s eight fund strategies beat their
benchmarks over the past year, Legg Mason said. Six of the eight
outperformed over the past three years, and four out of five
beat peers over the past 10 years. At the firm’s Royce &
Associates stock unit, nine of 25 funds outperformed in the past
year; 14 out of 22 beat over three years, and all beat their
benchmarks over the past 10 years.  “We’ve clearly reached an inflection point in fixed-income
and we are taking share where we were previously giving share to
others,” Fetting said today in an interview.  The performance at funds run by the Legg Mason Capital
Management unit led by  Bill Miller  trailed all its benchmarks in
the one, five and 10-year periods.  Value Trust  Miller’s $3.4 billion  Legg Mason Capital Management Value
Trust (LMVTX) , best known for outperforming the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index for a record 15 consecutive years through 2005, has lost
0.33 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 4.9
percent return for the index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The markets have not rewarded valuation-driven
managers,” Fetting said. “Their strategies are positioned for
an eventual shift in sector leadership,” as health care,
technology and financial stocks rebound, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  