-- 
Egyptian Former President Hosni Mubarak to Face Trial in Cairo, MENA Says

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-28T17:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/egypt-s-mubarak-trial-will-be-held-in-cairo-mena-reports.html
The trial of former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak , charged with killing demonstrators and
abusing public office, will begin in Cairo Aug. 3, a judicial
official said, ending weeks of speculation over the venue.  The proceedings will be held at an exhibition center in the
Nasr City district, the Middle East News Agency said today,
citing Mohamed Manie, assistant to the justice minister.
Mubarak, who is hospitalized in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh, will attend, MENA said without saying how it got the
information. Ex-Interior Minister Habib el-Adli is also charged
in connection with the deaths, while Mubarak’s two sons are
charged with benefiting from their father’s position.  Holding swift trials for Mubarak and former officials of
his government has been a main demand of protesters. At least
846 people were killed in the uprising that started Jan. 25 and
culminated with Mubarak ceding interim authority to the Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces Feb. 11. Military officials had said
it was up to the court to decide where Mubarak would be tried.  “This is more proof that the demands of the revolution are
only realized through exerting pressure on the military
council,” Khaled el-Sayed, a member of the Alliance of the
Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of protesting groups, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no way that this decision would
have been made if it weren’t for the protests and sit-ins.”  Mubarak has denied all charges against him, his lawyer,
Farid el-Dib, said in a June 20 interview.  Many of  Egypt ’s main political groups, including the youth
alliance and the Muslim Brotherhood, said they will take part in
protests tomorrow to press for faster change, including an end
to military trials of civilians and further prosecutions of
Mubarak-era officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net . 