-- 
EIB Says Decision to Block Antonov From Saab Investment Stands

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-28T14:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/eib-says-decision-to-block-antonov-from-saab-investment-stands.html
The  European Investment Bank  said it
will bar Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  from investing in Saab
Automobile as long as the struggling Swedish carmaker owes the
bank money.  “The EIB confirms that the loan to Saab was made available
under the condition that Vladimir Antonov not get the
opportunity to take ownership in Saab,” Par Isaksson, a
spokesman for the European Union’s lending arm, said by phone
today. “This decision stands.”  The EIB decided to prevent Antonov and informed the Swedish
government of that decision in 2009 when the Trollhaettan,
Sweden-based carmaker first applied for the loan, Isaksson said,
declining to give a reason for the rejection. Saab owes 217
million euros ($310 million) to the EIB.  Saab was forced to halt production in April amid a cash
shortage. The company is negotiating payment and delivery terms
with suppliers and aims to restart manufacturing in the week of
Aug. 29, it said July 21. It’s also trying to raise more cash,
including from Antonov who aims to invest 100 million euros in
Saab.  Swedish Automobile NV, Saab Auto’s Dutch parent, fell as
much as 14 percent and was down 8.8 percent, or 13 cents, at
1.355 euros as of 4:17 p.m. in Amsterdam.  Legal Action  Lars Carlstrom, a spokesman for Antonov, said the banker
may report the EIB decision to the European Commission and will
“weigh opportunities for legal action” against the bank and the
Swedish government. “The EIB and the government have pretended
for months to consider our application to let Antonov in. This
charade has probably cost Saab a billion kronor,” he said by
telephone.  Johanna Martin, spokeswoman for Swedish Industry Minister
Maud Olofsson, said the government is not making a decision on
Antonov until it hears from the EIB and Saab’s former owner
 General Motors Co. (GM)   Antonov’s investment in Saab would be in the form of
working capital, letter of credit and shares, Carlstrom said.
Antonov would cap his stake in Swedish Automobile at below 30
percent, Carlstrom said.  “We’re not aware of any suspicions against Antonov, so we
really wish the EIB would explain its decision to bar him,”
 Eric Geers , a Saab spokesman, said today by phone. “We would
love to have him as investor.”  Carlstrom said it “looks promising” that Saab will secure
a commercial loan “within weeks” that will allow it to pay off
the EIB, and pave the way for Antonov to invest in Saab.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  