-- 
Telefonica Second-Quarter Profit Falls to $2.2 Billion, Missing Estimates

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T09:59:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/telefonica-second-quarter-profit-falls-27-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s second-
largest phone company, said quarterly profit slumped 27 percent,
trailing analysts’ estimates, as intensifying competition cut
earnings in its domestic market of  Spain .  Second-quarter net income was 1.54 billion euros ($2.2
billion), compared with the 1.64 billion-euro average estimate
of analysts. Profit was weighed down by a 353 million-euro
writedown on a stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Madrid-based
Telefonica  said  today. Sales climbed 2.2 percent to 15.5 billion
euros, missing the 15.7 billion-euro average estimate.  As European phone companies struggle to increase sales in
their home markets, they are focused on cutting jobs and
reorganizing assets while looking for growth in emerging
economies.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  said today it has begun a sale of
the Orange mobile-phone division in  Switzerland . Telefonica
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is slashing the operator’s
Spanish workforce by about 20 percent in the next three years.  “Telecoms earnings were disappointing overall, especially
those of Telefonica,”  Boris Boehm , who helps manage 1.2 billion
euros, including Telefonica and  France  Telecom shares, said by
phone from Hamburg. “Today’s results show that we need to be
more cautious with this industry in the future as we only see an
accumulation of problems.”  Spain Slides  In Spain, Telefonica’s revenue fell 6.6 percent in the
quarter, with the profit margin sliding 2.1 percentage points to
45.3 percent. Alierta is betting on  Latin America ’s economic
growth to win back investors discouraged by Spain’s unemployment
rate, which at 21 percent is the highest of the euro countries.  “Spain remains very weak and we wonder whether Latin
America’s strong performance could slow down,” said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco Sabadell in  Madrid , who has a buy
rating on Telefonica shares.  Telefonica fell as much as 2.2 percent and traded at 15.52
euros as of 11:27 a.m. in Madrid. Before today, Spain’s former
phone monopoly had fallen 7.3 percent in this year, while the
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications Index was little changed.
 Germany ’s  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the region’s No. 1 operator, had
gained 11 percent.  France Telecom  slipped 0.2 percent to 14.20 euros in Paris.
France’s biggest phone company today reported a 2.2 percent
decline in first-half earnings before interest taxes,
depreciation and amortization to 7.61 billion euros on higher
costs in its home market. CEO Stephane Richard is reorganizing
the company’s European portfolio, which also includes operators
in Austria and  Portugal .  Swiss Sale  A sale of France Telecom’s Swiss operations may be the
first step of a number of such disposals, since the company is
also reviewing its emerging-market and enterprise portfolios,
Chief Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said today. The Swiss
unit, which France Telecom tried to merge with TDC A/S’s Sunrise
division last year before regulators rejected the deal, could be
worth 1.4 billion euros, said WestLB analyst Tarkan Cinar,
citing a preliminary estimate.  Not all European telecom companies are struggling.  BT Group
Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s largest fixed-line operator, said first-quarter
Ebitda excluding job-cut costs climbed 2.6 percent to 1.44
billion pounds ($2.4 billion) after the company sold more
broadband connections. The shares climbed 1.9 percent on the
London exchange.  ‘No Bad Thing’  CEO Ian Livingston said BT’s broadband growth met estimates
and “with many companies in Europe having a quieter quarter,
it’s no bad thing.”  Telefonica said this month it will pay about 2.7 billion
euros to eliminate as many as 6,500 positions in Spain and will
book the whole cost this year as one-time expenses. The operator
employs about 35,000 people in its home market.  Spain’s weak economy is forcing consumers to look for
cheaper phone tariffs from rivals such as TeliaSonera AB’s Yoigo
unit, France Telecom’s Orange and Jazztel Plc.  Iliad SA (ILD) , a broadband provider known for cheap prices, will
become France’s fourth mobile operator next year, and its
founder Xavier Niel has pledged to bring down prices for
wireless service, which are higher than the European average.
Existing competitors Bouygues SA and Vivendi SA are cutting
prices and expanding their marketing ahead of Iliad’s entry,
France Telecom CFO Pellissier said on a conference call with
reporters.  Latin American Growth  In Latin America, Telefonica’s sales jumped 12 percent to
7.11 billion euros, making up almost half of the total.
Operating income before depreciation and amortization gained 10
percent. Revenue from  Brazil  surged 40 percent to 3.61 billion
euros after Telefonica last year took over Vivo Participacoes
SA, the nation’s largest wireless operator.  In  Europe , Telefonica’s revenue fell 3.5 percent to 3.77
billion euros. The operator’s O2 Germany unit doesn’t need a
strategic partner, division head Rene Schuster said on a
conference call today.  Telefonica, which told shareholders in April it plans to
cut its debt to between 2 and 2.5 times of Oibda, shelved a
share sale of its Atento Inversiones & Teleservicios SAU unit
after a discount in the offer price failed to entice investors
amid tumbling equity markets. The initial public offering of the
call center business was suspended indefinitely because of
“unfavorable market conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  