-- 
Telenet Raises Sales Forecast on Belgian Soccer, Fibernet

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-07-28T16:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/telenet-raises-sales-forecast-on-belgian-soccer-fibernet-1-.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by  John Malone ’s  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) , raised its sales forecast as customers sign up to
higher-priced broadband Internet and mobile-telephone contracts
as well as Telenet’s Belgian soccer broadcasts.  Full-year revenue will increase as much as 6 percent to
1.38 billion euros ($1.97 billion), the Mechelen, Belgium-based
company said today in a statement distributed to reporters. That
compares with an earlier forecast of 5.5 percent and analyst
projections of 1.37 billion euros, according to the average of
22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Telenet’s sales growth accelerated for the first time in
almost two years in the second quarter, to 5.2 percent from 4.6
percent in the three months through March.  Telenet started selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4 on contracts
of as much as 75 euros a month in May and acquired the rights to
the live TV broadcasts of  Belgium ’s soccer championship, which
starts tomorrow. The success of the cable operator’s Fibernet
high-speed broadband Internet in a bundle with digital TV and
fixed telephone led to an 8 percent increase in average revenue
per user, countering slowing net customer additions.  ‘Much Better’  “Ever since the announcement of the rights acquisition, we
have seen improved commercial trends throughout our
operations,” Chief Executive Officer Duco Sickinghe told
reporters in Mechelen. “April and May were a bit thin in terms
of sales, but June was already much better.”  Telenet, which will distribute 4.50 euros a share to
investors tomorrow, lowered its 2011 forecast for free  cash flow 
by 10 million euros to at least 240 million euros as it faces a
21.7 million-euro payment for the soccer rights in the third
quarter.  The cable operator generated 139.7 million euros of cash
not required for reinvestment in the first half, a 6.3 percent
increase from the same period a year earlier. The forecast
doesn’t take into account a 10.8 million-euro payment for mobile
spectrum acquired in a partnership with Liege, Belgium-based
Tecteo Group, which won’t be accounted for as  capital spending 
in Telenet’s cash flow statement.  The cable operator is in talks about future partnerships
with existing owners of mobile-telephone networks in Belgium and
those talks may continue “for a few weeks,” Sickinghe said.
Telenet’s existing partnership with  Mobistar SA (MOBB)  expires at the
end of next year.  ‘Many Ways’  “Not only are there many ways leading to  Rome ,” Sickinghe
said, when asked whether talks with Mobistar are on an exclusive
basis. “There are also roads leading to Milan and  Palermo .”  Second-quarter net income rose to 15.7 million euros, or 14
cents a share, from 8.5 million euros, or 8 cents, a year
earlier. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,
amortization and special items rose 8 percent to 179.9 million
euros, beating the 177.4 million-euro average estimate of 12
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Mechelen, Belgium, via 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  