-- 
Elvis Wedding, Giraffe Birth Highlight YouTube Collection: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-28T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/elvis-wedding-giraffe-birth-highlight-youtube-collection-film.html
“ Life in a Day ” opens with a shot
of the moon and closes with a picture of a snail.  In between, we see people sleeping, brushing their teeth
and praying. A baby giraffe is born, a cow is slaughtered and
elephants frolic in a watering hole. A Korean man rides his
bicycle around the world and an American woman shows off her
stitches from a cancer operation. A young couple walks down the
aisle in an Elvis-themed wedding and an elderly couple renew
their vows to celebrate 50 years of marriage.  The 90-minute film, directed by Kevin Macdonald (“The Last
King of  Scotland ”) and produced by  Ridley Scott , was compiled
from more than 80,000 YouTube videos shot in 192 countries on
the same day -- July 24, 2010.  Asking amateur videophiles to chronicle their everyday
lives and then turning all that footage into a compelling film
proves to be problematic. For every striking scene, there are a
dozen mundane ones. It’s like searching for the prize in a
cereal box.  Macdonald tries to organize the documentary by assembling
montages of similar activities and themes, but that quickly gets
old. Other sequences include people answering broad questions
such as “What do you love?” and “What do you fear?”  Heart Patient  The answers are mostly predictable, though one young man
confesses to loving his refrigerator above all else.  The film’s participants have ambitions, big and small. The
globe-trotting bicyclist wants to unite the two Koreas and a
sad-looking young girl yearns for meaning in her life.  Much of the movie is lighthearted or uplifting, including a
segment in which a bedridden Australian man thanks the hospital
staffers who took care of him following his heart operation.
There is one deeply disturbing scene of a cow being shot with a
stun gun before having its throat slashed.  Matthew Herbert and Harry Gregson-Williams provide the
evocative soundtrack and editor Joe Walker had the thankless
task of winnowing 4,500 hours of footage.  “Life in a Day,” from National Geographic Entertainment,
opens tomorrow in  New York ,  Washington ,  Chicago , Los Angeles,
 San Francisco  and  Seattle . Rating: **  ‘The Guard’  In the “ The Guard ,” a cynical Irish cop and an upstanding
black FBI agent try to take down an international drug-smuggling
ring that has infested a small town in County Galway.  The odd couple is the focus of John Michael McDonagh’s
offbeat black comedy, but the movie is filled with eccentric
characters and strange plot twists that hold your attention,
even when the thick Irish accents are hard to understand.  Brendan Gleeson sparkles as Sergeant Gerry Boyle, a poker-
faced veteran policeman who hires hookers, makes crass racial
jokes and treats authority figures no better than criminals. His
straight man is Wendell Everett (Don Cheadle, ever reliable),
whose preppy background and urbane manner defy Boyle’s
stereotypes.  Other standouts are Mark Strong as a bored mobster, Liam
Cunningham as his philosophy-spouting partner and Fionnula Flanagan as Boyle’s dying mom. There’s also a lively soundtrack
by Calexico, an indie rock band not known for Irish jigs.  “The Guard,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens tomorrow
in New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 