-- 
Temasek Names Phoon as CEO of Seatown

-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 
2011-07-28T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/temasek-names-jimmy-phoon-as-ceo-of-seatown-starting-aug-1.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, named Jimmy Phoon as chief
executive officer of its Seatown Holdings Pte unit.  Phoon, who’s head of strategy at Temasek, will take the
appointment starting Aug. 1, Temasek said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Phoon replaces co-CEOs Nasser Ahmad, a
founder of DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC, and Charles Ong, also
Temasek’s senior managing director of special projects, who will
continue in that role, Temasek said.  Ong and Ahmad joined Seatown to help build up the firm that
was set up in August 2009. Seatown, funded with more than S$4
billion ($3.3 billion) from Temasek, or 2 percent of the
sovereign investment company’s holdings, has deployed about half
of the capital in assets worldwide, two people with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this month.  “Seatown will continue to build on its foundation and all
the good work that has been put in place over the past year,”
Temasek said in the statement. “Its mandate and strategy as an
investor does not change with this leadership transition.”  Seatown, which makes investment decisions independently
from Temasek, will pursue deals with institutional co-investors
by 2015 and may add retail investors by 2020, Temasek said a
year ago.  Phoon, 47, will retain his position as Temasek’s head of
strategy, Temasek said. He rejoined Temasek in 2008, after
resigning as the company’s chief investment officer in 2007,
according to his profile on the firm’s  website . Ahmad will stay
on as an adviser to Seatown until the end of the year, the
company said.  ‘Not Unusual’  “It’s not unusual for our senior management to hold more
than one responsibility at Temasek,” Temasek said. “This
serves the group well, and broadens management capabilities
within the group.”  While Temasek holds mainly equities and focuses on  Asia ,
Seatown’s investments are more diversified both in terms of
geography and assets, the sovereign firm said last year. Temasek,
which means sea town in Javanese, is an ancient name of
Singapore dating from the 15th century.  Temasek said this month the value of its assets climbed 3.8
percent to a record S$193 billion in the year to March 31, and
profit more than doubled on increased contributions from its
holdings. The Singapore-based company invested more in emerging
markets including  China ,  India ,  Brazil  and  Mexico , as developing
nations led the global economy’s recovery from its worst
recession since World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linus Chua in Singapore at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  