-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall For Second Day on U.S. Debt; Currencies Weaken

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-28T22:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/emerging-stocks-drop-on-u-s-debt-impasse-earnings-concerns.html
Emerging stocks fell for a second
day as signs of slowing economic growth and the political
stalemate on the  U.S. debt  limit further eroded investor
confidence.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.3 percent to
1,145.40 at 4:38 p.m. in New York, led by a 1.3 percent slump in
MSCI’s gauge of developing-nation technology shares. Hungary’s
BUX Index fell for the fifth day, the longest losing streak in
two months. Sixteen out of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg slid versus the dollar, led by the South African
rand and Brazil’s real.  Asian exporters including Taiwan’s  HTC Corp. (2498)  and South
Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. sank as the U.S. Federal Reserve
said the economy is growing at a slower pace and lawmakers
continued to wrangle over the debt ceiling with less than a week
before a potential default on Aug. 2.  “The U.S. debt issue has everybody feeling a little
uncomfortable and investors are playing a bit cautious right
now,” said Vetri Subramaniam, the Mumbai-based head of equities
at Religare Asset Management Co., which manages $2.57 billion.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.5 percent,  India ’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index fell 1.2 percent, South
Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.8 percent and the  Jakarta Composite
Index (JCI)  fell 0.7 percent. Brazilian stocks rose for the first day
in four as the central bank said the outlook for inflation has
improved and consumer prices fell for the second straight month.  Market Volatility  The Brazilian real fell 0.7 percent to 1.5672 per dollar,
extending its two-day loss to 1.8 percent, the biggest since
May. The currency plunged 1.1 percent yesterday to 1.5555 after
the government said it will levy a 1 percent tax on some net
short dollar positions by investors in the country’s futures
market. Policy makers may increase the tax up to 25 percent if
needed, according to the decree signed by President  Dilma Rousseff .  Asian economies face the risk of increased financial market
volatility and destabilizing capital flows, the  Asian
Development Bank  said in a report today, adding that its
forecast of 7.9 percent growth for emerging East Asian economies
this year may be revised lower.  The MSCI emerging market gauge has lost 0.5 percent in 2011
as central banks including China and India raised  interest
rates , while the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed-nation shares has
gained 2.5 percent.  MSCI’s developing nation index trades at 10.2 times
estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 11.7 times for
the MSCI World index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Ceiling  House Speaker  John Boehner  delayed today’s planned vote on
debt-limit legislation as Senate leaders stood ready to kill the
measure should it get to their chamber. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid   said earlier he would move tonight to kill Boehner’s
debt-ceiling plan, paving the way for Senate votes this weekend
on a possible compromise to avert a potential U.S. default.  Bankers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
chief  Jamie Dimon  called on President  Barack Obama  and Congress
to raise the federal debt limit to steer the government away
from the threat of default.  Stocks in Latin American countries gained after improved
reports on U.S. jobless claims and home sales, bolstering
confidence in the economy and diverting attention away from the
country’s budget impasse. Mexico’s IPC Index rose 0.9 percent,
the most in a month.  BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, declined 1.6 percent after Goldman pulled
its “buy” rating on the stock on concern the new government
tax on derivatives will erode trading.  Turkey’s lira gained 1.1 percent to 1.6731 per dollar,
strengthening the most in a month, after central bank chief
Erdem Basci indicated he’s ready to take steps to halt the
currency’s retreat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  