-- 
EPA Proposes Pollution Limits for U.S. Gas Fracturing, Oil Production

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T21:12:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/epa-proposes-pollution-limits-for-gas-fracturing-oil-production.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
proposed rules to cut pollution from oil and gas exploration and
production, including the first U.S. air standards for drilling
using hydraulic fracturing.  The proposal, incorporating four air  regulations , would cut
emissions of smog-forming volatile organic compounds by about
one-fourth, with an almost 95 percent reduction in such
discharges from new and updated gas wells using fracturing, or
fracking, the federal regulator said today on its website.  Fracking, a technique that injects chemicals and water into
rock formations to free trapped gas, has been tied to a rise in
smog pollution in rural areas such as western  Wyoming . Companies
are rushing to use the process to exploit shale-rock formations
and President  Barack Obama  is urging the U.S. to tap gas
supplies to become less reliant on foreign fuel.  “This administration has been clear that natural gas is a
key component of our clean energy future, and the steps
announced today will help ensure responsible production of this
domestic energy source,”  Gina McCarthy , assistant EPA
administrator for air and radiation, said in a statement.  Shale-gas output was 4.87 trillion cubic feet in 2010, a 57
percent increase from 3.11 trillion in 2009, according to Energy
Department data.  The proposed EPA rules will cut emissions linked to
increased cancer risks, asthma attacks and premature death,
McCarthy said.  Capturing Gas  Pollution would by reduced by capturing gas that escapes
during extraction, and making that gas available for sale, the
agency said. The technology for the process is used by some
companies and required in some states, according to the EPA.  The proposed rules would be “extremely cost-effective,”
according to the EPA. The combined annual costs to comply would
be $754 million in 2015, and the estimated value of the gas made
available for sale is $783 million, the agency said.  The EPA said the rules also would lead to a reduction in
releases of methane, a greenhouse gas blamed for  climate change .  Oil and gas production and processing account for almost 40
percent of all U.S. methane emissions, according to the agency.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington , the largest
U.S. oil and gas lobby, said new rules aren’t needed.  “EPA has already imposed stringent emissions limitations
on engines used in oil and gas operations,” Howard Feldman, API
director of scientific and regulatory policy, said in a
statement.  API Seeks Delay  The API also called on the EPA to delay issuing final
regulations until at least August 2012. The agency, under a
court deadline to propose updated standards following a lawsuit
from environmental groups, is now scheduled to adopt the rules
by Feb. 28.  “The proposal will protect communities by reducing
exposures to pollutants that can cause cancer, such as benzene,
and preventing ‘bad air days’ caused by ozone smog,” said Amy
Mall, senior policy analyst at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council.  An EPA update to oil-and-gas emission rules under the  Clean
Air Act  is overdue, said Jeremy Nichols, director of the climate
and energy program at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based WildEarth
Guardians, one of the groups that sued the EPA in a bid to force
an update of standards that haven’t been revised since 1985.  API’s request to delay a new rule “would be seriously
misguided,” Nichols said today in an interview.  The rules mark a “major milestone as we work to safeguard
our communities from the impacts of unchecked oil and gas
drilling,” he said. “Drilling for oil and gas shouldn’t come
at the expense of clean air.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  