-- 
EPA Overstates Need for U.S. Ozone Rule, API Study Finds

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T18:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/epa-misrepresenting-need-for-pending-ozone-rule-api-study-finds.html
The Obama administration is
overstating the need and benefit of rules to cut national smog
pollution, according to a study released by the  American
Petroleum Institute , the largest U.S. oil and gas lobby group.  The Environmental Protection Agency’s statements about the
proposal to cut ground-level ozone, a main ingredient of smog,
“grossly misrepresent what EPA is actually estimating as the
potential benefits of reducing public exposures to ozone,”
according to the report released today by API and prepared by
NERA Economic Consulting of  New York .  The EPA’s ozone standards, which the agency has delayed
adopting amid industry opposition, would tighten regulations
issued under President  George W. Bush  in 2008. The EPA estimates
that the rules would save as much as $100 billion a year in
medical expenses and missed work days caused by the effect of
smog, offsetting about $90 billion in annual costs.  “EPA says the benefits are about equal to the costs,”
Howard Feldman, API director of science and regulatory affairs,
said today on a conference call with reporters. “This
conclusion is highly suspect because the assumptions the agency
uses are suspect.”  API said its study found that the EPA’s analysis relies on
cuts in soot pollution that may occur because of the rule. Such
reductions have “nothing to do with ozone” and negate
statements that tightening the Bush-era ozone standards will
produce greater benefits than costs, according to the study.  Ozone is formed when chemicals from burning fossil fuels
combine with sunlight near the ground.  White House Meeting  Representatives of API released the study before meeting
today with White House budget officials to discuss the pending
rules, according to the Washington-based lobbying group.  President  Barack Obama  is committed to setting standards
that are based on science, not politics, a White House official
said on July 26 when asked about suggestions of political
interference. The president believes that the cost and effects
on local communities and businesses must be weighed in crafting
any new rule, according to the official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the regulation isn’t yet final.  The API has said most of the U.S. counties monitored by the
EPA for ozone won’t be able to meet the new standards. As a
result, it will be difficult for businesses with expansion plans
to obtain needed air permits, according to the group.  “Fewer businesses would invest in new projects, all of
which would mean fewer new jobs,” Khary Cauthen, API’s director
of federal relations, said on the call.  The API last year released a study that showed ozone rules
may cost as much as $10 trillion from 2020 through 2030.  ‘Costliest Regulation’  “This could be EPA’s costliest regulation ever,” Feldman
said. “No rules could be more detrimental to economic growth,
and they could not come at a worse time as the nation struggles
with an unsteady economic recovery.”  The API is among industry groups and companies calling on
the Obama administration to put reconsideration of the 2008 Bush
standards on hold until 2013, when a review is required by law.
Under the  Clean Air Act , the EPA must evaluate such rules every
five years. The agency says it’s tightening the standards now
because the  Bush administration  ignored recommendations from the
EPA’s scientific advisory panel.  On July 26, the EPA said it wouldn’t meet tomorrow’s
deadline, set with a federal court, for issuing the new ozone
standards. The White House Office of Management and Budget is
studying the rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  