-- 
MetLife Beats Analysts’ Estimates as Non-U.S. Profit Climbs

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-28T21:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/metlife-profit-slips-21-to-1-24-billion-on-disaster-claims-derivatives.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, posted second-quarter results that beat analysts’
estimates as profit climbed outside its home market. The stock
gained in extended trading.  Operating profit was $1.24 a share, beating the $1.11
average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chairman Robert Henrikson paid about $16 billion for
American Life Insurance Co. in November to add clients in more
than 50 countries from  Japan  to  Russia  to  Chile . MetLife has
said it was considering further deals to increase sales in
economies growing faster than the U.S.  “The Alico deal will enhance the company’s long-term
growth profile,” Suneet Kamath, an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a July 22 research report.  Operating earnings in the international business more than
tripled to $507 million. Net income slipped 21 percent to $1.24
billion on catastrophe costs in the U.S. that the company had
previously announced.  MetLife advanced 2.5 percent to $40.80 in late trading at
4:56 p.m. in  New York .  Derivative gains plummeted to $352 million before tax from
$1.48 billion in the year-earlier period. MetLife uses
derivatives to produce income and guard against market risks,
such as interest-rate declines and currency fluctuations.  Private Equity   Book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, advanced 7.2 percent in three months to $48.48 at
the end of June. Net investment income gained about 25 percent
to $5.1 billion, MetLife said.  Variable investment income, which includes holdings beyond
bonds, was $425 million on “strong performance” from
 securities lending  and private equity funds, the company said.
MetLife said previously that variable investment income in the
second quarter of 2010 was $296 million.  The insurer has said it holds more capital than it needs
and will weigh acquisitions and a dividend increase. In a
February conference with investors, Chief Financial Officer
William Wheeler estimated MetLife had so-called excess capital
of about $4 billion at its U.S. insurance units and said, “We
will do something with that money.”  Steven Kandarian, 59, was promoted to MetLife’s chief
executive officer in May after six years heading the company’s
investment portfolio. He replaced Henrikson, 64, who served as
CEO since 2006 and reaches MetLife’s mandatory retirement age
next year.  Alico Integration  “Our Alico integration work is proceeding on plan, and
we’re well positioned for continued profitable growth,”
Kandarian said in the statement. Alico was purchased from
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , which sold assets to help
repay a U.S. bailout.  The U.S. business posted a 12 percent gain in operating
earnings, to $908 million. U.S. sales of variable annuities, the
equity-based retirement products, jumped 55 percent to almost $7
billion. The Auto & Home business had an operating loss of $56
million, compared with profit of $73 million a year ago as it
reported catastrophe costs of $174 million, after tax.  Kandarian is expanding MetLife’s home lending in the U.S.
as banks scale back and the country’s insurance market
contracts. He’s also seeking to sell MetLife’s bank deposit-
gathering business to avoid tighter regulation imposed by the
 Federal Reserve  following the 2008 credit crunch.  MetLife Bank’s second-quarter operating earnings dropped 79
percent to $14 million.  Reverse Mortgages  MetLife is poised to become the biggest seller of home
equity-backed loans to elderly borrowers, a product known as
reverse mortgages, after Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America
Corp. announced plans to leave the market. In June, MetLife
replaced Bank of America in a mortgage-distribution deal with KB
Home that gives the insurer access to younger home buyers.  The U.S. market for  life insurance   shrank  0.7 percent in
2010 to premium of $506 billion, according to a study by Swiss
Reinsurance Co. The Japanese market, which is the  biggest
contributor  to MetLife’s international business, was flat last
year. Premium in  Latin America  and the Caribbean rose 12 percent
last year. The advance in Russia was about 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 