-- 
Mets Trade Outfielder Carlos Beltran to San Francisco Giants, Newsday Says

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-07-28T05:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/mets-trade-outfielder-carlos-beltran-to-san-francisco-giants-newsday-says.html
Carlos Beltran  is being traded
to the  San Francisco Giants  from the  New York Mets  in
return for a minor-league prospect, Newsday.com reported.  In return for the six-time All-Star outfielder, the
Mets would get one of two minor leaguers, pitcher Zack Wheeler or outfielder Gary Brown, Newsday said yesterday,
citing two unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Scott Boras, Beltran’s agent, didn’t return a
telephone message left at his office seeking comment.
Giants spokesman Jim Moorehead said yesterday the team had
nothing to announce at that time. The Mets said in a
statement that “while we have been engaged in discussions,
we are not in a position to comment at this time.”  Beltran was not in the starting lineup last night for
the Mets’ game in Cincinnati and manager Terry Collins was
told not to play the outfielder.  “Everyone here has anticipated it, whether we like it
or not,” Collins told reporters before the Mets’ 8-2 win
against the Reds. “We knew it was going to happen. We’ve
talked about it for the last 10 days. So we’ll find out
tomorrow.”  News of Beltran’s move came four days before the July
31 non-waiver trade deadline.  The trade would clear salary space for the Mets, who
may lose $70 million this year, and would end a New York
tenure for Beltran remembered in part for a postseason-
ending strikeout.  Beltran’s Contract  Beltran, 34, is hitting .289 with a team-high 15 home
runs and 66 runs batted in this season. He is making $18.5
million in the final season of a seven-year, $119 million
contract signed in 2005. Beltran is owed roughly $6 million
for the final two months of the season, according to ESPN.  Beltran, who leads the National League this season
with 30 doubles, missed at least half a season each in 2009
and 2010, primarily due to right knee injuries. In the
deciding game of the 2006 National League Championship
Series against the  St. Louis Cardinals , he struck out
looking with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth
inning, ending the Mets’ most recent playoff appearance
without taking the bat off his shoulder.  The Mets are 53-51, 12 1/2 games behind the first-
place  Philadelphia Phillies  in the National League East,
and 7 1/2 games behind the division-rival  Atlanta Braves  in
the race for the wild-card spot. The Giants lead the NL
West by three games over the  Arizona Diamondbacks .  The Giants are next to last in the 16-team National
League with 373 runs scored.  “I think it’s fair to say we’re looking for some help
with this offense -- somebody that can hit in the heart of
the order,” manager Bruce Bochy said before  San
Francisco ’s 2-1 win at Philadelphia yesterday.  Rodriguez Trade  Beltran’s departure would come two weeks after the
Mets traded four-time All-Star reliever  Francisco Rodriguez 
and cash to the  Milwaukee Brewers  for two players to be
announced later.  The Mets started this season with a $119 million
player payroll, seventh in the major leagues, according to
 USA Today . The team received a $25 million emergency loan
from baseball in November and owner  Fred Wilpon  told  Sports
Illustrated  in May that the team might lose $70 million
this season. Wilpon is negotiating to sell 33 percent of
the team for $200 million to David Einhorn, head of
Greenlight Capital Inc.  Madoff Lawsuit  Wilpon and co-owner Saul Katz are battling a $1
billion lawsuit by trustee  Irving Picard , who is
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm. Picard sued in December,
claiming Wilpon and Katz, through Sterling Equities Inc.,
had made $300 million in “fictitious” profits and took
$700 million out of Madoff’s firm while ignoring signs of
fraud. Wilpon and Katz have repeatedly denied Picard’s
claims.  The Mets could use payroll flexibility if they want to
re-sign Jose Reyes, who becomes a free agent at the end of
this season. The 28-year-old shortstop, who is in the
option year of his four-year, $23.25 million contract,
leads the National League with a .347 batting average and
is tops in the major leagues with 16 triples.  Beltran was selected in the second round of the 1995
major league draft by the  Kansas City Royals  and was the
American League Rookie of the Year in 1999. He was traded
to the  Houston Astros  in 2004, where he helped the team to
a 92-70 record and its first National League Championship
Series in 18 seasons.  Beltran’s Playoff Performance  In those playoffs, Beltran batted .435 with eight home
runs and 14 runs batted. The Astros lost in the NLCS to the
Cardinals in seven games and Beltran signed with the Mets
in the offseason.  In 2006, Beltran led the Mets with 41 home runs, 127
runs and 116 runs batted in, helping the team to a division
title and a league-high 97 wins. The Mets swept the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  in the divisional series and advanced to
the NL Championship Series for the first time in six
seasons, where they met the Cardinals.  With the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth
inning of Game 7, Beltran struck out looking at a curveball
from Cardinals pitcher Adam Wainright. The Cardinals went
on to win the  World Series  and the Mets haven’t made the
playoffs since.  Wheeler, 21, was the sixth pick in the 2009 amateur
draft. The 6-foot-3 right-hander is in his second season of
minor league baseball. He is 7-5 this season with a 3.99
earned run average for the Class A San Jose Giants.  Brown, 22, is hitting .317 for the San Jose Giants
this year with 39 stolen bases in 53 attempts. He has eight
home runs and 58 runs batted in, with 127 hits in 95 games.  -- With assistance from Erik Matuszewski in  New York .
Editors: Rob Gloster, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  