-- 
Mets Trade Carlos Beltran to Giants for Minor-League Pitcher Zack Wheeler

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-07-28T17:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/mets-trade-carlos-beltran-to-giants-for-minor-league-pitcher-zack-wheeler.html
Carlos Beltran  was traded to the  San
Francisco Giants  from the  New York Mets  along with cash for a
minor-league pitching prospect, the team announced today in an
e-mailed release.  In return for the six-time All-Star outfielder, the Mets
will receive right-hander Zack Wheeler, rated the 35th best
prospect in the minor leagues by Baseball America. The Mets will
pay $4 million of the $6.5 million that Beltran is owed the rest
of this season, ESPN reported today, citing people familiar with
the talks that it didn’t identify.  “We thank Carlos for all he has done for this organization
-- both on and off the field -- and wish him well,” Mets
General Manager  Sandy Alderson  said in a release. “It has been
a pleasure for me personally to know and be able to work with
Carlos. He has been the consummate professional.”  The trade, which came three days before the trade deadline,
clears salary space for the Mets, after owner  Fred Wilpon  told
 Sports Illustrated  that the club may lose $70 million this
season. The team received a $25 million emergency loan from
baseball in November, and Wilpon is negotiating to sell 33
percent of the team for $200 million to David Einhorn, head of
Greenlight Capital Inc.  Wilpon and co-owner Saul Katz are fighting a $1 billion
lawsuit by trustee  Irving Picard , who is liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm. Picard sued in December, claiming Wilpon and
Katz, through Sterling Equities Inc., had made $300 million in
“fictitious” profits and took $700 million out of Madoff’s
firm while ignoring signs of fraud. Wilpon and Katz have
repeatedly denied Picard’s claims.  Home-Run Leader  Beltran, 34, is hitting .289 with a team-high 15 home runs
and 66 runs batted in this season. He is making $18.5 million in
the final season of a seven-year, $119 million contract signed
in 2005. Beltran is owed $6.5 million for the final two months
of the season, according to ESPN.  Beltran, who leads the National League with 30 doubles,
missed at least half a season each in 2009 and 2010, primarily
due to right knee injuries. In the deciding game of the 2006
National League Championship Series against the  St. Louis
Cardinals , he struck out looking with the bases loaded in the
bottom of the ninth inning, ending the Mets’ most recent playoff
appearance without taking the bat off his shoulder.  The Mets are 53-51, 12 1/2 games behind the first-place
Philadelphia Phillies in the National League East, and 7 1/2
games behind the division-rival  Atlanta Braves  in the race for
the wild-card spot. The Giants lead the NL West by three games
over the  Arizona Diamondbacks , and are next to last in the 16-
team National League with 373 runs scored.  “I think it’s fair to say we’re looking for some help with
this offense -- somebody that can hit in the heart of the
order,” manager Bruce Bochy said before  San Francisco ’s 2-1 win
at Philadelphia yesterday.  The Giants play the Phillies again tonight; the Mets are at
the  Cincinnati Reds  this afternoon.  Sixth Pick  Wheeler, 21, was the sixth pick in the 2009 amateur draft.
The 6-foot-3 right-hander, now in his second season of minor
league baseball, is 7-5 this season with a 3.99 earned run
average for the Class A San Jose Giants.  Wheeler was named a California League midseason All-Star
and ranks fourth in the league with a .224 batting average
against, according to the release. He pitched a scoreless inning
in last year’s MLB Futures Game during the All-Star break, and
is averaging 10.02 strikeouts per nine innings.  “Zack is one of the top pitching prospects in the game and
we are fortunate to have him in our system,” Alderson said.  Beltran’s departure comes two weeks after the Mets traded
four-time All-Star reliever Francisco Rodriguez and cash to the
 Milwaukee Brewers  for two players to be announced later.  The Mets started this season with a $119 million player
payroll, seventh in the major leagues, according to  USA Today .  Re-Signing Reyes  Shedding Beltran’s contract may help the team retain Jose Reyes, who will become a free agent after this season. The 28-
year-old shortstop leads the National League with a .347 batting
average and is tops in the major leagues with 16 triples.  Beltran was selected in the second round of the 1995 major
league draft by the  Kansas City Royals  and was the American
League Rookie of the Year in 1999. He was traded in 2004 to the
 Houston Astros , where he helped the team to a 92-70 record and
its first National League Championship Series in 18 seasons.  In those playoffs, Beltran batted .435 with eight home runs
and 14 runs batted. The Astros lost in the NLCS to the Cardinals
in seven games and Beltran signed with the Mets in the
offseason.  In 2006, Beltran led the Mets with 41 home runs, 127 runs
and 116 runs batted in, helping the team to a division title and
a league-high 97 wins. The Mets swept the  Los Angeles Dodgers  in
the divisional series and advanced to the NL Championship Series
for the first time in six seasons, where they met the Cardinals.  Playoff Strike Out  With the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning of
Game 7, Beltran struck out looking at a curveball from Cardinals
pitcher Adam Wainright. The Cardinals went on to win the  World
Series  and the Mets haven’t made the playoffs since.  The Mets recalled 28-year-old catcher Mike Nickeas from the
team’s AAA affiliate in Buffalo to fill Beltran’s roster spot.
Nickeas hit .250 in eight games with the Mets earlier this
season.  -- With assistance from Erik Matuszewski in  New York .
Editors: Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  