-- 
EU Bank Earnings Estimates Exclude $14 Billion Greek Haircut

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-07-28T12:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/eu-bank-earnings-estimates-exclude-14-billion-greek-rescue-cost.html
European lenders’ second-quarter
earnings may be lower than analyst estimates because the full
extent of writedowns on Greek  government bonds  isn’t included.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and Societe Generale SA, which
together hold 11.1 billion euros ($16 billion) of Greek
government debt, are among banks that may have to write down
their holdings after  signing up  to the  Institute of
International Finance ’s rescue plan last week, which requires
investors to take 21 percent losses on holdings that mature
before 2020. BNP Paribas reports earnings on Aug. 2, Societe
Generale the following day and Dexia SA the day after.  “For banks that have signed up to the IIF proposal it
seems inevitable that impairments must follow,” said Dean
Portelli, senior financial analyst at ratings company A.M. Best.  The IIF plan will require banks to write down the value of
bonds in their trading book as well as, for the first time,
record impairments in their banking books because the loss will
be permanent, under IFRS accounting rules. Total markdowns for
European banks outside  Greece  could total as much as $14
billion, equivalent to 13 basis points of 2011 core  Tier 1
capital , according to Citigroup Inc. analysts. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point. Some banks may not record the impairments
until after the Greek deal is completed, said Dirk Peeters, an
analyst at KBW Securities.  “There is a lot of uncertainty around how banks with
significant Greek exposure will choose to impair their Greek
holdings in their second quarter earnings,” said  Kinner Lakhani , a banking analyst at Citigroup in London.  Greek Bonds  Banks that prepared earnings before the rescue package was
agreed on July 22 may report even bigger losses because they
calculated impairments on the market value of their holdings on
June 30. Greek 10-year government bonds traded for as little 54
cents on the euro as of the end of the second quarter.  While the impairments may be larger than estimated,
analysts say they won’t amend their forecasts so close to the
publication of earnings. Officials at Paris-based BNP Paribas
and  Societe Generale (GLE)  and Brussels-based Dexia declined to
comment before the publication of their results.  Under IFRS accounting rules, banks aren’t required to take
impairments on a decline in the market value of some of their
Greek bonds -- those classed as available for sale -- unless
those losses are deemed permanent. The Greek package, which has
the backing of 31 banks and insurers, is evidence of a permanent
loss, said an auditor at one of the four largest accounting
firms, who declined to be named because the change affects his
clients.  Auditor Pressure  The  Institut Der Wirtschaftsprufer , the German auditing
body, and its French equivalent, the Compagnie Nationale des
Commissaires, have both in the past 10 days urged banks to take
losses in the their second quarter earnings.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest bank, filed its
earnings with auditors before the IIF deal was agreed, according
to a person with knowledge of the situation. The lender took a
155-million-euro writedown on its 1.2 billion euros of Greek
debt government debt in the second quarter. A spokesman for the
Frankfurt-based bank declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank wrote down all its holdings of Greek
government bonds, rather than only those that mature before
2020, Citigroup’s Lakhani said.  All Debt Impaired  “We have assumed that only bonds maturing through to 2019
would be impaired, as per the terms of the IIF proposal,” he
said. “Even though we believe there are valid technical
arguments for treating all Greek sovereign debt as impaired.”  BNP Paribas would need to record a writedown of more than 1
billion euros were it to mark down its entire 5 billion euros of
Greek government debt by 21 percent, data from the  stress test 
this month showed. If it restricts the impairment to bonds that
mature before 2020 losses would total 265 million euros.  Societe Generale would need a 557 million-euro writedown
for an impairment applied to all its Greek holdings and 512
million euros for those maturing before 2020. Dexia’s potential
writedown would range from 727 million euro for all of its Greek
government debt to 108 million euros for bonds maturing by 2020.  Analysts tracking the three lenders haven’t significantly
changed their forecasts to reflect the impact of the IIF plan.
The average earnings per share estimate for Societe Generale in
the second quarter is 1.44 euros, down 7 percent on four weeks
ago, according to a survey by Bloomberg. Dexia may post a loss
of 1.82 euros per share, a 1 percent wider loss than the
consensus estimate four weeks ago. BNP Paribas is estimated to
earn 1.68 euros, down 12 percent in the last four weeks.  Returns Lower  After writing down the value of debt held in their banking
books, lenders may in the longer-term shift to less risky
assets, reducing returns.  “The more complicated and concerning issue about taking
haircuts to banking book assets, not just trading book, is that
behaviorally the banks will be encouraged to shift back up the
rating curve toward AA or AAA rated assets,” said Jonathan Tyce, senior analyst for the Bloomberg Industries European
banking team. “This, in turn will lower the returns that they
can make as they seek improved liquidity and visibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  