-- 
European July Economic Confidence Declines

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-28T10:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/european-july-economic-confidence-falls-more-than-forecast-1-.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook weakened more than economists forecast in July as a
worsening debt crisis clouded growth prospects across the 17-
nation euro area.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the single-
currency region fell to 103.2 from a revised 105.4 in June, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest
since August 2010. Economists had forecast a drop to 104, the
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.  European leaders last week agreed on a second bailout
package for  Greece  in a bid to restore investor confidence and
stop the fiscal crisis from spreading. With governments from
 Spain  to  Italy  cutting spending to plug budget gaps, the euro-
area recovery is cooling. Manufacturing growth slowed in July
and German investor confidence dropped to a 2 1/2-year low.  “The euro-area economy has weakened notably, which is
highlighted by the fact that all of the sub-indicators have
deteriorated,” said Daniel Hartmann, an economic analyst at
Zug, Switzerland-based  Bantleon Bank AG  and the most accurate
European forecaster in a Bloomberg News ranking. “I expect the
gauge to decline further in the second half, albeit at a slower
pace.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released
and was trading at $1.4287 at 12:24 p.m. in Brussels, down 0.6
percent on the day.  Greek Rescue  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers dropped
to 1.1 from 3.5 in the previous month, today’s report showed. An
indicator of services confidence fell to 7.9 from 10.1, while a
measure of  consumer confidence  fell to minus 11.2 from minus
9.7. Sentiment among builders also worsened in July.  European leaders have struggled to contain a debt crisis
that originated in Greece and has forced Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts as well. At a summit last week, they announced 159
billion euros ($229 billion) of new aid for Greece, convinced
bondholders to foot part of the bill and empowered the region’s
440 billion-euro rescue fund to buy debt in the secondary
market.  The agreement sparked a surge in Greek bonds even after it
opened the door to a potential default through the involvement
of private investors.  Fitch Ratings  said on July 22 that Greece
will be considered a “restricted default.”  ‘Some Potential Risk’  With tougher austerity measures undermining consumer
demand, companies have relied on exports to bolster sales.  SAP
AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of business-management software,
sees  Brazil  overtaking  Germany  as its second-largest market, Co-
Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said July 19.  Munich-based Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the biggest maker
of luxury cars, said earlier this month that new models were
spurring sales growth in emerging markets including  China  and
Turkey to as high as 70 percent.  “While we’re enjoying a lot of success with new models and
seeing many markets moving very strongly, we also see some
potential risk,” BMW Marketing Director  Ian Robertson  said on
July 14. “Certain economies around the world will go into a
more difficult situation.”  Growth in the euro region and Germany probably weakened in
the second quarter from the previous three months, according to
Dekabank’s Scheuerle. The Bundesbank said last month that while
 Europe ’s largest economy expanded at a “considerably weaker”
pace in the three months through June, this “should not be
interpreted as an economic slowdown.”  Slowing Growth  Adding to signs of cooling growth, German investor
confidence dropped for a fifth month in July, executives grew
less optimistic and manufacturing growth slowed. German consumer
confidence will drop for a fifth month in August, a survey by
the  GfK SE (GFK)  market-research company showed on July 26.  A gauge of euro-area manufacturers’ order books fell to
minus 4.7 in July from minus 1.4 and an indicator of production
expectations slipped to 10 from 12. A gauge of employment
expectations declined from June and companies were also more
pessimistic about their export order books.  While the  European Central Bank  last month lowered its
euro-region growth forecast for next year to 1.7 percent from
1.8 percent. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on July 7 that
the euro region maintains its “positive underlying momentum”
after the Frankfurt-based central bank raised borrowing costs
for a second time this year to fight price pressures.  A gauge of service companies’ selling-price expectations
slipped to 5.4 from 7.3 in June. Households indicated they were
less optimistic about their financial situation over the coming
12 months, while a gauge of consumers’ assessment in price
developments over the coming year rose to 25.4 from 24.6.  Capacity utilization in the manufacturing industry declined
in the third quarter to 80.9 percent from 81.6 percent in the
previous period, today’s report showed.  The ECB will hold its next rate meeting on Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  