-- 
Leverage Cap on Trading May Curb Most Volatile Yen Since May: Japan Credit

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 
2011-07-29T04:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/leverage-cap-on-trading-may-curb-most-volatile-yen-since-may-japan-credit.html
Tighter regulations on  currency
trading  in Japan are coming just in time to help to Finance
Minister Yoshihiko Noda rein in a yen that’s the most volatile
in more than two months and trading near a record high.  Debt used to boost trading bets, or leverage, will be
capped at 25 times an investor’s committed cash from Aug. 1,
down from 50 times a year earlier, according to rules set by the
Financial Services Agency in 2009. The cap may decrease cases
where automatic orders are triggered, helping mitigate currency
swings, said Daisaku Ueno, president of Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd.  “If the leverage is lower, there will be wider leeway
until a currency reaches a level that triggers a stop-loss,”
said Tokyo-based Ueno, whose company is a unit of  Japan ’s
largest online currency broker. “Even if individual investors’
positions were targeted in thin early morning trading in Tokyo,
the scale would be smaller.”  Volatility implied by one-week dollar-yen options reached
11.44 today, the most since May 5. Concerns the strong yen will
stifle export-led growth has helped drive a rally in domestic
bonds, sending yields on 10-year notes yesterday to within one
basis point of this year’s low.  Trading in the yen has been “one-sided” and he’s
monitoring financial markets closely Noda said this week.
Concern about possible defaults in  Europe  and the U.S. boosted
demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge. The yen’s strength
could damage the economy and the  Bank of Japan  will take
proactive policy actions when necessary, central bank board
member Hidetoshi Kamezaki said on July 27.  Stop-Loss Trades  The Japanese currency surged 3 yen against the dollar in
about 20 minutes of early overseas trading on March 17 amid
speculation companies would have to repatriate assets to pay for
rebuilding from a record earthquake days earlier. Individuals
who had short positions on the yen were forced to close them out
with stop-loss trades -- preset orders to buy or sell at a
certain level to limit losses -- accelerating the yen’s gain to
a postwar record of 76.25 per dollar.  Group of Seven nations intervened to curb the yen’s
appreciation the following day, saying in a statement they
wanted to reduce “excess volatility and disorderly movements.”
Japan unilaterally sold yen in September, the first time it had
done so since 2004.  Twenty-seven percent of Japanese investors said they will
reduce the volume of their trading after the tighter leverage
rule is imposed, while 1.6 percent said they will quit trading
altogether, according to a  survey  this month by  Gaitame.com .
Another 15 percent said they will maintain their current volume
of trading by increasing deposits into their margin accounts.  Risk Reversals  The yen has climbed 3.9 percent against the dollar in July,
trailing only  New Zealand ’s dollar and the Swiss franc among
major currencies. Growing demand for yen calls, or rights to
purchase the currency, indicate the currency could climb higher.  The premium for one-month 25-delta yen calls over yen puts,
known as the risk-reversal rate, reached minus 1.84 percent
today, the widest margin since March 17. The negative number
indicates higher demand for the calls.  “The yen is more likely to exceed the record high
anytime,” said Daisuke Uno, Tokyo-based chief strategist at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., which manages $952 billion in
customer deposits. “The yen’s strength against the dollar
amplifies the attractiveness of yen-denominated assets.”  Bond Rally  Japan’s government bonds have returned 6 percent in the
past three months for investors who converted their proceeds
into dollars, compared with 2.5 percent from Treasuries, indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch showed.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond was at 1.085
percent as of 1:06 p.m. in Tokyo. It reached 1.06 percent on
July 19, the lowest since November. That compares with 10-year
rates of 2.95 percent in the U.S. and 2.63 percent in  Germany .  The FSA enacted the leverage standards to protect against
excessive losses for customers and to aid in risk management in
the financial industry, the agency said in 2009. There was
previously no official limit on leverage in currency-margin
transactions.  The tighter leverage rule may reduce trading among
individual investors who “buy on dips and sell into rallies,”
with high frequency, leading to higher volatility in “normal
times,” Gaitame’s Ueno said.  Mrs. Watanabe  Foreign-exchange  margin trading  surged in popularity in
Japan since its deregulation in 1998 as investors sought higher
returns overseas than the world’s lowest interest rates offered
at home. The traders collectively came to be called “Mrs.
Watanabe” based on common surname and because housewives in
Japan traditionally control household finances.  Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura said in
2007 “the housewives of  Tokyo ” had a stabilizing effect on
foreign-exchange markets. Short yen positions, or bets that the
currency will decline, indicate domestic traders are now betting
on a reversal in recent gains. Net shorts against the dollar
reached 398,547 contracts on July 26, the highest since the
Tokyo Financial Exchange began collecting data in July 2006.  The impact from the stricter margin rule will likely be
limited, said  Junya Tanase , chief currency strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo., citing what happened when the
leverage limit was cut to 50-times a year ago. Any investors
wanting to unload yen shorts have probably already done so ahead
of the rule change, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Kazumi Miura in Tokyo at 
 kmiura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  