-- 
Judge Leveson to Compel Witnesses in U.K. Media Probe After Hacking Furor

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-28T10:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/leveson-to-use-legal-power-to-compel-witnesses-in-u-k-media-investigation.html
Brian Leveson, the judge appointed
by Prime Minister  David Cameron  to investigate the British media
in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal, said he will use legal
powers to compel witnesses to provide statements and documents.  The judge, who as the head of a seven-member panel has been
asked to look at the press, its ethics and its relationship with
politicians and police, said he will begin hearings in
September. His initial focus will be how the press deals with
the public and press regulation. He said he may not meet
Cameron’s suggested 12-month deadline for an initial report.  The inquiry won’t be able to look at specific wrongdoing at
 Rupert Murdoch ’s now defunct News of the World newspaper until
any criminal cases are completed. Police investigating the paper
have arrested at least 10 people. No one has been charged.  “It may be tempting for a number of people to close ranks
and suggest that the problem is or was local to a group of
journalists then operating at the News of the World,” Leveson
told reporters in  London  today. “I would encourage all to take
a wider view of the public good and help me grapple with the
width and depth of the problem.”  On July 20, Cameron expanded the inquiry’s brief to include
social media and broadcasters. Leveson made no mention of the
former and few references to the latter, suggesting his main
interest will be in the written press.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
units of Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 