-- 
Exxon Mobil Falls as Net Misses Estimates on Slower Growth in Production

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-07-28T20:22:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/exxon-mobil-profit-rises-to-highest-level-in-three-years-on-oil-price-gain.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  reported lower-
than-estimated second-quarter profit as production growth lagged
analysts’ forecasts and refining earnings outside the U.S.
declined.  Per-share profit was 16 cents less than than the $2.34 a
share forecast, based on the average estimate of 18 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. Net income rose 41 percent to $10.68
billion, or $2.18 a share, from $7.56 billion, or $1.60, a year
earlier, the Irving, Texas-based company said today.  Exxon said second-quarter revenue climbed 36 percent from a
year earlier to about $125.5 billion.  Non-U.S. refining earnings fell 20 percent from a year
earlier to about $622 million. Oil and natural-gas production in
the quarter rose 10 percent to about 4.4 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day, less than the 12 percent growth expected by
 Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New York. Exxon’s
gas output in  Europe  tumbled 18 percent and the company relied
on last year’s purchase of XTO Energy to boost U.S. gas
production.  “The earnings improvement is not as strong as some of its
peers, relative to last year,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst
at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis  who has a “hold” rating on Exxon
shares and owns none. “Part of that is attributable to the XTO
acquisition, which increases Exxon’s reliance on North American
natural-gas prices, which have remained weak compared to oil.”  Liquids vs. Gas  Many oil and gas companies have focused in the past year on
growing their liquids production to boost profits while gas
prices remain low.  Exxon’s global liquids production increased
1.1 percent in the quarter, while gas production rose 22
percent.  Exxon fell $1.85, or 2.2 percent, to $81.46 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has 13 buy
recommendations from analysts, 12 holds and one sell.  The company’s production is consistent with its plan to
boost output 3 percent to 4 percent in 2011 compared with 2010,
David Rosenthal, vice president of  investor relations , said
today on a conference call with analysts and investors.  Exxon Mobil’s performance “reflects the ability of our
business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong
results,” Rosenthal said.  Average gas prices in the second quarter climbed to $4.378
per million British thermal units, less than 3 cents higher than
the second quarter of 2010. Oil futures in New York averaged
$102.34 a barrel in the second quarter, 31 percent higher than
the $78.05 a barrel a year earlier as economic expansion stoked
energy demand and a civil war in  Libya  disrupted oil exports.  Downstream Profits  Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in Houston, said he expected refining earnings of about $2
billion in the quarter, while the segment reported $1.36 billion
of profit. Total refining, or downstream, earnings climbed $136
million from a year earlier.  “Downstream profitability, particularly for a highly
global company like Exxon, is always just notoriously difficult
to forecast,” said Molchanov, who has a “market perform”
rating on Exxon shares and doesn’t own any.  Exxon said second-quarter chemical earnings declined by $47
million from a year earlier to $1.3 billion.  Gas Expansion  Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  has orchestrated $38
billion in acquisitions since June 2010 to amass gas fields and
the expertise to exploit them. Exxon plans to purchase more gas
reserves and is assessing targets in more than a dozen gas-rich
shale-rock formations worldwide, Jack Williams, president of
Exxon’s XTO Energy unit, said in a July 20 interview. Exxon paid
$34.9 billion to acquire XTO last year.  XTO now manages a U.S. resource base equivalent to about 76
trillion cubic feet of gas, compared with 45 trillion at the
time of its merger, Exxon said today in slides for a
presentation on its results. The increase was driven by
acquisitions, revisions and corporate transfers, according to
the company.  Exxon has also expanded its oil holdings, most recently
with the discovery last month of a  Gulf of Mexico  complex that
may hold the equivalent of more than 700 million barrels of
crude. The estimated size of the field, known as Hadrian, may
increase as drilling continues 250 miles (400 kilometers)
southwest of  New Orleans , the company said in a June 8
statement. Exxon is drilling to deeper objectives, where it has
found more oil, Rosenthal said today.  Finding Deeper Oil  Exxon’s Rosenthal said the company remains committed to its
integrated business model that combines oil and gas production
with refining and chemical manufacturing. Investors and analysts
have been reconsidering the value of the model after two
integrated oil companies this year,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , decided to spin off their refining units into
separate publicly traded companies.  “I think you’ll see over time that model will continue to
work for us,” Rosenthal said. “If it’s broken for others or
others don’t see the same kind of advantage that we do, it’s not
surprising that you might see some different approaches.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 