-- 
MF Global Shares Rise as Profit Beats Analyst Expectations

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-07-28T20:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/mf-global-net-income-rises-on-increased-principal-trading-risk.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , the futures
broker that’s transforming into an investment bank, rose as much
as 12 percent after profit beat analyst expectations.  Net income climbed to $7.67 million, or 5 cents a share,
compared with $783,000, or 1 cent, a year ago, the New York-
based company said today. Excluding restructuring, legal and
other costs, MF Global earned 10 cents a share for the period
ended June 30, exceeding the 6 cent average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It was the second profit in 10
quarters as the firm broadened operations and took on more risk.  The stock closed up 23 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $7.47 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company traded as
high as $8.09, the highest intraday price since May 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Jon Corzine , the former governor of
 New Jersey  who helped run Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 1994 to
1999, wants to remake MF Global into a mid-size investment bank
by 2015. Revenue from trading with the firm’s money and from
taking the other side of client trades, both Corzine
initiatives, rose to 42 percent of all sales in the quarter,
from 23 percent a year ago, the company said.  “We understand trading has attendant risks,” Corzine said
on a conference call with analysts today. His focus is on
“reducing dependence on one line of business,” he said. The
firm is particularly involved in building its mortgage- and
credit-trading business and intends to begin underwriting debt,
Corzine said.  ‘Strategic Initiatives’  “We are very active in strategic initiatives,” Corzine
said on the conference call. “Asset management is absolutely on
that agenda, but we want to do it right and make it accretive”
to earnings, he said.  Earlier this year, the chief executive said the firm would
be profitable on an unadjusted basis by March 2012.  “MF appears to be executing well on its strategic plan,
and we expect the strong performance this quarter to drive the
stock higher today,”  Christopher Allen , an analyst with
Evercore Partners Inc., wrote in a note to clients today.  MF Global net revenue rose to $314.5 million from $289.4
million a year earlier.  The firm said it will offer $300 million in convertible
senior notes due in 2018, from which a portion of the proceeds
will be used to repurchase about $109.1 million of existing 9
percent convertible notes due 2038, MF Global said in a separate
statement today.  Additional Capital  Corzine was asked by Niamh Alexander, an analyst with Keefe
Bruyette & Woods Inc., whether the additional capital in the
$300 million note offering was intended for an acquisition.
Corzine and Henri Steenkamp, the firm’s chief financial officer,
declined to comment on how they will use the remainder of the
funds.  Alexander said it was her understanding that MF Global
would raise additional capital only if an acquisition was
“lined up.”  MF Global has helped expand its operations by hiring more
than 80 salespeople and traders this year. Earlier this week, it
said it had brought on Christopher Belhumeur and Chris Lau to
expand trading in structured products and commercial-mortgage
backed securities.  Belhumeur, 40, previously co-head of agency collateralized
mortgage obligations and derivatives at Jefferies Group Inc., is
the new head of structured mortgage trading, Tiffany Galvin, MF
Global’s spokeswoman, said earlier this week. Lau, 38, who led
Gleacher & Co.’s commercial-mortgage backed securities trading
and started at MF Global last week, will assume that role for
the company. They will report to Jon Bass, global head of
institutional sales and fixed income, Galvin said.  “We have to earn to grow,” Corzine said. “We’re really
in the early innings of that in my view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  