-- 
Falcone’s LightSquared, Sprint Agree to 15-Year Network Expansion Accord

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-28T20:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/falcone-s-lightsquared-agrees-with-sprint-over-15-year-network-expansion.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s
LightSquared Inc. struck a 15-year deal with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
to share network expansion costs and equipment in an effort
aimed at making both stronger wireless competitors.  LightSquared will pay Sprint to build and operate a
nationwide wireless network that uses high-speed long-term
evolution, or LTE, technology, the companies said in a statement
today. During an 11-year period, LightSquared will pay Sprint $9
billion in cash and credits valued at about $4.5 billion. Sprint
can use the credits to acquire capacity from LightSquared, which
plans to offer wholesale wireless service to consumer
electronics companies and other telecommunications operators.  “The benefit this provides is an acceleration of our
buildout and at very efficient costs,” Sanjiv Ahuja, chairman
and chief executive officer of LightSquared, said in an
interview. “This is very, very significant for LightSquared’s
ability to build its business.”  The deal has potential advantages for LightSquared and
Sprint as they attempt to challenge  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T
Inc. (T) , the two largest U.S. wireless operators. For LightSquared,
the agreement is a way to build out its planned national network
more rapidly with lower costs. The company said it now expects
to be able to offer service to 260 million people in the U.S. by
the end of 2014, a year earlier than required under its licenses
with the Federal Communications Commission.  Rising Data Demand  For Sprint, the deal will provide a new source of revenue
as the third-largest U.S. wireless company struggles to compete
with bigger rivals. Sprint today reported a loss for the 15th
consecutive quarter.  The stock fell 82 cents, or 16 percent, to $4.34 at 4 p.m.
on the  New York  Stock Exchange. The stock has gained 2.6 percent
this year.  AT&T is trying to acquire  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile
USA unit, which would let it pass Verizon Wireless to become the
country’s No. 1 wireless operator and leave Sprint farther
behind. Sprint CEO  Dan Hesse  is fighting to block the deal,
which needs government approval, arguing it would stifle
competition.  Sprint has already pledged $5 billion to upgrade its
network over the next three to five years. The company can use
LightSquared’s network to lessen the load on its own network as
data demand skyrockets, an issue that has plagued other
carriers.  GPS Questions  Hesse said in May that Sprint was in talks with  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  for a similar network deal. Clearwire, which provides
Sprint’s fourth-generation wireless service, fell to its lowest
price since the Kirkland, Washington-based company went public
in March 2007. It lost 62 cents, or 22 percent, to $2.15 at 4
p.m. and has fallen 58 percent this year.  LightSquared, backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, has drawn questions from the Federal
Communications Commission and the  Federal Aviation
Administration  over concerns it may interfere with global-
positioning systems. The company may cost 794 lives in aviation
accidents over 10 years as it disrupts satellite-aided
navigation and at least $70 billion as aircraft owners forgo the
advantages of using GPS and purchase new equipment, the FAA said
in a study this month.  ‘Profound Reservations’  “When the FAA comes out and says human lives are at stake,
the FCC can’t simply dismiss that and say they’re approving the
plans anyway,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. Moffett said it’s “almost
inconceivable” the FCC will approve the company’s plans without
additional testing that would take months to complete.  Ahuja said in the interview that the FAA report doesn’t
reflect new proposals put forward by the company and he is
“absolutely confident we will get the proper approvals from the
FCC and other government agencies.”  Adding to pressure from the FAA are “profound reservations
from the  Department of Defense  and other GPS-sensitive
industries,” said Moffett.  Herb Putz, owner of Cooper, Texas-based Putz Farms, said in
a phone interview that GPS interference by LightSquared’s
operations would force him and other farmers to buy new
equipment.  “We would have to buy new antennas and have to adjust our
monitors, which probably costs the same as buying new ones,”
Putz said. “The end effect is that each of us farmers is barely
hanging in here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  