-- 
Fed’s Williams Sees No ‘Magic Wand’ in Event of Default on Sovereign Debt

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-07-28T21:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/fed-s-williams-sees-no-magic-wand-in-event-of-default-on-sovereign-debt.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of San
Francisco President John C. Williams said the central bank
doesn’t have a “magic wand” to help the economy if the U.S.
government defaults on its debts.  “Make no mistake -- the Federal Reserve doesn’t have a
magic wand that will allow the economy to get through a crisis
of this magnitude unscathed,” the regional bank chief said
during a speech in  Salt Lake City . “A federal default must be
avoided,” he said.  Williams’ comments on the federal budget amplify similar
warnings made this month by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when he
delivered the Fed’s twice-a-year economic report to Congress.
Williams said there’s “no question” the nation is on an
unsustainable long-run path of fiscal deficits, which must be
reined in over the next decade.  On the economy, Williams said he believes growth will
rebound in the second half of this year at a pace of “a bit
faster” than 3 percent and that inflation will subside to a
rate of about 1.5 percent next year. He repeated Bernanke’s
remarks this month that the Fed may need to increase stimulus
should the recovery falter, and that it may also have to remove
stimulus gradually if growth picks up and inflation doesn’t fall
too low.  “I do not anticipate, with this kind of forecast, having
to do currently more monetary stimulus,” Williams told
reporters after the speech. “But it will depend on what
actually happens in the economy.”  ‘High’ Hurdle  The hurdle is “high” for additional asset purchases by
the central bank, given the uncertainty over what their effects
would be, he said.  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers in Congress are trying
to break an impasse to reduce the nation’s long-term deficits in
return for boosting the government’s borrowing authority, now
capped at $14.3 trillion.  Unless the debt limit is raised, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the government won’t be able to pay all of
its bills starting on Aug. 2.  Williams, while speaking to reporters, reiterated his
position that the debt ceiling needs to be raised and that
failing to do so would lead to “very strong repercussions.”  U.S. stocks slid, dragging the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a fourth day, and six-month Treasury bills sank as
lawmakers indicated they were no closer to an agreement to raise
the debt ceiling.  S&P 500  Slips  The S&P 500 slipped 0.3 percent to 1,300.67 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  to extend this week’s loss to 3.3 percent. A drop in
six-month Treasury bills, maturing just after the U.S. exhausts
the ability to borrow on Aug. 2, sent their yield as high as
0.20 percent.  Williams said the weak housing market, tight credit and
spending cuts by state and local governments will continue to
weigh on the economic recovery in the months ahead. That’s why
the Fed is justified in keeping  interest rates  at record lows
near zero and maintaining monetary stimulus, he said.  “If the recovery stalls and inflation remains low or
deflationary pressures reemerge, then we may need to keep our
very stimulatory policies in place for quite some time or even
increase stimulus,” Williams said. “On the other hand,
assuming growth picks up and inflation doesn’t fall too low,
then at some point we’ll need to start gradually removing
stimulus.”  Job Growth Slows  Data released this month show retail sales stagnating and
the labor market struggling, with employers adding 18,000 jobs
in June, the fewest in nine months, and the  unemployment rate 
climbing to 9.2 percent.  The economy probably grew in the second quarter by 1.8
percent, the slowest pace in a year, according to the median
estimate of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department’s report tomorrow.  Fed officials gathered at last month’s meeting lowered
their forecasts for growth and employment this year and next,
while saying inflation excluding food and energy will be
somewhat higher than previously forecast.  Williams, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994, was
a senior economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers  during
the Clinton administration. The Sacramento native succeeded
 Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s vice chairman.  Williams, 49, will become a voting member of the rate-
setting FOMC next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  