-- 
Federal-Mogul Eyeing Acquisitions, May Spend Up to $1.6 Billion

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-07-28T14:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/federal-mogul-eyeing-acquisitions-may-spend-up-to-1-6-billion.html
Federal-Mogul Corp. (FDML) , the auto-parts
supplier controlled by billionaire  Carl Icahn , said it’s focused
on growth and is evaluating acquisitions four months after
considering putting itself up for sale.  Federal-Mogul is looking at purchases and is able to spend
as much as $1.6 billion, which would include the company’s $1
billion in cash and its $600 million  credit line , Chief
Executive Officer Jose Maria Alapont said today.  “Despite the recovery of the global economy, which now is
challenged again, there are companies and businesses that are
available for the people who have liquidity” Alapont said in an
interview. The parts maker is looking at two companies, he said,
declining to identify them.  Federal-Mogul’s second-quarter net income rose 31 percent
to $64 million, or 64 cents a share, from $49 million, or 49
cents, a year earlier, the Southfield, Michigan-based company
said today in a statement.  Federal-Mogul rose 50 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $20.13 at
10:30 a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares
fell 4.9 percent this year through yesterday.  Revenue rose 13 percent to $1.8 billion, helped by a gain
of about 23 percent in sales to vehicle makers, Alapont said.
Sales of Federal-Mogul’s after-market unit, which sells
replacement parts under brand names such as Champion, fell 3
percent.  The company’s U.S. sales to automakers rose 13 percent
while U.S. after-market sales slid 12 percent, Alapont said.  The portion of sales spent on selling, general and
administrative expenses fell 1 percentage point to 9.6 percent,
the company said.  The company said it is mostly focused on growth and won’t
rule out strategic “opportunities that may present
themselves.” Federal-Mogul said in March it hired Lazard Ltd.
to evaluate strategic alternatives.  Icahn controlled 76 percent of Federal-Mogul’s shares as of
April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  