-- 
FIFA Looks to Brazil World Cup as Banned Bin Hammam Vows War on Blatter

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-28T22:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/fifa-looks-to-world-cup-in-brazil-as-banned-bin-hammam-vows-war-on-blatter.html
Soccer’s governing body has headed
to Brazil this week, hoping to shift the focus away from
corruption claims and onto the 2014  World Cup . It won’t be easy.  FIFA decided July 23 to ban Asian soccer head Mohamed  Bin Hammam  for life for allegedly paying bribes to influence the
group’s presidential election. Last month, the resignation of
board member  Jack Warner  ended a probe into his involvement.
That followed last year’s suspension of two FIFA officials in a
cash-for-votes scandal linked to World Cup hosting decisions.  President  Sepp Blatter  was elected unopposed for a fourth
term in June after Bin Hammam withdrew his candidacy. Blatter
has pledged to clean up FIFA, which gets about $4 billion from
the World Cup. Not everyone is convinced he can deliver.  “It’s always the same tune,” said Umberto Gandini, a
board member of the European Club Association, which represents
the region’s top professional soccer teams such as  Barcelona  and
 Manchester United . “We are not seeing any significant change in
the governance and the policies.”  Gandini’s organization says FIFA too often acts alone,
without giving adequate consideration to clubs’ interests, such
as scheduling too many international matches. Blatter also has
been criticized by England’s Football Association, which is
smarting over the nation’s rejection as 2018 World Cup host, for
what it says is poor governance and lack of transparency.  World Cup Draw  The focus shifts to soccer tomorrow when the qualification
draw for the 2014 World Cup is held in Rio de Janeiro, starting
the process to whittle down the field to 32 teams.  FIFA 
executives will meet with sponsors who’ve paid millions of
dollars to associate their companies with the tournament and
politicians, including Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff .  Blatter has taken steps to try to reform Zurich-based
FIFA. After his re-election, he moved to get future World Cup
locations selected by all 208 FIFA nations, not just the 24
members of its board. The 75-year-old Swiss also proposed an
advisory panel to include former U.S. Secretary of State  Henry
Kissinger  and opera singer Placido Domingo. Both said they might
be willing to take part, although they’ve made no commitment.  FIFA has been dealing with the corruption allegations for
most of the past year, with nine of its 24-member decision-
making panel having been suspended or facing claims of
impropriety.  Most allegations centered on bidding for the World Cup, the
most-watched sporting event.  Russia  won the hosting rights for
2018, defeating campaigns from  England , and joint efforts from
Spain and  Portugal  and the Netherlands and  Belgium . Qatar
clinched the 2022 World Cup as  Australia ,  Japan ,  South Korea  and
the U.S. were disappointed.  Allegations  Bin Hammam, a 62-year-old Qatari, was accused in May of
offering $40,000 in bribes to voters in his abortive bid to
become FIFA president. He’s vowed to challenge his ban,
declaring “this is only the battle, not the war.”  Blatter and Bin Hammam once worked together, and the
Qatari helped secure Blatter’s first term in 1998.  “Without you, dear Mohamed, none of this would ever have
been possible,” Blatter wrote to Bin Hammam to commemorate 10
years of his presidency in June 2008.  At a press conference in  Rio de Janeiro  two days ago he
declined to say what he meant in that letter, or to comment on
the life ban handed out to his one-time colleague.  Sponsors’ Reaction  World Cup sponsors, including Dubai-based airline Emirates,
Visa Inc., Adidas AG and Coca-Cola Co., have voiced concerns
about the controversies hanging over FIFA. Still, no sponsors
have quit and the list of backers for Brazil 2014 is already
complete, said Nigel Currie, director of London-based sports
marketing agency brandRapport. The global reach of the event is
too important to companies looking to promote themselves, he
said.  “People are prepared to ignore the troubles and issues to
get to what they really want, which is the World Cup,” he said.  The governing body’s board members say progress has been
made. Chuck Blazer, an American on FIFA’s board whose complaint
led to the probe into Bin Hammam and Warner, said the sanctions
prove FIFA is serious about tackling impropriety.  “The code of ethics, and also an ethics committee, have
now been able to function efficiently and function
independently,” Blazer said in a telephone interview. “That
wasn’t the case prior to that.”  Bin Hammam said his guilt had been decided weeks before
 FIFA  heard the case, no matter what his defense would be.  Bin Hammam  “This is actually the act of the dictators,” the Qatari
told  Sky News . “When they think this or that person is a
prominent one to replace him, first thing they do they execute
him and try to fabricate any allegation against him.”  Blatter said he wasn’t a dictator and was instead
consulting officials inside FIFA and the  United Nations  to
consider new measures to promote good governance.  The crisis has touched soccer organizations across the
globe. The governing bodies of  Asia , and the North, Central
American and Caribbean region, are looking for leaders, and
Caribbean Football Union officials have been threatened with
life bans unless they give information on the allegations that
Bin Hammam handed out bribes to them in May.  “Obviously something is terribly wrong in the whole
football arena, from the administration of football from FIFA
right down,” said Lisle Austin, who briefly replaced Warner as
head of the Concacaf region before being suspended after a
dispute with Blazer, also the body’s general secretary. “I’m
hoping that whatever decisions are made it could help clear it
up.”  Whatever happens, Blatter has promised FIFA will be a
different entity by the time the first ball is kicked in  Brazil .  “We are doing a lot but give us time to go step by step,”
he said in Rio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  