-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Fall More Than Forecast to Lowest Level Since April

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-28T16:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-decreased-last-week-to-three-month-low.html
Applications for  unemployment
benefits  fell more than forecast last week to the lowest level
since April, a sign the weakness in the labor market is fading.  Jobless claims dropped by 24,000 to 398,000 in the week
ended July 23, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a drop to 415,000. Another report showed
the number of contracts to buy previously owned homes
unexpectedly rose in June.  Fewer firings are a first step toward gains in hiring that
will help stem a slowdown in  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. A report tomorrow may show
household purchases last quarter grew at the slowest pace since
the end of the recession in 2009 as the jobless rate climbed
above 9 percent and payroll gains decelerated.  “The figures are encouraging, though we need to see a
sustained decline in claims,” said  James O’Sullivan , global
chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York . “The direction
in claims invariably sends the right signal for growth in
employment.”  Stocks rose as the reports helped offset concern about the
impasse over the  U.S. budget deficit . The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.8 percent to 1,315.37 at 12:01 p.m. in New York.
 Treasury securities  also rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.94 percent from 2.98 percent
late yesterday.  Pending Home Sales  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned homes
rose 2.4 percent in June as buyers tried to take advantage of
lower prices and borrowing costs, figures from the National
Association of Realtors also showed today. The increase in
pending home resales followed an 8.2 percent May gain.  The rise in May didn’t translate into an improvement in
sales as contracts were canceled due to stricter lending rules
and low appraisals, the group said earlier this month.  “Cancellation rates are higher, which means this gain may
not entirely filter through to existing-home sales,” said
 Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in New York. “The economic background is still weak and
uncertainty is high about the outlook, which will keep
homebuyers on the sidelines.”  A drop in consumer confidence is one warning sign that a
pickup in growth and spending will take time to develop. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 46.8 in the
period to July 24, the lowest since May, from minus 43.3 the
prior week. Six percent of those surveyed said the economy was
in good shape, the fewest since April 2009, when the U.S. was
still in recession.  Debt Talks  Seniors and the unemployed were among those showing the
most negative readings, a sign that partisan wrangling over the
nation’s budget deficit was jarring those likely to be affected
by cuts in spending.  ”The stuff in Washington is really weighing on people,”
said  Brian Jones , an economist at  Societe Generale  in New York.
“The magnitude of the declines that we’ve gotten certainly
bears watching. What’s more worrisome is that if  consumer
confidence  has deteriorated that much, you can just imagine what
business confidence has done.”  The median forecast for jobless claims was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 44 economists. Estimates ranged from 400,000
to 440,000. The Labor Department revised the prior week’s figure
up to 422,000 from a previously reported 418,000.  Volatile Month  Claims can be volatile during this time of year as auto
plants close to retool equipment for 2012 models. This year’s
shutdowns have been difficult to predict, making adjusting the
data for these seasonal variations more challenging, a Labor
Department spokesman has said.  The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure than
the weekly figures, fell to 413,750 last week from 422,250.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
dropped by 17,000 in the week ended July 16 to 3.7 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
62,400 to 3.76 million in the week ended July 9.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits
decreased to 2.9 percent from 3 percent in the prior week,
today’s report showed.  Twenty states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 33 reported a decrease. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Growth Forecast  The economy’s growth slowed in the second quarter to a 1.8
percent annual rate, following a 1.9 percent pace in the first
three months of 2011, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey ahead of a Commerce Department report tomorrow.
Consumer spending likely grew at a 0.8 percent rate, down from
2.2 percent in the first three months of the year.  Companies that are cutting jobs include  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  The world’s largest defense contractor said on July 19
it’ll offer a voluntary separation plan to 6,500 employees in
the U.S. The Bethesda, Maryland-based company will in mid-August
evaluate the need for involuntary reductions.  The elevated jobless rate remains a concern for Federal
Reserve policy makers, who are likely to keep  interest rates 
close to zero for an extended period to stimulate growth.  “The most recent data attest to the continuing weakness of
the labor market,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a
statement to lawmakers on July 13. For the economy as a whole,
“the pace of the expansion so far this year has been modest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  