-- 
South Korea Braces for More Rain Amid Fatal Floods, Landslides

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-28T09:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/flash-floods-landslides-kill-at-least-38-in-s-korea.html
South  Korea  forecast more rain as
emergency workers battled flash floods and landslides that
killed at least 47 people amid a record deluge in Seoul.  The heaviest July rain on record in the capital triggered a
mudslide in a residential area in the city’s south yesterday
that claimed 16 lives while another 13 perished when a hillside
gave way near Chuncheon, 75 kilometers (50 miles) to the east.  “We’re worried that even a little bit more rain could
cause further landslides because the soil is so wet now,” said
Cho Ju Young, head of the disaster management team at the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy . “People need to keep watching
the situation closely.”  Seoul was hit with 534.5 millimeters (21 inches) of rain
between midnight July 26 and 5 p.m. today, the most on record
for a 65-hour period in July, said Lee Hyun Gyu, a spokesman at
the Korea Meteorological Administration. As much as 60
millimeters is expected nationwide through tomorrow, he said.  Meanwhile in the  Philippines , Storm Nock-Ten killed 31
people as it passed the nation’s eastern provinces. An  Asiana
Airlines (020560)  Inc. cargo plane that crashed into the sea southwest of
Jeju Island on its way from Seoul to  Shanghai  was probably
downed by problems with its controls and not bad weather,
according to South Korea’s transport ministry.  Evacuations  About 9,440 South Koreans were evacuated from flooded homes,
said Kang Sun Mu, a spokesman at the Disaster & Safety
Management Office. About 3,540 were still sheltering in nearby
churches, schools and buildings as of 5 p.m., he said. A total
of 6,680 soldiers were mobilized for rescue and repair work,
Kang said.  North Korea  was also affected, with about 6,000 people
evacuated from their homes, Yonhap News reported, citing the
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
South Hamgyeong and Hwanghae provinces received more than 300
millimeters of rain between July 26 and today, Yonhap said.  As much as 760 hectares (1,880 acres) of farmland in  South
Korea  was flooded, according to Kang. There were as many as 86
power outages across the country, though electricity was
restored to most of the affected houses or buildings by 5 p.m.,
according to the Ministry of Knowledge Economy.  Factory Collapse  Among the most recent deaths, seven people died after a
landslide in the town of Pocheon, north of Seoul, and three
people were killed in the town of Paju after the ceiling of a
factory collapsed, Kang said.  Insurers dropped in morning trading on the Korea Exchange
before erasing some of their losses by the 3 p.m. close in Seoul.
LIG Insurance Co. dropped 0.6 percent, Dongbu Insurance Co.
declined as much as 3.1 percent before ending unchanged and
Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co. slipped 2.3 percent and
recovered to close 0.9 percent higher.  Automobile insurers may have to payout about 40.3 billion
won ($38 million) in damages claims, the Financial Supervisory
Service said in an e-mailed statement. The General Insurance
Association of Korea said it doesn’t have an immediate estimate
on costs.  Samsung Electronics Co. has set up a team to repair
customers’ rain-soaked products, said  James Chung , a Seoul-based
spokesman. The area around the company’s office in the capital
was inundated yesterday, though there was no damage to Samsung’s
business, he said.  Electoral Impact  The nation’s ruling  Grand National Party  is concerned that
concentration of damage in affluent parts of southern Seoul,
which it considers to be a key constituency, could have an
electoral impact, the Herald Business newspaper reported on its
website today. Party Chairman Hong Joon Pyo shortened a trip to
Daegu City, south of Seoul to visit the nation’s central
disaster control center today, according to the report.  There were no disruptions to flights at the nation’s
biggest airfield, said Lee Ho Sun, a spokesman at Incheon
International Airport.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  