-- 
Foreclosure Filings Decline in 84% of Largest U.S. Cities as Glut Grows

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/foreclosure-filings-decline-in-84-of-u-s-cities-after-paperwork-backups.html
Foreclosure filings dropped in 84
percent of the largest U.S. cities in the first half of the year
as paperwork delays and a glut of seized properties slowed the
repossession of homes, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  Notices of default, auction and home seizure fell in 178 of
the nation’s 211 biggest metropolitan areas, the Irvine,
California-based  data seller  said today in a report. Cities in
judicial states, where courts supervise the foreclosure process,
showed the biggest declines from a year earlier.  Foreclosure notices have dropped amid a probe by all 50
state attorneys general into “robo-signing,” the practice by
lenders and servicers of pushing through documents without
verifying their accuracy. RealtyTrac expects about 2 million
foreclosure filings this year, down from a January forecast of
as many as 3.2 million.  “The foreclosure pipeline continues to be clogged in many
local markets across the country, sometimes by a glut of
already-foreclosed properties that are not selling quickly,
sometimes by a mountain of improperly filed foreclosures that
are blocking the inflow of new foreclosure filings -- and
sometimes by both,” RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer James J. Saccacio said in the report.  California , Nevada and  Arizona  accounted for 15 of the 20
metro areas with the highest foreclosure rate per household in
the six-month period.  Florida , a judicial state, had only one
region in that group, Cape Coral-Fort Myers. A year ago, nine of
Florida’s metro areas were in the top 20.  Las Vegas  Las Vegas had the highest foreclosure rate of any U.S.
city, with one in 19 households receiving a notice, almost six
times the national average. Phoenix ranked second, and Modesto,
Stockton and Riverside in California were third through fifth.
Boise,  Idaho ; Atlanta; Greeley,  Colorado ; and Salt Lake City
were among the top 20, the data company said.  Seattle  was the only metro area among the 20 largest by
population to have an increase in filings, up 9.8 percent from
the first half of 2010. It ranked 57th overall. Baltimore fell
to 182nd from 83rd, the biggest decline in rankings, after
filings dropped 74 percent.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the U.S. population. Its metropolitan
report covers areas with 200,000 or more people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  