-- 
Ex-HP Executive Sued by Former Employer Says Evidence False

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-07-28T20:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/former-hewlett-packard-executive-sued-by-company-says-evidence-is-false.html
The lawyer of an ex-Hewlett-Packard
Co. sales executive, who was accused by his former employer of
stealing secret information, filed a letter in court saying the
evidence used against his client was “false and fabricated.”  Adrian Jones, who left Hewlett-Packard to join rival  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  in February, was accused of downloading company
information on Feb. 10 or Feb. 11 to an external hard drive. In
the letter, filed June 10 in California state court, Jones said
the drive was used by Hewlett-Packard to do a backup and was
never in his possession. Hewlett-Packard and its outside lawyers
have confirmed these facts, according to the letter.  The suit has escalated tensions between Hewlett-Packard and
Oracle, which are increasingly competing in the market for
server computers. The schism between the companies began after
Hewlett-Packard ousted Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd in
August 2010, saying he had tried to cover up a relationship with
a marketing contractor. Hurd, a friend of Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison , later joined Oracle as a co-president.  “The central allegation in HP’s employment lawsuit against
Adrian Jones has turned out to be complete fiction,” said
 Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-
based Oracle. “If they did it knowingly then HP and their
lawyers should be sanctioned. If they did it mistakenly then
they simply owe Mr. Jones an apology.”  HP’s Response  Hewlett-Packard said today that Jones did store secret
company information, even if it wasn’t on that hard drive. He
returned other devices with sensitive files to the company, said
Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based
Hewlett-Packard.  “Regardless of the device, Adrian Jones said he had no
confidential information,” Thacker said. “But he did, and he
had returned it.”  Jones worked at Hewlett-Packard as a senior vice president
in its enterprise hardware group based in  Tokyo , where he
oversaw the unit’s sales in  Asia . He began seeking a job outside
Hewlett-Packard in the fall of 2010, according to the letter.  In December, the company began a probe of Jones. Hewlett-
Packard said its investigation found he failed to disclose a
close personal relationship with a subordinate, arranged a pay
raise of about 97 percent for her, and expensed travel to
 Australia  to see her with no legitimate business purpose.  Hewlett-Packard asked for Jones’s additional computers,
including his home computer in Tokyo, an iPhone and his
girlfriend’s iPad, according to the letter. Jones received the
job offer from Oracle Feb. 13.  ‘Bitter Antagonist’  In June, Hewlett-Packard filed a separate lawsuit against
Oracle, claiming that the company went from partner to “bitter
antagonist” and had breached its contract.  The lawsuit, filed June 15 in state court in  San Jose ,
 California , cited Oracle’s hiring of Hurd and Oracle’s March
announcement that it would cease software development for
Hewlett-Packard servers that use  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium chip.
Oracle also has used “strong-arm tactics” in forcing customers
to “shift from HP’s Itanium server hardware to Oracle’s own
server hardware,” the suit said.  That suit, which also cites libel claims, followed Hewlett-
Packard’s June 8 letter to Oracle demanding that the software
maker keep supporting the Intel chip, reiterating its concern
that the move will hurt customers and trammel competition.  Oracle’s shares fell 5 cents to $30.67 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Hewlett-Packard declined 57
cents to $36.23 on the New York Stock Exchange.  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Jones, 1-11-cv-198103,
California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  