-- 
France Telecom Begins Swiss Division Sale, Posts Lower First-Half Profit

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T05:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/france-telecom-reports-lower-first-half-profit-begins-swiss-division-sale.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , France’s largest
phone company, reported a 2.2 percent decline in first-half
profit before some items on higher costs in its home market. The
company said it has started a sale process for its Swiss unit.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined to 7.61 billion euros ($10.9 billion) from
7.78 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
in a statement today. Analysts had predicted Ebitda of 7.63
billion euros, according to the average of 14 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  France’s former phone monopoly is working on selling some
European assets while building its footprint in faster-growing
Middle Eastern and African markets. It said today its board of
directors will decide on the sale of the Orange unit in
Switzerland depending on the quality of offers received.  France
Telecom  last year tried to merge the division with TDC A/S’s
Sunrise but regulators rejected the deal.  Earlier this month, France Telecom said it had entered
talks with  China ’s ZTE Corp. to purchase its stake in Congo-
China Telecom, the fourth-largest mobile operator in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.  France Telecom confirmed its full-year targets, saying
operating cash flow will reach 9 billion euros this year.  Net income fell 48 percent to 1.95 billion euros after
France Telecom deconsolidated its U.K. business into a joint
venture with Deutsche Telekom AG. Profit missed the 2.28
billion-euro average estimate.  Emerging Markets  Revenue climbed 1.9 percent to 22.6 billion euros, meeting
estimates, helped by growth in  Spain  and emerging markets.  “In addition to our continued growth in Spain, we
succeeded in maintaining a good performance in France, a market
where we are preparing for the arrival of a fourth mobile
operator while continuing our investment in very high-speed
broadband,” Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in
the statement.  France Telecom shares have lost 8.8 percent this year,
while the Bloomberg European Telecommunications Index was little
changed in the period.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, and  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s largest fixed-line
operator, are also scheduled to report earnings today.  Since taking the helm last year, Richard, 49, has made
acquisitions in Morocco and Iraq and begun a review of the
company’s European portfolio, which also includes operators in
Austria and Portugal.  Richard is also leading a group of European operators
demanding a new relationship with big generators of  Internet
traffic  like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , arguing they don’t
contribute enough to the upkeep of telecom networks.  Telecommunications regulators have so far stayed out of the
dispute, leaving operators and the Internet companies to work
out new arrangements, which may focus on technical tools to
reduce the impact of high-bandwidth services like Google’s
YouTube.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  