-- 
Franklin Templeton Favors South Korea, Indonesia Bonds on Currency Gains

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-07-28T01:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/franklin-templeton-favors-south-korea-indonesia-bonds-on-currency-gains.html
Franklin Templeton  Investments said
it is boosting bond holdings in Asia-Pacific economies with the
best-performing currencies, seeking to maximize gains as
regional growth withstands debt crises in Europe and the U.S.  “ Indonesia , Australia and Korea will be very attractive in
the second half,” said Kim Dong Il, who oversees 3 trillion won
($2.8 billion) as chief investment officer for fixed income at
Franklin Templeton Investment Trust Management Co. in Seoul.
“The outlook for Asian currencies is good as the economies are
making a major leap forward.”  The Australian dollar surged to a record high yesterday and
a gauge tracking Asia’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the
yen reached a 14-year high. The so-called Aussie, South  Korea ’s
won and the Indonesian rupiah are the best performers of 2011
among the region’s 10 largest economies. Asia’s emerging-market
economies will expand 8.4 percent in 2011, almost quadruple the
2.2 percent growth projected for developed nations, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Indonesia’s local-currency bonds handed investors a 9.4
percent return so far this year, the most among Asia’s 10
biggest debt markets, HSBC indexes show. South Korean notes
gained 3 percent. The $4.2 billion Franklin Templeton Asian Bond
Fund is up 6.8 percent this year, outperforming 91 percent of
its peers, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  The fund, started in 2005, had 26 percent of its assets in
 South Korea , 20 percent in  Malaysia , 13 percent in Indonesia and
9.4 percent in Australia as of the end of March. It bought
ringgit debt to profit from  China ’s economic expansion, which
boosts Malaysian commodity exports, Kim said. “Strict foreign
bond investment controls in China” hamper direct investment in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy, he added. China’s
gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, official figures show.  ‘Healthy Status’  “It’s hard to find internal risk in Asia as the chance of
a hard landing in China was lowered after growth numbers
confirmed the healthy status of the economy,” Kim said. “Risks
that are already expected, such as inflation and crisis in
 Europe , will cause fewer disturbances in the local markets.”  The average yield on Asian debt rose 22 basis points, or
0.22 percentage point, this year to 5.35 percent, according to
emerging-market bond indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
That compares with 6.43 percent in Europe and 8.98 percent for
Latin America.  ‘Steady Inflows’  “The Asian population is growing fast out of poverty to
consume and developing nations in the region are starting to
build more houses and infrastructure,” Kim said. “We will buy
more bonds of these countries as there are steady inflows of
money into our Asian fund.”  Mirae Asset Global Investments Co., South Korea’s largest
mutual fund manager, plans to boost its cash holdings from the
current 10 percent on concern European banks will pull money out
of Asia should the crisis spread, said Kim Jin Ha, head of
global fixed-income in  Seoul . The fund had 5 percent of its
assets in cash at the end of 2010.  Concern about deteriorating public finances in Europe have
sent yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds to the highest
in more than a decade and prompted the region’s leaders to boost
rescue funds meant to aid the area’s high-debt nations. In the
U.S., lawmakers must agree on plans to tackle the nation’s debt
and raise the borrowing ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline to
avert a default.  ‘Risk Averse’  “Overall, investors will remain risk averse for a long
period of time as Europe’s debt crisis harasses markets and Asia
isn’t free from the risk of fund withdrawal,” he said.  Franklin Templeton favors Asian bonds maturing in less than
two years and will boost holdings of longer-dated notes once
inflation starts slowing in the region, reducing the need for
central banks to raise  interest rates , Chief Investment Officer
Kim said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India increased borrowing costs for the
fifth time this year on July 26, while policy makers in China
boosted benchmark interest rates for the third time in June.
Central banks in South Korea, Indonesia,  Taiwan ,  Thailand ,
Malaysia and the Philippines have also raised rates.  Australia ’s
last increase was in November.  “Inflation pressure is still high in the region and it is
approaching the peak,” Kim said. “We will gradually increase
longer-term bonds of countries that complete their rate-hike
cycle. It would be probably from Australia and China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 