-- 
Fukushima Teacher Muzzled on Radiation Risks for School Children

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-07-28T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/fukushima-teacher-muzzled-on-radiation-risks-for-school-children.html
As temperatures soared to 100
degrees Fahrenheit on a recent July morning, school children in
Fukushima prefecture were taking off their masks and running
around playgrounds in T-shirts, exposing them to a similar
amount of annual radiation as a worker in a nuclear power plant.  Toshinori Shishido, a Japanese literature teacher of 25
years, had warned his students two months ago to wear surgical
masks and keep their skin covered with long-sleeved shirts. His
advice went unheeded, not because of the weather but because his
school told him not to alarm students. Shishido quit this week.  “I want to get away from this situation where I’m not even
allowed to alert children about radiation exposure,” said
Shishido, a 48-year-old teacher who taught at  Fukushima Nishi
High School . “Now I’m free to talk about the risks.”  After the March 11 earthquake and tsunami devastated the
Tohoku region in  Japan ’s northeast, the central government
evacuated as many as 470,000 residents, including 160,000
because of radiation risks from the crippled Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant. More than 2 million residents including 271,000 children
remain in Fukushima, Japan’s third-biggest prefecture by size.  The government is closely monitoring radiation levels, said
Yoshiaki Ishida, an official at the Ministry of Education.  “We don’t think we are at a stage to tell Fukushima people
to evacuate at this moment,” Ishida said.  Kiyoharu Furukawa, 57, assistant principal at Fukushima
Nishi High, said the school told Shishido not to spend too much
time talking about radiation during his classes as some students
and parents complained. He confirmed Shishido resigned.  ‘Invisible Snakes’  Radiation can damage human cells and DNA, with prolonged
exposure causing leukemia and other forms of cancer, according
to the  World Nuclear Association . Children are more susceptible
as their cells grow at a faster rate.  “It’s all invisible. The trees are still trees, people are
shopping, the birds are singing and dogs are walking in the
street,” said Chris Busby, a visiting professor at the
 University of Ulster ’s school of biomedical sciences, who
visited Fukushima prefecture last week to provide information on
health risks. “When you bring out the (Geiger) machines, you
can see everything is sparkling and everyone is being bitten by
invisible snakes that will eventually kill them.”  Shishido will leave Fukushima for Sapporo, on the northern
island of  Hokkaido , on Aug. 8 to join his wife and two children
aged 13 and 10, he said. The teacher aims to create a network
there to help the 3,000 evacuees from Fukushima find jobs.  Rent-Free Housing  Hokkaido is offering 2,140  apartments  in public housing,
some rent-free, to evacuees from Fukushima, Miyagi, Iwate and
other prefectures affected by the quake and tsunami, said
Toshifumi Imai, a Hokkaido housing official. The government also
offers loans of as much as 500,000 yen ($6,400) without
interest, he said.  “People in Hokkaido were supposed to take the public
housing,” said Imai. “Most of them are still available.”  Shishido said he was instructed by school officials not to
tell his students that they should wear masks or about how
radiation would affect their health. He deleted some comments
from his blog after receiving those orders in May.  “I saw little boys playing baseball in a cloud of dust,
and I wondered who can protect their future,” said Kanako
Nishikata, a 33-year-old housewife with a son, aged 11, and
daughter, aged 8. “It’s shocking to learn a teacher is quitting
because he can’t protect the students.”  A group of parents and children from Fukushima plan to
visit Education Minister Yoshiaki Takaki in  Tokyo  on Aug. 17 to
ask him to evacuate children from the prefecture, she said.  Within Limits  Fukushima Nishi High, which has 873 students, had readings
of 0.07 microsieverts per hour in the school building and 1.5
microsieverts per hour in the playground on July 14, still
within the safety limits set by the prefecture and government,
Furukawa, the assistant principal said. The school continues to
hold gym classes and sports club activities outside, he said.  “I don’t think the children are safe either, and I know
the radiation level is still high,” Furukawa said. “These
days, they are wearing short sleeves and no masks.”  An official at the Fukushima Prefectural Board of
Education, who didn’t want to be identified, said he was
surprised that Fukushima Nishi High clamped down on Shishido’s
views. The board has sent counselors to the 301 schools it
oversees to ensure that children are not suffering from mental
problems, the official said. The board also asks students and
teachers to wash their hands and gargle after playing outside,
the official said.  Radiation Exposure  About a fifth of the 1,600 schools in Fukushima are exposed
to at least 20 millisieverts of radiation a year, the  Network to
Protect Fukushima Children from Radiation  said, citing the most
recent government readings in April. That’s the limit for an
atomic plant worker set by the  International Commission on
Radiological Protection .  More than three-quarters of the schools receive radiation
readings of 0.6 microsievert per hour, said the network, a group
comprising 700 parents. That’s 10 times more than the readings
in Shinjuku, central Tokyo, on average.  Miyuki Sato, a 36-year-old housewife who evacuated to Kyoto
this week with her two children, attended a town hall with
government officials in Fukushima on July 19. She said that even
after leaving her home, she still has a 120,000 yen monthly
mortgage to pay off.  “You may say we should keep children at home if we think
it’s dangerous, but kids need to play outside if they want to
pick flowers or collect beetles,” said the mother of a 9-year-
old son and a year-old daughter. “Please get all the children
out of Fukushima. Please offer financial aid for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  