-- 
Gasoline Futures Decline on Dollar Advance, Gulf Storm Outlook

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T19:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/gasoline-futures-decline-on-dollar-advance-gulf-storm-outlook.html
Gasoline fell as a stronger dollar
lessened the investment appeal of commodities and on speculation
that a tropical storm in the  Gulf of Mexico  may have minimal
impact on refinery production.  Futures sank 0.8 percent as Tropical Storm Don, on track to
make landfall on the Texas coast late tomorrow, according to the
National Hurricane Center, will have “little impact” on the
industry, said Jim Rouiller, senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. The dollar gained 0.4
percent against the euro as of 2:49 p.m. in  New York .  “The impact to production will be quite small,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “It’s
so far south and only of tropical storm strength.”  Gasoline for August delivery fell 2.47 cents to settle at
$3.1176 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The front-
month gasoline contract has gained 2.8 percent this month
following a 3.8 percent slide in June.  The more actively traded September contract lost 1.93
cents, or 0.6 percent, to $3.0638. August Nymex gasoline and
heating oil futures will expire at the close of floor trading
tomorrow.  Don, the fourth named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season, was 475 miles (840 kilometers) east-southeast of  Corpus
Christi , Texas, heading northwest at 15 miles per hour with
maximum winds of 45 mph, according to a  National Hurricane
Center  bulletin at 1:40 p.m. East Coast time. Storm alerts were
posted from the Texas-Mexico border north to Galveston Island.  Refining Capacity  The U.S. Gulf Coast accounts for 42 percent of U.S.
refining capacity, according to Energy Department data. The U.S.
hasn’t had a direct hit from a tropical storm since Bonnie went
ashore in  Florida  in July 2010. The last hurricane to hit the
U.S. was Ike, a Category 2 storm, in Texas in 2008.  The dollar rose a second day against the euro as the  House
of Representatives  is expected today to approve a debt-limit
increase proposal that faces opposition from the Democratic-
controlled Senate.  “The euro has trouble managing a rally, which puts a lid
on commodity prices,” said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount
Options Inc. in New York. “And the market is waiting on a
decision” on the debt crisis.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has repeatedly said
the government will run out of options for paying all of its
bills on Aug. 2.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will move tonight
to kill House Speaker John Boehner’s debt-ceiling proposal,
paving the way for Senate votes this weekend on a compromise.  ‘Indecisive’ Market  “The market is indecisive as they keep an eye on the debt
limit talks,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in Chicago.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.8
cent to $3.706 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for August delivery gained 2.26 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $3.1052 a gallon on the exchange. August
futures have gained 5.9 percent this month after sinking 4
percent in June. The September contract gained 2 cents to
$3.1144.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  