-- 
German Unemployment Fell in July as Hiring Resisted Crisis

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-28T11:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/german-unemployment-declines-at-slower-pace-amid-weakening-demand-eu-debt.html
German unemployment dropped in July
for a 25th straight month as company recruitment plans continued
to hold up in the face of weakening global demand and  Europe ’s
debt crisis.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
11,000 to 2.96 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast a drop of 15,000, according to
the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
jobless rate held at 7 percent for a third straight month, the
lowest since records for a reunified Germany began in 1991.  “The German labor market is defying the global soft patch,
financial turmoil and the sovereign debt crisis,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels, said in an e-
mailed comment. “Looking ahead, even if employment expectations
are currently slowing down somewhat, unemployment is bound to
drop further.”  After more than two years of consecutive monthly drops in
joblessness, mounting pessimism that the euro region’s debt
crisis can be contained is threatening companies’ appetite to
invest. Business confidence and investor optimism fell more than
economists forecast in July, while European services and
manufacturing barely expanded.  Hiring Slowing  “Hiring continues, but not with the same big steps that
we’ve seen,”  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in
 Frankfurt , said before the report was released. “There’s been a
lot of improvement already in the labor market and it’s getting
increasingly difficult to make further improvements.”  The euro rose after the report before slipping to $1.4289
as of 1:36 p.m. in Berlin.  The positive development of the German labor market will
likely continue into 2012, Heinrich Alt, a Labor Agency board
member, told reporters in Nuremberg today.  The fall in unemployment “has weakened compared with the
start of the year,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement.
“Demand for labor is at a high level, but has lost dynamism.”  The labor agency’s  BA-X  indicator, a measure of labor
demand in  Germany , dropped three points in July to 163, one of
just two declines in as many years.  A composite index of services and manufacturing growth in
the euro area, Germany’s main export market, fell to 50.8 in
July from 53.3 in June, London-based Markit Economics said July
21. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  MAN, Daimler  Gross domestic product in the U.K., Germany’s biggest
European market outside the euro region, rose just 0.2 percent
from the first quarter, while  China ’s manufacturing may contract
this month for the first time in a year, preliminary purchasing
managers’ data released last week by HSBC Holdings Plc showed.  For now, demand for German goods is underpinning jobs
growth.  MAN SE (MAN)  has created over 4,500 jobs worldwide since
January with about half of the positions in its German home-
market,  Joerg Schwitalla , personnel chief at Europe’s third-
biggest truckmaker, said in an interview today. More than 1,000
positions alone were opened in Munich, where MAN is based,
mainly at the company’s truckmaking operations.  “Our products made in Germany are enjoying strong demand
around the world,” Schwitalla said.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz division’s plant in
Untertuerkheim has reached an agreement with its works council
to create 600 new jobs this year, the company said in an e-
mailed statement on July 22.  Greek Spillover  Even so, German  consumer confidence  will drop for a fifth
month in August on uncertainty about spillover-effects from
 Greece ’s debt crisis, GfK SE said July 26. Separate measures of
household economic expectations, consumer willingness to spend
and income expectations all dropped in July.  “Ifo business expectations are heading down,” said
Scheuerle, who expected adjusted unemployment to decline by
5,000. “That’s a pointer for companies’ investment
activities,” which are closely linked to  job creation .  According to comparable data from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany’s jobless rate was
6 percent in May,  France ’s was 9.5 percent, the euro-region
average was 9.9 percent and the U.S. had 9.1 percent
unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at  at
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  