-- 
Gold May Rise Toward Record Price on U.S., European Sovereign-Debt Concern

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-28T12:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/gold-trades-near-all-time-high-as-u-s-lawmakers-strive-to-avert-default.html
Gold may rise toward a record set
yesterday in  New York  as concern that the U.S. and Europe will
struggle to contain their debt burdens spurs demand for the
metal as a protection of wealth.  U.S. lawmakers remained at odds on how to raise the
country’s debt limit in time to avoid a default.  Standard &
Poor’s  said Greece will partially default once European
officials push through a second bailout plan for the nation
agreed to last week. Gold futures reached a record $1,631.20 an
ounce yesterday.  “Gold is still the best safe-haven investment,” said
Bernard Sin, head of currency and metal trading at bullion
refiner MKS Finance SA in Geneva. “In the U.S., we don’t know
what damages are going to be created. If you look at  Europe , you
still have a lot of debt problems.”  Gold for December delivery rose $1.30, or 0.1 percent, to
$1,618.60 an ounce by 7:59 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Immediate-delivery gold was 0.2 percent higher at $1,616.40 in
 London  after reaching a record $1,628.05 yesterday.  Gold is up 14 percent this year, heading for an 11th
straight annual gain, the longest winning streak since at least
1920 in London. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 2 percent in 2011, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities is up 10 percent and Treasuries returned 3.3
percent, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Senate Democrats  The  House of Representatives  planned to vote today on a
debt-limit increase proposal that confronts unified Democratic
opposition in the Senate. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
has said the U.S. will run out of options to prevent a default
on Aug. 2 if the debt ceiling isn’t raised.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Franklin Templeton Investments, Loomis
Sayles & Co., Pacific Investment Management Co. and Western
Asset Management are among those warning the U.S. may lose its
top-level debt rating as officials struggle to raise the $14.3
trillion borrowing limit and reduce spending.  “There are major fundamental issues around the size of
debt, the inability to control spending,” Sean Boyd, chief
executive officer of  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , North America’s
fifth-largest gold producer, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Taking Stock.” Debasement of paper currencies “is forcing
people to start to look at gold,” he said  S&P yesterday lowered its ranking for  Greece  to CC, two
steps above default, and said the outlook on the debt is
negative. Last week’s accord also strengthened the region’s
bailout mechanism to offer protection to other euro-region
nations such as Ireland and  Spain  to avert contagion.  ETP Holdings  Holdings of the metal in exchange-traded products rose for
a third day, climbing 3.1 metric tons to a record 2,131.4 tons,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Physical demand is generally staying absent at gold
prices above $1,610,”  Edel Tully , a London-based analyst at UBS
AG, said in a report. “The fact that we’ve begun to see average
-- rather than low -- purchases at these levels suggests that
buyers are starting to adjust to a much higher gold price.”  South African gold mine workers for  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and Harmony Gold Mining Co., the continent’s
three largest producers of the precious metal, will strike today
over wage talks, the Chamber of Mines said yesterday.  Silver for September delivery in New York fell 0.9 percent
to $40.22 an ounce after yesterday climbing to a 12-week high of
$41.465. Palladium for September delivery slipped 0.4 percent to
$830.05 an ounce after touching a five-month high of $847.55
yesterday. Platinum for October delivery was down 0.9 percent at
$1,791 an ounce. It reached a six-week high of $1,823 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  