-- 
Citigroup, Goldman Commercial Mortgage Bond Traders Depart

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-28T20:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/goldman-sachs-citigroup-scrap-cmbs-that-s-p-won-t-rate-1-.html
The heads of commercial mortgage
bond trading for  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
have left the firms this week as the market is roiled by
sovereign debt crises and new deals are cut back or put on hold.  Warren Geiger left Citigroup, according to a statement
today from the New York-based lender. He joined from American
International Group Inc. in 2004, according to records from the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. His exit followed the
departure of Matthew Salem from Goldman Sachs, a person familiar
with the situation said earlier this week.  The banks were forced to pull a $1.5 billion commercial-
mortgage bond offering that had already been placed with
investors after Standard & Poor’s said yesterday it wouldn’t
rate the notes because of a discrepancy in how it graded the
transaction. S&P’s decision came after investors pushed back on
deal terms and demanded higher yields on $3 billion of bonds
sold last week.  “The CMBS market remains a challenge going forward and
we’re still at an early stage of the recovery,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York  in a
telephone interview. “The rating agencies are much more in
control than perhaps they were prior to the crisis.”  Geiger’s departure is unrelated to the review by S&P of its
ratings on the offering, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman
for Citigroup, said today in an e-mailed statement. “The
suggestion that it is related is totally false,” she said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  Planned Sale  Yields on commercial mortgage bonds have risen as investors
pull back amid a rush of offerings. Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG
cut a planned sale of commercial-mortgage backed securities by
more than 36 percent to $1.4 billion, according to people
familiar with the sale.  The Goldman Sachs, Citigroup deal won’t close as planned
because S&P is reviewing its criteria for commercial mortgage-
backed securities and can’t provide a rating, the banks said in
a joint statement.  The ratings company won’t give debt grades to any new
transactions that are based on certain criteria, New York-based
S&P said in a separate statement.  “Ratings are a condition precedent to closing and
settlement,” Goldman Sachs and Citigroup said in their
statement. “ Standard & Poor’s  had previously informed Goldman
and Citi that they were prepared to rate” the transaction, they
said.  S&P Review  S&P “is reviewing the application of our conduit/fusion
CMBS criteria in relation to the calculation of debt service
coverage ratios,” the risk assessor said in its statement dated
yesterday. ’’The review was prompted by the discovery of
potentially conflicting methods of calculation.’’  The banks had overhauled the transaction after investors
demanded more protection from losses amid concern that ratings
from S&P and Morningstar Inc. didn’t accurately reflect the
risks, people familiar with the matter said last week. They
placed the securities totaling $1.5 billion with investors last
week, according to people familiar with the transaction.  Goldman Sachs and Citigroup boosted the buffer that
protects AAA securities from loan defaults by increasing the
amount of lower-ranked debt that is first to absorb losses, the
people said. The so-called credit enhancement on the highest-
graded debt was raised to 20 percent from 14.5 percent.  Peaked in 2007  The extra yield investors demand to hold the top-ranked
portion of bonds backed by commercial mortgages has risen 5
basis points to 214 basis points over Treasuries since June,
according to Barclays Capital data.  More than $21 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds have
been sold this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of the debt
peaked at $234 billion in 2007, helping fuel a boom in property
prices. Issuance plummeted to $12.2 billion in 2008 as souring
subprime-home loans infected credit markets. The market stayed
closed until November 2009, choking off funding to borrowers
with debt coming due.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 