-- 
Goldman Sachs Views U.S. Downgrade as Manageable, Analyst Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-28T18:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/goldman-sachs-views-u-s-downgrade-as-manageable-analyst-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s senior
executives view a potential downgrade of the U.S.’s credit
rating as “manageable,”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said in a note to
investors today.  Citigroup analysts led by  Keith Horowitz  wrote that they
met yesterday with Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar, Co-Head of Securities Harvey M. Schwartz, and Co-Head
of Investment Banking David M. Solomon.  “Management noted that they have run through various
scenarios and implied the risk of a U.S. debt downgrade seems
manageable, with the important caveat that there is always the
possibility of more severe knock-on effects,” the note said.
New York-based Goldman Sachs “noted that collateral agreements
related to Treasuries are not dependent on Treasury ratings.”  Wall Street firms including Goldman Sachs, the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, are preparing for a potential
downgrade of the nation’s AAA rating if politicians are unable
to agree on a plan to raise the debt ceiling and reduce the
 budget deficit .  Banks and other financial companies frequently use U.S.
Treasuries as collateral for loans in so-called repurchase-
agreements, or repos, and the prospect of a downgrade has raised
questions about whether such loans would become more expensive.  Goldman Sachs “has seen relatively limited reaction in
fixed-income markets and some negative moves in equities, which
reinforces the belief that the impacts are more likely to be
short-term as investors are not questioning the ability of the
U.S. government to actually repay their debt,” the note said.  Rules governing money-market fund investments in Treasuries
aren’t typically tied to credit ratings, according to the note.
If a fixed-income fund is required to maintain a minimum average
 credit rating , they’re more likely to sell lower-rated debt,
such as bonds rated BBB or lower, to rebalance the portfolio,
the note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 