-- 
China Gold Demand May Surpass India This Year, Goldcorp Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-07-29T04:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/goldcorp-ceo-sees-gold-price-at-1-700-an-ounce-by-end-of-year.html
Demand for physical gold in China
may exceed consumption in  India  by the end of this year, said
Chuck Jeannes, chief executive officer of  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the
world’s No. 2 producer of the metal by market value.  “Three or four years ago there was no one who would have
expected Chinese physical demand for gold to surpass India,”
Jeannes said yesterday in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Now it looks like that could happen as early as the end of
this year. And that’s while Indian demand is increasing.”  While global demand for gold is advancing on concerns about
financial turmoil in the U.S. and some European countries,
consumers in China are buying larger amounts of the metal as an
inflation hedge, Jeannes said.  Investment demand in  China  more than doubled in the first
quarter to 90.9 metric tons as the nation overtook India to
become the largest market for coins and bars, the World Gold
Council said in May. India was the largest consumer of gold
jewelry last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold reached a record $1,631.20 an ounce on July 27 in New
York on concern about a potential U.S. default and is heading
for an 11th straight annual increase.  Consumer prices in China advanced 6.4 percent in June from
a year earlier, the biggest gain since June 2008 and exceeding
the government’s target of 4 percent. The central bank has
raised  interest rates  five times and the reserve-requirement
ratio 12 times since the start of 2010 to stem inflation.  Deliveries Jump  Deliveries on the Shanghai Gold Exchange jumped 20 percent
in the first six months to 483.7 tons, according to Song Yuqin,
deputy chairman of the exchange.  Demand for gold in both China and India may help lift the
price of the precious metal, said Jeannes, who said he expects
gold to advance to $1,700 an ounce by the end of the year.  “I predicted a $1,600 gold price at the beginning of the
year, and am happy to see it there now,” Jeannes said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised to see it move significantly higher by the
end of the year.”  Gold may be $1,510 an ounce in the December quarter,
according to the median of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldcorp, based in  Vancouver , is second by market value
after Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold
producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 