-- 
Goldman Cuts BM&FBovespa to ‘Neutral’ as Derivatives Tax to Hurt Trading

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-07-28T20:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/goldman-cuts-bm-fbovespa-to-neutral-as-derivatives-tax-to-hurt-trading.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. pulled its
“buy” rating on  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of  Latin
America ’s biggest securities exchange, on concern a new
government tax on currency derivatives will erode trading.  BM&F Bovespa fell 1.6 percent to 8.89 reais at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York , the lowest since April 2009. That followed a 5.4
percent plunge yesterday sparked by the government’s creation of
a 1 percent tax on short dollar positions with a notional value
of more than $10 million in the futures market.  Brazil ’s National Monetary Council, known as CMN, may
increase the derivatives tax up to 25 percent, according to the
government decree signed by President Dilma Rousseff. The
measure is the latest in a series of moves by Brazilian policy
makers to stem a 48 percent rally in the real since December
2008 that is crimping exporters’ profits.  “These measures are going to hurt the BM&F,” Nathan Blanche, a partner and economist at Sao Paulo-based consulting
firm Tendencias Consultoria Integrada, said in a telephone
interview. “The most they can achieve is to drive these
operations to other markets, including  Chicago .”  The number of dollar future contracts traded on the BM&F
Bovespa was 328,000 as of 4:22 p.m. New York time, according to
the exchange. Yesterday, a total of 374,766 contracts traded,
and 388,365 traded July 26.  ‘Significant Threat’  “While the details regarding how the CMN will use these
new powers are sparse, it represents significant threat for
government interference in the exchange’s operations, including
its ability to determine conditions for trades,” Goldman Sachs’
analysts including Carlos G. Macedo wrote. They cut the stock to
“neutral” from “buy.”  Brazil will begin collecting the new tax on bets against
the dollar in the country’s futures market on Oct. 5, according
to the  Finance Ministry . Tax authorities need extra time to
develop a system for collecting the levy, the ministry said in a
statement.  Brazilian banks are hesitant to place new bets in the
dollar futures market because “they don’t know how this is
going to impact their positions,” said Mario Battistel, head of
 currency trading  at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores in  Sao
Paulo .  The real fell 0.8 percent to 1.5678 per dollar after a 1.1
percent decline yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  