-- 
Greek Bondholders May Shun Rescue as Potential Losses Top 21%: Euro Credit

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T11:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/greek-bondholders-may-shun-rescue-as-potential-losses-top-21-euro-credit.html
Greek bondholders may resist
pressure to reinvest in the nation’s securities as part of a
bailout agreement as potential losses exceed the 21 percent
estimated by the  Institute of International Finance .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. calculates the bonds may lose as much
as 34 percent of their value, while Rabobank International
anticipates losses of as much as 50 percent. That may be high
enough to deter money managers from aiding the rescue, leaving
European leaders to either foot a bigger share of the bill or
compel private investors to chip in to meet a 90 percent
participation goal.  “Our view is that IIF yield assumption in calculating this
is too low,” said Pavan Wadhwa, JPMorgan’s global head of
interest-rate strategy in London. “As the market stands right
now, the haircut banks will take if they sign up to the IIF
 proposal  would be much higher than 21 percent. The plan might
fail as it’s going to be difficult to achieve the required 90
percent rollover rate that the IIF is hoping for.”  Greece  is set for a second bailout in less than two years
after the previous package worth 110 billion euros ($157
billion) failed to solve the euro area’s debt crisis. The new
financing plan includes 109 billion euros from the euro region
and the  International Monetary Fund , with investors contributing
54 billion euros from mid-2011 to mid-2014, building to a total
of 135 billion euros through 2020, according to the IIF.  Discounting Losses  JPMorgan said a discount rate of 12 percent, based on
current weighted average of Greek yields, is a fairer way to
calculate the losses than the 9 percent rate assumed by the IIF.
The discount rate is the assumed reduction in the value of
payments from the bond over time. The JPMorgan analysis also
takes into account the value of underlying collaterals.  Greek debt is worth less than the 79 percent of face value
suggested by the IIF calculation. Two-year notes yield about
30.95 percent, up from 27.63 percent on July 22, as the price of
the securities slid to 67.24, or 32.76 below their face value.
Five-year notes yield 16.94 percent at a price of 57.5 and 10-
year bonds trade at 59.1 to yield about 14.81 percent.  The IIF, which lobbies on behalf of banks, said its members
are prepared to participate in a voluntary debt exchange, with
four options for Greek bondholders available under the program.
Three of those would be backed by AAA rated zero-coupon
securities and have a 30-year maturity, while the fourth would
last for 15 years and be partially collateralized.  Maximum Benefit  “All instruments will be priced to produce a 21 percent net
present value loss based on an assumed discount rate of 9
percent,” the IIF said on its website. “The  interest rates  are
structured to maximize the benefits to Greece in the early years
of the program as Greece regains access to global capital
markets.”  The IIF said it assumed that an equal portion of investors
will participate in each option. Greece hired BNP Paribas SA,
Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc this week to manage the
voluntary bond exchange and debt buyback plan.  “More details about this program are likely to emerge in
coming days and weeks, but at first glance the discount rate and
assumed losses do look unrealistic,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“Perhaps they are figures that everyone is comfortable with. In
any case, we think an actual overall haircut should be in the
region of 40-50 percent.”  Erste, Emporiki Participation  Erste Group Bank AG,  Austria ’s biggest lender, said it will
wait for “clarity” before deciding whether to sign up.  “We will make a decision once we feel really confident that
whatever is presented is going to be the final package,”
Andreas Treichl, the bank’s chief executive officer, told
analysts in a telephone conference today. “The numbers are
changing. We just want to have clarity.”  Credit Agricole SA,  France ’s second-largest bank by assets,
said the participation of its Emporiki Bank of Greece SA unit in
the program will result in an estimated 71-million-euro
impairment to the Greek lender’s bondholdings.  Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating to CC, two
steps above default, from CCC on July 27. It said the proposed
restructuring would amount to a “selective default” because
the debt exchange would result in losses for creditors and was
required to reduce the risk of a near-term default. Even after
that, it said “the likelihood of a future default on the new
securities is likely to remain high.”  ‘Punitive’ Threat  Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European economist
at  Barclays Capital  in  London , estimates that the losses may
instead be less than 21 percent, based on applying the assumed
discount rate to existing securities as well as the new bonds.
That produces a deterioration of about 10 percent, he said.  “If the proposal fails due to lack of investor
participation, the chances of a more punitive debt
default/restructuring increase significantly,” Barclays
economists including Garcia Pascual wrote in an investor report
on July 26. “However, it may be wrong to consider this as a
pure voluntary exchange. The offer is likely to be subject to a
minimum participation rate, probably 90 percent, with a credible
threat for those not participating of a more punitive
restructuring.”  While the additional yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Greek bonds instead of benchmark German bunds has narrowed to
1,220 basis points from a peak of 1,564 basis points on July 19,
the spread is still up from 951 basis points on Dec. 31 and 745
basis points a year ago.  “I’m not quite sure where these numbers come from but the
IIF has to do something to get private bondholders to sign on to
the program on a voluntary basis,” said  David Owen , chief
European economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.
“In my mind, it’s almost as if it was rushed out in a hurry.
The bottom line is the private sector participation is not going
be big enough to resolve Greece’s debt problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  