-- 
Libya Rebel Military Chief Younis, Qaddafi Defector, Is Killed, Jalil Says

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-29T14:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/libya-rebel-military-chief-younis-is-killed.html
Libyan rebel military chief Abdel
Fattah Younis, a defector from Muammar Qaddafi’s forces, was
shot dead along with two of his aides, said the head of the
opposition’s Transitional National Council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil.  Jalil made a televised statement late yesterday in the
rebel stronghold of Benghazi, saying a suspect had been arrested
and that an investigation is under way. He declined to answer
questions and provided few details in the statement, which left
unclear whether the killings were the work of Qaddafi supporters
or the result of a rift among the rebels.  Earlier yesterday, rebel security officers had arrested
Younis along with two of his aides and brought them back from
the front lines at the oil town of Brega to Benghazi to be
questioned about suspicions his family still had ties to
Qaddafi, Jalil said. Younis and the aides, both colonels, were
shot before they arrived for questioning, Jalil said.  As the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  military campaign
in Libya enters its fifth month, the conflict remains at a
stalemate, with Qaddafi retaining control of the capital,
Tripoli, and rebel offensives in recent weeks failing to capture
Brega in the east or Zlitan, near Misrata, in the west.  Close to Qaddafi  A native of Benghazi, Younis announced he was switching
sides Feb. 22, a few days after street protests broke out
against Qaddafi’s leadership. The appointment of Younis as chief
of staff of the opposition forces, which gave him day-to-day
control over the fighting, provoked controversy among the rebels
because he had been a key aide to Qaddafi.  As a junior army officer, Younis supported Gaddafi in his
1969 coup that toppled King Idris, and has been a close
confidante ever since, training  Libya ’s special forces before
being named interior minister.  Jalil described Younis in his broadcast as “one of the
heroes of the 17th of February revolution,” referring to this
year’s uprising. He didn’t directly accuse Gaddafi forces of
responsibility for the killing, though he spoke of “armed
groups” at large in rebel areas, and called for them to join
the rebels or risk arrest.  Recognition of Rebels  Britain recognized the TNC July 27 as the sole legitimate
government in Libya and said it would give the rebel authority
access to Libyan oil assets in the U.K. to help the council meet
“basic needs” including the provision of fuel and salaries.  About 30 nations, including the U.S., have recognized the
TNC as Libya’s legitimate governing authority.  Coffins carrying the bodies of Younis and his aides were
paraded through Martyrs Square in Benghazi, past crowds of
Muslim worshippers who had left mosques after morning prayers.  Rebel-run Radio Misrata said today that unidentified armed
men carried out the killings in a hotel room in Benghazi where
Younis was being held. The broadcaster didn’t say where it
obtained the information.  The killing provoked anxiety among rebels in Misrata, with
extra vehicle checkpoints set up across the city and greater
enforcement of the nighttime curfew. Residents expressed concern
that clandestine Gaddafi units might carry out attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at
;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 