-- 
ICAP, Tradition End Legal Dispute Over Poaching of 38 Brokers in Singapore

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-07-28T11:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/icap-tradition-end-legal-dispute-over-poaching-of-38-brokers-in-singapore.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of trades between banks, and Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA
agreed to settle their dispute over 38 brokers in Singapore who
defected from ICAP to its Swiss rival.  “Parties, including the individual employees involved,
have managed to reach an amicable resolution of the disputes,”
ICAP said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  James Ient, chief financial officer of Tradition’s
Singapore unit, and Suresh Nair and Christopher Daniel, the
brokers’ lawyers, confirmed the settlement. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  ICAP’s Singapore unit sued the 38 employees in September in
a bid to stop them from defecting. ICAP also sued Tradition, the
world’s third-largest inter-dealer broker, for recruiting them.
ICAP’s former brokers countersued for breach of employment
contracts and restraint of trade.  “Poaching is especially common in the lucrative broking
industry,” said Pan Zaixian, director of financial services at
recruitment firm Robert Walters Plc. “With general public
unhappiness over super-size bonuses and payouts, institutions
are also cautious not to have those details” aired in court, he
said.  The settlement was reached ahead of a monthlong trial that
was scheduled to start Aug. 1 at the Singapore High Court.  Hong Kong  Dispute  ICAP, based in  London , handled $1 trillion in daily trades,
according to court papers filed last year. The company said the
brokers’ defection would have placed long-standing relationships
with clients, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , at risk.  ICAP’s Hong Kong unit sued two former employees in the city
over their bonuses after they left for a competitor, Nittan
Capital Asia Ltd. Icap lost the case in December and an appeal
hearing is scheduled for Nov. 29.  In Singapore, ICAP had accused Tradition, based in
Lausanne,  Switzerland , of inducing the brokers to breach their
contracts, according to court papers.  The brokers failed to disclose that they had been
approached by Tradition, didn’t serve the full term of their
contracts and submitted resignations before a deadline would
have allowed, ICAP had said.  Tradition had denied wrongdoing and said the brokers quit
ICAP because of “serious mismanagement,” according to the
court papers. The brokers had claimed they were “made to feel
like second-class citizens and not treated with simple
courtesy” at ICAP, the group had said in their filing.  Andy Leck and Celeste Ang from Baker & McKenzie.Wong & Leow
acted for ICAP and Allen & Gledhill LLP’s Ang Cheng Hock and
Sanjiv Rajan represented Tradition.  The case is ICAP AP ( Singapore ) Pte. v. M. Divakaran & Ors
S724/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  