-- 
Tiger Woods Will Return to Play Next Week

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-07-29T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/tiger-woods-says-will-return-to-golf-at-bridgestone-invitational-next-week.html
Tiger Woods will return to
tournament play at next week’s World Golf Championships event in
 Ohio , more than two months after withdrawing from the Players
championship with knee and ankle injuries.  Woods announced his plans to play in the U.S. PGA Tour
event at the Firestone Country Club in Akron in a statement
yesterday on his  website .  “I’m excited to get back out there,” Woods said in the
statement.  Woods, who is pursuing Jack Nicklaus’s record of 18 major
titles, originally was injured during the  Masters Tournament  in
April. He missed the  U.S. Open  in June and British Open in July.  The Bridgestone Invitational, which starts Aug. 4, is the
last U.S. event before the  PGA Championship , golf’s final major
of the season.  Woods will play in the tournament without longtime caddie
 Steve Williams , who was fired by the golfer on July 20 after 13
years together.  Williams, a 47-year-old New Zealander, had been Woods’s
caddie since 1999 and helped him win 13 of his 14 major titles.
Mike “Fluff” Cowan caddied for Woods during his first major
victory, the 1997  Masters Tournament .  Bell May Caddie  The Golf Channel said yesterday that Bryon Bell, Woods’s
longtime friend and current president of Woods’s golf course
design firm, will be his caddie.  Woods has been recovering from left knee and Achilles
tendon injuries. He has had four operations during his career on
his injured knee, most recently in 2008.  Woods, 35, hasn’t played in a tournament since May 12, when
he pulled out of the Players championship in Ponte Vedra Beach,
 Florida , after nine holes.  “In hindsight, I probably shouldn’t have competed at the
Players, but it’s a big event, and I wanted to be there to
support the Tour,” Woods said when he withdrew from the  British
Open , an event he has won three times. “I’ve got to learn from
what I did there and do it right this time and not come back
until I’m ready.”  Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland captured the U.S. Open at
Congressional Country Club, at 22 the youngest major champion
since Woods won the Masters in 1997. A second Northern Ireland
golfer, 42-year-old Darren Clarke, won the British Open at Royal
St. George’s Golf Club in Sandwich,  England .  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009. He’s
fallen to No. 21 in the  Official World Golf Ranking  after
holding the top spot for a record 281 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  