-- 
Higher Mortgage Limits Should Expire On Schedule, Donovan Says

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-07-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/higher-jumbo-mortgage-limits-should-expire-on-schedule-hud-s-donovan-says.html
Limits on the size of  mortgage loans 
backed by the U.S. government can return to pre-crisis levels
without hurting the still-fragile housing market, Housing and
Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan said.  “We continue to be convinced that this is the right step
to take now and that it’s not going to have a major impact on
the market going forward,” Donovan said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” to
be broadcast this weekend.  Mortgages worth up to $729,750 can be insured by HUD’s
 Federal Housing Administration  and government-controlled
mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  -- which together
guarantee about 90 percent of all U.S. home loans. The cap,
which was temporarily raised by Congress in 2008, is set to
revert to $625,500 on Oct. 1.  “The loan limits were raised because of the crisis. We
have to go back, and we have to get started on that,” Donovan
said.  Donovan said the housing crisis is the worst the country
has ever seen. He said government efforts to stabilize  home
prices  have helped, but not enough.  “The administration’s programs have had a real positive
impact, but they haven’t gotten us to where we need to be, which
is on a full recovery, and we clearly have more work to do to
get there,” he said. “The damage was deep, enormously deep.”  Donovan said a settlement agreement being negotiated by the
federal government, state attorneys general and banks over
errors in loan servicing and foreclosures will force banks to
help distressed homeowners with reduced loan principal, lower
 interest rates  and billions of dollars in other aid.  ‘Real Teeth’  “One of the most significant things that we face is
borrowers who are underwater, homeowners who owe more on their
homes than their homes are worth,” Donovan said. “This is an
area where I think, with the settlement, we can make real
progress.”  A final deal, which is weeks away, will have “real
teeth,” he said.  Adding to the system’s woes is a limited supply of capital
and lender caution that is preventing even qualified would-be
homebuyers from getting loans. Since 2008, lenders and the
government, including FHA, have restricted the availability of
low-cost, easy credit. A Dodd-Frank Act provision to establish
national standards for “super safe” mortgages could further
restrict lending by, for example, requiring homebuyers to make a
20 percent downpayment on a loan.  “I do have concerns that that may be going too far,”
Donovan said. “What I want to avoid is government making one-
size-fits-all rules that, while they save a few loans, is going
to block a lot of other people out of homeownership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 