-- 
Ikea Buys Scottish Wind Farm, Plans 39,000 Solar Panels in U.K.

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/ikea-buys-scottish-wind-farm-plans-39-000-solar-panels-in-u-k-.html
Ikea Group, the world’s biggest
home-furnishings retailer, bought a wind farm in  Scotland  and
plans to install 39,000 solar panels on its U.K. stores as part
of a goal to get all of its energy from renewable sources.  Ikea bought a 12.3-megawatt wind farm in Huntly, northeast
Scotland, from Good Energies Capital Inc., Chief Sustainability
Officer Steve Howard said in a phone interview. That’s enough to
cover 30 percent of Ikea’s U.K. electricity use. The solar
panels, totaling 2.1 megawatts, will be fitted on 10 stores,
providing an average of 5 percent of each shop’s power, he said.  The Huntly purchase adds to wind farms the company already
owns in Denmark, France and  Germany . By building up a renewables
portfolio, Ikea is seeking to reduce its exposure to fluctuating
energy prices, which cost the company 1.2 billion euros ($1.7
billion) to 1.5 billion euros a year, Howard said.  “The principle strategy is to match the direct energy
consumption of the business with electricity production from
renewable assets,” Howard said yesterday. “We can certainly
see a point in time where renewables are likely to be the most
cost-effective form of energy generation.”  The solar panels, which will cost “close to 4 million
pounds” ($6.5 million) to fit, are made by  China ’s GS Solar
Fujian Co., according to Howard. Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems
A/S supplied the turbines for the wind farm, he said, declining
to comment on the purchase price.  Renewables Certificates  Ikea isn’t carbon-neutral, and may sell so-called renewable
obligation certificates earned by the wind farm, Howard said.
Under the government’s renewables obligation, electricity
suppliers are required to source an increasing portion of their
power from alternative sources such as the wind and the sun, and
must hold tradable certificates to show this.  The company will also claim feed-in tariffs -- or
guaranteed prices paid for electricity from renewables -- for
the solar power it generates, Howard said. Ikea now derives
about 50 percent of its energy from renewables, including the
green energy it buys, he said.  “The direction of travel for us is 100 percent
renewable,” Howard said, adding that no deadline has yet been
set. “We’re likely to hit 70 to 80 percent by 2015. We’ve built
up sufficient experience in the area to be more confident in the
timeline, so we will set a timeline in the next few months.”  Ikea now owns 67  wind turbines  providing 127 megawatts of
capacity, and is looking to add more British wind farms to its
portfolio, Howard said.  “The wind turbines in the U.K. are a first step, and we’ll
expand on that,” he said. “This is a message to developers out
there that we’re looking for good projects in the right places,
and we’re keen to diversify in terms of the regions.”  No one at Zug, Switzerland-based  Good Energies Capital 
could be reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  