-- 
India Food Inflation Eases to Slowest Pace Since February 2009 on Pulses

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-07-28T07:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/india-food-inflation-eases-to-slowest-pace-since-february-2009-on-pulses.html
India ’s food inflation decelerated
to the slowest pace since February 2009 after prices of pulses,
milk, meat and fish eased.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 7.33 percent in the week ended July 16 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New
Delhi  today. It rose 7.58 percent the previous week.  Food costs may rise, India’s central bank said this week
after it raised  interest rates  for the 11th time since mid-March
2010. The possibility of deficient rains, higher prices offered
by the government to procure farm products and inadequate egg
and meat supplies could stoke inflation, the  Reserve Bank of
India  said on July 26.  “The RBI will be watching food inflation closely to assess
price pressures,” N.R. Bhanumurthy, a New Delhi-based economist
at the National Institute for Public Finance and Policy, said
before the report. “This is not the end of the rate-increase
cycle.”  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  raised the central bank’s
repurchase rate more than economists’ forecast, boosting it to 8
percent from 7.5 percent. He increased the  Reserve Bank ’s
inflation forecast by 1 percentage point to 7 percent by March
31. India’s benchmark wholesale-price index rose 9.44 percent in
June from a year earlier.  Pulses, Meat  Prices of pulses fell 8 percent in the week ended July 16
from a year earlier, today’s report showed. The cost of milk
rose 10 percent compared with a 10.8 percent gain the previous
week, while eggs, meat and fish gained 6.4 percent from about 8
percent the week earlier.  “There are risks to the food inflation outlook,” the
central bank said in its policy statement. “Although the
monsoon has been close to normal so far, deficient rainfall in
August coupled with higher minimum support prices could result
in an upward movement in cereals and pulses price inflation.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government last month
raised the prices it pays farmers for rice and oilseeds to
records to help spur planting. The federal government sets the
crop prices to assure farmers’ incomes, while selling subsidized
grains and cooking oils to the poor.  Monsoon rainfall, the main source of water for India’s 235
million farmers, may be less than forecast in July, Ajit Tyagi,
director general of the  India Meteorological Department , said
today. Showers in August may be 94 percent of the long-period
average, the weather office predicted in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  