-- 
Indonesia’s Coal-Export Ban May Deter Investments, Mulyono Says

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-07-28T08:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/indonesia-s-coal-export-ban-may-deter-investments-mulyono-says.html
Indonesia’s plan to ban exports of
low-quality grade thermal coal may discourage new investment in
the world’s biggest exporter of the power-station fuel, said a
production company executive.  A ban may also hurt India and  China , which seek coal with a
heating value of as much as 4,500 kilocalories a kilogram for
blending with higher-grade domestic output, said Jeffrey Mulyono, president director of PT Bhakti Energi Persada.  “Banks may stop funding low-rank coal producers as they
will see that the companies are not feasible anymore in the
longer term if the ban is imposed,” Mulyono said by telephone
from Jakarta today. “How can we expand and run our business if
we cannot get financial support from banks?”  Indonesia plans to ban overseas sales of coal with energy
of less than 5,100 kilocalories a kilogram, requiring miners to
upgrade the burning value if they want to export, according to a
 draft  of a ministerial decree posted on the Directorate General
of Coal and Minerals’ website. The government had earlier
proposed halting sales of grades with a value below 5,600
kilocalories.  The price of coal for sale this month with an energy value
below 5,100 kilocalories was between $61.04 and $83.54 a metric
ton, according to government prices. That compares with $118.24
a ton for benchmark coal with a heating value of 6,322
kilocalories a kilogram.  Bhakti Energi and its affiliate PT Pesona Khatulistiwa
Nusantara produce coal with a heating value of 3,400
kilocalories a kilogram from mines in East Kalimantan province,
said Mulyono, who is also president director of Pesona.  Pesona is estimated to produce 1.5 million tons of coal
this year and will boost output to 6 million tons in 2014, he
said.  Upgrading Technology  Low- and medium-grade coal accounts for about 60 percent of
 Indonesia ’s production, Mulyono said. The country’s output may
rise 19 percent to 326.65 million tons this year, the energy
ministry said in January.  “The main issue for the plan is the upgrading
technology,” Mulyono said. “There are some small projects but
none of them are commercially proven for larger scale.”  Investment in coal industry infrastructure such as railways
and ports may also be canceled because of the ban, Mulyono said.
“Investors won’t risk spending billions of dollars if they see
it won’t support their mining business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  