-- 
Infineon Raises Sales Forecast on Energy, Car Chips Demand

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-07-28T07:16:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/infineon-raises-sales-forecast-on-demand-for-energy-car-semiconductors.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest chipmaker, raised its full-year sales forecast on
surging demand for chips used in energy and consumer electronics
products as well as in cars.  Sales in the 12 months through September are now predicted
to grow by more than 20 percent, Infineon said in a statement.
The company previously forecast a 20 percent increase. Infineon
today also reported a 54 percent surge in fiscal third-quarter
operating profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Chipmakers are benefitting from increased technology
spending by companies and consumers.  Neubiberg , Germany-based
Infineon, whose customers include carmaker Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and consumer electronics company Royal Philips
Electronics NV, makes chips that replace mechanical parts in
cars, manage power in home appliances and windmills, and makes
passports and contactless payment cards secure.  “This was better than expected, in particular given the
mixed indications we got so far in the tech sector,” said
Guenther Hollfelder, an analyst at UniCredit in  London . “With
their power semiconductors, they are benefitting from a trend
for energy efficiency.” He has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Infineon shares rose as much as 2 percent to 7.343 euros in
Frankfurt trading today and were up 1.9 percent as of 9:12 a.m.
The stock has risen 5.5 percent this year.  Revamp  Infineon’s shares reached an all-time low of 35 cents in
Frankfurt trading on March 9, 2009, amid the bankruptcy of
memory-chip maker Qimonda, which it carved out of the main
business in 2006. Since then it has cut costs, restructured
finances and sold its wireline and mobile-chip divisions, the
latter to  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and one-time
gains or costs rose to 212 million euros ($305 million) in the
three months through June from 138 million euros a year earlier.
That exceeded the 198 million-euros estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Last year’s figure was restated to account for the sale
of wireless unit.  “Infineon’s focus on energy efficiency, mobility and
security is the right strategy’, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  said in the statement. The company today said it predicts
its operating margin to be about 20 percent in the full year.  Both Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker, and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , a maker of personal computer
processors, have forecast third-quarter sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest
chipmaker, on July 26 fell the most in a decade after saying it
would be hit by lower sales at Finnish mobile-phone maker Nokia
Oyj.  Cyclical Tailwind  In June,  Gartner Inc. (IT)  cut its forecast for worldwide
semiconductor sales growth in 2011 to 5.1 percent from
previously 6.2 percent after the Japan earthquake and tsunami.  “Now that the cyclical tailwind is done, it really depends
on who your customers are and what the end segments are that you
are delivering to,” Hollfelder said.  Infineon’s fiscal third-quarter sales rose by 18 percent to
1.04 billion euros. The gain was mainly driven by demand from
its automotive customers and from buyers of computer and  energy
efficiency  chips such as Dell Inc., Microsoft Corp., and ABB
Ltd., the world’s largest maker of power-transmission gear.  Net income in the quarter ended June 30 rose 51 percent to
190 million euros.  CEO Bauer said June 1 that Infineon will keep some of its
more than 2 billion euros in net cash for opportunistic
acquisitions in its three main businesses. The company’s most
likely areas for deals are power, power conversion and power
management, and the least probable is the automotive market
because most companies are too large, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  