-- 
Insiders Become Outsiders as Lobbyists Shut Out of Debt Debate

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-07-28T04:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/insiders-become-outsiders-as-washington-lobbyists-shut-out-of-debt-debate.html
Sweltering in the heat at his son’s
lacrosse tournament, Joseph Stanton sat thumbing through his
blackberry -- laptop nearby -- as he tried to track developments
in  Washington ’s debt debate.  The chief lobbyist for the  National Association of Home
Builders  started his work on July 24, a Sunday, at 7:30 a.m. and
finished about 8 p.m., knowing little more than he did in the
morning about whether the housing market would be hit in a deal.  “There’s really just mass confusion everywhere, not on
Congress’s part, but the rumor mill of the lobbying world,”
said Stanton, 49. Asked how the debt-deal talks compare in terms
of their frenetic atmosphere with other debates Stanton’s seen
in his two decades of advocating on Capitol Hill, he said:
“This is in the top one.”  Lobbyists earn their salaries by getting information about
what’s moving on  Capitol Hill , who’s behind it, and how they can
amend it to help their clients. With almost every government
program, tax and payout potentially affected by a deficit-
reduction agreement needed to pave the way for raising the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling to avoid a projected Aug. 2 default,
lobbyists are finding it hard -- if not impossible -- to do
their jobs.  Lab Co-Payments  With President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders
conducting closely held private meetings in search of an accord,
“it’s been very difficult to get information from them and into
them,” said Mark Birenbaum, head of the National Independent
Laboratory Association. His group is trying to follow the status
of a Republican proposal that would require labs to collect a
co-payment from Medicare patients.  Michael Buckley, communications director at the Alliance
for Retired Americans, said his group has opted to save its
energy for the post-deal period, when hundreds of billions of
dollars in spending cuts tied to the debt ceiling vote are
expected to be implemented.  “There are only a handful of people in this town that are
the decision-makers on this now,” he said.  Other groups are trying to advance their positions by
getting ahead of the final negotiations.  Groups such as the anti-government spending Tea Party
Patriots to the seniors’ advocacy group AARP are marching
members up to Capitol Hill. The oil industry, religious groups,
unions and a political organization advised by Republican
strategist  Karl Rove  are running ads to influence the
negotiations.  Tea Party  Tea Party Patriots members, who oppose raising the debt
ceiling, last week met with more than 30 House members and
staffers, along with a handful of senators.  About two dozen Tea Party activists gathered outside the
Capitol yesterday, urging members to oppose any increase in the
debt ceiling that isn’t accompanied by a constitutional
amendment to balance the budget  “I pledge to you that I will not vote for any bill that
raises the debt ceiling,” Representative Paul Broun, a Georgia
Republican, told the flag-waving crowd.  The country takes in enough money to pay bondholders,
Social Security recipients, and the military without raising the
ceiling, said Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of the Tea Party
Patriots, in an interview.  “When President Obama is saying we are going to default,”
Martin said, “it’s a lie.”  Cuts, Taxes  Proposals floated during the last two weeks of talks
include cuts to  farm subsidies , defense spending, Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid. They’ve also included hikes in
taxes on the rich and the reduction of tax breaks for private
equity firms,  oil companies  and home owners.  The July 22 collapse of talks between House Speaker  John
Boehner  and Obama for a deal to revamp the government’s finances
through both spending cuts and a tax overhaul left lobbyists
with no proposal to review and lots to worry about through the
weekend. The situation didn’t improve this week when competing
deficit-cutting plans proposed on July 25 by Boehner and Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  also contained few specifics.  The 10-year plan introduced by Reid calls for more than $2
trillion in cuts and savings to defense and non-defense
discretionary spending -- programs whose budgets are set in
Congress’s appropriations process. It includes changes to the
federally chartered housing finance agencies, cuts in
agriculture subsidies, changes to eliminate waste and fraud and
an auction of additional spectrum.  Boehner’s plan, which has undergone revision, would require
two separate phases of cuts totaling close to $3 trillion.  Both lawmakers would create a committee to choose specific
budget cuts later.  Housing Issues  Stanton, of the Washington-based homebuilders group, is
concerned about tax proposals that have been discussed to
eliminate the deduction for home mortgage interest, the credit
for low-income housing and an increase in the rate on carried
interest.  “Any one, or partial one of these, could certainly send an
uncertain housing market further into the abyss,” he said. It’s
a message he and his association members have been repeating to
anyone on Capitol Hill who will listen.  He’s not alone.  The Washington-based  American Petroleum Institute  is
organizing a “fly-in” this week of refinery workers and
executives to meet with lawmakers and make the case that the
industry creates high-paying jobs and already pays more taxes
than most.  “We’re doing the old-fashioned burning the leather on
Capitol Hill and we’re activating our grassroots,” said Eric Wohlschlegel, a spokesman.  Ad Campaign  The group is also running TV, radio and print
advertisements across the country. “America needs more energy
jobs, not more energy taxes,” the ad says.  Sojourners, a Washington-based group of religious leaders,
is running radio ads in Kentucky, Ohio and  Nevada  pushing
lawmakers to protect programs for the poor.  Crossroads
Grassroots Policy Strategies , the group advised by Rove, is
spending $10.5 million on two ads saying the  U.S. economy  is
“hanging by a thread” and that, “There’s got to be a way to
take away President Obama’s blank check.”  The  Service Employees International Union  is airing
commercials in the House districts of some Republicans accusing
them of risking default to “protect tax breaks for
millionaires.”  Senior Citizens  Social Security Works, a coalition that includes labor
unions, groups representing retirees, and advocacy organizations
such as the NAACP, sent a dozen senior citizens from  Maryland  to
walk the halls of Congress and argue that the government pension
system isn’t the cause of the debt and shouldn’t be cut, said
Don Owens, the communications director. Last week, the group
organized a telephone lobbying effort, urging 30,000 seniors to
call their representatives.  “Our sole focus is ensuring Social Security is not the
end-all bargain to getting the debt ceiling raised because
Social Security is not contributing to the debt,” Owens said.  AARP  has used its membership lists to generate what it
claims are 243,000 calls to members of Congress and the White
House, as well as more than half a million e-mails.  “We’re talking about the health programs, Social Security,
the  tax code , you’re talking about all of government,” said
David Certner, AARP’s director of federal affairs.  Julie Allen, a lobbyist who represents the independent
labs, said “every day is a new day on this one. At some points,
it felt like it was minute to minute. It’s insane.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  