-- 
Internet Providers to Save User Data Under Child-Porn Bill

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T22:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/internet-providers-to-save-subscriber-data-under-child-porn-bill.html
The U.S. House Judiciary Committee
approved a measure today that would require Internet-service
providers to save subscriber information to aid investigations
of child pornography.  The bill, HR 1981, was approved on a 19-10 vote. It would
obligate  Internet providers  to retain customers’ Internet
Protocol addresses for a year. ISPs “routinely purge these
records, sometimes just days after they are created,”
Representative  Lamar Smith , chairman of the committee, said in a
 statement  yesterday.  “Investigators need the assistance of ISPs to identify
users and distributors of online child pornography,” said
Smith, a Texas Republican who co-sponsored the measure with
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Florida Democrat.
“This bill ensures that the online footprints of predators are
not erased,” he said in a statement after the vote.  The measure, called The Protecting Children from Internet
Pornographers Act of 2011, has drawn opposition from digital-
rights groups that say the data-retention requirement may
threaten consumer privacy and increase the risk of data
breaches.  The bill is a “stalking horse for a massive expansion of
federal power,” Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat, said
during debate before the committee’s vote.  Tracking ‘Potential’ Suspects  “This is China-style  law enforcement , treating everyone as
a potential suspect and requiring the collection of personal
information just in case it might later be useful to the
government,” Greg Nojeim, senior counsel for the Center for
Democracy and Technology, a Washington-based organization that
advocates for civil liberties, said in an interview.  The bill won early support from the National Center for
Missing and Exploited Children and law enforcement groups
including the National Sheriffs’ Association, according to
Smith.  A similar measure was introduced in the Senate on June 30
by  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican. The bill, S. 1308, is co-
sponsored by Republican Senators Charles Grassley of Iowa and
Jeff Sessions of Alabama, and Democratic Senator  Amy Klobuchar 
of Minnesota.  The House Judiciary vote is an “important step” in the
effort to fight child pornography, Michael Powell, president of
the  National Cable & Telecommunications Association , which
represents ISPs including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) , said in a statement.  The group will work with lawmakers to seek “further
clarification that will produce reasonable retention practices
that can aid law enforcement in stopping crimes against
children,” Powell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  