-- 
Lira Gains Most in Month on  Turkish Central Bank’s Pledge to Halt Drop

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-07-28T15:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lira-gains-most-in-month-on-turkish-central-bank-s-pledge-to-halt-drop.html
The lira strengthened the most in a
month and bond yields declined after central bank chief Erdem Basci indicated he’s ready to take steps to halt the currency’s
retreat.  The lira gained 1.1 percent to 1.6731 per dollar at 6:30
p.m. in Istanbul after Basci said at a news conference in Ankara
the currency is “definitely not overvalued’’ and that the bank
has the instruments to prevent further declines.  Turkey ’s
currency earlier jumped as much as 1.3 percent, the biggest
intraday advance since June 29. Yields on benchmark two-year
bonds fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 8.81
percent, according to a Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc index.  Basci’s statement suggests the central bank “is ready to
take action” to support the currency “in case the lira weakens
further,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Istanbul, wrote in a note to investors. “It was very
important to hear Governor Basci saying that the level of the
currency at the moment is enough to lead to a correction in the
external balances, and that they would not like to see further
weakness as this would lead to inflationary pressures.”  Turkish authorities are battling a record current-account
deficit as an economy growing at an annual 11 percent in the
first quarter of 2011 draws in oil and consumer goods. The lira
has lost 7.6 percent versus the dollar this year, the biggest
decline among more than 20 developing-nation currencies, on
concern its policy of controlling inflation through increases in
banks’ reserve requirements while leaving  interest rates  at a
record low won’t curb the gap.  ‘More Cautious’  “The market will likely be more cautious in testing the
lira,” JPMorgan’s Cebeci wrote. “However, an upside surprise
in inflation or continued strength in loan demand and private
consumption could unnerve the investors easily and swiftly.”  The bank left its inflation forecast for this year
unchanged at 6.9 percent. Inflation in 2012 will be 5.2 percent,
and 5 percent in 2013, Basci said.  Basci also said there is no risk of a “hard landing” for
the country’s economy. His remarks contradict a Standard and
Poor’s assessment yesterday.  Turkey’s fiscal position is “too accommodative” and it’s
difficult to predict what decision S&P officials may make
regarding Turkey’s future credit rating and outlook,  Frank Gill ,
an analyst at S&P, said in a telephone interview.  The central bank is seeking to curb the pace of lira
depreciation more than the level of the lira,  Manik Narain , an
emerging-market currency strategist with UBS AG in  London , wrote
in a note to clients.  “Further measures to support the currency are unlikely to
be immediately forthcoming unless the lira were to sell off
sharply once more,” Narain wrote. Contracts in the options
market are suggesting a 70.1 percent chance that the currency
will weaken to 1.75 by the end of 2011.  Deficit  The current-account deficit may widen to 10.5 percent of
economic growth this year and the expansion of the economy may
slow to 2.5 percent next year from 8.7 percent in 2011, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last week.  “We have a more pessimistic assessment of the domestic
risks than the central bank, domestic and external risks look
significant to us,” Robert Beange, a strategist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London, said in e-mailed comments.  The benchmark  stock index  ISE National 100 climbed 2.2
percent to 62530.88 at the 5:30 p.m. close.  “We are also worried by the possibility of easier monetary
policy should the external situation worsen,” Beange said.
“However, his comment on potentially supporting the lira is of
most significance and is very positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  