-- 
Iran Is in ‘Secret Deal’ to Aid Funding for Al-Qaeda Operatives, U.S. Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-07-28T18:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/iran-is-in-secret-deal-to-aid-funding-for-al-qaeda-operatives-u-s-says.html
The U.S. accused the Iranian
government of engaging in a “secret deal” to help move money
and operatives for al-Qaeda in Afghanistan,  Pakistan  and  Iraq .  The U.S. Treasury Department today identified six members
of an alleged network led by Ezedin Abdel Aziz Khalil, a Syrian
who has been operating as an “al-Qaeda facilitator” in Iran
“under an agreement between al-Qaeda and the Iranian
government.”  The network serves as “a core pipeline” for the terrorism
group to move money and operatives from the  Middle East  to South
Asia, including to Atiyah Abd al-Rahman in Pakistan’s tribal
areas, the Treasury said. Previously, the U.S. identified al-
Rahman, a Libyan, as No. 3 in al-Qaeda before Osama bin Laden’s
death and second to Ayman al-Zawahiri since then.  “Iran is the leading state sponsor of terrorism in the
world today,”  David Cohen , the Treasury undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence, said in a statement. “By
exposing Iran’s secret deal with al-Qaeda allowing it to funnel
funds and operatives through its territory, we are illuminating
yet another aspect of Iran’s unmatched support for terrorism.”  The U.S. government issued a prohibition of U.S. persons
engaging in commercial and financial transactions with the
identified members of the network.  Khalil, the network’s leader, is al-Qaeda’s representative
in Iran and works with the Iranian government to arrange
releases of al-Qaeda personnel from Iranian prisons, according
to the Treasury. When those operatives are released from prison,
Khalil facilitates their travel to Pakistan, the Treasury said
in its statement.  $10,000 Each  Khalil has also collected funding from various donors and
fundraisers throughout the Gulf and has moved that money to the
al-Qaeda leadership in  Afghanistan  and Iraq, the Treasury said  He requires each new recruit to deliver $10,000 to al-Qaeda
in Pakistan, the Treasury said.  Others in the network, according to the Treasury, are Umid
Muhammadi, said to be a “key supporter” of al-Qaeda in Iraq,
and Salim Hasan Khalifa Rashid al-Kuwari, who allegedly has
provided hundreds of thousands of dollars to al-Qaeda through
Iran from his base in Qatar. Also named are Abdallah Ghanim
Mafuz Muslim al-Khawar in Qatar, who allegedly has facilitate
recruits’ travel to Afghanistan, and Ali Hasan Ali al-Ajmi in
Kuwait, who allegedly has raised funds from Persian Gulf sources
for al-Qaeda, al-Qaeda in Iraq and the Taliban.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas,  Steven Komarow   To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 