-- 
IRS to Build Database of Regulated Tax Preparers for Public Use

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-07-28T17:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/irs-to-build-database-of-regulated-tax-preparers-for-public-use.html
Taxpayers will be able to examine
the qualifications of paid  tax-return  preparers in a database
being built by the  Internal Revenue Service  that may be
available as soon as 2013, according to congressional testimony
by an IRS official.  The database is part of the phased-in regulation of tax
preparers that began in 2010 with a requirement that they
register with the IRS and obtain an identification number. Over
the next two years, paid preparers will be required to pass a
competency test. They will also need to take annual continuing
education courses unless they are in professions, such as
accounting and law, with their own professional standards.  “The goal is to ensure that taxpayers receive top quality
service from this important industry,”  David Williams , director
of the IRS Return Preparer Office, said in a statement before
the  House Ways and Means Committee ’s oversight subcommittee.  Williams said the database will contain the names,
addresses and professional qualifications of tax preparers,
along with any publicly disclosed professional disciplinary
actions.  Paid tax preparers handle about 60 percent of all tax
returns filed annually.  About 717,000 paid preparers have registered with the IRS
so far.  Williams said the agency does not know the total number of
paid preparers. Earlier this month, the IRS said it is
contacting about 100,000 preparers who worked on returns this
year and didn’t comply with registration requirements.  Not Doing Enough  Subcommittee chairman Charles Boustany, a Louisiana
Republican, said he is concerned that the IRS isn’t doing enough
to publicize its efforts.  Boustany urged the agency to “conduct outreach to ensure
that return preparers and taxpayers alike know and understand
the new requirements.”  He also said there have been “no basic competency
requirements for tax-return preparers. Practically anyone can
prepare a federal tax return for any other person for a fee.”  The federal government decided to regulate paid preparers
after identifying a troubling level of errors on tax returns
they handled. In a 2006 report, the  Government Accountability
Office  had tax returns prepared at 19 outlets of tax-preparation
chains across the country. “In all 19 cases there were
mistakes,” said James R. White, GAO’s director of strategic
issues. “Some favored the taxpayer. Some favored the
government.”  IRS Certification Proposed  Kathy Pickering, executive director of The Tax Institute at
 H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  and vice president of government relations at the
largest U.S. tax-preparation company, proposed that the IRS
certify the company’s competency testing program for preparers
because it exceeds the IRS requirements.  Williams said he has heard from 15 to 20 businesses seeking
such certification and is concerned that “we would end up with
a patchwork system. Our concern was there would be consumer
confusion” over which certification was valid.  David Rothstein, a researcher at  Policy Matters Ohio , a
Cleveland-based group that examines how government policies
affect low- and middle-income people, urged the IRS to require
tax preparers to provide clear estimates of their charges to
consumers.  “Taxpayers should have the ability to research and compare
prices for services,” Rothstein said.  Rothstein said the IRS should improve enforcement of cases
of misleading or fraudulent practices by tax preparers.  “Taxpayers are understandably less likely to file taxes,
seek help, or work with the IRS once they have been victims of a
scam,” Rothstein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  