-- 
Lithuanian Economic Growth Slows to 6.1%, Missing Forecasts

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-07-28T10:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lithuania-s-economic-growth-slowed-in-second-quarter-to-6-1-.html
Lithuania ’s economic growth slowed
in the second quarter from the previous three months as the
comparison with the year-earlier period became less favorable.  Gross domestic product under a preliminary estimate grew
6.1 percent from April-June 2010, compared with a 6.9 percent
increase in the first quarter, the  statistics office  in Vilnius
said today in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of six
economists in a Bloomberg survey was 6.6 percent. Output rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.2 percent from the previous quarter.  Lithuania’s economic growth is slowing from the fastest
rate in three years in the first quarter as the effect of a low
base in 2010 wears off. The economy is benefiting from rising
demand for its exports and recovering domestic consumption,
which have pushed economic growth to the fastest rate in the
European Union after Estonia in the first quarter.  “We had some doubts about the impact of fluctuating
industrial output and exports on growth,” said  Violeta Klyviene ,
a Vilnius-based economist at Danske Bank. “Import growth, which
is outpacing exports, may have had a stronger effect too.”  Industrial production, which represents about 22 percent of
the economy, rose an annual 10.4 percent in June, compared with
12.8 percent in May.  Retail trade expanded 24.6 percent in June from a year
earlier as consumers spent more on cars, fuel and food. Auto
sales grew 90 percent that month driven by demand from
neighboring  Belarus , where an economic crisis is also helping to
boost fuel sales in Lithuania.  “The rather fast growth in the first half was driven by
growing industrial production and recovering consumption,” the
statistics office said in the statement. “The low GDP base in
2010 also had a substantial influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 