-- 
J&J Will Lower Top Tylenol Dosage in Bid to Prevent Overdoses

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-07-28T19:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/j-j-will-lower-top-tylenol-dosage-in-bid-to-prevent-overdoses.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  said it will lower
the maximum recommended dose of its painkiller Tylenol to lessen
overdoses and liver damage from its widely used main ingredient,
acetaminophen.  J&J will lower the top daily dose for single-ingredient
Extra Strength Tylenol in the U.S. to six pills a day, or 3,000
milligrams, from 8 pills a day, or 4,000 milligrams, the
company’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit said in a statement
today. The move will take effect later this year, with similar
changes for other acetaminophen products in 2012, J&J said.  Advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  called for
restrictions two years ago to prevent fatal overdoses of
acetaminophen, citing its use in scores of over-the-counter and
prescription drugs. The compound is found in more than 600
medications and can also cause liver damage,  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J said.  While acetaminophen is safe when used as directed, “some
people accidentally exceed the recommended dose when taking
multiple products at the same time,” said Edwin Kuffner,
McNeil’s vice president of over-the-counter medical affairs, in
the statement. “McNeil is revising its labels for products
containing acetaminophen in an attempt to decrease the
likelihood of accidental overdosing in those instances.”  The company said it was working closely with fellow
manufacturers to “ensure consistency in dosing instructions”
for acetaminophen. Recommendations for J&J’s Regular Strength
Tylenol will be changed next year, it said.  In January, the FDA announced limits on the ingredient’s
use in prescription pills, led by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Vicodin
and  Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP) ’s Percocet. That stopped
short of the FDA advisers’ call in 2009 to ban some drug
combinations that include acetaminophen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  