-- 
News Corp.’s James Murdoch Said to Remain Chairman of BSkyB

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-28T17:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/james-murdoch-said-to-remain-as-chairman-of-bskyb-following-board-meeting.html
News Corp.’s James Murdoch will
remain as chairman of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
following a board meeting of the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
broadcaster, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Murdoch, 38, has the unanimous support of the board of 
directors after his position was discussed during the meeting,
the person said, declining to be identified because the matter
is confidential. The board will continue to monitor events, 
the person said. BSkyB declined to comment.  The broadcaster’s board came under pressure to review
Murdoch’s role as non-executive chairman after his testimony to
U.K. lawmakers on July 19 over the phone-hacking scandal at the
News of the World tabloid was contradicted by two former
employees. While the hacking incidents took place before he
started overseeing  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspaper publishing unit
in 2007, Murdoch authorized settlements to hacking victims that
are now being questioned.  The 14-person board also had planned to discuss whether
BSkyB will return cash to shareholders, with a share buyback a
more likely option than a one-time dividend, one person said
yesterday. BSkyB stock dropped 17 percent in seven days before
the hacking allegations forced News Corp. to shelve its 7.8
billion-pound ($12.7 billion) offer for full control of the U.K.
pay-TV company. News Corp., chaired by James's fatherRupert Murdoch, is BSkyB’s biggest shareholder with a 39 percent stake.  ‘Feeling Bruised’  “Shareholders in the round are feeling bruised after the
share price collapse over the last two to three weeks,” said
Alex de Groote, an analyst at Panmure Gordon in  London .
“Realistically there’s not going to be a bid for Sky for the
foreseeable future so they want to be compensated for that.”  News Corp. is dealing with three probes by police and
regulators into phone hacking at the News of the World. At least
10 people have been arrested, including former News
International CEO Rebekah Brooks, and ex-News of the World
editor  Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
press chief until January.  BSkyB’s board meeting took place as New York-based News
Corp. separately surveys its biggest shareholders on Murdoch
family control, the company’s dual-class stock structure and the
independence of its board, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  Rising Earnings  The survey results may be shared with the board, said the
people. News Corp.’s goal is to inform and frame shareholder
communications, one person said. Sard Verbinnen & Co., the
public-relations firm hired to respond to phone-hacking and
police bribery allegations at News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit,
has been conducting the conversations. Some investors were
offered to speak with Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey .  BSkyB may say tomorrow that earnings before interest and
taxes rose 29 percent to 1.05 billion pounds in the year through
June, helped by the addition of high-definition TV subscribers,
according to the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The last time BSkyB shares fell more over a seven-day
period was in August 2004, when  James Murdoch , then chief
executive officer, announced an expanded spending plan, a target
for more than 10 million subscribers and returning cash to
shareholders via share buybacks.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp., which owns  Fox News  and the Wall Street Journal
in the U.S., rose 2.5 percent to $16.40 at 12:01 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  New Allegations  The News of the World newspaper also targeted a mobile
phone it gave to a murdered girl’s mother, a charity she set up
said today.  Sara Payne’s eight-year-old daughter, Sarah, was murdered
in 2000 by a convicted pedophile, leading her to start a
campaign to allow parents to find out if sex offenders lived
near them. The campaign was supported by the News of the World,
which provided Payne with a mobile phone for the next 11 years.  Police have now found evidence that suggests  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator who was convicted in 2007 of
hacking phones for the News of the World, targeted Payne,
Phoenix Chief Advocates, part of the Payne charity, said in a
 statement on its website . “Sara is absolutely devastated by
this news, we’re all deeply disappointed,” the charity said.  The scandal at the News Corp. tabloid intensified after the
 Guardian newspaper  reported July 4 that the newspaper hacked
into the phone of Milly Dowler, who was murdered in 2002.  “These allegations are abhorrent and particularly
upsetting as Sara Payne is dear friend,” Brooks, the editor of
the News of the World in 2000, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “The idea that anyone on the newspaper knew that Sara or
the campaign team were targeted by Mr. Mulcaire is unthinkable.
The idea of her being targeted is beyond my comprehension.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  