-- 
Japanese, Australia Stock Futures Fall as U.S. Fails to Break Debt Impasse

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-28T23:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/japanese-australia-stock-futures-fall-as-u-s-fails-to-break-debt-impasse.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  dropped as U.S. lawmakers indicated they were no closer
to reaching an agreement to increase the nation’s debt ceiling
and avoid a default.  American depositary receipts of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc., a large holder of U.S. bonds, lost 0.9 percent from
the closing share price in  Tokyo . Those of Sony Corp., Japan’s
biggest exporter of electronics, sank 3.1 percent after the
company unexpectedly slashed its profit forecast on lower TV
demand in Europe and the U.S. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
 Australia ’s No. 1 oil producer, slid 0.3 percent even after
crude prices edged higher.  Futures on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,855 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
9,900 in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,880
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index fell 0.1 percent today.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed in Wellington.  “Eventually lawmakers will probably compromise to reach an
agreement on raising the debt limit, but now it’s hard to see
it,” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-based
Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors are worried about the impact on
the  U.S. economy .”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The index slid 0.3 percent yesterday in  New York , after
falling 3 percent over the previous three days amid concern
lawmakers will fail to agree on an increase in the U.S. debt
ceiling by an Aug. 2 deadline in order to avoid a default.  Moving in Tandem  Stocks and Treasuries are moving in tandem twice as often
as they normally do, a sign investors are growing convinced the
U.S. will lose its AAA credit rating and that the impasse among
lawmakers on the debt ceiling may spur losses in both markets.  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John C.
Williams said at an event in Salt Lake City yesterday that he
has greater concern about household and business confidence as
they are affected by the U.S. debt issues.  The dollar dropped toward a postwar low against the yen and
touched a record low against the Swiss franc as the U.S. House
of Representatives prepared to vote on a debt-limit plan that
faces opposition in the Senate.  Japan ’s currency rose against as all of its major
counterparts on demand for a refuge. The yen strengthened to
high as 77.65 against the dollar today in Tokyo, compared with
77.77 at the close of  stock trading  yesterday, near its
strongest since hitting a post-World War II high of 76.25 on
March 17.  U.S. Jobs  Against the euro, the yen appreciated to 110.83 last night
from 111.73. A stronger yen cuts overseas income at Japanese
companies when repatriated.  The S&P rallied as much as 0.9 percent earlier yesterday
after Labor Department figures showed that jobless claims
dropped by 24,000 to 398,000 in the week ended July 23. The
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a drop to 415,000. Another report showed the number of
contracts to buy previously owned homes unexpectedly rose in
June.  Crude oil for September delivery edged higher to settle at
$97.44 a barrel in New York after jobless claims dropped to the
lowest level in almost four months, a signal that fuel
consumption may increase as the weakness in the labor market
fades.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum rose 0.1 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell less than 0.1 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.4 percent by
the  S&P 500  and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  The Japanese government is scheduled to release reports on
consumer prices and jobless rate at 8:30 a.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 