-- 
Nikkei 225 Falls Most in Six Weeks as Yen Surges Amid U.S. Debt Impasse

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-07-28T07:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/japanese-stocks-drop-for-second-day-on-u-s-goods-orders-debt-stalemate.html
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped,
closing below 10,000 for the first time in more than a week, as
a surge in the yen squeezed exporters' earnings amid a deadlock 
in the  U.S. Congress  over raising the federal debt limit.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, dropped
2.2 percent. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., a large holder
of U.S. bonds, dropped 1.5 percent. Kobe Steel Ltd.,  Japan ’s
fourth-largest steelmaker, sank 3.4 percent after saying first-
quarter profit fell on higher raw materials costs.  “The market is basically optimistic the U.S. will reach an
agreement on raising the debt limit and we won’t have a default,
but investors are reluctant to buy on concern the yen will keep
rising against the dollar,” said Yumi Nishimura, an equity-
market analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in  Tokyo .  The Nikkei 225 fell 1.5 percent to 9,901.35 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, extending declines after Jiji Press reported
Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  suggested Japan won’t intervene in
currency markets this week. The broader Topix lost 1.3 percent
to 848.37, a low since June 29.  The Topix has slipped 3 percent from a post-earthquake high
on July 8 as concern mounts that U.S. lawmakers will fail to
meet a deadline for raising the debt limit, weakening the dollar
and hitting Japanese exporters. Declines have been limited as
companies from Canon Inc. to Fanuc Corp. raised earnings
forecasts amid a faster-than expected recovery from Japan’s
March 11 earthquake.  No Deal  Almost a third of the 1,666 companies included in the Topix
are reporting results today and tomorrow. Fourty-four of 293
companies that have released quarterly results since July 11
beat analyst estimates, while 36 missed expectations, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 2 percent yesterday in
New York, its biggest decline since June 1, as lawmakers failed
to make progress on a compromise to raise the federal debt limit.
Shares also fell after a government report showed orders for
durable goods unexpectedly decreased.  House Speaker John Boehner yesterday appeared to rally
support among members of his Republican party for a plan the
White House has said President  Barack Obama  will veto. Without
legislation allowing the government to borrow more by Aug. 2,
the Treasury will be unable to pay its bills, potentially
triggering a default.  ‘Fairly Good Earnings’  “Until the U.S. resolves the debt-ceiling situation,
nobody can move forward,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist
in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which holds about $240 billion in
deposits. “Japanese companies have been reporting fairly good
earnings, but the market is being dominated by what’s happening
in the U.S.”  Exporters plunged after the yen rose against the dollar.
Toyota dropped 2.2 percent to 3,185 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s
biggest camera maker, slid 1.9 percent to 3,795 yen.  The yen surged to as high as 77.73 against the dollar today
in Tokyo, near its strongest since a postwar high on March 17,
after Jiji Press quoted Economy Minister Yosano as saying Japan
is unlikely to intervene in  currency markets  before next week’s
deadline for raising the U.S. debt limit. A stronger yen hurts
exporters because it cuts the value of overseas earnings.  ‘Green Light’  Yosano’s comments “seem to be giving a bit of a green
light to speculators to buy the yen,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .  Banks slipped on concern rating companies may cut the
U.S.’s AAA debt rating, reducing the value of Treasuries held by
lenders. Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s largest listed holder of  U.S.
government debt  according to data compiled by Bloomberg, lost
1.5 percent to 397 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.
fell 1.4 percent to 2,460 yen.  Traders of raw materials dropped after crude oil and metals
prices slipped. Mitsubishi lost 1.4 percent to 2,083 yen. Mitsui
& Co., a trading house that counts commodities as its biggest
source of profit, slipped 1.2 percent to 1,455 yen.  Crude for September delivery fell 2.2 percent to $97.40 a
barrel in  New York  yesterday, the lowest settlement since July
18. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum slid 0.2 percent.  Steelmakers declined the most among the 33 Topix industry
groups. Kobe Steel lost 3.4 percent to 170 yen after saying
profit fell 51 percent last quarter as the March disasters
reduced steel demand from carmakers. Larger Nippon Steel Corp.
and JFE Holdings Inc. slid at least 2.3 percent.  Among companies that gained, Hitachi Construction Machinery
Co. rallied 3.8 percent to 1,745 yen. Japan’s second-biggest
maker of excavators more than doubled its net income forecast to
3.8 billion yen ($48.7 million) for the six months through Sept.
30. Sales of parts and cost cuts drove the revision, the company
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 