-- 
Japan Tobacco Agrees to Pay $450 Million for Sudan’s Haggar; Shares Climb

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   G o   O n o m i t s u
-- 
2011-07-29T07:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/japan-tobacco-agrees-to-pay-450-million-for-sudan-cigarette-maker-haggar.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)   agreed  to pay
$450 million for a cigarette maker operating in Sudan and oil-
rich South Sudan, which gained independence this month after a
rebellion that lasted almost 50 years.  Haggar Cigarette & Tobacco Factory Ltd. controls 80
percent of the market in Sudan and is “well established” in
the Republic of South Sudan, the Japanese company said. The
deal values the maker of Bringi cigarettes at 9.9 times last
year’s underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, Japan Tobacco said in a  statement  yesterday.  Japan Tobacco, the world’s third-largest publicly traded
cigarette maker, plans to boost overseas profit by at least 10
percent as an aging population and a higher cigarette tax
weaken demand at home. Net income may expand 11 percent to 161
billion yen ($2.1 billion) this fiscal year on increased prices
in  Russia  and other markets abroad, the Tokyo-based maker of
Mild Seven, Camel and LD cigarettes said yesterday.  “This acquisition is positive because it shows the
company is eager to grow overseas,” said Mikihiko Yamato, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Japan Invest KK. “The company prefers
making acquisitions in  Asia , but it is difficult to find
candidates in the region.”  Japan Tobacco gained 3.7 percent in Tokyo trading to close
at 350,000 yen, the highest level since Feb. 17. The stock has
gained 16 percent this year, compared with a 6.4 percent drop
in the broader Topix index.  Africa Foothold  The purchase of Haggar, which sold 4.5 billion cigarettes
in Sudan last year, will be financed with existing funds and
loans, Japan Tobacco said, without providing more details.  “Africa is a very energetic and growing market,” Akira Saeki, an executive vice president for Japan Tobacco, said in
Tokyo yesterday. “Gaining a foothold there is a very
significant step.”  Japan Tobacco’s cigarettes are sold in more than 20
African countries including  South Africa ,  Algeria ,  Nigeria  and
 Morocco , said Hideyuki Yamamoto, a company spokesman. The
company has a 97 percent market share in Tanzania, he said.  Its two cigarette factories in the continent are in South
Africa and Tanzania, and it has a tobacco leaf processing
facility in  Malawi , Yamamoto said by e-mail.  Haggar has two cigarette factories, according to its
 website . Japan Tobacco “will be assessing the attractiveness of
exporting from Sudan,” Yamamoto said.  Lower Multiple  Japan Tobacco is paying a lower multiple for Haggar than
was paid in similar deals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The median price-to-Ebitda ratio in 10 takeovers or
stake purchases in  tobacco companies  over the past five years
was 13.5, the data show.  The ratio of 9.9 times Ebitda that Japan Tobacco said it’s
paying for Haggar is lower than the multiple of 13.7 it paid
for Gallaher Group Plc in 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Japanese cigarette maker paid 7.5 billion pounds
for LD maker Gallaher, excluding debt, the data show.  It bought RJR Nabisco Inc.’s international businesses,
including the Winston and Camel brands, in 1999 for $8 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Tobacco is buying the  Sudan  cigarette maker from its
parent,  Haggar Holding Company Ltd. , according to the statement.  Net income for Japan Tobacco may total 161 billion yen
($2.1 billion) in the 12 months ending March 31, compared with
145 billion yen a year earlier, it said in a separate statement.  Rebel Attacks  Fiscal first-quarter profit rose 2.4 percent to 22.7
billion yen, with operating income falling 9.5 percent to 71.9
billion yen, the company  said .  Oil-rich South Sudan, which became the world’s 193rd
nation on July 9, has an adult illiteracy rate of 85 percent,
and half of its 8 million people live on less than $1 a day,
according to the  United Nations .  This year has been South Sudan’s most violent since civil
war ended in 2005, with 2,368 civilians dying in rebel attacks
and ethnic violence, including cattle raids, compared with 940
last year, according to the UN. As many as nine militia groups
operate mainly along the border with the north, close to  oil
fields .  South Sudan controls about 75 percent of Sudan’s daily
production of 490,000 barrels of oil.  The UN Security Council on July 8 adopted a resolution for
a 12-month peacekeeping mission, authorizing the deployment of
7,000 soldiers and 900 police to South Sudan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Go Onomitsu in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  