-- 
Japan to Examine Separation of Tepco Power Plants, Distribution

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-07-28T08:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/japan-to-examine-separation-of-tepco-power-plants-distribution.html
The head of the oversight committee
for  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said a possible separation of the
utility’s electricity distribution and generation units will be
part of the probe into the company’s structure and assets.  The committee will “thoroughly examine systems that
regulators haven’t touched for a long time” including
separation of Tepco’s distribution and generation operations,
Kazuhiko Shimokobe, the chairman of the panel investigating the
utility’s finances, told reporters in Tokyo today.  Japan’s government set up the committee to assist in
compensation plans for those affected by the nuclear accident at
 Tokyo Electric ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. The utility
known as Tepco plans to raise more than 600 billion yen ($7.7
billion) through asset sales, one of the conditions for
receiving government support, for compensation payments.  Tepco may face as much as 11 trillion yen ($141 billion) in
claims, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  It was also announced at the press conference that Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu LLC, Boston Consulting Group Inc. and Nishimura
& Asahi were chosen by  Japan ’s government to carry out due
diligence on Tepco’s assets.  The advisers will provide interim reports by late August
and final reports by mid-September, The oversight committee will
provide its own report by the end of September, Shimokobe said.  In investigating the utility’s management and finance, the
committee will focus on five areas: identifying assets, costs,
electricity pricing, the electricity wholesale market, and
assessing Tepco’s long term structure, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  