-- 
Jefferson Citizens Grow Weary of Crisis as County Stares Down Bankruptcy

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-28T14:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/jefferson-county-stares-down-bankruptcy-as-citizens-grow-weary-of-crisis.html
Call it sewer fatigue.  As Jefferson County,  Alabama , meets today to decide whether
to declare a record U.S. municipal bankruptcy, some citizens,
politicians and businesses embraced the move. They said it would
begin resolving a three-year-old, $3 billion-plus debt crisis
and provide leverage over creditors that would offset the damage
to the county’s finances and reputation.  “People are tired of reading about the sewer crisis and
tired of hearing about rate increases,” Tony Petelos, mayor of
Hoover, a city of 81,619, said in an interview in his office.
“People, including me, want to see this come to an end, even if
it’s bankruptcy. This has been a dark cloud hanging over this
county and this city for more than three and a half years.”  An offer from creditors last night may delay the bankruptcy
decision. John Young, a court-appointed receiver for the sewer
system, said this morning that he considers the proposal “a
good offer” and that he would be willing to extend a standstill
-- now set to expire tomorrow night -- for seven days to allow
commissioners to examine it.  “There are a lot of issues in this offer,” he said.
“There are a lot of things that need to be considered,
including legislation issues and litigation issues.”  Bond Refinancing  Jefferson County, home to Birmingham, Hoover and more than
658,000 residents, has been under fiscal stress since a sewer-
bond refinancing collapsed more than three years ago during the
credit crisis. Then, the Legislature refused to act after a
court in March struck down a tax on wages. The levy generated
about a quarter of Jefferson’s general-fund revenue. Losing it
meant unpaid leave for more than 500 of its 2,000 employees.  Today, the five-member County Commission meets to consider
bankruptcy -- a day before a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission hearing in suburban Homewood on municipal-bond
regulation.  The county has proposed that creditors including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , which holds most of the bonds, agree to reduce the
debt to about $2 billion.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman,
declined to comment on the situation yesterday.  Commission President David Carrington said he expected to
see a settlement offer before today’s meeting at 1 p.m. local
time. If an acceptable deal doesn’t transpire, the county might
file for bankruptcy as soon as midnight July 30, he said.  ‘Pull the Trigger’  “My constituents are saying, ‘Pull the trigger,’”
Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said at a meeting July 26.  Commissioner Joe Knight also said the people he represents
are fed up: “They are ready for bankruptcy,” he said in an
interview that day. “I caution them that bankruptcy is
uncharted territory. The lure is that it would handle everything
in a more organized way. We have been wandering in the desert
all these years.”  Bankruptcy wouldn’t erase the debt. Instead it would
provide a judicial forum for adjustments, which might take
years. The San Francisco Bay city of Vallejo,  California ,
entered bankruptcy in May 2008, as the recession eroded tax
revenue and unions rejected wage cuts. It may exit bankruptcy
today, more than three years later, after spending more than $10
million on legal fees.  At Jefferson County’s downtown Birmingham headquarters, a
sign on the door demonstrates the decline of services that helps
drive pro-bankruptcy sentiment: “Revenue line starts at the
Lynn Park side,” it says in bold black letters. “Tags: Same
line.”  Stalled Projects  In interviews this week, residents spoke of long waits for
license-plates, grassed-over hulks of half-started road
expansions, threatened double-digit sewer-rate increases and
sheer exhaustion.  “I think they should just go into bankruptcy and get it
over with,” said Sophia Faulk, who has owned and operated
Sophia’s Deli in downtown Birmingham for 22 years.  Faulk and her husband, Howard, said they’d lost business,
regulars and friends to the cutbacks, including patronage from
jurors at the adjacent courthouse as the number of juries seated
plunged from 31 a year to 15.  “This business used to be fun,” she said. “It isn’t
anymore.”  E. Wayne Sullivan, director of the county’s engineering
department, said his workforce went from 393 to 114. Complaints
have been rolling in and he expects an increase now that the
county is finished picking up debris from April tornadoes and
people “begin to notice what kind of shape the roads are in.”  Lost Investment  In suburban Hoover, Petelos said the city lost at least one
investor who abandoned the idea of buying commercial property
after learning it would have to use Jefferson’s sewer system.  The seeds of the crisis were planted in 1996 when the
federal government ordered the county to improve water quality.  It embarked on a $3 billion borrowing binge without a plan
to repay the debt, according to a report by Young, the receiver
who took charge of the sewer system in September after bond
insurers sued the county.  To postpone rate increases, the county pushed bond payments
into the future. In 2002 and 2003, when debt service began to
increase, the county hired JPMorgan to refinance the debt,
converting fixed-rate debt into floating-rate bonds.  The financing and construction were rife with corruption.
 Larry Langford , a former commissioner and Birmingham mayor, was
convicted of accepting bribes for arranging the refinancing and
is serving a 15-year sentence. Two of his associates pleaded
guilty, and two JPMorgan bankers are fighting Securities and
Exchange Commission charges that they made $8 million in
undisclosed payments to friends of commissioners.  In 2009, JPMorgan settled allegations that it violated
securities regulations, agreeing to cancel $647 million in fees.  Yesterday, a Jefferson County sewer bond maturing in 2027
traded in a range of 58.3 cents to 69.6 cents on the dollar.  Sudden Rage  For the past three years, the county has negotiated off and
on with its creditors. Then, in June, Young released a report
recommending a 25 percent sewer-rate increase. Under the plan,
the average residential wastewater bill would increase to $46.88
a month from $37.74, after quadrupling since 1997.  “People were outraged, absolutely outraged,” Petelos
said.  Ronnie Acker, president of the Bessemer Area Chamber of
Commerce in the county’s western part, said that many of his
members -- most of them small businesses -- wish bankruptcy had
come three years ago.  ‘Drag On’  “We’d be out of this by now,” Acker said in a telephone
interview. “Letting it drag on and on and on hasn’t done a
thing to help Jefferson County or the state of Alabama.”  The Birmingham Business Alliance, which represents 1,200
firms in the seven-county metro area, has no official position
on a filing, said its president and chief executive, W. Brian
Hilson. He said he wasn’t in favor.  “I would prefer the county work through the issues with
creditors, begin restoring services and most importantly make
the creditors whole,” he said.  The entire state would have to live down an image of
financial instability, he said.  When the SEC convenes its hearing in Jefferson County
tomorrow, topics will include disclosure, derivatives and
distressed communities.  Jefferson County commissioners plan to attend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  