-- 
Jefferson County Creditors Make Restructuring Offer Before Bankruptcy Vote

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-28T13:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/jefferson-county-creditors-make-restructuring-offer-before-bankruptcy-vote.html
Creditors of Jefferson County,
 Alabama , whose commissioners said they may vote today on filing
the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history, made a new
offer for debt reorganization yesterday, according to a receiver
there.  John Young said the county’s five commissioners should take
more time to review the offer before voting. He said he couldn’t
discuss details.  A 30-day standstill agreement between Young and the county
expires at midnight tomorrow. In a telephone interview, Young
said he was willing to extend it and that commissioners would
need another week to review what he described as a multi-issue
agreement.  “I think it’s a good offer,” Young said. “There’s a
standstill in place and I’m certainly willing to extend it.
Seven days would be enough.”  The county, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been under fiscal stress since a sewer-bond
refinancing collapsed more than three years ago during the
credit crisis. Then, the state Legislature refused to act after
a court in March struck down a tax on wages. The levy generated
about a quarter of Jefferson’s general-fund revenue. Losing it
meant unpaid leave for more than 500 of its 2,000 employees.  The county has proposed that creditors including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , which holds most of the bonds, agree to reduce the
debt to about $2 billion. Calls to JPMorgan for comment today
weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  