-- 
Jewels Seized, Helicopters Grounded as Irish State Agency Chases Debtors

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-07-28T13:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/jewels-seized-helicopters-grounded-as-the-irish-government-chases-debtors.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency is overseeing the sale of helicopters and seizing jewels
belonging to debtors as it chases loan repayments and a 1
billion-euro ($1.4 billion) profit.  Set up in 2009 to purge banks of risky commercial real
estate loans, the Dublin-based  agency  posted a loss of 1.18
billion euros last year after impairment charges of 1.49 billion
euros. The agency, also known as NAMA, is looking for buyers for
marshland in Dublin, an airport and some of the most expensive
land in the country, according to a list published today.  “One of my colleagues told me yesterday he just secured
200,000 euros worth of jewels” a debtor had bought for his
partner, Brendan McDonagh, NAMA’s chief executive officer, told
reporters in Dublin today. NAMA’s top 180 debtors owe it a
“staggering” 62 billion euros, he said.  NAMA still expects to make a profit of 1 billion euros over
its lifespan, McDonagh said. The agency paid 30.2 billion euros
for loans with a face value of 71.2 billion euros, after a
decade-long real estate boom collapsed in 2008. Ireland’s
government now controls five of the state’s six largest banks.  The agency acquired 11,500 loans related to 850 debtors.
NAMA, which made an operating profit of 91 million euros in the
first quarter, published today a list of about 850 properties it
seized through the appointment of receivers.  Firesales  Booterstown Marsh, on the coast in south Dublin, Weston
Airport in Leixlip, Co. Kildare, south-west of Dublin are on the
list. The agency is also  looking  for buyers for bars in the U.K.
and real estate in Kensington in  London . Two houses on Ailesbury
Road, among the dearest streets in Dublin, are also listed.  Among the London properties to be sold are The Forge,
Island Point and the 62-story City Pride tower, three
development projects in the Docklands in east London.  NAMA is also selling the Odeon movie theater at Leicester
Square in central London and two adjacent sites.  The agency, which has approved a cumulative 3.9 billion
euros in asset sales, won’t engage in “firesales” to dispose
of assets, McDonagh said.  NAMA didn’t say how many developers had been forced to sell
helicopters. Frank Daly, chairman of the agency, said the Galway
race festival, which typically draws real estate developers,
attracted fewer helicopters this year.  “I don’t know whether that’s a success for NAMA or not,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  