-- 
Jobs Top Priority for Likely 2012 Voters, Group’s Survey Finds

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-28T16:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/jobs-top-priority-for-likely-2012-voters-group-s-survey-finds.html
Creating jobs is a more important
mission for Congress and President  Barack Obama  than reducing
the deficit, according to a poll of likely voters in the 2012
U.S. election commissioned by a manufacturers’ group.  Sixty-seven percent of those questioned said they would
prefer that politicians focus on employment, according to a
report by Washington’s Mellman Group and Ayres McHenry and
Associates Inc., of Alexandria, Virginia. The study, released
today, was sponsored by the Washington-based Alliance for
American Manufacturing.  “They want Washington to take action,” Scott Paul, the
group’s executive director, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Washington office. “They want manufacturing to be a
central part of economic renewal in the  United States .”  Sixty-two percent of participants in the study said the
U.S. isn’t the world’s strongest economy, up from 58 percent in
the group’s report last year. Among those who didn’t think the
U.S. had the world’s strongest economy, 39 percent said  China  is
the top nation, an increase from 36 percent last year.  While  China’s economy  grew 9.5 percent in the second
quarter, exceeding U.S. first-quarter economic growth of 2.3
percent, America’s annual gross domestic product is $14.1
trillion, almost triple China’s $4.99 trillion. China’s urban
unemployment was 4.1 percent at the end of June, the Ministry of
Human Resources and Social Security said on July 25. U.S.
unemployment was 9.2 percent in June, the Labor Department said
on July 8.  Chinese Trade  Fifty-nine percent of poll participants said the U.S.
should use all legal means to stop unfair Chinese trade
practices. That compares with 34 percent who said the U.S.
should be careful in dealing with China because the nation is a
U.S. creditor and any trade dispute would increase prices for
imports. China remained the largest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries at the end of May, with $1.16 trillion, according to
the Treasury Department.  The two consulting groups advised manufacturers to pursue
their political goals with messages focused on American pride in
making things rather than on statements about  tax policy  or
human-rights abuses in China, the world’s fastest-growing
economy. The alliance includes Pittsburgh’s U.S. Steel Corp. and
Luxembourg’s  ArcelorMittal (MT) , as well as the United Steelworkers
union, based in Pittsburgh, and advocates stricter enforcement
of U.S. trade laws and measures that protect American producers.  Hiring Importance  The survey showed 80 percent of Democratic voters, 67
percent of Independents, 53 percent of Republicans and 50
percent of Tea Party supporters said hiring was more important
than closing the budget shortfall, the alliance said.  The U.S. unemployment rate rose for a third straight month
in June, hiring slowed and corporate earnings stagnated.
Employers added 18,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest in nine
months and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 3 percent this week
through yesterday, its biggest three-day decline since June 3,
as Republicans and Democrats sparred over separate plans to
raise the debt limit and avoid a default by Aug. 2.  The consultants conducted eight focus groups in May and
surveyed 1,202 likely general-election voters June 14 through 19
in a poll that had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  Fifty percent of respondents said Obama is doing “a great
deal” to help create American manufacturing jobs, compared with
41 percent for Democrats in Congress and 32 percent for
Republicans. Forty-two percent said Obama isn’t helping to help
create jobs, compared with 50 percent for Democrats and 60
percent for Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  