-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for July (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-07-28T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-july-text-.html
Following is the text from the
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Survey of Tenth District Manufacturing  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing slowed in July after a
solid rebound in June. However, producers remain generally
upbeat about future activity. Price indexes were little changed
from the previous month, though plans to raise selling prices
eased somewhat.  The month-over-month composite index was 3 in July, down from 14
in June but up from 1 in May. The composite index is an average
of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery
time, and raw materials inventory indexes. Growth in factory
activity increased at both durable and non-durable goods
producing plants in July. Most month-over-month indexes fell in
July. The production index plunged from 25 to 0, and the
shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also decreased.
The employment index dropped from 17 to 4, and the new orders
for exports index posted a negative reading for the first time
since mid-2009. Both inventory indexes fell after gaining last
month.  The year-over-year factory indexes eased slightly, but remained
at solid levels. The composite year-over-year index edged down
from 31 to 24, and the production, new orders, shipments, and
order backlog indexes also fell. The employment index moved
slightly lower after reaching a six-year high last month. The
capital expenditures index eased from 13 to 8, while the new
orders for exports index was basically unchanged. Both inventory
indexes fell for the second straight month.  Future factory indexes were little changed from last month, as
producers remained fairly optimistic about activity later this
year. The future composite index was basically unchanged at 14,
and the future new orders index also remained the same. The
future production index eased slightly from 25 to 21, while the
future shipments index increased. The future employment index
was largely unchanged at 17, and the future capital expenditures
index rose after falling last month. The future finished goods
inventory index moved into negative territory, while the future
raw materials index was stable.  Prices were somewhat mixed, but most indexes posted similar
readings to the previous month. The month-over-month raw
materials price index edged higher from 36 to 39, and the
finished goods price index also increased slightly. The year-
over-year finished goods price index rose from 45 to 50, while
the finished goods price index was basically unchanged. The
future raw materials price index moved up from 55 to 60, while
the future finished goods price index fell, indicating slightly
fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to
customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  