-- 
BJP Seeks Karnataka Leader as Yeddyurappa to Quit Over Corruption Report

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-07-29T05:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/karnataka-state-chief-yeddyurappa-accused-in-3-6-billion-mining-scandal.html
Leaders of  India ’s  Bharatiya Janata
Party  searched for a replacement for the chief minister of
Karnataka who said he’ll quit after being indicted in a report
on illegal mining in the state.  B.S. Yeddyurappa, named along with more than 100 companies
and 600 officials in an investigation by the southern state’s
anti-corruption agency, will resign on July 31 and a new leader
will be chosen by “consensus,” Dhananjaya Kumar, a BJP
spokesman, said in an interview today. Yeddyurappa denies any
wrongdoing, Kumar said.  The BJP, India’s main federal opposition, yesterday had
withdrawn support for Yeddyurappa as his continuance in office
threatened to blunt the party’s campaign to target Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government over corruption that has
led to the jailing of a former telecommunications minister and
officials who organized last year’s Commonwealth Games.  Karnataka’s anti-graft ombudsman Santosh Hegde said in a
televised press conference July 27 that there had been “large-
scale involvement of officials, powerful people, administrators
as well as people working in the government” in “rampant”
mining without licenses in the state.  The scandal in a state that is home to offices of  Intel
Corp ., General Electric Co. and International Business Machines
Corp. may have cost the government 160 billion rupees ($3.6
billion) in lost revenue. Winning power in Karnataka was a
breakthrough for the BJP, whose administrations have
traditionally been restricted to northern and central states.  Hedge said his report has been sent to Karnataka’s governor
and India’s  Supreme Court  for further action to be taken against
named officials. He said a mining company made a 100 million
rupee donation to a trust controlled by Yeddyurappa in order to
gain favors and in a separate deal another mining company paid
more than 10 times the market value for a property owned by the
chief minister’s family.  Karnataka, the country’s second largest iron-ore producing
region, has been plagued by allegations that companies have been
mining illegally for the last decade. Companies are accused of
extracting the minerals and selling them without a license,
depriving the state of taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  