-- 
Kenya’s 3-Month Borrowing Costs Rise; Bids Exceed Supply for Eighth Sale

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-28T15:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/kenya-s-3-month-borrowing-costs-rise-bids-exceed-supply-for-eighth-sale.html
Kenya ’s three-month borrowing costs
rose for a third straight auction as demand exceeded the amount
allocated for an eighth sale, with investors seeking to benefit
from yields that are within 6 basis points of a nine-year high.  The yield on the 91-day Treasury bills climbed to 9.01
percent at today’s sale from 9.004 percent on July 21, the
Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed
statement. The bank issued 2.94 billion shillings ($32 million)
of the debt after investors bid for 3.44 billion shillings of
the 2 billion shillings offered.  “Investors are seeking alternative investment vehicles
which offer higher returns for their deposits, even as the
central bank continues to show preference for lower rates,”
Fred Mweni, a dealer at Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd.,
said by phone.  The Central Bank of Kenya unexpectedly left its key lending
rate at 6.5 percent yesterday, a decision expected by one of
seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The median estimate was
for a quarter percentage-point increase.  The yield on three-month bills reached 9.016 percent on
June 9, the highest since May 2002 as price growth soared on
rising food and fuel costs. Inflation accelerated to almost
triple the targeted pace in June, reaching 14.5 percent. Aiming
to bring price-growth back to the government’s 5 percent target,
the central bank increased the benchmark  interest rate  twice
this year, each time by a quarter point, from a record low in
January. It also raised mandatory commercial bank reserves by
the same margin.  The central bank imposed additional measures for the use of
its discount window as it seeks to tighten monetary policy, amid
concern that “commercial banks were using it as a permanent
supply of liquidity,” it said on July 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  