-- 
NATO Seeks to Return Order Amid Kosovo Unrest

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-07-28T17:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/nato-seeks-to-return-order-boost-troops-amid-kosovo-unrest.html
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
troops restored order in northern  Kosovo  after a group of
Serbian youths torched a border crossing, sparking fear of
renewed violence between the two Balkan nations.  NATO boosted its presence after soldiers were also shot at
in the Serb-dominated part of Kosovo yesterday, about 100
kilometers (62 miles) northwest of Pristina, the capital. There
were no reported injuries.  “The situation is calm,” Hans Wichter, spokesman for the
NATO operation in Kosovo, known as KFOR, said by phone today.
“We have boosted our presence across the northern part.”  The violence started after Kosovo police tried to take
control of two border crossings from local Serbian and European
Union police. Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci rejected EU
criticisms of the move, which led to the death of one Kosovo
policeman, saying the operation was in line with international
law. The dispute comes as  Serbia  tries to earn European Union
candidate status this year.  “We work for the opening of borders, for European borders,
but we will not tolerate, in no way, the violation of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of
Kosovo,” Thaci said in a televised press conference aired on
Radiotelevizioni i Kosoves late yesterday.  Serbia’s Criticism  Serbia’s government condemned the violence and blamed the
Kosovo authorities for the escalation in tensions.  It was “not a desire to impose law and order, but a clear
intention to change reality in the north of the province through
force and even at the cost of human lives,” the Serbian Cabinet
said in a statement in Belgrade. “There are too many
indications that the authorities in Pristina coordinated the
operations with individuals from the international
institutions.”  The border crossing at Jarinje has been closed for traffic
because “the infrastructure is heavily damaged,” KFOR said in
a statement today.  The violence was condemned by the EU’s foreign policy
chief,  Catherine Ashton , who urged both sides to reach a
negotiated settlement.  “We jointly condemn all acts of violence,” the U.K.
Foreign Secretary,  William Hague , and his German counterpart,
 Guido Westerwelle , said in a statement e-mailed today by the
British Foreign Office in  London . “We underline the necessity
to respect the territorial integrity of Kosovo, to refrain from
further acts of violence and from any steps that may have a
negative impact on stability and security.”  Trade Dispute  Kosovo wants to assert authority over its northern borders
with Serbia, which refuses to recognize its former province as a
state.  Serbia, which is aiming for an accelerated EU integration
process after it captured the last remaining war crimes
criminals Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic , will need to find a way
to deal with Kosovo, a key condition in its EU bid.  The two nations that were at war over a decade ago have
been engaged in EU-sponsored talks on ways to improve trade
relations. Those efforts were rattled after Kosovo imposed a
trade embargo on Serbian products in reaction to Serbia’s
reluctance to accept on their customs declaration forms the
stamp with the Republic of Kosovo insignia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Pristina via Ljubljana newsroom at 
1006 or  bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 