-- 
New Drugs Trump Mammograms for Fewer Cancer Deaths, Study Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-28T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/new-drugs-trump-mammograms-for-fewer-cancer-deaths-study-says.html
Better medicines and more efficient
health-care systems, rather than a greater number of mammograms,
may explain drops in  breast-cancer  deaths in  Europe  over the
past two decades, researchers found.  Scientists studying the link between screening and
mortality over the past two decades said widespread use of
mammograms didn’t play any “direct part” in reducing deaths
from the most common malignancy in women. Their  findings  were
published today in the British Medical Journal.  Mammograms -- low-dose X-rays of the breast that doctors
use to look for early signs of cancer -- catch more tumors that
are less dangerous and often miss the “real killers,” said
Philippe Autier, research director at the Lyon, France-based
International Prevention Research Institute and lead author of
the study. He said research shows most instances of breast
cancer are initially found by women themselves. Instead of a
nationwide screening system with mammograms, more money should
be aimed at new treatment and imaging methods, he said.  “We were expecting, from mammography, to catch it
earlier,” Autier said in a telephone interview. “In fact, what
it seems is that mammography is not doing the job.”  The researchers compared three pairs of neighboring
European countries with similar populations, economies and
medical systems that started widespread screening programs years
apart. They found that dips in breast cancer deaths didn’t vary
much between countries, suggesting that screening plans don’t
matter as much as new treatments to fight the disease.  Cancer Treatments  In every country except  Sweden  -- where cancer deaths have
steadily declined since 1972 -- mortality started to fall in the
five years after 1991, according to the study.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Arimidex,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin, Novartis AG’s Femara and
Sanofi’s Taxotere are among breast-cancer medicines that won
approval in the 1990s.  The Swedish government started its testing program in 1986,
with nationwide coverage reached in 1997. The Nordic nation
reported a 16 percent decline in breast cancer deaths between
1989 and 2006, according to the study. Deaths dropped 24 percent
over the same period in  Norway , which attained nationwide
coverage almost a decade later, in 2005.  The Netherlands, which began its program in 1989 and
reached full coverage by 1997, reported a 25 percent drop in its
breast-cancer mortality rate. That’s only 0.4 percentage point
above  Belgium ’s Flanders region, where screenings picked up in
2003 and remained lower than in the Netherlands in 2006.  Issue Not ‘Settled’  In  Northern Ireland , where the U.K. started screenings in
the early 1990s, deaths fell by 30 percent between 1989 and
2006. Deaths in Ireland, where less than a third of women had
coverage in 2002, dropped 27 percent over the same period.  “Most governments consider that the issue is settled
thanks to mammography,” Autier said. “I’ve been myself a
prominent supporter of breast screening for years.
Unfortunately, it’s not the case.”  Screenings that aren’t organized by the government are
uncommon in all the countries, the researchers said.  “Screening cannot explain these changes in trends,” the
scientists wrote. “It seems more likely that the downward
inflections observed from 1991 to 1996 stem from the impact of
adopting effective anti-cancer treatments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  London  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  