-- 
News Corp. to Probe Allegations Paper Hacked Phone of Murdered Girl’s Mom

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/news-corp-to-probe-allegations-paper-hacked-phone-of-murdered-girl-s-mom.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International unit
said it is “deeply concerned” over allegations that an
investigator at the since-shuttered News of the World tabloid
may have targeted the mobile phone of a murdered girl’s mother.  Police have found evidence that suggests  Glenn Mulcaire , a
private investigator who was convicted in 2007 of hacking phones
for the News of the World, targeted Sara Payne, the mother of
Sarah, according to the charity she set up.  Eight-year-old Sarah Payne was murdered in 2000 by a
convicted pedophile, leading her mother to start a campaign to
allow parents to find out if sex offenders lived near them. The
campaign was supported by the News of the World, which provided
Payne with a mobile phone for the next 11 years.  “News International takes this matter very seriously and
is deeply concerned like everyone,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday. “As the facts are established,
the company and the independent Management and Standards
Committee will take all appropriate actions, including
cooperating fully with any potential criminal enquiries or civil
proceedings which may arise.”  The scandal at the News Corp. tabloid intensified after the
 Guardian newspaper  reported July 4 that the newspaper hacked
into the phone of Milly Dowler, who was murdered in 2002. The
furor has led to News Corp. dropping a takeover bid for  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the resignation of two top
executives and an inquiry by Prime Minister  David Cameron .  “Sara is absolutely devastated by this news, we’re all
deeply disappointed,” Phoenix Chief Advocates, part of the
Payne charity, said in a  statement on its website .  ‘Dear Friend’  “These allegations are abhorrent and particularly
upsetting as Sara Payne is a dear friend,” Rebekah Brooks, the
editor of the News of the World in 2000, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “The idea that anyone on the newspaper
knew that Sara or the campaign team were targeted by Mr.
Mulcaire is unthinkable. The idea of her being targeted is
beyond my comprehension.”  Brooks, who resigned as chief executive of News
International, News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, this month
over the hacking scandal, told Parliament’s Culture committee
July 19 that her work with Payne had been the “main focus” of
her editorship.  “I can tell you on a personal level there have been many
times when they have stayed close and stood beside me,” Payne
wrote of the newspaper’s staff in an  article for its final
edition  headlined “News of the World Proved It Was a Force for
Good.” Payne’s photo was on the cover of that issue.  ‘Endemic Practice’  Mark Lewis , a lawyer who represents around 70 victims of
hacking, said in a phone interview that he wasn’t surprised by
the news, reported by the Guardian earlier today.  “It’s in keeping with the policy of families of victims
being hacked,” he said. “It’s not been proven, but there does
seem to have been an endemic practice.”  Tom Watson , an opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker who sits on
the Culture Committee, told Sky News television that he’s
“absolutely certain there will be more revelations. I don’t
think we’re halfway through this scandal yet.”  Watson said he would ask his fellow lawmakers on the panel
to consider whether to recall Murdoch’s son James, the deputy
chief operating officer of News Corp., as well as former News of
the World editor  Colin Myler  and Tom Crone, the former legal
manager at News International, for further testimony.  Myler and Crone said in a statement last week that  James
Murdoch  was “mistaken” in testimony he’d given to the panel on
July 19 about information he received before authorizing a
settlement to one of the victims of phone-hacking.  The Metropolitan Police declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  