-- 
News Corp., Hacking Claims and the Story I Missed: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-07-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/news-corp-hackings-and-the-story-i-missed-jonathan-weil.html
One August afternoon almost six
years ago I sat in the office of a small  marketing company 
called Floorgraphics Inc., listening to two of its founders tell
how a  News Corp. (NWSA)  unit had hacked into their computer system.  They were trying to get federal prosecutors interested,
they said. The big question in my mind was whether I had a story
I could run with. At the time I was a reporter for the Wall
Street Journal. (This was before  News Corp. (NWS)  bought the paper.)
Ultimately I decided not to write about the company. And I had
largely forgotten about Floorgraphics, until this month.  The reason I’m dusting off this nugget now, in case it’s
not obvious, is the scandal at News Corp., which started with
voice-mail hacking and alleged bribes to British police by 
journalists at the now-shuttered London tabloid News of the 
World. Today U.S. authorities are looking into whether 
company employees may have violated American laws as well.  Founded in 1996 and based in Princeton,  New Jersey ,
Floorgraphics had a simple business: Place ads for packaged
goods on grocery-store floors, so customers would see them at
the point of purchase. News America Marketing In-Store Services,
a unit of News Corp., was a competitor. In July 2004,
Floorgraphics filed suit in a New Jersey federal court, accusing
News America of trying to destroy its business.  The broader story about the companies’ David-and-Goliath
battle, which had already been  written  about, didn’t interest me
much. The lawsuit’s allegation that News America hacked
Floorgraphics’ computers had gotten my attention, though.  Detailed Knowledge  Back then, in mid-2005, George Rebh, Floorgraphics’
executive vice president, and his younger brother Richard, the
company’s chief executive officer, had told me their initial
tipoff came in January 2004, when the company learned from an
advertising client that News America had detailed knowledge of a
new store program Floorgraphics had been planning.  The Rebhs said they checked their company’s computer logs
for Web traffic originating from News America’s network, as
identified by its Internet protocol address. They said they
found News America had accessed Floorgraphics’ computer systems
on 11 occasions during a five-month period. Whoever did it, they
said, apparently had the right username and password.  The problem from my standpoint was that I had no way to
independently verify most of what they said. News America had
denied Floorgraphics’ allegations in court papers, including the
hacking claim. So I told George Rebh: If I could establish that
there was an active federal investigation into their hacking
allegation, then maybe there would be a story for me. News Corp.
hadn’t disclosed such a probe, and it would be news if there was
one.  Checking Investigations  Rebh had given me contact information for everyone they
had been in touch with at the U.S. attorney’s office in Newark,
New Jersey; the  U.S. Secret Service , which has jurisdiction to
investigate computer fraud; and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , including two FBI agents who Rebh said had
visited Floorgraphics’ headquarters in April 2004 to gather
evidence.  Rebh said one of the FBI agents had told him in November
2004 that they dropped the case months earlier after deciding it
didn’t meet their $5,000 minimum damage threshold, which struck
the Rebhs as ridiculous. After hearing this, George Rebh said he
had called the assistant U.S. attorney who had been telling him
that the FBI was making progress -- only to learn that the
attorney was leaving for private practice.  The Rebhs eventually got some help from three New Jersey
congressmen. U.S. Representative Rush Holt, a Democrat, sent a
letter in April 2005 to then-U.S. Attorney  Chris Christie  (now
the governor of New Jersey) asking his office to look into
Floorgraphics’ allegations. The response from Christie’s office,
signed by the head of its commercial-crimes unit, said the
matter was “under review.”  Senators Sought Reviews  In June 2005, New Jersey’s two U.S. senators,  Frank Lautenberg  and  Jon Corzine , both Democrats, sent a  letter  to
Alberto Gonzales, then the U.S. attorney general, asking for the
 Justice Department  to consider Floorgraphics’ allegations. That
didn’t seem to spur much action, either.  A spokesman for Christie,  Michael Drewniak , declined to
comment this week on the Floorgraphics case, as did a Justice
Department spokeswoman, Alisa Finelli, and a spokeswoman for the
U.S. attorney’s office in  Newark , Rebekah Carmichael. The Rebhs
also declined to comment for this column.  After meeting with the Rebhs that summer, I called every
source I could think of, and turned up nothing. Maybe federal
investigators had dropped the ball. Perhaps there hadn’t been
enough evidence. Or maybe they didn’t want to take on a sister
company of  Rupert Murdoch ’s Fox News. Whatever it was, I told
the Rebhs I didn’t have a story. And by early 2006 I had left
the Journal for another job.  New Life  The case may have new life. An attorney for Floorgraphics,
William Isaacson of Boies Schiller & Flexner in  Washington , said
he got a phone call last week from two federal prosecutors and
an FBI agent asking about the hacking matter. Also last week,
Lautenberg and Holt each  wrote  to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, flagging the letters they had sent in 2005.  More facts have emerged, too. In 2009, at a civil trial
over Floorgraphics’ lawsuit, a lawyer for News America, Lee Abrams, acknowledged to jurors that News America’s computers
were used to access Floorgraphics’ secure website, though he
said the company didn’t know who did it. About a week after the
trial began, News America agreed to buy Floorgraphics’ assets
for $29.5 million, and Floorgraphics agreed to drop its suit.  In an e-mail this week, a spokeswoman for News America,
Suzanne Halpin, said: “News America Marketing has condemned
this conduct, which is in violation of the standards of our
company.”  Whether there was ever any proof of a crime is another
matter, of course. Too bad we may never know.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 