-- 
News Corp. Probe Now Includes Manhattan Prosecutors, Rival’s Lawyer Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-28T22:42:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/news-corp-probe-now-includes-manhattan-prosecutors-rival-s-lawyer-says.html
Manhattan federal prosecutors joined
a U.S. inquiry into allegations that  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s American
marketing arm hacked a rival’s password-protected website, an
attorney for the competitor said.  William Isaacson, a lawyer at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
who represented Floorgraphics Inc. at a 2009 civil trial against
News America Marketing In-Store Services, said two Manhattan
prosecutors participated in his July 18 interview with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation . In its lawsuit, Floorgraphics,
now based in Hamilton, New Jersey, claimed News America
employees hacked into its website in 2003 and 2004.  “They wanted to know what the case was about,” Isaacson
said today in a phone interview. One of the prosecutors Isaacson
said he spoke with works in the office’s public-corruption unit,
according to a document posted in the federal courthouse in
 Manhattan . The other works in the complex-frauds unit, according
to the document.  News Corp. is dealing with three probes by police and
regulators into phone hacking at the now-closed News of the
World newspaper in the U.K. At least 10 people have been
arrested, including Rebekah Brooks, a former chief executive
officer of News Corp.’s News International unit, and ex-News of
the World editor  Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief until January.  Takeover Bid Dropped  The furor led to News Corp.’s dropping a takeover bid for
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and the setting-up of an
inquiry by Cameron.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on a U.S. investigation.
Bharara’s office regularly investigates allegations of white-
collar crime that cut across state and international borders.  Suzanne Halpin, a spokeswoman for Wilton, Connecticut-based
News America, declined to comment on the participation of the
Manhattan prosecutors. Tim Flannelly, a spokesman for the FBI’s
 New York  office, declined to comment on the agency’s
investigation.  The FBI is also probing a claim that News Corp. reporters
unsuccessfully tried to get a former New York police officer to
obtain phone records of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attack that destroyed the World Trade Center in Manhattan.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  told U.K. lawmakers last
week that he has “seen no evidence of these allegations.”  Preliminary Inquiry  Isaacson said he fielded questions from two Manhattan
assistant U.S. attorneys and an FBI agent in what appeared to be
a preliminary inquiry. His telephone interview with the
prosecutors and FBI agent came on the same day that press
reports appeared about the Floorgraphics lawsuit, he said.  In its lawsuit, which was tried in federal court in
Trenton,  New Jersey , Floorgraphics accused News America
Marketing of stealing business by hacking into its secure
website 11 times from October 2003 to January 2004 and through
other means. At the time, Floorgraphics sold floor advertising
in grocery stores.  At the trial, a News America Marketing lawyer acknowledged
that his client’s computers were used to access Floorgraphics’
site. Six days into the trial, News America Marketing entered
into what its lawyer called a “series of business
arrangements” with Floorgraphics, part of which involved a
$29.5 million payment and an agreement to buy Floorgraphics’
assets, according to court records.  Floorgraphics agreed to dismiss the case.  Site Was ‘Available’  “This site was available to hundreds, if not thousands, of
Floorgraphics retailers, representatives of consumer packaged
goods companies and Floorgraphics employees,” Halpin, the News
America Marketing spokeswoman, said last week in a statement.  “There is considerable employee movement within this
industry, and we believe it was someone with an authorized
password” who was using a News America Marketing computer, she
said. “News America Marketing condemns such conduct, which is
in violation of the standards of our company.”  The Floorgraphics civil case is Floorgraphics v. News
America Marketing In-Store Services Inc., 04-cv-03500, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in federal court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  