-- 
Nigeria Eurobond Yields Fall to Record Low on Debt, Policy-Change Optimism

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-28T14:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/nigeria-eurobond-yields-hit-record-low-on-debt-policy-optimism.html
Nigeria ’s dollar bond yields fell to
a record as its debt stock is low compared with that of European
peers and on expectations Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a managing
director at the World Bank, will help spur policy changes to
encourage investment when she returns to the Cabinet.  The yield on the 6.75 percent Eurobonds due 2021 of
Africa’s biggest oil producer fell two basis points, or 0.02
percent to 5.87 percent, the lowest level since the debt was
issued in January, as of 2:32 p.m. in  London , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds’ price gained 0.1 percent to
106.313 cents on the dollar. The $500 million of bonds are
Nigeria’s only international notes.  The federal government’s domestic debt rose to 5.21
trillion naira ($34 billion) at the end of June, from 4.87
trillion naira as of March, according to  statements  on the
website of the Abuja-based Debt Management Office. The amount is
equivalent to 15.3 percent of 2011 gross domestic product based
on National Bureau of Statistic estimates, said Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic and fixed income research at FBN
Capital Ltd. The eurozone’s average debt as a percentage of GDP
was 85.1 percent by the end of 2010, according to Eurostat.  “It’s still very, very low” compared to European peers,
Kronsten said by phone from London today. “It’s still pretty
strong credit Nigeria, the strength is the external balance
sheet and public indebtedness and reserves.”  Nigeria’s foreign reserves increased 5.3 percent this month
to $33.5 billion as of July 26. This is down from $37.6 billion
a year ago, according to  Central Bank of Nigeria  data. Africa’s
most populous nation is rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s and BB-
with a “negative” outlook by  Fitch Ratings .  Reform Expectations  President  Goodluck Jonathan , who was returned to power in
April elections, slashed almost 500 billion naira off a budget
adopted two months earlier, taking the final spending plan to
4.5 trillion naira. Nigeria’s Senate passed a bill last month
creating a sovereign-wealth fund to help the country save more
of its oil revenue and funnel money into projects.  “There’s a feeling this presidency might actually achieve
something,” said Kronsten. “There are quite high expectations
of reforms” as Okonjo-Iweala leaves her World Bank post mid-
August to become coordinating minister for the economy and
minister of finance in Nigeria, the Washington-based lender said
July 8.  As Nigeria’s finance minister from 2003 to 2006, Okonjo-
Iweala spearheaded talks that led the Paris Club group of
creditors to write off $18 billion in Nigerian debt. At the
 World Bank  since 2007, she had special oversight for work in
Africa, eastern  Europe , and central and  South Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  