-- 
North Carolina Fires Football Coach Davis Amid NCAA Probe; Baddour Leaving

-- B y   L y d i a   W i n k l e r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T16:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/north-carolina-fires-football-coach-davis-amid-ncaa-probe-baddour-leaving.html
University of  North Carolina 
administrators said firing football coach Butch Davis was the
“only way” to deal with the impact of a rules investigation,
and announced that Dick Baddour is leaving as athletic director.  Davis, 59, was dismissed yesterday to “restore
confidence” in the university and its football program amid the
National Collegiate Athletic Association probe, Chancellor
Holden Thorp said in a news release. A search will begin for a
replacement.  “I can no longer overlook the fact that what started as a
purely athletic issue has begun to chip away at this
university’s integrity,” Thorp said today at a news conference.
“I cannot stand for that.”  Baddour said at the news conference that he had asked Thorp
to begin the search for a new athletic director “as soon as
possible.” Baddour has been with the university for 45 years
and was scheduled to step down in June 2012.  “As someone who has hired coaches for the past 14 years, I
know that it is even more imperative that my successor be able
to name the next head coach,” he said.  The NCAA is investigating whether North Carolina players
violated academic rules and engaged in improper deals with
agents.  Davis joined the Tar Heels in November 2006 after coaching
jobs at the  University of Miami  and the  National Football
League ’s  Cleveland Browns .  No Change  School officials said the decision to fire Davis wasn’t
related to any change in the NCAA investigation. The move was
the result of cumulative damage to the university’s reputation
during the last year, the release said.  North Carolina’s football program was accused by the NCAA
of nine rules infractions on June 21. The  Chapel Hill , North
Carolina-based school has 90 days to answer the allegations,
which follow a 12-month probe by the NCAA. School officials were
told to appear before the NCAA’s Committee on Infractions in
Indianapolis on Oct. 28.  Among the accusations is one of unethical conduct by former
assistant coach John Blake, who resigned in September after the
Tar Heels’ season opener. Blake is accused of lying about his
relationship with former NFL agent Gary Wichard, who died in
March.  “I feel terrible that these allegations occurred under my
watch,” Davis said in a June statement. “The responsibility
for correcting any problems that put us in this position is
mine, and I take that responsibility very seriously.”  Winning Season  North Carolina finished last season with an 8-5 record.
Davis met as recently as July 25 with reporters at the Atlantic
Coast Conference’s annual football kickoff.  Davis said today in a  statement  posted on the Raleigh News
and Observer’s website that he was “surprised and saddened” to
learn of his firing, adding that he and his family “have known
all along that (he) personally did nothing wrong.”  Davis’ contract entitles him to a maximum total $2.7
million severance pay because he isn’t being dismissed for
cause, Thorp said at the news conference. Thorp maintained he
does not believe Davis was aware of the indiscretions that
attracted attention of the NCAA.  “Even though this is a terrible time, the athletics
program will need to pay whatever it is that we need to pay to
make this separation happen,” said Thorp.  Thorp and Baddour will meet today to interview on-staff
candidates for the intern coach’s position, and they expect to
make an announcement in the next few days, the chancellor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lydia Winkler in  New York  at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  