-- 
Norway Mass-Murder Trial Is Months Away: Police

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-07-28T14:19:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/norway-mass-murder-trial-is-months-away-police.html
Norwegian police said it will take
“several months” before terror suspect Anders Behring Breivik
is brought to trial and that custody hearings should be held
behind closed doors.  “I think most of the hearings during the investigation
will not be open,” Police Prosecutor Paal-Fredrik Hjort Kraby
said at a press conference in Oslo today. “But it is for the
court to decide.”  Breivik, 32, was first questioned last weekend after the
July 22 shooting rampage at Utoeya island and bomb attack in
Oslo and will be interrogated again over the next few days,
Hjort Kraby said. Further interrogations will follow during his
eight weeks of pre-trial detention, four of which will be in
isolation, police said.  Norwegian police are contacting their counterparts across
 Europe  as they step up the investigation into the attacks that
killed at least 76 people.  Norway  is cooperating with
intelligence services from Luxembourg to the U.K., as well as
the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, they said today.  Breivik, who earlier said he acted alone, told police
during interrogation that there were “two cells in Norway and
several cells around Europe and the Western world,” Geir
Lippestad, his defense lawyer, said earlier this week. Breivik
won’t discuss the terror cells, police said today.  In a 1,500-page manifesto posted on the Web hours before
the killings, Breivik described nine years of planning for the
attacks, which he said would form part of a crusade against
“cultural Marxism” and rising “Islamization.”  Antigua Transfers  Police are looking into alleged money transfers made by
Breivik to Antigua, which are mentioned in the manifesto. Hjort
Kraby declined to comment on how the suspect financed the
bombing and shootings.  While Breivik has admitted to carrying out the attacks, he
has not pleaded guilty. He is being charged with two counts of
acts of terror, which carries a maximum sentence of 21 years.  Police said they may seek to bring the country’s first
charge of crimes against humanity against the suspect, with a
maximum sentence of 30 years.  Oslo Police Chief of Staff Johan Fredriksen said today the
security situation in Oslo was being normalized.  Armed with a pistol and semi-automatic rifle, Breivik
killed 68 people at a Labor Party youth camp at Utoeya, about 40
kilometers (25 miles) from Oslo, and eight more in the Oslo car-
bombing. The search for victims is still continuing in the
waters around the island, police said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  