-- 
NRC May Defer Fukushima Safety Action After Ostendorff’s Vote

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-28T22:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/nrc-may-defer-fukushima-safety-action-after-ostendorff-s-vote.html
Nuclear Regulatory Commission member
William Ostendorff opposed acting within 90 days on
recommendations by an agency  task force  for a new regulatory
framework in response to  Japan ’s nuclear disaster.  Acting now to revamp the agency’s approach to rule-making
“will distract the NRC from timely and responsive action on”
other recommendations “that would enhance safety in the near
term and are ripe for execution,” Ostendorff said.  Ostendorff said in a statement released today that he had
“significant reservations” about moving forward too quickly.
 Gregory Jaczko , the commission’s chairman, called on July 18 for
the commission to consider by mid-October which recommendations
to consider. Ostendorff’s vote may have established a majority
to block Jaczko’s timetable.  Commissioners William Magwood and Kristine Svinicki already
had said they had reservations about moving too quickly on the
task force report, dated July 12, that encouraged an increase in
oversight of safety procedures at 104 commercial U.S. plants.
The agency is reviewing reactor safety after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, triggering meltdowns and radiation
releases.  Jaczko has urged implementing new regulations within five
years.  Magwood, Ostendorff and Svinicki “have done this country a
tremendous disservice in their collective votes to ensure that
the NRC will not lead efforts to ensure the safety of the
nuclear industry sector,” Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in a statement today.  Congress should act to ensure that nuclear plants take
action to protect against floods, recover from on-site blackouts
and ensure that some older reactors have hardened venting
systems, Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, told a
meeting of the task force at NRC headquarters in Rockville,
 Maryland , today.  “Should the NRC delay, I would urge the Congress to take
action,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  