-- 
NYC Voters Oppose More Worker Health, Pension Costs, Quinnipiac Poll Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/nyc-voters-oppose-more-worker-health-pension-costs-quinnipiac-poll-says.html
New York City voters oppose forcing
public employees to pay more for health benefits and pensions,
which Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has advocated to reduce expenses,
a Quinnipiac University poll said.  Voters rejected workers contributing more to their pensions
by 49 percent to 38 percent, and they opposed higher costs for
health care by 58 percent to 32 percent, the survey showed.  The city’s  five-year financial plan , which includes a
balanced $66 billion budget for the 2012 fiscal year that began
July 1, predicts deficits approaching $5 billion during each of
the next three years, prompting the mayor to call for cost cuts.  “If Mayor Michael Bloomberg wants to emulate Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  in squeezing government employees, he’s got a heavy
lift,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac University
 Polling Institute  in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement
today.  Governor Cuomo negotiated agreements with leaders of the
Public Employees Federation and the Civil Service Employees
Association, the state’s two largest public worker unions, that
increase the  retirement age  for new employees to 65 from 62 and
boost worker contributions to their pension and health plans.  Cuomo said that would save $93 billion during the next 30
years. Union members will vote on the proposals next month.  Performance Over Seniority  New York City voters agreed with the mayor by 77 percent to
16 percent that job performance, not seniority, should determine
who gets fired first during budget cuts. They also backed his
push to make 65 the minimum age for non-uniformed workers to
collect pensions, 51 percent to 44 percent.  Seventy-three percent of those polled said city workers’
benefits and pay are “about right” or “too low.” The city
won’t increase either without union concessions, the mayor told
the Financial Control Board on July 25.  “The only way we will be able to afford raises for city
workers in the future is if we can find some savings in our
pension and health-care costs,” Bloomberg said. “That’s not a
negotiating stance. It is reality.”  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,234 registered voters by telephone
from July 19 to 25, it said. The poll has a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  