-- 
Oil Edges Up as U.S. Jobless Claims Fall Near Four-Month Low

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-07-28T19:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/oil-fluctuates-in-new-york-amid-lower-u-s-jobless-claims-default-concern.html
Crude oil edged higher in  New York 
after U.S. jobless claims dropped to the lowest level in almost
four months, a signal that fuel consumption may increase as the
weakness in the labor market fades.  Futures gained 4 cents after the Labor Department said
applications for  unemployment benefits  fell by 24,000 to 398,000
last week, the lowest level since April 1, and contracts to buy
previously owned homes also unexpectedly rose in June.
Congressional leaders wrangled over proposals to avoid a default
on the national debt.  “The jobless number gave us a little lift, and that was
followed by the positive housing number,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “There’s been a pitter-patter of better news
today. Volatility will increase significantly tomorrow if
there’s no agreement on the debt ceiling.”  Crude oil for September delivery settled at $97.44 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in the smallest one-day move
since March 14. Futures have gained 27 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for September settlement declined 7 cents to
settle at $117.36 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $19.92 a barrel to New York futures, compared with a
record $22.63 on July 14.  U.S. jobless claims were less than forecast, as the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a
drop to 415,000. The number of contracts to purchase previously
owned homes rose 2.4 percent in June as buyers tried to take
advantage of lower prices and borrowing costs, figures from the
National Association of Realtors also showed today.  Republican Proposal  Earlier, prices tumbled as much as 0.9 percent as the  House
of Representatives  planned to vote today on a debt-limit-
increase proposal that faces unified Democratic opposition in
the Senate.  House Speaker  John Boehner  revised his plan to raise the
debt ceiling as he gained support among fellow Republicans for a
proposal that all 51 Senate Democrats and two independents
pledged to oppose.  “We’re waiting for a resolution to the impasse in a white-
knuckle fashion,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC in Austin,  Texas . The impact of the economic
numbers “was limited because of the worries about a default.”  Tropical Storm Don  Prices also increased as Tropical Storm Don, currently over
the central Gulf of Mexico, took aim at southeastern Texas. The
National Hurricane Center in Miami issued a tropical storm
warning for a 300-mile stretch of the Texas coastline, and BP
Plc and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  began shutting Gulf of Mexico oil
production platforms with a combined capacity of at least
300,000 barrels a day.  About 6.8 percent of oil production and 2.8 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been shut in
because of Don, according to the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement.  Don, the fourth storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season , was
475 miles (765 kilometers) east-southeast of  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, heading northwest at 15 miles per hour with maximum winds
of 45 mph, according to a  bulletin  at 1 p.m. local time. The
warning zone extended from Port Mansfield, about 45 miles north
of the Mexican border, to San Luis Pass, about 75 miles south of
Houston.  “If the storm strengthens we could definitely see a big
market move,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago . “So far there hasn’t really been a
reaction.”  Platform Shut-Ins  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and coastal refineries account for 7.61 million
barrels a day, or 42 percent of U.S. capacity.  BP shut production at its Atlantis platform, the company
said in a recorded message. Atlantis can produce 200,000 barrels
a day of crude and 180 million cubic feet of gas, Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  said in a briefing last year.  Shell executed a “full shut-in of production” at its
Perdido Spar platform, which began production in March 2010 and
has a peak production capacity of 100,000 barrels a day of oil
equivalents, according to the company’s  website . Shell expects
to evacuate 195 people from the extreme southwest of its  Gulf of
Mexico  operations by the end of the day, according to the
statement.  OPEC Exports  Oil exports from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will increase through to the middle of August on
demand from Asian refiners, according to tanker-tracker Oil
Movements.  Shipments will increase 0.5 percent to 22.93 million
barrels a day in the four weeks to Aug. 13, the Halifax,
England-based researcher said today in a report. That compares
with 22.81 million barrels in the period to July 16. The data
excludes Ecuador and Angola.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 373,605
contracts as of 2:47 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 516,140
contracts yesterday, 31 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net 
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  