-- 
Hollywood Studios Win U.K. Case Against BT Over Piracy Site

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T12:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hollywood-studios-win-u-k-case-against-bt-to-block-piracy-site.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox
and five other Hollywood film studios won a U.K. ruling forcing
 BT Group Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s biggest Internet-service provider, to
block access to a website that promotes online piracy.  The judgment in London today is the first of its kind and
the studios said it could be used to win similar orders against
other ISPs. Fox,  Universal Studios ,  Warner Bros .,  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s
Paramount Pictures and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s  Columbia Pictures  were
backed in the case by the Motion Picture Association of America.  The ruling “is a victory for millions of people working in
the U.K. creative industries and demonstrates that the law of
the land must apply online,” Chris Marcich, a regional managing
director for the film association, said in a statement.  The disputed website, known as Newzbin, liquidated after
losing a related U.K. lawsuit last year, only to resurface with
more than 700,000 members, the studios’ lawyers said. They
argued BT and other ISPs must block the site altogether to
prevent infringement.  “BT has actual knowledge of other persons using its
service to infringe copyright,” Judge Richard Arnold said in
the ruling.  While BT said it agreed Newzbin’s activities were illegal,
it argued a court injunction would be inappropriate, because the
website isn’t a customer of the company.  Helpful Precedent  “This is how you test the law,” BT spokesman Simon Milner
said outside court today. The judgment “sets a helpful
precedent showing that you have to get a court order and prove
significant infringement.”  Fox persuaded a U.K. court in March 2010 that Newzbin
infringed its copyrights. The website went into liquidation to
avoid damages and has been revived as “Newzbin 2,” the movie
studios claimed.  “The judgment sends a clear signal that ISPs have a role
to play in protecting their customers from rogue websites that
exploit and profit from creative work without permission,” said
Geoff Taylor, chief executive officer of the British Recorded
Music Industry trade group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 