-- 
Honeywell’s Cote Sees ‘Job Destruction’ in U.S. Debt Stalemate

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-28T17:27:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/honeywell-s-cote-sees-job-destruction-in-u-s-stalemate-on-debt-ceiling.html
Congress’s stalemate over raising
the U.S. debt ceiling and long-term  deficit reduction  may
destroy jobs and trigger another recession,  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote said.  “For a bunch of people down there who spend all their time
talking about  job creation , they’re actively on a path to job
destruction right now,” Cote, a member of President Barack
Obama’s debt commission, said today in an interview. “There’s a
very good chance it will plunge us back into that double-dip
recession that everybody’s concerned about.”  Cote commented as the U.S. House of Representatives moved
to a vote on Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to boost the debt
ceiling and chop the deficit by $915 billion over 10 years.
Senate Democrats seek a $2.2 trillion cut as the parties wrangle
before a possible U.S. default on Aug. 2.  “They need a robust, real, credible, $4 trillion plan,”
Cote said. “To me, credible means it will happen -- that
Congress puts in enough protections against themselves so that
the $4 trillion does occur.”  Cote, 59, favored the $3.8 trillion Simpson-Bowles plan
that emerged from the deficit commission and ultimately was
rejected. A $2 trillion plan won’t be enough, he said by
telephone.  ‘Road Map’  Congress should heed the “good road map” outlined by
former Senator  Alan Simpson  and former Clinton administration
official Erskine Bowles, said Cote, who has run  Morris Township ,
New Jersey-based Honeywell since 2002.  “Having spent time on the fiscal commission I got a
broader perspective on how bad this gets over the next 10 years
even with recovery,” Cote said. “We end up in a real problem
here. I can’t believe they’re ready to give up a  credit rating 
that we’ve spent over 200 years building.”  Moody’s Investors Service on July 13 put the U.S. on review
for a downgrade on concern the debt ceiling won’t be raised in
time to prevent a missed payment of interest or principal on
outstanding bonds and notes. Government debt has held the top
Aaa rating from Moody’s since 1917.  When asked how businesses prepare for a situation like
this, Cote said companies move into “wait-and-see” mode.  “Whether you’re looking to spend money on capital 
improvements, spending money on hiring, your first reaction is 
to wait and see,” he said. “You get enough people that wait 
and see because things could get worse -- by God, things will 
get worse because everybody stops. It becomes self-fulfilling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  