-- 
Hong Kong’s June Export Growth Slows on U.S., Europe Woes

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-07-28T08:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hong-kong-s-june-export-growth-slows-on-u-s-europe-woes-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s export growth slowed in
June as demand from the U.S. dropped and sales to China and
Europe climbed “moderately.”  Overseas shipments gained 9.2 percent from a year earlier
to HK$292 billion ($37.5 billion), the government said on its
website today. That was more than the median 8.4 percent
forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Export
growth rebounded to 10.1 percent in May from a 17-month low of
4.1 percent the previous month.  Slowing growth in China and the U.S., and the threat of a
widening sovereign debt crisis in Europe, is crimpling growth in
exports. The rebound in trade with Japan after disruption caused
by March’s earthquake and nuclear crisis will fade, the
government said today.  “The U.S. and  Europe  are important markets for Hong Kong’s
exports,” Joanne Yim, Hong Kong-based chief economist at Hang
Seng Bank Ltd., said before the announcement. “Governments are
retrenching, cutting spending and raising taxes to restore
fiscal discipline which will affect consumer and investment
demand.”  Imports increased 11.5 percent in June from a year earlier
after a 13 percent gain in May, leaving a trade deficit of
HK$40.3 billion, today’s report showed.  Exports to China, the biggest destination for shipments
through Hong Kong, climbed 6 percent after an 8.8 percent gain
in May, the government said. Sales to the U.S. declined 5.2
percent while exports to Japan climbed 11.1 percent from a year
earlier compared with a drop of 6.1 percent the previous month.  Demand Threat  Production at Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera maker,
resumed in all its factories in  Japan  in June, the company said
in a statement on July 25. Nissan Motor Co., the Asian nation’s
second-biggest carmaker, yesterday reported first-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as its operations recovered after
March’s earthquake and subsequent nuclear crisis.  Export growth from Asia-Pacific developing nations may
moderate this year as slowdowns in advanced economies threaten
demand, the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for
 Asia  and the Pacific said in a report this week.  It’s unlikely the economies “can completely decouple”
from the rest of the world although rising trade within the Asia
region will help sustain expansion in shipments, the agency said.  The  U.S. economy , the world’s biggest, grew at a slower
pace in more parts of the country since the beginning of June as
shoppers restrained spending and factory production eased, the
 Federal Reserve  said yesterday.  Labor Costs  Growth in loans to households and companies in the 17-
nation euro area slowed last month as the region’s fiscal crisis
damped demand for credit, the  European Central Bank  said
yesterday.  Hong Kong’s export growth moderated to the slowest pace
since November 2009 in April as the disaster in Japan reduced
shipments of parts. Most of Japan’s manufacturers will resume
full production by September, the Hong Kong Trade Development
Council said last month.  The council raised its forecast for the city’s full-year
export growth to 12 percent from 8 percent on June 16, citing
stronger-than-expected demand for electronics and higher export
prices because of increased raw material and labor costs in
 China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  