-- 
Most Hong Kong Stocks Decline on U.S. Debt Concern

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-07-28T08:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hong-kong-stocks-decline-most-in-two-weeks-on-u-s-debt-concern.html
Most Hong Kong stocks dropped as
exporters declined after U.S. lawmakers failed to break a
deadlock over raising the federal debt limit. Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. surged after posting earnings that
beat estimates.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the largest supplier of toys and clothes to
retailers including Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., sank
3.8 percent on speculation shipments to the U.S. will weaken.
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  led Chinese lenders lower after
the government prohibited banks from renewing loans to local
financing vehicles. Cheung Kong Infrastructure, a unit of
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., climbed 3.4
percent after saying first-half profit increased 96 percent,
beating estimates. Almost twice as many stocks declined as rose
on the Hang Seng Composite Index.  “The level of uncertainty in the U.S. is increasing and we
don’t know how the debt issue is going to play out,” said Hong
Kong-based Pauline Dan, chief investment officer at Samsung
Asset Management, which oversees about $72 billion. “ Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis remains a concern and will take a few more
years to resolve.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.1 percent to 22,570.74 at the
close, with the gauge rallying in the final hour of trading and
erasing losses of as much as 1.4 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, which tracks so-called H shares of Chinese
companies, lost 0.6 percent to 12,517.53.  The Hang Seng Index surged 2.6 percent last week as
European leaders took more steps toward easing that region’s
sovereign-debt crisis, including providing fresh aid for  Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 