-- 
ONGC Bets Higher Domestic Fuel Prices Will Cut Subsidy Bill, Boost Profit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-29T04:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/ongc-first-quarter-net-rises-12-missing-analysts-estimates-on-subsidy.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, is betting higher local fuel prices
will reduce discounts given to state-run refiners and help to
boost profit.  The company’s subsidy bill has dropped by about 500 million
rupees ($11.3 million) daily after the government raised fuel
prices and cut taxes on crude last month, Finance Director D.K. Sarraf said yesterday after ONGC posted first-quarter earnings
that missed analyst estimates.  “The positive impact of higher fuel prices will be felt
from this quarter,” said Arindam Pal, a Mumbai-based senior
research analyst at Asian Market Securities Pvt. “The impact
could increase ONGC’s oil selling price about 10 percent.”  ONGC supplies oil to state refiners at a discount to help
compensate them for fuels sold below cost in a bid to curb
inflation in the second-fastest growing major economy. India’s
government plans to divest a 5 percent stake in the explorer as
part of asset sales aimed at raising 400 billion rupees this
fiscal year to fund infrastructure and social welfare projects.  ONGC declined 1.9 percent to 272.05 rupees at 9:29 a.m. in
Mumbai. The stock has declined 16 percent this year compared
with an 11 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The government increased prices of diesel, kerosene and
cooking fuel on June 25 for the first time in a year in a bid to
reduce losses at state refiners.  Oil Prices   “The government’s decision should mean better
profitability in the next few quarters,” ONGC Chairman A.K. Hazarika said in New Delhi yesterday. “We hope the government
maintains the percentage of subsidy we pay and oil doesn’t rise
higher than it is now.”  Higher oil prices increase the losses of state refiners
from selling fuels below cost. State oil explorers including
ONGC and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  currently bear about 33 percent of the
total fuel subsidy bill.  State-run ONGC posted a 12 percent increase in net income
to 40.95 billion rupees in the three months ended June 30, the
New Delhi-based company said in a statement. The median profit
estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 42.4 billion
rupees. Sales rose 19 percent to 162.7 billion rupees.  Profit would have increased by 68.8 billion rupees in the
quarter if discounts hadn’t been given to refiners, Sarraf said.  The explorer sold crude at $48.76 a barrel in the first
quarter, an increase of 1.5 percent from a year earlier,
according to the statement. The discount given to state refiners
doubled from a year earlier to 120.5 billion rupees.  Overseas Assets  A higher subsidy bill limits ONGC’s gains from rising crude
prices. Crude oil in  New York  rose 31 percent to an average of
$102.34 a barrel in the three months ended June 30 from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ONGC is seeking energy assets overseas to take advantage of
higher oil prices. Potential acquisitions include oil sands
stakes in  Canada  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s stake in  Kazakhstan ’s
Kashagan oil field in a joint bid with  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the
country’s biggest gas distributor.  ONGC trades at 7 times fiscal 2012 earnings and is one of
10 stocks that may increase about 50 percent over the next two
years if domestic economic and regulatory conditions improve,
analysts led by Sanjeev Prasad at Kotak Institutional Equities
said in a note July 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  