-- 
Moody’s Places 177 Local Muni Issuers on Downgrade Review Amid Debt Debate

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/moody-s-places-177-local-muni-issuers-on-downgrade-review-amid-debt-debate.html
Moody’s Investors Service placed 177
top-rated municipal-bond issuers with a combined $69 billion of
debt outstanding on review for possible downgrades as it
evaluates its Aaa rating of the U.S. government.  The change affects 162 local governments in 31 states, 14
housing-finance programs and the  University of Washington  in
 Seattle , the company said today in a statement. All have high
exposure to federal spending changes and market volatility,
Moody’s said. The largest numbers of local issuers on review are
in  Virginia , with 15, and  Massachusetts , with 14, Moody’s said.  Moody’s put the U.S. rating under review July 13 as talks
stalled in Washington on raising the government’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling. The company also said a U.S. cut would trigger
automatic reductions for 7,000 top-graded municipal credits. On
July 19, the company placed Aaa rated  Maryland ,  New Mexico ,
 South Carolina , Tennessee and Virginia on review because of
their reliance on federal spending.  “We could see the market spreads widen over time as the
ratings are recalibrated downward,” said Peter Delahunt,
managing director of trading risk in Raymond James & Associates
Inc.’s municipal bond group in  New York . “Inherent in a rating
downgrade is the implication of extended risk.”  Housing Programs  In today’s notice, Moody’s included lending programs run by
the Colorado Housing and Finance Authority, the Idaho Housing
and Finance Association, the Kentucky Housing Corp. and the Utah
Housing Corp. among those with $4.3 billion in debt under
review. It cited high levels of government mortgage insurance as
well as high delinquency and foreclosure rates, and said each
would be subjected to stress tests in the event of a U.S. cut.  “The ratings of these local governments, particularly
those with a high economic dependence on federal activity, would
be vulnerable to a downgrade of the U.S. government,” Matt Jones, a Moody’s senior vice president whose team covers local
governments, said in the statement. The company also cited
“sensitivity to deteriorating macroeconomic conditions and
vulnerability to disruptions in the financial markets.”  The University of  Washington , a state-run institution with
$1.3 billion of debt under review, has an “unusually large”
share of revenue from federal research grants and reimbursements
for Medicare and Medicaid programs, the statement said. The
school also runs hospitals and medical clinics in Washington.  In a related matter, Moody’s said the Smithsonian
Institution in Washington, D.C., won’t have an automatic rating
cut if the U.S. is downgraded, as its linkage to the federal
government’s credit is indirect. On July 13, the company
included the organization among those that would be cut because
of direct linkages to the U.S. rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  