-- 
Conoco, Origin Approve First Stage of $20 Billion Project

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-07-28T07:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/origin-approves-first-phase-of-20-billion-australia-lng-project.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, and partner  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  approved the
first stage of a $20 billion liquefied natural gas project in
 Australia  to supply the fuel to  Asia .  Shipments from the first phase, estimated to cost $14
billion, are expected to begin in mid-2015, Sydney-based Origin
said today in a statement. Total annual output capacity from
stages one and two of the Australia Pacific LNG venture will be
9 million metric tons of LNG, the company said.  Conoco and Origin are among energy companies building
Australian LNG ventures to tap rising Asian demand for less-
polluting alternatives to coal. LNG prices are headed for a
three-year high as  Japan  seeks additional shipments to replace
nuclear capacity damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
and  China  increases imports to boost power production.  “We believe the prospects of LNG markets have improved
relative to six months ago,” Grant King, Origin’s managing
director, said on a call with reporters. “Compared with 2009
and 2010, quite clearly demand for energy and the oil price
remain more robust than people might have thought.”  Origin’s shares fell 2.1 percent to A$14.77 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close, compared with a 1.6 percent decline for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Origin and Conoco are in “advanced discussions” with
potential customers for the second processing unit, which is
expected to begin LNG deliveries in early 2016, King said. The
partners are likely to sign multiple customers, each potentially
buying about 1 million to 2 million tons annually, rather than
securing one additional buyer, he said.  ‘Confident’ on Customers  The venture will wait until it has sales contracts before
reaching a decision to proceed with the second LNG unit, he said,
and “we are confident we will do so.” Origin expects the two
units combined to deliver $7 billion a year in revenue.  The companies in April agreed to supply 4.3 million tons of
LNG a year to China Petrochemical Corp. They also agreed to sell
Sinopec Group, as the Chinese company is known, a 15 percent
stake in the venture. The Conoco and Origin project will create
6,000 construction jobs, the statement today said.  Approval for the project follows the start of construction
of rival coal seam gas-to-LNG ventures in Queensland state being
built by  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  Adelaide-based Santos said
in January its project in Queensland would cost $16 billion,
while BG said in October it would invest $15 billion in its
Australian LNG venture. The three Queensland ventures are using
U.S. contractor Bechtel Corp.  Moody’s Move  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook on Origin’s
Baa1 credit rating to negative from stable, citing uncertainty
about the project’s funding.  “The construction of APLNG raises considerable execution
challenges, which will weigh on Origin’s business risk
profile,” Spencer Ng, a Moody’s analyst in Sydney, said today
in a report. “We consider such exposure to be manageable.”  Origin plans to fund its 42.5 percent share of the LNG
project costs from a range of sources, including new debt, cash
and an underwritten dividend reinvestment plan of as much as A$1
billion ($1.1 billion), the company said today.  “I’m comfortable we’ve got all the firepower we need,”
Karen Moses, Origin’s executive director of finance and strategy,
said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 