-- 
Torture, Medici Fool Inspired Machiavelli: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-07-28T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/torture-medici-fool-inspired-machiavelli-power-book-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
In 1513, a depressed bureaucrat sat
down to write the most famous job application in history.  From his farm outside Florence, Niccolo Machiavelli (1469-
1527) could see the great city’s roofs and fancy himself back in
the palace, whispering advice into Medici ears.  “I am so desperate,” he cried to a friend, “I would roll
stones.”  Miles J. Unger starts his smartly entertaining  biography  in
the dusty village of Sant’ Andrea in Percussina with the frantic
scribe draped in threadbare robes filtering his acidulous views
on statecraft into the tutorial he titled  “The Prince.”  Utterly enjoyable in its secular, cynical and anticlerical
world view, “The Prince” brought him fame everlasting (but
sadly no job).  Machiavelli’s quirky character, intellect and charm are
vividly described by Unger. By the time Machiavelli dies,
perhaps of a broken heart because of his bad luck with jobs,
we’ve met a complexly layered Florentine who was also a patriot,
diplomat, battle strategist (amusingly bad at this), playwright
and wit.  Studying the simple footgear of Franciscan monks, he
pronounced them members of “the republic of clogs.”  He couldn’t stand the pious. Catching a sermon by monk
superstar Savonarola, who preached a message of misery and
privation, Machiavelli got so depressed that he canceled a date
with his favorite courtesan.  Great Day for an Auto da Fe  The burning of Savonarola in the piazza in 1498 was a happy
highlight of Machiavelli’s life. In the consequent reshuffling
of the cabinet, he became Second Chancellor, handling the
Florentine Republic’s foreign correspondence and traveling
widely, usually into war zones. These were unbelievably chaotic
times.  Battles, torture and executions punctuate Unger’s
narrative, along with assassinations, the favorite tools then of
regime change.  Consider Caterina Sforza, the era’s most powerful woman.
When her second husband was murdered (as was her first), she
energetically executed 40 possible conspirators in the town
square of Forli.  “If her sex made her exceptional among the petty rulers of
 Italy , the frequency with which those close to her tended to
meet violent deaths was only slightly above the norm,” notes
Unger.  As the Second Chancellor, Machiavelli was courier to a
bewildering array of crowned heads who all wanted a piece of
Italy. He met with the Holy Roman Emperor, Spanish and French
kings, the Pope and, in the weirdest episode,  Leonardo da Vinci .  Leonardo  The two huddled over Leonardo’s surreal plan to divert the
Arno river and starve the enemy town of Pisa, whose food supply
arrived by boat. A combination of bad luck, balky diggers and
Pisan saboteurs doomed the effort.  And then, after 14 happy years, Machiavelli was fired when
a famous family returned to rule Florence: the Medici.  Worse, he was wrongly connected with an assassination plot
and jailed for 22 days in a lice-infested cell from which he
could hear prayers offered on his behalf.  Of course he later said the non-stop droning was greater
torture than enduring the strappado -- being trussed up with his
hands behind his back and dangled from a rope.  That he was physically able to write “ The Prince”  when he
got out is impressive.  But with five kids and a wife to support, he finished
quickly, inspired by his memory of Cesare Borgia, the swarthily
handsome commander known for his decisiveness, ruthlessness and
poison-dispensing sister.  Cesare has some rather large blemishes on his biography.
Still, it’s hard not to share Machiavelli’s contempt for
pretentious leaders who dither and end up doing bad by
halfheartedly attempting the good.  Chaos All Around  What a busy blogger he would be in the U.S. capitol today.
Machiavelli had seen all the indiscriminate slaughter he could
stomach in his heyday as Second Chancellor. A prince, he argued,
should make judicious use of dissembling and assassination to
avoid civil wars.  “Wherever you turn your eyes you see the earth wet with
tears and blood, and the air full of screams, of sobs, of
sighs,” he wrote in a letter that could just as well have been
posted from Iraq or  Libya .  Effete Giuliano de’ Medici died without reading “The
Prince.” Machiavelli then sent his masterwork to another
Medici, the dumb Lorenzo, who also didn’t read it. Nor, I
assume, have today’s warriors in Washington, D.C.  “Machiavelli: A Biography” is from  Simon & Schuster  in
the U.S. and U.K. (416 pages, $28, 20 pounds). To buy this book
in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New
York  at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 