-- 
Oshkosh Profit Declines 68%, Shares Fall Most in 2 Years

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-07-28T22:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/oshkosh-profit-falls-68-on-fewer-military-fire-truck-orders.html
Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , the U.S. military’s
biggest supplier of armored trucks, said fiscal third-quarter
earnings fell 68 percent on decreased defense sales and shares
fell the most in more than two years.  Oshkosh fell $3.84, or 13 percent, to $24.96 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, the most since April 30, 2009.
The shares have declined 29 percent this year.  Oshkosh, based in the Wisconsin town of the same name, said
net income for the quarter ended June 30 fell to $68.4 million,
or 75 cents a share, from $211.2 million, or $2.31, in the year-
earlier period. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected profit
of 73 cents a share. Sales fell 17 percent to $2.02 billion.  A slowdown in U.S. defense spending “has been on the radar
screen for some time and shouldn’t be a surprise to any of us,”
Chief Executive Officer Charles Szews said in a conference call.  “We plan to drive through the pending U.S. defense
spending decline by capturing the full benefit of the economic
recovery expected in our non-defense markets, continuing to
pursue market share gains and expanding into emerging markets,”
Szews said in a statement. “Already, we are executing on a
facility optimization strategy to become more efficient across
our entire company.”  In June, billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  declared a 9.5
percent stake in Oshkosh and has sought talks with the company
management to enhance  shareholder value .  Oshkosh’s earnings fell short of estimates “primarily on
lower than expected defense margins, on worse defense profits
than we anticipated,” Richard Tortoriello, an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s Equity Research, wrote in a note to clients.
He downgraded the rating on Oshkosh to “hold” from “strong
buy.”  Tortoriello said the decision was based on lagging recovery
in the residential housing and municipal markets, affecting
demand for Oshkosh’s non-defense products such as fire trucks
and concrete mixers. He also cited the company’s difficulties in
ramping up production of the Army’s  Family of Medium Tactical
Vehicle , or FMTV, program. The fleet of 2.5-ton and 5-ton trucks
is the company’s largest order worth $3 billion.  “I’m a little bit concerned that because of the tough
defense environment, contractors are under-bidding for contracts
in order to get business, and then the contracts turn out to be
not very profitable,” Tortoriello said in a telephone
interview.  In the conference call, Szews said he expects the FMTV
program to become profitable in the second quarter of fiscal
2012, rather than the first quarter as anticipated. He said the
company was poised to announce a $900 million Army order for
7,000 of the vehicles and trailers. The program is expected to
account for 40 percent of defense sales by December.  Acquisitions Sought  Szews has said the company may seek acquisitions starting
in 2012 to boost revenue as defense sales taper off. The
company’s defense revenue nearly quadrupled to $7.2 billion last
year from $1.9 billion in 2008 largely because of the U.S.
military’s demand for mine-resistant trucks for use in Iraq and
 Afghanistan . Oshkosh is looking for international customers for
the vehicles as the U.S. withdraws from those wars and its
demand declines.  Oshkosh completed initial production of 8,079 Mine
Resistant Ambush Protected All-Terrain Vehicles, or  M-ATVs , in
the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The company has struggled to
increase production of  Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles 
because of Pentagon-ordered engineering changes, Szews has said.  Oshkosh said defense revenue fell 35 percent to $1.11
billion, access equipment revenue 18 percent to $580.1 million,
and fire and emergency vehicle revenue 2.7 percent to $216
million. Commercial revenue was flat at $158.5 million,
according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  