-- 
Hosting Soccer’s World Cup May Give $24 Billion Boost to Brazil’s Economy

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-07-28T20:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hosting-soccer-s-world-cup-may-give-24-billion-boost-to-brazil-s-economy.html
The three-year buildup to the 2014
soccer  World Cup  will boost host country  Brazil ’s economy by 1.5
percent of its annual gross domestic product, said the chief
economist of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s largest
bank by market value.  Brazil has budgeted $20.6 billion to construct the roads,
stadiums, airports and other projects required to host sport’s
most-watched event. That level of investment will create 250,000
new jobs and generate about $24 billion, Itau’s Ilan Goldfajn
told reporters at a press briefing in Rio de Janeiro today. The
city will host the qualification draw for the World Cup in two
days.  “The impact of the spending both on infrastructure and
spending by the private sector produces 1 percent of GDP, the
rest comes from the multiplier effect,” Goldfajn said. Itau is
an official World Cup sponsor.  Germany , which hosted the 2006 event, and last year’s host
 South Africa  saw GDP increases of 0.5 percent during the World
Cup year, according to  FIFA  and government figures.  Brazil is hosting the World Cup for the second time after
staging the competition in 1950. It’s facing some of the same
questions that organizers in South Africa faced in the years
leading up to the 2010 event, the first time the quadrennial
competition was held on African soil.  Millions of Visitors  Work hasn’t been completed on any of Brazil’s 12 stadiums
slated to host games, airports must be renovated to cope with
the demands of moving millions of visitors and the country’s
hotel inventory needs to be expanded. Stadiums in  Sao Paulo ,
Natal, Cuiaba and  Porto Alegre  are behind schedule because of
financing and engineering concerns. Brazil also faces scrutiny
about crime, as did South Africa.  The country is determined to be ready and prove its
doubters wrong, said Rodrigo Paiva, a spokesman for the Rio de
Janeiro-based local organizing committee.  “During the World Cup in South Africa there were no cases
of violence, rape, robbery or burglary specific to the
tournament,” said Paiva.  Brazil’s GDP grew 7.5 percent last year, the fastest rate
in two decades, and the government forecasts 4.5 percent growth
this year. Paiva said the World Cup is a catalyst to complete
necessary infrastructure work ahead of schedule.  “It’s not that we’re building airports and we wouldn’t
consider renovating roads,” he said. “With the existence of
the World Cup this process speeds up some construction work that
could have taken 25 or 30 years to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  