-- 
Motorola Solutions to Buy Back Up to $2 Billion in Stock

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/motorola-solutions-in-2-billion-share-buyback.html
Motorola Solutions Inc., the maker
of bar-code scanners and walkie-talkies, will buy back as much
as $2 billion of its shares and begin paying a dividend after
selling its networks unit and cutting debt.  Motorola Solutions will repurchase the stock on the open
market or in private transactions through the end of next year,
depending on market conditions. The Schaumburg, Illinois-based
company will start paying a quarterly payout of 22 cents a share
in October, according to a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said in an interview
this month that returning capital to shareholders was a
“priority” after the company sold its networks business to
Nokia Siemens Networks for $975 million and reduced its debt by
$540 million this year.  With no obvious gaps in either its enterprise or government
divisions, Motorola Solutions remains focused on returning cash
to shareholders, Brown said in an interview today. If the
company considers acquisitions, it “is more dependent on the
characteristics of the opportunity itself” rather than filling
any immediate need, he said.  Motorola Solutions rose $2.05, or 4.6 percent, to $46.37 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock
has climbed 25 percent this year. Motorola Inc. became Motorola
Solutions Inc. in January after spinning off its handset and
set-top box businesses into a separate company.  ‘Flexibility and Firepower’  Sales advanced 6.1 percent to $2.06 billion last quarter
from a year earlier, the company said. Sales may rise 7 percent
to 8 percent in the third quarter and as much as 6 percent for
the full year. Motorola Solutions ended the quarter with total
cash of $6.7 billion.  Cash reserves after the dividend and buyback are accounted
for “still allow us very good strategic flexibility and
firepower,” Brown said.  Sales of walkie-talkies and other emergency equipment to
governments climbed 4 percent last quarter to $1.3 billion.
Sales of barcode scanners and other gear to companies rose 11
percent to $747 million in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  