-- 
House Republicans Cite SEC ‘Mismanagement’ in Proxy Access Rule

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-28T19:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/house-republicans-cite-sec-mismanagement-in-proxy-access-rule.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission should act “far more cautiously” when figuring out
the costs and benefits of the rules it writes, senior  House
Republicans  on the Financial Services Committee said in a letter
to SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro.  Representatives  Scott Garrett  of New Jersey,  Randy Neugebauer  of Texas and Jeb Hensarling of Texas said in the
letter dated today that last week’s rejection of the SEC’s so-
called proxy access rule by the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington “raises fundamental questions” about the
regulator’s work. The lawmakers requested that the agency report
what it spent on writing the rule and defending it in court.  “We are concerned that Commission funds were spent
promulgating and defending a rule that was so clearly
problematic from its inception, and appears to many observers to
have been motivated more by political considerations than by
sound corporate governance principles,” the letter said. Using
the SEC’s limited budget on that work “demonstrates a serious
mismanagement of the agency’s priorities,” the lawmakers wrote.  In a July 22 ruling, the court agreed with the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and the  Business Roundtable  that the SEC failed to
properly study the cost to companies if shareholders were given
an increased ability to push candidates into board elections.
The rule was mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act’s financial-
regulatory overhaul enacted last year amid criticism that some
corporate boards failed to keep management in check in the runup
to the 2008 credit crisis.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 