-- 
Cantor Predicts House Republicans Will Pass Debt Plan Today

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-07-28T15:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/house-debt-limit-vote-sets-stage-for-showdown-on-u-s-default.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
predicted Republicans would pass a debt-limit increase plan
today as some freshman lawmakers pledged support for the measure
in the face of unified Democratic opposition in the Senate.  Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said it’s now up to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  “whether he wants to deliver and
stave off what the White House is saying could be disaster.”  House approval of the measure, which all 51 Senate
Democrats and two independents oppose, will force negotiations
among leaders on both sides in an attempt to avert a potential
U.S. default less than a week before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Freshman House Republicans who had wanted deeper spending
cuts rallied behind the measure, saying it was the best deal
possible.  “Was this as big as we wanted to go? Heck no,” said
Wisconsin Republican Sean Duffy. “We think it’s a bill that
will stave off a default and also work for the American
people.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  gained support among
fellow Republicans for his plan after reworking it to cut $915
billion over 10 years, $65 billion more than his original
approach. All Senate Democrats and two independents signed a
letter yesterday pledging to oppose the measure.  Lawmaker ‘Movement’  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said he
detected “movement” among lawmakers who previously had
concerns. “I like the way it looks.”  The House is expected to vote today around 6 p.m. on the
Boehner plan.  As congressional leaders continue to wrangle, Obama
administration officials will brief the public no earlier than
after financial markets close tomorrow on priorities for paying
the nation’s bills if the debt limit isn’t raised, a Democratic
official said.  A Treasury official said in an e-mail earlier today the
department would provide more information on how the government
would operate in the absence of borrowing authority.  Bankers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
chief  Jamie Dimon  called on President  Barack Obama  and Congress
to raise the federal debt limit to steer the U.S. government
away from the threat of default.  Stocks Gain  U.S. stocks gained today after three days of losses.    The
 S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,308.76 at 10:30 a.m. in New
York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 22.52 points, or 0.2
percent, to 12,325.07.  Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note yields toward a one-
week low, on concern the clash in Washington is damaging the
economy.  Yields on 10-year notes dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.95 percent at 10:10 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.93
percent, the lowest level since July 21. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 rose 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 15/32.  Reid said today, “Five days remain until a few extremist
Republicans drive our economy off a cliff because they are too
radical and inexperienced to compromise.”  Reid-McConnell Dialogue  Reid and his Republican counterpart, Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , maintained a private dialogue on
developing a path to a debt-limit increase in the Senate, where
bipartisan support is needed to gain the 60 votes necessary to
ensure a vote on controversial legislation.  There is already overlap between Boehner’s plan and one
that Reid offered on July 25. Reid dropped Democrats’ insistence
on tax increases. His and Boehner’s proposals take as their
starting points a cut of close to $1 trillion in discretionary
spending cuts over 10 years, and both establish bipartisan
committees to recommend future savings, with the results
guaranteed a congressional vote.  The two sides are divided over a Republican demand for a
second debt-limit vote tied to another $1.8 trillion in budget
cuts that likely would come early next year, just as 2012
election campaigns are gearing up. Democrats would extend the
debt ceiling until 2013 while making $2.2 trillion in total
spending cuts, including $1 trillion from winding down the Iraq
and Afghanistan wars, a savings Republicans criticized as a
gimmick.  Private Meetings  Reid and McConnell are consulting on what it would take to
push legislation through by Aug. 2, said  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat.  Typically, “a lot of it will happen in private meetings
where efforts will be made to reach an agreement and a consensus
and then bring it to the floor and sell it to the members,”
Durbin said.  Republicans are under pressure from fiscally conservative
advocacy groups who say Boehner’s plan would do too little to
control federal spending. Several organizations, including the
Club for Growth, Heritage Action and the Tea Party-affiliated
FreedomWorks, oppose the plan and are pressuring lawmakers to do
the same.  David Plouffe , Obama’s senior adviser, said on MSNBC today
that the House and Senate will have to reconcile major elements
of their competing plans because the Boehner measure “will be
dead on arrival” in the Senate.  A U.S. default would be “devastating” to consumers who
would be affected by higher  interest rates , said Michael Duke,
president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  “A default and the ripple effect would be impactful,”
Duke told the Senate Finance Committee. He said both the reality
and the perception of a default would hurt the  U.S. economy .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  