-- 
Overnight Repo Rates Rise as Debt-Limit Deadline Approaches

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-28T16:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/overnight-repo-rates-rise-as-debt-limit-deadline-approaches.html
Rates for borrowing and lending
securities in the repurchase-agreement market increased to the
highest level in six weeks from almost zero amid the government
stalemate over raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through ICAP Plc was 0.10 percent at 10 a.m. in  New
York , when most trading takes place. The rate dropped to 0.001
percent on July 20. Rates averaged 0.05 percent the past three
months and 1.5 percent in the last year, according to ICAP, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  Money-market rates had lingered near year lows as a
reduction in Treasury bill sales and Federal Reserve debt
purchases combined with a Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. fee
change to cause collateral shortages. In a repurchase agreement,
one party provides cash to another in exchange for a security.
Repos are used to finance holdings, meaning movements in the
rates affect the cost of holding the securities.  “There’s concern certainly in owning short-dated
maturities,” said Kenneth Silliman, New York-based head of
short-term rates trading at Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit. “This represents a sentiment change.”  A Treasury official said in an e-mail the department would
provide more information tomorrow after markets close on how the
government would operate in the absence of borrowing authority
the Aug. 2 deadline approaches on the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Effective Rate  Rates on Treasury six-month bills set to mature Aug. 4,
just after the Aug. 2 deadline for when the U.S. will exhaust
its ability to borrow, rose to 0.198 percent, the highest level
since the securities were issued in February, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The bills are the first government
debt securities to mature after the deadline.  In February, the Treasury eliminated $195 billion in
Supplementary Financing Program bills, or SFPs, it sold on
behalf of the Fed as it sought to help avoid exceeding the U.S.
debt limit. The Treasury reduced the amount of four-week bills
it sold this week by 36 percent, the first decrease since May.  The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.07 percent yesterday, which compares
with the central bank’s target rate for overnight loans between
banks of zero to 0.25 percent. Securities that can be borrowed
at  interest rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called
general collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  