-- 
Toyota Says U.S. Sales Rebound Won’t Begin Until September

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T20:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/toyota-says-its-u-s-sales-rebound-won-t-start-until-at-least-september.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , replenishing
auto inventory thinned by Japan’s earthquake in March, said it’s
not likely to begin posting U.S. sales gains again for at least
two more months.  Sales for Toyota,  Asia ’s largest automaker, will fall again
in July after dropping 33 percent in May and 21 percent in June,
Bob Carter, Toyota’s group vice president for U.S. sales, said
yesterday. Supplies of cars and light trucks are still below
average, and it will be weeks before dealers are fully
restocked, he said.  “Our market share will begin recovering this month, but it
will be September or maybe October before we’re really growing
again,” Carter said in an interview in Cle Elum,  Washington .
“We were in too deep a hole, and we’re still digging out.”  Japan’s magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami disrupted
assembly operations for Toyota and Honda Motor Co. as a result
of shortages of parts and electricity. Toyota’s U.S. sales slid
4 percent in the year’s first half, while the total market
gained 13 percent, according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based research company.  Edmunds.com, an automotive pricing and data company in
 Santa Monica ,  California , said today Toyota’s sales will likely
fall 21 percent in July from a year ago, while TrueCar.com, also
based in Santa Monica, estimated the Toyota City, Japan-based
company’s sales will drop 33 percent. Both released their
estimates in e-mailed statements.  Automakers are scheduled to report U.S. sales for July on
Aug. 2. Toyota has said most of its production in  Japan  and
 North America  will recover by September.  The company’s first-half market share was 12.8 percent,
down from 15.1 percent a earlier, according to Autodata.  ‘Long Way to Go’  “Inventory issues are not seriously holding back Toyota
anymore, and a 25 percent month-over-month boost in incentives
are helping the company finally pick up the sales momentum that
it needed,” Jessica Caldwell, senior analyst at Edmunds.com,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “But with sales expected to be off more than 20 percent
compared to July 2010, Toyota still has a long way to go,” she
said.  While U.S. auto demand should continue to recover this
year, sales aren’t growing as fast as Toyota expected because of
weak  consumer confidence , Carter said.  “That’s the most important thing for us, and right now the
consumer doesn’t seem to be that confident about jobs and the
overall economy,” he said.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 74 cents to $81.43 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s U.S. sales
unit is based in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  