-- 
Exodus of Pakistan’s Officials Expose ‘Limbo’ in Economic Policy Making

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-29T04:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/pakistan-s-exodus-of-officials-exposes-limbo-in-policy-making.html
The resignation of two central bank
governors and one finance minister in  Pakistan  since the start
of 2010 has exposed a breakdown in policymaking, threatening
efforts to revive growth amid surging prices and terrorism.  Shahid Kardar, who stepped down as Pakistan’s central bank
governor on July 12, was the second person to quit the post in
more than a year. He left two weeks before a July 30 monetary
policy decision, when all 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News expect the  State Bank  of Pakistan to leave the discount
rate at 14 percent.  Kardar said his differences with the government were
impeding the central bank’s autonomy and ability to ensure
“prudent” monetary decisions, and Moody’s Investors Service
said his exit underscores the “discord” in policy leadership.
The loss of key economic managers may undermine the credibility
of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government as it seeks
aid resumption from the  International Monetary Fund .  “The bottom line is that this government has not been able
to tackle governance issues, and it doesn’t know where to go
from here,” said Sakib Sherani, a former economic adviser to
the Ministry of Finance, who left his post in December after an
18-month stint. “This limbo is sending wrong signals to the
market and forcing technocrats to quit.”  Bonds, Rupee  Pakistan’s 10-year government bond yields have risen 1.03
percentage points in the past year to 14.01 percent, the highest
level after  Greece  among debt markets tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency, which weakened 1 percent in the period, was little
changed at 86.50 against the dollar at 9:50 a.m. in Karachi.  Jaffer Qamar, the chief economist at the Planning
Commission of Pakistan and the government’s Auditor General
Tanvir Ali Agha also resigned this month. Shaukat Tarin quit as
finance minister in February 2010, becoming the third person at
the time to relinquish charge of the ministry in two years.
Kardar had replaced Syed Salim Raza, who left in June 2010.  Gilani named Yaseen Anwar as the central bank’s acting
governor. Anwar was a deputy governor since March 2007.  Kardar blamed increased government borrowing for price
gains and kept the central bank’s policy rate, one of the
highest in the world, unchanged since January this year after
raising it in September and November by half a percentage point
each to slow inflation. He cited “difference of opinion on
policy actions” for his resignation.  Policy Independence  “The independence of a central bank is crucial, more so in
challenging economic conditions,” said Saad Khan, a Karachi-
based economist at Arif Habib Ltd., a brokerage firm. “The
biggest challenge the new governor will face is to keep pushing
for a limit on government borrowing and that may not be very
pleasant for a lot of people.”  Government borrowing  rose 58 percent to 716 billion rupees
($8.3 billion) in the last fiscal year from the previous 12
months, according to the central bank.  Consumer prices in Pakistan climbed 13.1 percent in June,
the most after  Vietnam , among the 17 nations in the Asia Pacific
tracked by Bloomberg.  While Gilani’s government has pledged to narrow the  budget
deficit  to a seven-year low of 4 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending June 30, 2012, it hasn’t yet enacted
a law that would limit borrowings from the central bank.  Pakistan’s economy probably expanded 2.4 percent in the
year ended June 30, slower than an earlier target of 4.5
percent.  Car Sales  Honda Atlas Cars Pakistan Ltd. (HCAR) , the nation’s third-biggest
carmaker, said this week sales fell 18 percent last quarter, a
sign that consumer demand remains weak.  The IMF told Pakistani officials in May that the government
needs to keep cutting the deficit to take pressure off monetary
policy and allow more credit to companies. The Washington-based
fund stopped disbursing money to Pakistan in May 2010 after the
country failed to meet conditions attached to an $11.3 billion
loan first issued in 2008.  Pakistan’s $162 billion economy is lagging behind emerging
markets including India and  China , which helped lead the global
economic rebound from the deepest postwar recession. Pakistan’s
expansion has also been undermined by a Taliban insurgency and
record floods in 2010.  The floods destroyed $3.3 billion of crops, according to
government estimates. The nation’s military has stepped up its
fight against insurgents in the northwest after al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. troops in Abbottabad on May
2. At least 35,000 Pakistanis have been killed in terrorist
attacks in the last decade, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad, Pakistan at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net 
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  