-- 
Pending Sales of Previously Owned Homes in the U.S. Increased 2.4% in June

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-28T14:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/pending-sales-of-previously-owned-homes-in-the-u-s-increased-2-4-in-june.html
The number of contracts to purchase
previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly rose in June as buyers
tried to take advantage of lower prices and borrowing costs.  The 2.4 percent rise in the index of pending home resales
followed an 8.2 percent May gain, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. Economists forecast a 2
percent drop, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Unemployment above 9 percent and an expanding pipeline of
foreclosures mean it may take years to clear the overhang of
housing inventory, a sign the market is far from recovery. The
prospect of contract cancellations due to stricter underwriting
standards and low appraisals means some signings may not
translate into closings.  “Cancellation rates are higher, which means this gain may
not entirely filter through to existing-home sales,” said
 Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  New York . “The economic background is still weak and
uncertainty is high about the outlook, which will keep
homebuyers on the sidelines.”  Estimates for pending home sales ranged from a drop of 5
percent to an increase of 8 percent, according to 39 forecasts
in the Bloomberg survey. Pending sales rose 17 percent from June
2010.  Stocks gained after three days of declines for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. The  S&P 500  rose 0.3 percent to 1,309.31 at
10:26 a.m. in New York. The S&P Supercomposite Home Builders
Index climbed 3.6 percent, the first gain in five days.  Another report today showed weakness in the labor market
may be starting to abate. First-time applications for
 unemployment insurance  dropped by 24,000 to 398,000 last week,
the fewest since April, the Labor Department said. Economists
projected 415,000 claims, according to the median projection in
a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer Confidence   Joblessness and falling home values may help explain a drop
in consumer confidence last week. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index was minus 46.8 in the week to July 24, the lowest since
May, compared with minus 43.3 the prior week. Six percent of
those surveyed said the economy was in good shape, the fewest
since April 2009.  Pending sales climbed 6.4 percent in the West and 4.4
percent in the South. They fell 3.7 percent in the Midwest and
0.4 percent in the Northeast.  Today’s report showed a 90.9 index level for pending home
sales on a seasonally adjusted basis. A reading of 100 is
consistent with the average level of contracts in 2001, when
record-keeping began, and coincides with “historically
healthy” home-buying traffic, according to the NAR.  Home Values  Falling  home prices  are hurting consumer confidence and
demand while also making it difficult to come up with accurate
home appraisals for lenders. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities fell 4.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month drop since November 2009, the
group reported this week.  Another Realtors’ report on July 20 showed sales of
previously owned homes, which make up about 95 percent of the
market, dropped in June to a seven-month low. Purchases
decreased 0.8 percent to a 4.77 million annual rate.
Cancellations jumped to 16 percent from 4 percent the prior
month.  The increase in cancellations is partly due to home
appraisals that are coming in lower than the values listed on
contracts, the group said. As banks respond by reducing the
amount they’re willing to lend for the purchase, it “causes the
deal to unravel,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Pending sales track contract signings while previously
owned sales reflect the closings a month or two later.  Distressed Sales  Distressed deals, composed of foreclosures and short sales,
in which the lender agrees to a transaction for less than the
balance of the mortgage, accounted for about 30 percent of the
total of closings in June.  Existing-home sales have fallen since reaching an annual
peak of 7.08 million in 2005, before the housing boom turned
into a subprime-mortgage bust that led to an 18-month recession.
Purchases slumped to a 13-year low of 4.91 million last year.  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults, while
crimping current distressed transactions, will push as many as 1
million U.S. foreclosures from this year into 2012 or beyond,
casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing market, RealtyTrac
Inc., a housing data provider, said this month. A clogged
foreclosure pipeline may prevent real estate prices from finding
a bottom.  “Supply is a foregone conclusion to stay high for the next
couple of years as foreclosure inventory continues to be there
on the resale market,”  Richard Dugas , chief executive officer
at PulteGroup Inc., the biggest U.S. homebuilder, said in a
teleconference last month. “We’re not predicting that it gets
better anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  