-- 
Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Likely Fell in June

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-28T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/pending-u-s-home-sales-probably-decreased-in-june-as-industry-struggled.html
The number of contracts to buy
previously owned U.S. homes probably fell in June for a second
time in three months, a sign the housing market is straining to
regain its footing two years into the expansion, economists said
before a report today.  A 2 percent decrease is projected after an 8.2 percent gain
the prior month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the National Association of
Realtors report. Separate figures may show jobless claims fell
last week.  “Housing has continued to bounce along the bottom of the
ranges,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc.
in  New York . “Considering the soft demand, we see it settling
lower again.”  Unemployment above 9 percent and an expanding pipeline of
foreclosures mean it may take years to clear the overhang of
housing inventory, keeping a lid on the industry that caused the
recession. The prospect of contract cancellations due to
stricter underwriting standards and low appraisals means some
signings may not translate into closings.  The National Association of Realtors will report the sales
numbers at 10 a.m. in Washington. Estimates for pending home
sales ranged from a drop of 5 percent to an increase of 8
percent, according to 39 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey.  Falling  home prices  are weighing on  consumer confidence  and
keeping a lid on purchases. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities fell 4.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month drop since November 2009, the
group reported this week.  Builder Shares  The lack of improvement helps explain why homebuilder
shares are underperforming the overall market. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Homebuilding Index has declined 6.9 percent this
year, compared with a 3.8 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500
Index .  Another Realtors’ report on July 20 showed sales of
previously owned homes, which make up about 95 percent of the
market, dropped in June to a seven-month low. Purchases
decreased 0.8 percent to a 4.77 million annual rate.
Cancellations jumped to 16 percent from 4 percent the prior
month.  The increase in cancellations is partly due to home
appraisals that are coming in lower than the values listed on
contracts, according to the agents’ group. As banks respond by
reducing the amount they’re willing to lend for the purchase, it
“causes the deal to unravel,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina .  Pending sales track contract signings while previously
owned sales reflect the closings a month or two later.  Distressed Sales  Distressed deals, composed of foreclosures and short sales,
in which the lender agrees to a transaction for less than the
balance of the mortgage, accounted for about 30 percent of the
total of closings in June.  Existing-home sales have fallen since reaching an annual
peak of 7.08 million in 2005, before the housing boom turned
into a subprime-mortgage bust that led to an 18-month recession.
Purchases slumped to a 13-year low of 4.91 million last year.  Sales of existing homes have been driven by investor cash
purchases of distressed properties since the downturn.
Unemployment at 9.2 percent and stricter lending standards are
making it harder for most Americans to take advantage of
 mortgage rates  that are close to a record low.  Initial jobless claims fell to 415,000 last week from
418,000, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg
survey of economists before the Labor Department’s 8:30 a.m.
report. First-time filings for  unemployment benefits , which
stood at 418,000 at the end of 2010, have failed to show
improvement.  Foreclosure Pipeline  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults, while
crimping current distressed transactions, will push as many as 1
million U.S. foreclosures from this year into 2012 or beyond,
casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing market, RealtyTrac
Inc., a housing data provider, said this month. A clogged
foreclosure pipeline may prevent real estate prices from finding
a bottom.  “Supply is a foregone conclusion to stay high for the next
couple of years as foreclosure inventory continues to be there
on the resale market,”  Richard Dugas , chief executive officer
at  Pulte Group Inc. (PHM) , the biggest U.S. homebuilder, said in a
teleconference last month. “We’re not predicting that it gets
better anytime soon.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  