-- 
Pfizer Said to Prepare for $10.5 Billion Formula Unit Sale

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-07-28T20:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/pfizer-is-said-to-prepare-for-10-5-billion-sale-of-infant-nutrition-unit.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  plans to send out
information on its infant-nutrition unit to potential bidders in
September, kicking off an auction that may fetch as much as
$10.5 billion, said people with knowledge of the process.  Nestle SA (NESN) , Danone SA and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  have spoken to
financial advisers about the business, and are likely to bid,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and Unilever, the
second-biggest  consumer-goods  company, may also examine offers,
they said.  A successful bidder would gain operations with sales
approaching $2 billion annually and baby-formula brands
including SMA Gold and Promil Gold. If Pfizer fails to fetch the
price it’s seeking for the infant-nutrition unit, it could spin
out the business into a separate company.  “The iron is definitely hot, and Pfizer would like to
strike,” said Damien Conover, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago , in a telephone interview. “There are some synergies
that these folks could have that would outbid what the market
would pay for the unit” as a standalone spinoff, he said.  Possible buyers are currently studying the industry to
assess its size and growth potential, said one of the people.
They are also working to determine how much rivals would want to
pay, the person said. Potential bidders and financial advisers
have been preparing for a sale after Pfizer said in February
that it was reviewing its businesses.  Pfizer rose 6 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $19.36 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
gained 29 percent in the past 12 months.  Emerging Markets  The formula unit has generated interest because it serves
emerging markets like  Asia , and because the products don’t vary
much region to region, unlike most consumer goods, said the
people. Because there are multiple competitors in those markets,
it’s unlikely that antitrust legislation would get in the way of
a deal, Conover said.  “Our decisions on strategic alternatives will continue to
be driven by what creates the best after-tax value to our
shareholders,” Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, said in
a phone interview.  Spokesmen at Nestle, Danone, Abbott, Unilever and Mead
Johnson declined to comment on potential bids.  Biggest Deal  The Pfizer sale would be the largest of a vitamin or
nutrition company in more than a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest deal in that sector was
 Carlyle Group ’s $3.8 billion acquisition of vitamin maker NBTY
Inc. last year, the data show.  Nestle had 8.06 billion Swiss francs ($10 billion) in cash
and near-cash items as of Dec. 31, according to company filings.
 Danone (BN)  had 1.05 billion euros ($1.51 billion), while Abbott had
$3.65 billion.  Pfizer acquired the infant-nutrition division in its $68
billion takeover of Wyeth less than two years ago. The unit may
fetch 16 times to 20 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, estimated at $500 million to $525
million for 2010, people familiar with the situation said. That
would indicate a value of $8 billion to $10.5 billion, and the
price could be higher depending on this year’s performance.  The unit is forecast to have Ebitda of $550 million to $575
million on sales of about $2 billion for 2011, one person said.  By comparison, Mead Johnson trades at about 18.9 times last
year’s Ebitda of $776.8 million.  Claudia Lenz , an analyst at
Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich, said Mead should have a higher
valuation than the Pfizer unit because Mead has better operating
margins and is more focused on the U.S., a key infant-formula
market.  Shedding Assets  Pfizer’s nutrition business, which also makes vitamins for
pregnant women, accounted for about 3 percent of its $67.8
billion in total sales last year. Pfizer this month disclosed
plans to shed that operation, as well as the animal health
division, following a review of its businesses not tied to drug
discovery. The New York-based drugmaker is facing the loss of
exclusivity for its biggest product, the cholesterol pill
Lipitor.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising on the animal health
business, while Morgan Stanley and  Centerview Partners  are
working on the nutrition unit, according to a statement from
Pfizer on July 7. JPMorgan also is seeking a role in advising a
potential suitor for the nutrition business, the people said.
Financial advisers are trying to get mandates to work with the
four likeliest bidders, especially Nestle and Danone, said the
people. Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  Two Teams  There will be two teams of advisers from Morgan Stanley and
Centerview running the infant-nutrition process, one focused on
the sale of the unit and the other on a potential spin of it
into a separate company, said one of the people.  Morgan Stanley and Centerview advisers have spent months
putting together stand-alone financial data on the infant-
nutrition business while also assessing what companies could bid
and what antitrust issues companies such as Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle could have, said one of the people.  Pfizer said earlier this month that it doesn’t anticipate
making announcements about options for the assets until sometime
next year, and that any deal could take as long as two years to
complete.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Jeffrey McCracken} in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
{Jacqueline Simmons} in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  