-- 
Phone-Hacking Shows Jail Needed for Data Theft, U.K. Privacy Chief Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-29T16:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/phone-hacking-scandal-shows-need-for-jail-in-privacy-cases-graham-says.html
The phone-hacking scandal at  News
Corp. (NWS) ’s News of the World tabloid should persuade Britain’s
government to overcome challenges from the newspaper industry
and implement prison sentences for using stolen personal data,
the head of Britain’s privacy regulator said.  A two-year prison term was suggested in 2006 by the
 Information Commissioner’s Office  after it probed the sale of
stolen personal data to hundreds of journalists, said
Christopher Graham, who leads the agency. Lawmakers never
implemented the proposal after newspapers said it would stifle
free speech and lead to wrongful jail terms, he said.  “There was such a hue and cry from newspapers,” Graham,
who has pushed for a custodial sentence since taking office in
2009, said in an interview in London. “They said it would have
a chilling effect on investigative journalism.”  The idea of sending journalists to jail for using stolen
data may find more support following the phone-hacking scandal
at  Rupert Murdoch ’s now-shuttered tabloid, Graham said. The
hacking triggered a new police probe in January, as well as the
arrests of former editors and the resignation of senior
Metropolitan Police officials.  “It didn’t need to get to this,” Graham said of the
current scandal, which he attributes to a general lack of
respect for personal data. “The power of the media over
politics has been absolutely huge.”  Dowler, Payne  The ICO, Britain’s industry-financed data-privacy
regulator, investigates corporate data breaches, audits
companies’ data privacy practices and investigates violations of
the Data Protection Act. It’s currently probing Sony Corp. over
the hacking of its PlayStation network and auditing Google
Inc.’s privacy policy related to its Street View product.  Revelations that the News Corp. newspaper deleted messages
on the mobile phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler led to
the New York-based company shuttering the Sunday tabloid and
abandoning its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) bid for all of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Sara Payne, the mother of
another murdered girl, said she may also have been targeted by
an investigator at News of the World.  Police and at least two parliamentary committees are
investigating whether News of the World reporters bribed police
and the extent to which politicians, celebrities, and murder and
terror victims had their voice mail hacked. The environment is
ripe for implementing the jail threat that was derailed by
newspapers, Graham said.  Support for Sentences  “There probably will be support” for jail sentences, said
Niri Shan, head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London.
“The problem now is that everyone’s emotions are running high
and everyone needs to think carefully about the implications on
free speech.”  While two people have gone to prison for phone-hacking --
former News of the World reporter  Clive Goodman  and private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  -- most violations of the Data
Protection Act are by employees who sell addresses, phone
numbers and other personal information held by government
agencies, telecommunications companies, financial institutions
and health trusts, Graham said. Jail sentences should be
introduced for those crimes as well, the ICO chief said.  Victimless Crime  “Unless people realize they can go to prison, it seems
like a victimless crime,” Graham said. Journalists would have
several defenses to avoid jail, including a “public interest”
argument that the private details were needed for legitimate
journalistic purposes, he said.  While most violations aren’t done by journalists, the
newspapers were the ones who objected the loudest, Graham said.
The stolen data is usually sought by debt-collection companies,
lawyers and people who want to settle scores, he said.  Parliament avoided the decision “under newspaper
pressure,” Graham said. “Now would be a good time” to try
again.  The proposed jail sentences should be reconsidered by
government in light of privacy abuses in the last year in the
telecommunications and health industries, said Liz Fitzsimons, a
lawyer at Eversheds LLP in  London .  A review shouldn’t be done “simply because of the current
News of the World issues, which may turn out to have been a
historic practice rather than an ongoing issue, but because
privacy abuses still appear to be widespread,” Fitzsimons said.  The ICO’s bid for jail terms started with its 2003 probe of
a private investigator who used deception to obtain the private
details of targeted individuals, a practice dubbed “blagging”
by the authorities. The man had sold details to more than 300
journalists, including those at News of the World, according to
the report.  Operation Motorman  The probe, called Operation Motorman, also found the
private investigator had used blagging to seek contact details
for Dowler, the murdered schoolgirl. The ICO never saw evidence
of phone hacking and recently turned over to police all
documents from the old probe, Graham said.  The three-year investigation culminated in a 2006  report 
that it said exposed a “hidden, pernicious and extensive trade
in personal information” such as financial, medical and police
records and suggested the tougher penalties.  “The current penalties don’t amount to very much,” Graham
said. “All I want is an effective deterrent to the routine
trashing of individuals’ rights under the Data Protection Act.”  Graham’s predecessor,  Richard Thomas , was critical of the
newspapers’ attempt to block the jail term, saying they “object
to tougher sanctions against activities which they say do not
exist or are not widespread,” according to an April 2008 report
to the House of Lords.  Calls to  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. Unit, News International, and
the Newspaper Society trade group, weren’t returned. Trinity
Mirror Plc spokesman Nick Fullagar declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  