-- 
Madoff Trustee Picard Is Barred in HSBC Lawsuit From Pursuing Some Claims

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-29T13:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/picard-common-law-claims-against-hsbc-tossed-by-judge-rakoff.html
The liquidator for  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm was barred by a federal judge from pursuing some claims in
his lawsuit against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  seeking to recover money
for Madoff customers.  Irving Picard , the Madoff firm’s trustee, doesn’t have
standing to pursue common-law claims against London-based HSBC,
according to a decision filed yesterday by U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in New York. Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims
against  UniCredit Spa. (UCG)   Picard asserts a “number of convoluted theories, none of
which is ultimately persuasive,” Rakoff wrote. Referring to one
of Picard’s positions, the judge said: “To say this argument is
a stretch would be to give it more credence than it deserves.”  Picard in December filed a revised complaint in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  against HSBC, accusing it of aiding Madoff’s
fraud. The complaint seeks to recover $2 billion in transfers
out of Madoff’s business. It also asserted common-law claims
seeking at least $6.6 billion from HSBC and about $2 billion
from a group of 36 other defendants, including Milan-based
UniCredit, according to Rakoff’s ruling.  Picard is reviewing the ruling, Amanda Remus, his
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. She declined to comment further.  Claims Dismissed  Rakoff took the case out of bankruptcy court and considered
whether Picard could bring common-law claims, such as aiding and
abetting fraud. The judge said all the common-law claims must be
dismissed, with the remainder of the case returned to the
 bankruptcy court .  “We are very pleased by this decision, and we are
analyzing its implications,” said Marco Schnabl, a lawyer at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, which represents
UniCredit.  Thomas Moloney, a lawyer representing HSBC, declined to
comment.  The case is Picard v. HSBC Bank Plc, 11-cv-0763, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 