-- 
Polish Plane Crash Report Threatens to Strain Russian Relations After Thaw

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-07-29T17:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/polish-plane-crash-report-threatens-to-strain-russian-relations-after-thaw.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
risked worsening ties with  Russia  after a report on the plane
crash that killed President  Lech Kaczynski  last year found the
airport unsafe, spreading the blame to officials in Moscow.  Polish investigators today rejected the findings of the
 Interstate Aviation Committee  of former Soviet states, which
said Jan. 12 the pilots of the Polish airliner that crashed
outside Smolensk, Russia, in heavy fog were solely responsible
for the disaster. None of the 96 people on board survived.  “The truth has turned out to be pretty painful for Russia
too,” Tusk told a press conference in Warsaw today. He also
accepted the resignation of his defense minister after the probe
found flaws in the pilots’ training.  Relations between Russia and  Poland , a Soviet satellite for
more than four decades after World War II, improved immediately
after the crash as Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  braved a
cloud of volcanic ash to attend Kaczynski’s burial. Progress
faltered amid tension over the probe, concern about Poland’s
involvement in a proposed U.S.-led missile shield and a Russian
ban on importing Polish vegetables.  “The crash made the attempt to continue the dialogue that
had been started with Russia far more difficult,” Andrew
Michta, director of the German Marshall Fund’s Warsaw office,
said before the report’s release. If Russia “chooses to reject
all responsibility for the accident, any improvement we’ve seen
in Polish-Russian relations could stall for a long time.”  ‘Psychological Pressure’  The Russian-led investigation found that the pilots were
under “psychological pressure” to land because the commander
of Poland’s  air force , General Andrzej Blasik, was in the
cockpit and had alcohol in his blood. Interior Minister Jerzy
Miller, who headed the Polish investigation, said today Blasik
didn’t interfere with the crew’s decisions.  While much of the Polish report corresponded with the
earlier findings, “some of the conclusions aren’t clear to us,
including their certainty that the plane’s pilot did not intend
to land or that the presence of other people in the cockpit,
particularly the chief of Poland’s Air Force, didn’t influence
the pilots’ decisions,” Alexei Morozov, head of the technical
commission, said on Russian state television today.  The disaster occurred on April 10, 2010, when a Polish air
force Tupolev-154 crashed while trying to land in bad weather.
The Polish delegation, which included central bank Governor
Slawomir Skrzypek and military commanders, was traveling to
Russia to commemorate the murder of 22,000 Poles by the Soviet
secret police in 1940.  ‘Not Safe’  “The air controllers gave the crew incorrect information
about its position,” said Wieslaw Jedynak, a member of the
Polish committee, at the presentation of the 328-page  report .
The airport was “not safe” to land in, another member of the
committee said.  Tusk said today the report may be the “basis for good
relations” between the two countries as it “doesn’t try to
duck” Polish responsibility, Tusk said.  Today’s report also acknowledges Polish responsibility,
saying the division of labor in the cockpit was unclear, the
crew didn’t respond to automatic warnings and failed to measure
the plane’s altitude with a pressure altimeter in poor
visibility conditions.  No ‘Russia Bashing’  The tension surrounding the investigation may be the result
of Polish political differences between Tusk and the opposition
Law & Justice party, rather than a reflection of the two
countries’ relations, said Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based
analyst at IHS Global Insight.  “Law & Justice can drum up this nationalist sentiment, but
realistically, Russia and Poland are natural business
partners,” she said by phone today. “It’s important that” the
report “didn’t turn into a Russia-bashing exercise.”  Tusk, who will seek re-election in parliamentary elections
in October, was under pressure to respond to Russia’s findings.
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the late president’s brother and leader of
Law & Justice, criticized Tusk for being pro-Russia and not
trying to find the cause of the accident.  “Prime Minister Tusk didn’t respond to the Russian
report’s slander,” Kaczynski told reporters in Warsaw today.
“He’s responsible for failing to defend Polish interests and
Polish honor.”  Tusk’s Support Declines  A poll published in March showed that less than half of
Poles expected their own government’s report to be an honest
assessment of all the important issues surrounding the accident,
and 32 percent said it would be unreliable.  Support for Tusk’s Civic Platform dropped 3 percentage
points to 47 percent in a poll conducted July 21-25 by GfK
Polonia, according to the survey of 1,000 people published in
the newspaper Rzeczpospolita. The survey didn’t give a margin of
error or account for undecided voters.  “The report will definitely stoke the debate over this
year’s election,” Michta said. “The Smolensk tragedy has
become a lens through which many Poles see their relations with
Russia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  