-- 
Prologis Second-Quarter FFO Declines After Costs From AMB Property Merger

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-28T13:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/prologis-second-quarter-ffo-declines-after-costs-from-amb-property-merger.html
Prologis (PLD)  Inc., the world’s largest
warehouse owner, said funds from operations declined in the
second quarter after impairment costs and expenses from its
merger with AMB Property Corp.  Funds from operations were $8.2 million, or 3 cents a
share, in the second quarter, which includes about one month of
results from the combined company, San Francisco-based Prologis
said today in a statement. The year-earlier FFO, which reflects
the legacy company, was $67.8 million, or 32 cents a share. FFO
is a gauge of a property owner’s ability to generate cash.  Prologis and AMB combined in June in the biggest merger of
U.S. real estate investment trusts. The company expects to save
$90 million annually in general and administrative and other
expenses from the deal and plans to expand in  Asia  and  South
America  as their economies grow faster than the U.S. and  Europe .  “There is a lack of high-quality industrial” properties
in emerging markets, Dave Rodgers, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Solon,  Ohio , said in an interview before the results
were announced. “In the U.S., they’re fairly well-penetrated.”  The second-quarter FFO included impairment expenses of
about 34 cents a share and merger costs of 33 cents a share, as
well as a net gain of 34 cents a share on real estate purchases
and sales. Excluding those items, so-called core FFO was $109.7
million, or 35 cents a share, compared with $60.3 million, or 28
cents, a year earlier.  Occupancy, Leasing  Prologis’ occupancy rate was 90.7 percent at the end of the
quarter, compared with 89.9 percent in the first quarter. Same-
store net operating income rose 3.1 percent and the company
leased 33.5 million square feet (3.1 million square meters) in
its operating portfolio and 1.4 million square feet in
properties it is developing.  The company reiterated its forecast of core FFO of 78 cents
to 82 cents a share for the second half of the year. It expects
the results to be at the higher end of that range, the REIT said
in the statement.  Prologis released the report before the start of regular
U.S. trading. Its shares fell 4.4 percent to $34.25 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have advanced 8
percent this year, compared with an 8.8 percent increase in the
Bloomberg REIT Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  