-- 
Prologis Sees Japan Profit Rising as Rents Increase

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-08-01T00:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/prologis-says-japan-profit-to-rise-as-warehouse-rents-increase-on-shortage.html
(Corrects the location of  Prologis (PLD) ’s headquarters in
fourth paragraph in story published on July 28.)  Prologis Inc., the world’s
biggest warehouse owner, said it expects profit in Japan to
rise as rents at its properties in the nation will probably
increase because of a shortage of new facilities.  Effective rents, or the amount tenants actually pay
property owners, may surge as much as 10 percent in the next
six to 12 months, said Miki Yamada, president of Prologis’s
Japan operations in Tokyo. Demand has risen after some
distribution centers in Japan’s northeastern region were
damaged or destroyed following the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, he said.  “There is quite a strong demand for new large-scale
modern facilities,” said Yamada in an interview in  Tokyo  on
July 26. “While our main focus is providing a consistent new
supply to the market, we see a better profit this year.”  Japan is Prologis’s biggest market in  Asia , accounting
for 10 percent of total assets. The San Francisco-based
company plans to double holdings in Asia to a quarter of its
total portfolio value as accelerating growth signals
increased demand for industrial storage space, Co-Chief
Executive Officer Hamid Moghadam said in an interview in June.  Prologis, which has 400 billion yen ($5.1 billion) of
warehouse properties in Japan, was one of the first
developers to restart construction of multi-tenant warehouses
last year in Japan after halting development in 2008 when the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. exacerbated the
global credit crunch.  Rental Recovery  The average vacancy rate for multi-tenant warehouses in
greater Tokyo has more than halved to 6.2 percent in March
since peaking at 20 percent in September 2009, according to
Los Angeles-based  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   “A recovery in rents for logistic properties means that
profitability of developers would gradually recover,” said
Hideyuki Shinkai, a  fund manager  for Norinchukin Trust &
Banking Co. in Tokyo.  Assets under development in Asia may rise 79 percent to
$750 million by the end of the year, according to Prologis.  Rent fluctuation has been less volatile for industrial
property owners. The average asking rent for warehouse space
in Tokyo fell 3.5 percent to 5,480 yen per tsubo in 2010 from
2007, according to CB Richard Ellis. That compares with a 20
percent drop in the average rent for office buildings in
Tokyo for the same period, according to Miki Shoji Co., a
privately held office brokerage company. One tsubo, a
standard measure of property area in  Japan , is 3.3 square
meters, or 35.5 square feet.  Prologis plans to start a private equity real-estate
fund that will invest in Japan as early as next year as more
investors are becoming interested in logistic properties,
Yamada said, without elaborating because the company is still
in the preparation stage. The new fund follows a previous
$1.7 billion fund that started in 2005 and will end in 2013,
he said.  The warehouse owner yesterday got a $500 million pledge
from the Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund to invest in
industrial properties around the world over the next five
years.  Prologis , which merged with AMB Property Corp. in June,
had $44 billion of assets under management as of March 31,
which is equivalent to 3,500 buildings, according to the
company. Customers include DHL, the parcel service owned by
Bonn-based Deutsche Post AG; Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
and Tokyo-based Nippon Express Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  