-- 
PulteGroup Reports Worse-Than-Expected Loss as Demand for New Homes Slumps

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-07-28T11:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/pultegroup-reports-loss-for-second-quarter-as-demand-for-new-homes-slumps.html
PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, reported a worse-than-expected second-
quarter loss as sales fell amid slumping demand for new houses.  The net loss was $55 million, or 15 cents a share, compared
with a profit of $76.3 million, or 20 cents, a year earlier, the
 Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based company said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for a loss of 4 cents a share.  PulteGroup has been cutting expenses to remain competitive
as the U.S. unemployment rate tops 9 percent and foreclosures
mount, reducing prices for previously owned houses. Purchases of
new homes declined 1 percent in June to a three-month low, the
Commerce Department said July 26.  “I just don’t think Pulte can cost-cut its way to solid
profitability,” Michael Widner, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore with a “hold” rating on the stock, said
before the report. “It’s too competitive a business and it’ll
need some help from a housing recovery.”  The builder’s year-ago sales were bolstered by the rush to
qualify for a federal tax incentive of as much as $8,000 that
required buyers to sign contracts by April 30, 2010.  Return to Profitability  The company said it expects to be profitable in the second
half of the year.  “In this operating environment, we are focused on reducing
our construction and overhead costs and enhancing our product
offerings,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said in the
statement.  Net new orders rose to 4,222 homes in the second quarter,
from 4,218 a year earlier. Revenue dropped 29 percent to $927
million.  The results were released before the start of regular U.S.
trading. PulteGroup lost 6.9 percent this year through
yesterday, matching the drop in the 12-member Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  D.R. Horton , the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, today reported a third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company cut
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 