-- 
Queens Park Rangers Says It’s in Talks With New Potential Buyer of Team

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-28T17:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/queens-park-rangers-says-it-s-in-talks-with-new-potential-buyer-of-team.html
Queens Park Rangers, promoted to
English soccer’s Premier League at the end of last season, said
it’s entered talks with a second potential buyer.  The club confirmed that previous discussions with the other
party ended in March, without identifying either of the possible
buyers. QPR made today’s announcement, describing both sets of
talks as “preliminary,” on the stock exchange’s Regulatory
News Service.  Takeover speculation has surrounded the west London club
since  Bernie Ecclestone , the Formula One chief who’s the
majority owner in the club, said in April he might sell the team
for 100 million pounds ($164 million).  The family of metals billionaire Lakshmi Mittal owns about
one-third of QPR. In May, vice-chairman Amit Bhatia, Mittal’s
son-in-law, quit the board after a disagreement over ticket-
price increases and changes to club management.  Bhatia confirmed at the time that the Mittals wished to buy
Ecclestone’s stake but had been rebuffed. Bhatia and Ecclestone
were unavailable for comment today, and QPR said it’s making no
comment beyond the RNS statement.  Formula One duo Flavio Briatore and Ecclestone bought the
club in September 2007, with the Mittal family taking a stake in
December that year. Last year, Ecclestone bought Briatore’s
stake, but the Italian has an option to buy it back.  “I bought the shares from Flavio and he has an option to
buy them. He has got until the end of July, or end of August to
make up his mind,” Ecclestone said in an interview on June 25.  Warnock Speculation  QPR last played in the Premier League 15 years ago. Since
promotion was achieved there’s been speculation over coach Neil
Warnock’s future, with  Italy ’s Claudio Ranieri and Marcello Lippi linked with the role.  At the end of last season there were concerns the team
might be blocked from returning to the top league even though it
won the second-division Championship. However, it avoided a
points penalty over irregularities in the signing of Argentine
midfielder Alejandro Faurlin in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  