-- 
Radiation-Free Food Delivers Japanese Sales Boom to South Korean Exporters

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-07-29T00:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/radiation-free-food-delivers-japanese-sales-boom-to-south-korean-exporters.html
South Korean food exports to  Japan 
are climbing at the fastest pace on record after radioactive
contamination and supply disruptions prompted consumers to
switch to overseas producers.  Sales of watermelons, tuna and noodles led a 38 percent
jump in South  Korea ’s shipments of food to its Asian neighbor to
$604 million in the second quarter from a year earlier,
according to the Korea International Trade Association, or KITA.  Surging demand for South Korean products has helped buffer
exporters against weakness in U.S. and European markets. Lotte
Chilsung Beverage Co.’s drink sales to Japan have more than
doubled and its shares have risen 58 percent since the March
temblor and tsunami that triggered the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  “The sad truth is that Japan’s disaster is a boon for
Korean companies from food producers to carmakers,” said Sean Hwang, head of research at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“The big question is whether they will be able to hang on to
the export gains in the long term.”  Japan’s March 11 disaster closed factories, caused power
shortages and disrupted supply chains. That spurred an increase
in imports, resulting in the nation posting trade deficits in
April and May. Hwang said power constraints may aid Korean
exporters at least through September.  Japan Demand  Demand from Japan helped limit a slowdown in South Korea’s
export growth in the second quarter. Shipments rose 1.8 percent
from the first three months of the year, when they increased 3.3
percent, a central bank report this week showed. Industrial
output climbed 6.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the
slowest pace in nine months, a government report showed today.  Japan’s imports of food from all countries advanced 17.5
percent in May, the fastest gain since September 2008, and rose
9.4 percent in June, according to the nation’s  Finance Ministry .  At Lotte Chilsung, sales of soda and fruit juices to Japan
have doubled to about $1 million per month since April due to
production disruptions in the neighboring country, said
spokesman Seong Gi Seung in Seoul. The Japanese export increase
combined with strong domestic sales helped its share price surge,
said Yang Il Woo, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in Seoul.  Instant noodle maker NongShim Co.’s exports to Japan more
than doubled since March compared with a year ago, said Yoon
Sung Hak, a manager at the Seoul-based company. It now expects
record sales in Japan of about 100 billion won ($95 million)
this year compared with 55 billion won last year. NongShim’s
share price has climbed 18 percent since the quake, compared
with the 10 percent gain in the Kospi stock index during the
same period.  Shipment Goals  South Korea ’s government said it’s confident of securing a
29 percent increase in agricultural, food and fishery shipments
to $7.6 billion this year and a similar gain in 2012.  Wider distribution channels and the popularity across  Asia 
of South Korean television dramas and songs that help to promote
the nation will assist in achieving those goals, the  Ministry
for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries  said in a July 5
statement. “Winter Sonata,” a soap opera, and Girls’
Generation, a pop group, are among the entertainment exports.
Japan accounts for about a third of South Korean agricultural,
food and fishery exports.  Korean Farmers  “Demand for Korean food in Japan is growing too fast for
farmers to meet in time,” said Shin Eun Jin, president of
Seoul-based Nari Trading Co., a trade broker. “Some Japanese
producers are coming to Korea to sign contracts directly with
Korean farmers,” said Shin, who has exported farm goods and
fish to Japan for 12 years.  Exports of watermelons to Japan increased by more than ten
times from a year earlier in May, while shipments of canned tuna
fish rose by almost five times and bottled water gained by ten
times, according to the KITA data.  “The Japanese market is hard to enter but pretty
attractive as consumers are less sensitive to prices, compared
with  China  and other  developing countries ,” said Samsung
Securities’ Yang.  Spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea, milk, plums and
fish have been found to be contaminated with cesium and iodine
as far as 360 kilometers (224 miles) from the stricken Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear station operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Radiation Testing  Aeon Co., owner of Japan’s biggest supermarket chain, said
it began selling beef this week tested for radioactive
substances to counter consumers’ concerns.  The March disaster left more than 20,000 people dead or
missing. The government estimated that damage totals 16.9
trillion yen. Japan’s economy shrank for the second straight
quarter in the three months through March as the disaster
depressed output and dragged down  consumer spending .  South Korea’s average monthly trade deficit with Japan
narrowed to around $2.5 billion this year from $3 billion last
year, said Chung Hyuk, head of the Japan business department at
the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency in Seoul.  “The recent surge in food exports may be temporary due to
the short supply and fears of radiation contamination,” said
Chung. “We hope they enjoy our products more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  