-- 
Transatlantic Sues Validus, Tells Investors To Reject Offer

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-28T14:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/transatlantic-advises-investors-to-shun-validus-exchange-offer.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  sued
 Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , the reinsurer that made an unsolicited
takeover bid for the company, and advised investors not to
exchange their shares.  Validus made misleading comments in its attempt to
discourage Transatlantic shareholders from supporting the
company’s agreement to merge with Allied World Assurance Company
Holdings AG, according to a statement today from Transatlantic.
The suit, filed in U.S. court in  Delaware , seeks to compel
Bermuda-based Validus to amend filings to regulators.  Validus said July 25 it will offer to trade its stock for
Transatlantic shares at its original bid price, shunning a
request from the target company’s board for better terms.
Validus is offering 1.56 common shares and $8 in cash for each
Transatlantic share, for a value of about $3.5 billion based on
stock prices when the bid was announced.  The offer from Validus provides “inferior long-term value
creation potential for Transatlantic stockholders,” the New
York-based company said today in the statement. Jonathan Doorley, a spokesman for Validus, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Validus climbed 37 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $27.65 at
10:31 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Allied
advanced 37 cents to $55.49. Transatlantic increased 2 cents to
$51.80.  Allied World  Transatlantic said Allied is a better fit for the company.
Zug, Switzerland-based Allied struck a deal last month to
exchange 0.88 of a share for each Transatlantic share in a deal
valued at $3.2 billion based on prices at the time.  Validus focuses on property coverage, including protection
against catastrophes. Transatlantic provides medical-
malpractice protection and guards corporate officers against
lawsuits through so-called directors-and-officers coverage.
Allied offers professional-liability coverage.  Validus is getting financial advice from Greenhill & Co.
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis &
Co. are financial advisers to Transatlantic and Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP is acting as legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied, and
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided U.S.
and Swiss legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  