-- 
TransCanada Quarterly Profit Rises 24% on Pipeline Expansion

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T20:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/transcanada-quarterly-profit-rises-24-on-pipeline-expansion-1-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the second-
largest pipeline company in  North America  by market value,
reported a 24 percent rise in second-quarter profit as it
delivered oil and natural-gas through new and expanded systems.  Net income increased to C$367 million ($387 million), or 50
cents a share, from C$295 million, or 41 cents, a year earlier,
Calgary-based TransCanada said in a statement today. Excluding
gains and losses from contracts to hedge against currency,
interest and commodity price changes, per-share profit was 51
cents, a penny less than the average of 12 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  TransCanada’s results improved as it completed its first
quarter with the first two phases of its Keystone pipeline fully
operational, Carl Kirst, a senior research analyst with BMO
Capital Markets Ltd. in Houston, said in an interview before the
release. The company began shipments on the second phase of
Keystone in February.  The  pipeline , capable of carrying 591,000 barrels of crude
a day, stretches from oil-sands projects in  Alberta  to Illinois
and Oklahoma. An expansion, known as Keystone XL, would bring
the oil from Oklahoma to refineries on the Gulf Coast in  Texas .
The expansion is awaiting approval from the U.S. State
Department, which TransCanada expects by the end of the year.  The company said two oil leaks during the quarter from the
Keystone pipeline forced it to cut shipments in May and June.
The effect on earnings “was not significant,” according to the
release.  Revenue Rises  TransCanada has also brought online the Guadalajara gas
pipeline in  Mexico  and Bison gas pipeline in the northern U.S.
as well as the Coolidge power plant in  Arizona . Revenue rose 11
percent to C$2.14 billion from C$1.92 billion from a year
earlier.  TransCanada rose 19 cents to $40.04 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has nine buy
recommendations from analysts and five holds and has risen 5.4
percent this year.  Enterprise Products Partners LP is the largest North
American pipeline company by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  