-- 
Treasuries Gain, Bill Rates Rise as Standoff on Debt Cap May Hurt Economy

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-28T16:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/treasuries-snap-decline-on-concern-growth-is-slowing-amid-debt-stalemate.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields to a one-week low, on concern the deadlock between
President  Barack Obama  and  House Republicans  over lifting the
U.S. debt cap and cutting the deficit will damage the economy.  Six-month bill rates due two days after the Aug. 2 debt-
ceiling deadline rose to the highest since February, signaling
investors are growing more concerned lawmakers will fail to
reach an agreement. Obama administration officials will brief
the public after markets close tomorrow on financial priorities
if there’s no accord, a Democratic official said. The U.S. will
sell $29 billion of seven-year notes today.  “We’ve got a continuation of a weakening economy,” said
 Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with
the  Federal Reserve . “A deal may have some spending cuts, and
if not, you’ve got global turmoil. The turmoil trade or the deal
trade is positive for Treasuries in this environment.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.94 percent at 12:11 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.93
percent, the lowest level since July 21. The average yield over
the past decade is 4.05 percent. The 3.125 percent securities
maturing in May 2021 rose 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 185/32.  House Vote  The  House of Representatives  is expected to approve today a
debt-limit increase proposal that confronts unified Democratic
opposition in the Senate, said House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor . Passage of the measure will lead to negotiations among
leaders on both sides in an attempt to avert a U.S. default.  William Daley , Obama’s chief of staff, indicated in a July
26 interview with Bloomberg TV the Treasury has a contingency
plan if there’s no deal by Aug. 2. He didn’t provide details.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default unless the $14.3
trillion borrowing limit is increased by the deadline. Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have said
they may consider lowering the nation’s top rating if officials
fail to resolve the stalemate.  The rates on U.S. six-month bills set to mature Aug. 4 rose
to 0.2 percent, the highest level since they were issued in
February, Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The bills are the
first government debt securities due after the debt deadline.  Rates for borrowing and lending securities in the
repurchase-agreement, or repo, market were near the highest
level in six weeks. They had slipped to almost zero on July 6,
the lowest level since December 2009, as banks shored up balance
sheets around quarter-end amid a decline in bill issuance.  Market ‘Anxiety’  Yields on seven-year notes fell four basis points to 2.22
percent. The two-year note yields decreased three basis points
to 0.41 percent.  “The market is trading on a combination of anxiety over
the debt ceiling overhang and on the concerns that budget cuts
could bring,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Sentiment seems
to be fairly positive for Treasuries.”  The average level of overnight general-collateral repo
rates traded through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker, was 0.08 percent. The average rate for overnight federal
funds, known as the fed effective rate, was 0.07 percent
yesterday, which compares with the central bank’s target rate
for overnight loans between banks of zero to 0.25 percent.  General Collateral  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral.  In February, the Treasury eliminated $195 billion in
Supplementary Financing Program bills, or SFPs, it sold on
behalf of the Fed as it sought to help avoid exceeding the U.S.
debt limit. The department reduced the amount of four-week bills
it sold this week by 36 percent, the first decrease since May.  The U.S. seven-year notes being sold today yielded 2.255
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.430 percent at
the previous sale of the securities on June 29.  Investors bid for 2.62 times the amount offered last month,
the least since March 2010. Indirect bidders, a group including
foreign central banks, purchased 32.2 percent of the securities,
the lowest level since March 2009.  At yesterday’s $35 billion five-year note sale, the bid-to-
cover ratio was 2.62, compared with 2.59 at the June offering
and an average of 2.81 at the past 10 sales. The $35 billion
two-year note sale on July 26 had a bid-to-cover ratio of 3.14,
compared with 3.08 at the June sale.  Bill Auction  The Treasury said today it will sell $24 billion in six-
month bills and $27 billion in three-month bills at its weekly
auction Aug. 1 as part of its regularly scheduled sales. The
offerings are for the same amounts as in the previous week.  U.S. economic growth slowed from April through June to 1.8
percent, economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast before a
Commerce Department report tomorrow. It was 1.9 percent in the
first quarter after accelerating 3.1 percent from October
through December.  Treasuries remained higher today even after reports showed
pending home resales unexpectedly rose last month and jobless
claims dropped last week to the lowest level since April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  