-- 
Treasury Will Detail Bill-Paying Plan If Deal on Debt Limit Isn’t Reached

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-07-28T15:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/treasury-will-say-how-u-s-will-pay-bills-if-debt-ceiling-deal-not-reached.html
Obama administration officials will
brief the public no earlier than after financial markets close
tomorrow on priorities for paying the nation’s bills if the U.S.
debt limit isn’t raised, a Democratic Party official said.  A Treasury official said in an e-mail earlier today the
department would provide more information on how the government
would operate in the absence of borrowing authority as next
week’s deadline approaches.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has repeatedly said
the government’s authority to borrow will run out on Aug. 2
unless Congress raises the debt ceiling. Republicans and
Democrats have been unable to agree on an increase in the $14.3
trillion debt cap or budget cuts, leading to concerns that the
U.S. will lose its AAA credit rating.  “Seeing a political system that is so fractured cannot be
confidence-building at a minimum,” economist  Carmen Reinhart ,
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington, said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Radio. “This kind of uncertainty, unnecessary uncertainty, will
generate delays in plans of consumers, in plans of businesses.”  The  House of Representatives  plans to vote today on a
proposal to raise the limit that confronts unified Democratic
opposition in the Senate, setting the stage for a congressional
showdown.  Bankers’ Appeal  Bankers such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO
Jamie Dimon called on President  Barack Obama  and Congress to
raise the debt limit.  “The consequences of inaction -- for our economy, the
already struggling job market, the financial circumstances of
American businesses and families, and for America’s global
economic leadership -- would be very grave,” the executives
wrote in the letter sent today by the Financial Services Forum,
a Washington-based trade group representing the largest banks.  The Treasury Department has previously said it cannot pick
and choose which bills do pay in the event it cannot borrow
enough to cover all its obligations, a process members of
Congress called “prioritization.”  “This ‘prioritization’ proposal advocates a radical and
deeply irresponsible departure from the commitment by presidents
of both parties, throughout American history, to honor all of
the commitments our nation has made,” Geithner said in a letter
to Congress last month.  UBS, Barclays  While the Treasury has said that the Aug. 2 deadline is
fixed, analysts at UBS AG and  Barclays Capital  say the
department may have enough cash to pay the government’s bills
for days or even weeks if Congress fails to raise the debt limit
before then.  The date set by the Treasury is a projection for when the
U.S. exhausts its authority to borrow, not when it runs out of
money.  Chris Ahrens  at UBS and Ajay Rajadhyaksha at Barclays say
the debt limit may not have to be raised next week, in part
because  tax revenue  is coming in higher than forecast.  William Daley , the president’s chief of staff, indicated
that the Treasury has a contingency plan if a deal isn’t reached
by the deadline. Daley didn’t provide details.  “We will follow what has been the plan that every other
administration, Democrat or Republican, has prepared for if --in
the unlikely situation that that would occur,” Daley said in a
July 26 interview with Bloomberg Television.  When pressed for details, Daley said, “The Treasury
secretary will speak to that at some point as we get closer to
the date and lay out exactly what that process would be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  