-- 
Treasuries Gain, Bill Rates Rise on Concern Debt Deadlock to Hurt Economy

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-07-28T21:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/treasuries-gain-bill-rates-climb-on-concern-debt-deadlock-to-hurt-economy.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields to a one-week low, on concern the deadlock between
President  Barack Obama  and  House Republicans  over lifting the
U.S. debt cap and cutting the deficit will damage the economy.  Bonds trimmed gains as concern lawmakers won’t reach a
debt-limit deal cut demand at the government’s sale of $29
billion of seven-year notes. The  House of Representatives  is
expected to approve a proposal that confronts unified Democratic
opposition in the Senate, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
said. Rates on $90 billion in six-month bills reached a five-
month high before paring gains after an official said U.S. debt
holders will get priority if there’s no accord on Aug. 2.  “The fact that our politicians are voting on a budget bill
which is largely expected not to make it makes the debt-ceiling
debate even more challenging,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Ten-year note yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.95 percent at 5:49 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader. They touched 2.93 percent,
the lowest since July 21. The 3.125 percent security due in May
2021 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 1/2.  Yields on current 2.375 percent seven-year notes due in
June 2018 fell three basis points to 2.23 percent. They had
dropped to as low as 2.20 percent before the sale.  “We’ve got a continuation of a weakening economy,” said
 Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
 New York , one of 20 primary dealers obliged to participate in
U.S. debt sales. “A deal may have some spending cuts, and if
not, you’ve got global turmoil. The turmoil trade or the deal
trade is positive for Treasuries in this environment.”  Contingency Plan  Treasury notes remained higher after an administration
official said the U.S. will give priority to making interest
payments to holders of  government bonds  when due if lawmakers
fail to reach a debt-cap accord. The official requested
anonymity because no announcement has been made. The Treasury
said that in addition to the $90 billion in debt due Aug. 4,
more than $30 billion in interest matures Aug. 15.  Rates on six-month bills due Aug. 4 were at 0.14 percent
after touching 0.2 percent, the highest level since they were
issued in February, in a sign investors are growing more
concerned lawmakers will fail to reach an agreement.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default unless the $14.3
trillion borrowing limit is increased by the Aug. 2 deadline.
Moody’s Investors Service,  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings
have said they may consider lowering the nation’s top rating if
officials fail to resolve the stalemate.  ‘Will Be Defeated’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said that, if the House
passes its debt proposal today, he plans to bring it immediately
to the Senate floor and “it will be defeated.” That would
allow Reid to accelerate negotiations among leaders. His
proposal would raise the debt ceiling by $2.4 trillion and cut
$2.2 trillion in spending over a decade.  House Speaker  John Boehner  was delaying the vote, according
to a congressional aide. It had been scheduled for about 6 p.m.
Washington time.  Eric Cantor ’s spokeswoman, Laena Fallon, told
reporters, “the vote will be this evening.”  A $4 trillion deficit cut would be a “good down payment”
toward stabilizing U.S. finances,  John Chambers , chairman of the
sovereign rating committee at Standard & Poor’s, reiterated. He
spoke in a video interview distributed by the ratings company.  Seven-Year Sale  The seven-year note sale drew a yield of 2.280 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 2.256 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with amount
of securities offered, was 2.63, versus 2.62 in June and an
average of 2.86 at the past 10 sales.  “It’s not completely awful, especially considering the
uncertainty with the debt ceiling,” said Jason Rogan, director
of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New
York-based brokerage for institutional investors.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 39.6 percent of the notes, compared
with 32.2 percent at the June 29 offering and an average of 47.7
percent for the past 10 sales.  The Treasury sold $35 billion of five-year debt yesterday
and the same amount of two-year securities on July 26.  Rates for borrowing and lending securities in the
repurchase-agreement, or repo, market were near the highest
level in six weeks. They had slipped to almost zero on July 6,
the lowest level since December 2009, as banks shored up balance
sheets around quarter-end amid a decline in bill issuance.  Average Level  The average level of overnight general-collateral repo
rates traded through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker, was 0.1 percent. The average rate for overnight federal
funds, known as the fed effective rate, was 0.07 percent
yesterday, which compares with the central bank’s target rate
for overnight loans between banks of zero to 0.25 percent.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and boost
leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest rates 
close to the Fed’s target rate are called general collateral.  U.S. economic growth slowed from April through June to 1.8
percent, economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast before a
Commerce Department report tomorrow. It was 1.9 percent in the
first quarter after accelerating 3.1 percent from October
through December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  