-- 
Bonds Join Stocks Falling in Markets Overwhelmed by Debt Debate

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-28T20:44:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/treasuries-join-stocks-plunging-in-markets-overwhelmed-by-u-s-debt-debate.html
Stocks and Treasuries are moving in
tandem twice as often as they normally do, a sign investors are
growing convinced the U.S. will lose its AAA credit rating and
that an impasse among lawmakers may spur losses in both markets.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen or fallen
together with 10-year Treasury notes 80 percent of the time in
the last 10 days, compared with the average since 2000 of 41
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
index for American shares lost 2 percent yesterday, the most
since June 1, and the 10-year bond fell, driving its yield up
three basis points to 2.98 percent.  Equities and government bonds are reversing their
historical relationship because a downgrade and the possibility
of default by the U.S. government would put principal payments
at risk and curb economic growth that has helped send the S&P
500 up 93 percent since March 2009. Conviction that lawmakers
will fail sent rates on bills due next month to the highest
level since March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The politicians should learn from this that they
shouldn’t wait until we have our backs against the wall,”
 Donald Selkin , New York-based chief market strategist at
National Securities Corp., said in a telephone interview.
Selkin, a 35-year Wall Street veteran, helps manage about $3
billion. “It’s very irresponsible because it can affect the
economy and jobs. They’re putting us in a situation where we
could have another financial meltdown.”  Rising Ratio  While stock and bond prices have moved in tandem four days
out of every 10 during the past decade, periods when the pattern
holds for more than two days in a row are rare, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Since 2000, the price correlation
has occurred on eight days in any 10-day stretch less than 1
percent of the time, the data show.  “When the risk-free asset has risk in it, it creates a new
investment environment,”  Stephen Wood , who helps oversee $163
billion as the New York-based chief market strategist for
Russell Investments, said of Treasuries in a telephone
interview. “It’s an indicator of uncertainty. The market
doesn’t have the ability to discriminate between asset classes,
sectors or industries.”  The House of Representatives planned to vote today on a
debt-limit increase proposal that confronts unified Democratic
opposition in the Senate, setting the stage for a congressional
showdown to avert a U.S. default.  Boehner Wins Support  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  gained support among
fellow Republicans for his plan to raise the debt ceiling after
reworking the legislation to cut $917 billion over 10 years,
more than his original approach. All 51 Senate Democrats and two
independents signed a letter yesterday pledging to oppose the
measure.  Concern the U.S. credit rating will fall sent the S&P 500
down 3 percent through yesterday since July 22, the day Boehner
walked out of negotiation with  Barack Obama , saying the
president had “moved the goal posts” on raising revenue. The
decline trimmed the index’s advance for 2011 to 3.8 percent from
as much as 8.4 percent on April 29, when it reached an almost
three-year high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates on Treasury bills set to mature just after the Aug. 2
debt-ceiling deadline rose to 0.112 percent, the highest level
in five months. Five-year notes sold at auction yesterday drew a
yield of 1.58 percent, compared with the average forecast of
1.547 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine Federal Reserve
primary dealers.  ‘Major Recession’  “It’s happening because we’re looking at a deficit that’s
beyond anything seen before in history, except the depths of the
Second World War,”  Rob Arnott , who helps oversee $75 billion as
founder of Research Affiliates LLC in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
said in a telephone interview.  “If they take spending off the table quickly enough, it
creates a major recession,” he said. “What the rating agencies
are pointing out is if you don’t take spending off the table,
you eventually hit a Greek-style wall and they can’t allow
that.”  Assuming no measures are taken to reduce the deficit, a 1
percentage point increase in long-term borrowing costs and a
0.18 percent decline in annual GDP growth would lead to debt
increasing to 93.4 percent of GDP in 2020, according to
Bloomberg Government estimates. Greek public debt was 143
percent of gross domestic product as of Dec. 31.  Today’s Trading  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rallied today, sending
its yield down three basis points to 2.95 percent at 4:43 p.m.
in New York, below the average of 4.05 percent over the last
decade and less than the average of 5.48 percent when the U.S.
was running budget surpluses between 1998 and 2001. The  S&P 500 
slumped 0.3 percent to 1,300.67, its fourth straight loss.  The U.S. government may lose its AAA credit rating even if
lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a default, Mohamed A. El-Erian,
whose Pacific Investment Management Co. is the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News on
July 24. BlackRock Inc., Franklin Templeton Investments, Loomis
Sayles & Co. and Western Asset Management have also said that
the nation faces the loss of its top-level grade.  The U.S. will run out of options to prevent a default
unless the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit is increased by Aug.
2, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said.  S&P, which has given the U.S. a top AAA ranking since 1941,
said on July 14 that the chance of a downgrade within three
months is 50 percent, and a reduction may occur as soon as
August if there isn’t a “credible” plan to reduce the nation’s
deficit.  ‘Mob Behavior’  Losses would worsen after a downgrade, according to  John Milne  of JKMilne Asset Management, who oversees about $1.8
billion as chief executive officer in  Fort Myers ,  Florida .
Vigilantes, a term coined by economist Ed Yardeni in 1983 for
investors who protest fiscal policies by dumping bonds, may
surface if lawmakers fail to head off a ratings cut, he said.  “If there is a vigilante-type or mob behavior, it’s going
to happen post-downgrade, and that’s when the market will
extract some pain,” Milne said. “When vigilantes come out,
you’ll see extraordinary moves in the market.”  At a White House briefing yesterday, press secretary  Jay Carney  was asked if it would help speed action in Congress “if
the markets indicated that there’s pending catastrophe.”  “No, we do not hope for or want in any way negative
consequences in order to force action,” he said. “We just want
Congress to take action. We want our economy to grow, our
markets to grow, firms to hire.”  Borrowing Costs  A decision to cut the government’s credit rating would
likely increase Treasury rates by 60 to 70 basis points over the
“medium term,” raising the nation’s borrowing costs by $100
billion a year, Terry Belton, global head of fixed-income
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said on a July 26 conference
call hosted by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association. It could also hurt the rest of the economy by
increasing the cost of mortgages, auto loans and other types of
lending tied to the  interest rates  paid on Treasuries.  The U.S. unemployment rate rose for a third straight month
in June to 9.2 percent, pointing to an economy lacking momentum
entering the second half of the year. Employers added 18,000
workers to payrolls, the fewest in nine months and less than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Earnings Season  The dispute over plans to cut the U.S. federal deficit has
stolen investor attention away from an earnings season that has
produced higher-than-estimated results at 78 percent of S&P 500
companies that reported since July 11. Shares of industrial
companies helped lead declines yesterday after a Commerce
Department report showed durable goods orders fell 2.1 percent.  Deadlines for Congress are an invention aimed at forcing
through tax increases, according to Bill Huizenga, a first-term
Republican representative from western  Michigan . Boehner said
July 24 that a budget agreement was needed to calm Asian
financial markets. After no accord was reached, the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index lost 1 percent the next day before erasing the
drop in the next session, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They’re trying to create some panic in the marketplace
which simply shouldn’t be there,” Huizenga told reporters after
a meeting of lawmakers at the Capitol. “This ‘Armageddon
happens at midnight Aug. 3’ is not simply the case, is not
true,” he said. “There are some things that give us a little
breathing room, not a whole lot of time but a little breathing
room.”  S&P Analyst  David Beers , the London-based managing director of
sovereign credit ratings at S&P, said in an interview this week
that he didn’t know when a committee would decide whether to cut
the level. U.S. lawmakers are unlikely to find reaching a
compromise gets any easier with time, he said.  “For us, the issue is not the debt limit -- it’s the
underlying fiscal dynamics,” said Beers, who has been rating
governments for the company for 20 years. “It’s not obvious to
us that this political divide that is proving so difficult to
bridge is going to be any more bridgeable three months from now
or six months from now or a year from now.”  While yields on 10-year notes suggest bond investors don’t
expect a default, government efforts to prevent one by reducing
spending could still harm the economy, according to Anthony Valeri, market strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL Financial , which
oversees $340 billion.  “The government is losing credibility,” Valeri said. “It
reflects the uncertainty around the situation. The closer we get
to Aug. 2 without a resolution, the greater the risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  