-- 
Quarterback Kolb Traded by Eagles to Cardinals, Reggie Bush to Dolphins

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-07-29T04:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/reggie-bush-haynesworth-are-traded-burress-to-meet-with-giants-steelers.html
Quarterback  Kevin Kolb  was traded by
the  Philadelphia Eagles  to the Arizona Cardinals, who released
quarterback Derek Anderson yesterday during the third day of
National Football League free-agent negotiations.  The  New England Patriots  were talking to the  Washington
Redskins  about acquiring defensive lineman Albert Haynesworth,
Patriots coach Bill Belichick said during a televised news
conference.  Running back Reggie Bush, who won a Super Bowl with the New
Orleans Saints after the 2009 season, was traded to the  Miami
Dolphins , Saints quarterback Drew Brees said during a news
conference at training camp.  The NFL and its players ended a 4 1/2-month lockout July 25
with agreement on a 10-year labor accord. According to ESPN, the
new labor agreement will prevent players signing new contracts
from practicing with their teams until Aug. 4.  The Tennessee Titans released quarterback Vince Young, who
argued with former coach  Jeff Fisher  after being injured during
a game Nov. 21 and then threw his shoulder pads and jersey into
the stands. Young had a 30-17 record as a starter for the team.  The Patriots would get Haynesworth from the Redskins for a
fifth-round draft pick in 2013, according to the Washington
Post. Belichick said the deal wasn’t complete.  Deal Not Complete  “I talked to (Redskins coach) Mike Shanahan last night and
we are in the process with Haynesworth, but that’s not complete
yet, so I really can’t comment on that at this point until it’s
completed, if it is completed,” Belichick said. “We’ll see how
all that goes.”  The Patriots also acquired wide receiver Chad Ochocinco
from the  Cincinnati Bengals , who received one draft pick each of
the next two years, ESPN said, citing people with knowledge of
the negotiations. The player, slated to make $6.35 million this
season, accepted a restructured three-year contract to fit the
team’s salary cap, the network said.  Philadelphia traded Kolb to the Cardinals for a second-
round pick and cornerback Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie, cousin of
former New York Jets cornerback  Antonio Cromartie , the Eagles
announced in a news release.  “I can’t tell you I won’t miss him as a person and as a
player, but I think he’s very well deserving of this
opportunity,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said during a news
conference yesterday. “He’s in a good position there with good
players around him and I know he’ll do a great job.”  Best Quarterback Available  The Cardinals released Anderson, who had seven touchdowns
and 10 interceptions in 12 games during his only season with the
Cardinals, and linebacker Gerald Hayes, the team said in an e-
mail.  “We went after a guy we had the highest rated and a lot of
people thought he was the best quarterback available,”
Cardinals coach Ken Whisenhunt said on the team’s website. “But
none of that really matters. What matters is whether we win as a
team.”  Former  New York  Giants wide receiver Plaxico Burress, who
missed the last two seasons while serving a 20-month prison
sentence on a weapons charge, is expected to meet with both the
Giants and Pittsburgh Steelers this week, ESPN said, citing
people with the teams and NFL it didn’t identify.  Haynesworth, a Pro Bowl selection as a member of the Titans
in 2007 and 2008, joined the Redskins in 2009, accepting a
seven-year, $100 million offer that made him the highest-paid
defensive lineman in the league, according to ESPN.  Suspended by Redskins  Haynesworth, 30, clashed with Shanahan last season, failing
to pass his conditioning test at the start of training camp,
skipping team workouts and questioning the team’s defensive
formations. He was suspended for the final four games of the
season for conduct detrimental to the team and had a career-low
13 tackles and 2 1/2 sacks in eight games.  Ochocinco, 33, caught 67 passes for 831 yards and four
touchdowns last season with the Bengals. In 2009, he had 72
receptions for 1,047 yards and nine touchdowns.  Bush, 26, was drafted second by the Saints in 2006 after
winning the Heisman Trophy as college football’s best player
during his final season at the  University of Southern
California . Bush forfeited that trophy in September after the
National Collegiate Athletic Association ruled he was ineligible
to play that season due to his involvement with an agent.  Opportunity Elsewhere  “Obviously, we had five great years here with Reggie,”
Brees said. “I think this whole offseason that this has been a
big topic and I think in the end, obviously Reggie felt like
maybe that the opportunity for him was elsewhere.”  Bush, who has scored 29 touchdowns in his five-year career,
missed eight games last season with a broken right leg and had
career lows in touchdowns, rushing attempts and receptions.  As part of the trade, Bush agreed to a two-year contract
worth about $10 million, AP said. He was scheduled to earn $11.3
million this season under his former contract.  Burress flew to  New Jersey  on July 26 to meet with Giants
coach Tom Coughlin, but was unable to meet face-to-face with the
team until today.  Giants President John Mara said he had considered talking
to Burress about returning to the team since Burress left prison
June 6, although the team needs to be assured he will be an
asset. Burress served 20 months of a two-year sentence after
accidently shooting himself in the leg at a nightclub in New
York in November 2008.  ‘Two-Fold Step’  “Can he live within this system here, and once we get past
that, can we make it with the salary cap?” Mara told a radio
station. “It’s really a two-fold step that begins tomorrow
night. We’re still a long ways from signing a contract and
agreeing to terms with him.”  The 33-year-old wide receiver, who caught the game-winning
touchdown in the Giants’  Super Bowl  victory over the Patriots
following the 2007 season, will meet with Steelers coach  Mike Tomlin  following his meeting with the Giants, according to ESPN.  Burress was drafted No. 8 by the Steelers in the 2000 NFL
Draft, and played five seasons in Pittsburgh before joining the
Giants.  Giants Keep Kiwanuka  The Giants also reached an agreement to keep defensive end
Mathias Kiwanuka, who was limited to three games last season
because of a neck injury. He has 166 tackles and 23.5 sacks in
his five-year career with the team.  Kolb, as a starter and backup to Mike Vick, completed 60.8
percent of his passes for 1,197 yards and seven touchdowns. The
26-year-old will sign a five-year, $63.5 million deal including
$21 million guaranteed, with the Cardinals, according to ESPN.  Rodgers-Cromartie, the Cardinals’ first-round pick in 2008,
had 13 interceptions, four returned for touchdowns, in three
years in  Arizona . The 2009 Pro Bowl selection joins a secondary
that gave up 216.8 yards passing a game last year.  Young, a two-time Pro Bowl pick, was released a day after
the Titans agreed to terms with former Seattle Seahawks
quarterback Matt Hasselback. The Titans also drafted University
of Washington quarterback Jake Locker with the eighth pick in
April.  Bears Trade Olsen  The  Chicago Bears  traded tight end Greg Olsen to the
 Carolina Panthers  for an undisclosed draft pick, the Bears said
on their website. Olsen caught 194 passes for 1,981 yards and 20
touchdowns in four seasons with  Chicago .  The San Francisco 49ers released cornerback Nate Clements
and quarterback David Carr and placed on the physically unable
to perform list wide receivers Michael Crabtree and Dominique
Zeigler and fullback Bruce Miller. Carr, 32, appeared in one
game in his only year with the team, completing five of 13 pass
attempts for 67 yards and one interception  The Cincinnati Bengals agreed to terms with wide receiver
A.J. Green, the team’s first-round draft pick (fourth overall)
from the University of Georgia, the team said on its website.
The 49ers also signed their first-round draft pick (seventh
overall), former Missouri defensive end Aldon Smith, the team
announced on its Twitter page. The 49ers have signed all of
their 2011 draft picks.  Other first-round draft picks signed yesterday include
linebacker Von Miller, taken second by the Denver Broncos;
defensive end Adrian Clayborn, picked No. 20 by the  Tampa Bay
Buccaneers , and offensive tackle Tyron Smith, selected No. 9 by
the  Dallas Cowboys . The teams announced the signings on their
websites.  The Eagles also reached agreement with 31-year-old
defensive end Jason Babin, a 2010 Pro Bowl selection with the
Titans, ESPN reported.  The  Buffalo Bills  added former Jets wide receiver Brad Smith, signing the 27-year-old to a four-year, $15 million
contract, ESPN reported without saying where it obtained the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novywilliams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  