-- 
Reid Will Move to Kill House Debt-Ceiling Plan Tonight With Vote in Senate

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-28T16:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/reid-to-move-on-killing-house-debt-plan-tonight.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he will move tonight to kill House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
debt-ceiling proposal, paving the way for Senate votes this
weekend on a compromise.  Provided the House passes the measure later today, Reid
said he plans to bring Boehner’s legislation immediately to the
floor and “it will be defeated.”  That would allow Reid, a Nevada Democrat, to accelerate
negotiations among leaders on both sides in an attempt to avoid
default.  The Senate is likely to begin voting this weekend on an
alternative proposal from Reid to raise the debt ceiling by the
full $2.4 trillion President  Barack Obama  has requested, while
cutting $2.2 trillion over a decade. Senate leaders are working
privately to reach a compromise plan that could clear Congress
by Aug. 2, the date the Treasury Department says the nation will
breach its borrowing limit and run out of options for avoiding
default.  All 51 Senate Democrats and two independents signed a
letter yesterday pledging to oppose Boehner’s measure, which
would provide an immediate $900 billion boost in the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling, cut $915 billion in spending, and tie a
future borrowing increase to enactment of a deficit-slashing law
late this year. The White House has threatened Obama would veto
it.  The legislation was gaining support among House
Republicans, with a late-afternoon vote planned.  White House press secretary Jay Carney today dismissed
Boehner’s proposal and said it was “dead on arrival” in the
Senate, if it passed the House.  “There is no question that this bill is a political act
that has no life beyond its current existence in the House,”
Carney said.  Reid’s plan probably also lacks the votes necessary to
advance to a final vote, Senator  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota ,
the Budget Committee chairman, said today.  “I think it’s likely that at this moment that won’t get
cloture, won’t get 60 votes,” Conrad said on  Fox News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  