-- 
Renault First-Half Operating Profit Drops on Supply Problems, Aging Models

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-07-28T08:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/renault-profit-drops-on-supply-problems.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-largest
carmaker, reported a first-half profit that beat analyst
expectations because of sales growth outside  Europe , even as
supply snags and rising raw-material costs hurt earnings.  Operating profit excluding one-time items dropped 19
percent to 630 million euros ($904 million) from 780 million
euros, Renault said in a statement. The figure beat the 595
million euros expected by analysts, based on the average of nine
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 7.3 percent to
21.1 billion euros.  Renault’s results are “better than the market’s very low
expectations after their French market-share meltdown in June,”
said  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein.  Growth in  Russia ,  Latin America  and  Turkey  led to a 1.9
percent increase in global first-half deliveries, the company
said earlier this month. The reduction in earnings from parts
shortages resulting from the Japanese earthquake in March will
be limited to 50 million euros in the second half after a 150
million-euro cut in the first six months, Chief Operating
Officer  Carlos Tavares  said today.  Renault rose as much as 1.61 euros, or 4.5 percent, to
37.41 euros, the biggest intraday jump since April 27, and was
up 4.1 percent as of 10:25 a.m. in Paris trading. That pared the
stock’s decline this year to 14 percent, the worst performance
in the 14-member Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts Index.  ‘Support’ Outside Europe  “Growth outside Europe will continue to support our sales
performance,” Tavares said at an analyst conference at the
carmaker’s Boulogne-Billancourt headquarters. He reiterated the
company’s full-year target for automotive free  cash flow  to
exceed 500 million euros.  First-half net income rose to 1.22 billion euros from 780
million euros, helped by tax gains, lower financing costs and
proceeds from real-estate sales.  Operating profit at the main carmaking division fell 46
percent to 221 million euros, or 1.1 percent of sales, compared
with 410 million euros and a 2.2 percent margin a year earlier.  French rival PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker, yesterday abandoned its goal of increasing full-year
automotive earnings because of rising material costs, and said
supply disruptions from the earthquake will cut second-half
earnings by 100 million euros. Peugeot posted a 1.8 percent
first-half margin for its manufacturing division.  ‘Reassuring Reading’  “Following the negative outlook for the rest of the year
presented by Peugeot yesterday, Renault’s results make for more
reassuring reading,” said  David Arnold , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group. “Crucially, Renault only sees half the negative
Japan impact that Peugeot is predicting.”  Renault, whose domestic market share declined by 3.3
percentage points to 25.2 percent in the period, is due to
unveil a revamped Twingo mini at September’s Frankfurt auto show
and an all-new Clio compact next year.  “Given that Peugeot seems to have a better product lineup
at present, it’s interesting that Renault’s financial results
look so similar,” Warburton said.  The rising price of steel and other raw materials wiped 313
million euros from first-half earnings, Chief Financial Officer
Dominique Thormann said today. Their full-year effect will be
closer to 600 million euros than the 450 million euros to 500
million euros predicted in February, he said.  “The environment is worse than we’d expected,” Thormann
said. “Our supply chain was already under strain at the start
of the year.”  Declining European Share  Renault’s share of European car registrations narrowed to
9.5 percent in the first half from 10.5 percent a year earlier,
according to data from the Brussels-based  European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association .  Nissan Motor Co., Renault’s 43.4 percent-owned Japanese
affiliate, said yesterday that first-quarter net income dropped
20 percent to 85 billion yen ($1.09 billion) as a result of the
earthquake.  Renault reiterated its February forecast for a full-year
increase in deliveries, based on global auto-market growth of
3 percent to 4 percent and a European market contraction of as
much as 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  