-- 
RIM Links BlackBerry Messenger to Apps to Boost Appeal

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/rim-integrates-blackberry-messenger-with-apps-to-boost-appeal.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  introduced a
new version of its instant-messaging system that will let
consumers use the software within their own applications as the
BlackBerry phone maker looks to revive slowing sales growth.  BlackBerry Messenger 6 is available to download at RIM’s
App World online store today, and the site includes some games
and other applications that are already “BBM-connected,”
Alistair Mitchell, vice president for BBM and integrated
services, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The new features lets users message each other from within
separate applications, such as when playing a  video game  or
using a social-networking site like Four Square. The move to
enhance the appeal of BlackBerry apps comes as RIM loses market
share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, which offer a wider selection of both
touchscreen phones and apps.  BBM, which comes free on all BlackBerrys and lets users see
when their messages have been read, has about 45 million users,
with 2 million more added each month, Mitchell said.  “This is opening up the crown jewels in terms of BBM and
allowing developers to be able to leverage that” growth, he
said.  Backgammon King  Mitchell wouldn’t say how many of RIM’s 34,000 apps are
enabled for this feature. Other apps already integrated with BBM
include sports app Score Mobile and Backgammon King.  A typical scenario might be if two friends wanted to play
backgammon remotely, they could chat on BBM while playing the
game on Backgammon King, Mike Kirkup, senior director of global
developer relations, said in the joint interview.  RIM is giving programming tools to app developers so they
can incorporate BBM into the BlackBerry apps they build, he
said. Over time, there’s no reason why most of those apps
wouldn’t be BBM-enabled, he said.  “For the large majority of apps today there is an inherent
value to adding BBM,” Kirkup said.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company, which last month
forecast that sales this quarter may drop for the first time in
nine years, said this week that it will cut about 2,000 jobs, or
10 percent of its workforce.  RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone users fell 4.2 percentage
points to 24.7 percent for the three months through May as Apple
and Android gained, according to ComScore Inc. RIM hasn’t
introduced a new phone since August, and investors and consumers
are waiting to see what a new lineup of BlackBerrys based on
RIM’s latest 7.0 operating system offers. The company has said
the products would be available by “late summer” in the U.S.  “It’s nice and BBM is a very important for bridging the
gap” with new customers,  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian
Securities in  Boston , said of the new messaging feature. “But
the real focus needs to be on getting the OS7 phones out, that’s
the bigger issue.”  Thornton has a “positive” rating on the stock, which had
tumbled 56 percent this year before today. RIM fell 25 cents, or
1 percent, to $25.46 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  