-- 
Roach Says Chinese Officials ‘Appalled’ by Impasse on Raising Debt Ceiling

-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 
2011-07-28T09:51:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/roach-says-chinese-officials-appalled-by-impasse-on-raising-debt-ceiling.html
Senior Chinese officials are
“appalled” by the impasse among U.S. politicians on raising
the nation’s debt ceiling to avoid a default, said  Stephen Roach ,
non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.  “Coming so shortly on the heels of the subprime crisis,
the debate over the debt ceiling and the  budget deficit  is the
last straw” for China, New York-based Roach, 65, said in an e-
mailed note today. He said his assessment was based on visits to
Beijing,  Shanghai , Chongqing and  Hong Kong .  In another sign of concern within the nation that is the
biggest foreign owner of Treasuries, the official China
Securities Journal  said  today that the U.S. stand-off signals
long-term dollar weakness that will push up commodity prices and
pose inflation risks for the world. In Mumbai yesterday, a
former central bank adviser, Yu Yongding, repeated his call for
 China  to reduce its Treasury holdings, adding that a default
would be “disastrous.”  Roach cited an unnamed Chinese policy maker as saying in
mid-July that “we understand politics, but your government’s
continued recklessness is astonishing.” In the past, the
economist has met with officials including central bank Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan.  Lawmakers’ Vote  In the U.S., the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2 percent
yesterday, the biggest drop in almost two months, as a potential
default on Aug. 2 drew closer. Stock index futures rose today,
indicating that the gauge will rebound before lawmakers vote on
a Republican proposal to raise the debt ceiling.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio gained support among
fellow Republicans after reworking the legislation to cut $917
billion over 10 years, more than he originally planned. All 51
Senate Democrats and two independents signed a letter yesterday
pledging to oppose the measure.  China’s currency regulator, which manages the country’s
$3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, called this month
for the U.S. to protect the interests of investors in American
debt. Comments in China have also included expressions of
confidence that U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement. Xia Bin,
a central bank adviser, said July 25 that the stakes were too
high for them to do otherwise.  “Senior Chinese officials are appalled at how the  United
States  allows politics to trump financial stability,” Roach
said. China’s appetite for Treasuries will wane as stronger
domestic consumption cuts its current-account surplus and
reduces the build-up of foreign-exchange reserves, he added.  China, the owner of $1.16 trillion of Treasuries, is losing
confidence in America’s government “and its dysfunctional
economic stewardship,” the economist said. Declining demand
from the nation will raise the question of how the  U.S. economy 
can fund itself without suffering a “sharp” decline in the
dollar, a “major” increase in real long-term  interest rates ,
or both, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  