-- 
Tropical Storm Don Is on Track for Landfall in Southeastern Texas Tomorrow

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-28T19:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/tropical-storm-don-forms-off-mexico-heads-for-texas-coast-1-.html
Storm alerts were posted from the
Texas-Mexico border north to Galveston Island as Tropical Storm
Don moves through the  Gulf of Mexico  on track for landfall on
the Texas coast overnight tomorrow.  Don has maximum winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per hour
which may increase before it comes ashore near  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, according to a  National Hurricane Center  bulletin at 1:40
p.m. East Coast time today.  The storm, 475 miles east southeast of Corpus Christi, is
moving northwest at about 15 mph. Don is expected to drop 3 to 5
inches of rain across drought-stricken southern Texas and as
much as 7 inches in isolated areas, according the center.  “Don is a small-scale thing,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior
energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania. “I think it is important for the  energy industry 
to understand this will represent very little impact. There
might be some brief, short-duration shut-ins and they may
evacuate non-essential personnel, but the people who keep the
pumps going will still be in business.”  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  Companies Prepare  Don has forced the closing of about 6.8 percent of oil
production and 2.8 percent of gas output from the Gulf,
according to the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement.   BP Plc said it shut production at its Atlantis platform,
while  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  evacuated workers and prepared to
shut down its Marco Polo, Nansen, Boomvang, Gunnison, Red Hawk
and Constitution production facilities.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  closed its Perdido Spar platform.
Shell,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Apache Corp. (APA)  said they were removing
non-essential workers from some operations.  “Current expectations are that Don will remain south of
the producing region in the Gulf” because of the high pressure
area in the South that has caused weeks of extreme heat, said
Travis Hartman, energy weather manager for MDA Earthsat Energy
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. “Ultimately, Don will bring welcomed
rain to some of the drought-stricken areas in Mexico and Texas
while also creating some additional chatter in the markets as it
is the first relevant system of the season.”  Storm Systems  A weather system becomes tropical when it develops cyclone
characteristics, and becomes a named tropical storm when its
winds reach at least 39 mph. A storm becomes a hurricane when
winds hit 74 mph.  The U.S. hasn’t had a direct hit from a tropical storm
since Bonnie went ashore in Florida in July 2010. The last
hurricane to hit the U.S. was Ike, a Category 2 storm, in  Texas 
in 2008.  Forecasters are also tracking an area of disturbed weather
in the eastern  Pacific Ocean  off the coast of Guatemala that has
a 20 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone, according to
the hurricane center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  