-- 
Record Low Rubber Stocks-to-Use Ratio May Lift Prices, RCMA’s Pardey Says

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-07-28T01:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/rubber-prices-may-rise-as-demand-shrinks-inventories-in-china-rcma-says.html
The global natural rubber stocks-to-
use ratio has plunged to the lowest level ever as expanding
demand shrinks inventories in  China , potentially boosting
prices, according to RCMA Commodities Asia Pte Ltd.  Global inventories are just enough to meet about a month’s
demand compared with supplies for about 6.3 weeks a year
earlier, Chief Executive Officer Chris Pardey said in an
interview on July 26 in  Singapore . Stockpiles in China’s port of
Qingdao, which aren’t publicly available, have dropped to about
70,000 metric tons from 120,000 tons in April and May, Pardey
said.  The low stock-to-use ratio may help rubber futures in Tokyo
extend an almost 50 percent gain in the past year and increase
costs for Bridgestone Corp., Michelin & Cie. and Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co., the top three tire makers. China, the largest
automobile market, may consume 3.5 million tons of rubber this
year, 6.1 percent more than a year earlier, the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries said last month.  “If you are confident that China will grow about 7 percent
to 8 percent, then you are bullish rubber,” said Pardey, whose
Singapore-based company may handle 650,000 tons of the commodity
this year. The stock-to-use ratio is “at the level we have
never seen before,” Pardey said.  Global usage was about 10 million tons in 2010, according
to Oxford, England-based  LMC International Ltd . RCMA, which
trades about 6 percent of global natural-rubber output and has
offices in  Shanghai , Europe and the U.S.  Shanghai Inventories  Deliverable inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange totaled 18,783 tons as of July 21, a 72 percent decline
from the end of 2010. Chinese efforts to curb bank loans and
increase borrowing costs reduced investors’ ability to hold
large inventories, Pardey said.  “If I build in my expectations for the second quarter then
I’m pretty much in line with the RCMA view,”  Stephen Evans ,
secretary-general of the Singapore-based International Rubber
Study Group, said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions. He couldn’t confirm if the stocks-to-use ratio was at
a record low. Evans also “broadly agrees” with the RCMA
estimate about Qingdao stockpiles and didn’t provide data for
stockpiles.  The world’s most-populous nation has raised  interest rates 
five times since October and banks’ reserve ratio nine times to
cool inflation. The Chinese economy expanded at a 9.5 percent
pace in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics.  ‘Gauge of Supply’  A drop in Qingdao stockpiles to 70,000 tons would be “a
significant decline from a month ago,” Hu Hui, an analyst at
Guotai Junan Futures Co., said by phone from Shanghai. Qingdao’s
inventory is a gauge for supply of imported rubber to tire
producers in northern and eastern China, she said.  Stockpiles should normally have risen from June after
Southeast Asian countries began to tap rubber trees, she said.
China’s tire output in June rose 3.4 percent from May to 73.2
million units, “substantially better than April and May,” she
said.  Rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange soared to 43,500
yuan ($6,751) a ton, the highest ever, on Feb. 9. Yen-
denominated rubber futures traded at a record nine days later,
climbing to 535.7 yen a kilogram ($6,890 per ton). Natural
rubber for January delivery in Shanghai dropped 0.9 percent to
35,965 yuan a ton at 9:09 a.m. local time, and the  Tokyo 
contract fell 1 percent to 391.9 yen a kilogram.  A supply deficit in natural rubber may be between 200,000
tons and 300,000 tons this year and may widen to 1 million tons
by 2020, the International Rubber Study Group said June 8.
Rubber prices in China have advanced 64 percent in the past 12
months, exceeding the 50 percent increase of the most active
contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  ‘Nobody Knows’  “Our state reserve guesstimate for China is 200,000 tons
but nobody knows the real figure,” Pardey said. “There is no
sign of reserve release,” he said.  Pardey, 48, began trading commodities at Cargill Inc. in
Geneva and was a managing director for grains-trading in  Asia  at
Noble Group Ltd. He also worked for Merrill Lynch & Co. and
 Barclays Capital  before joining RCMA last year.  Michael Coleman  and  Doug King , partners and founders of the
$1.2 billion Merchant Commodity Fund, own RCMA Commodities. The
trading firm is separate from the hedge fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 