-- 
U.S. Visa Ban Over Lawyer’s Death Threatens to Undermine Reset With Russia

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-07-29T09:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/russia-u-s-reset-may-suffer-from-visa-ban-over-lawyer-s-death.html
A U.S. visa ban for Russians
implicated in the death of anti-corruption lawyer Sergei Magnitsky threatens to undermine the “reset” in relations
between the two countries.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration barred several
Russian officials from the U.S. for their roles in the death of
Magnitsky, who advised London-based Hermitage Capital Management
Ltd. before he died in a Moscow jail in 2009, the State
Department in  Washington  said on July 27. Russia will retaliate,
the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said.  The ban may harm Obama’s attempts to strengthen ties with
Russia as his administration seeks cooperation on issues ranging
from sanctions against Iran,  North Korea  and  Libya  to the
transit of supplies to  Afghanistan . Trade between the two
countries rose 35 percent last year to $31.7 billion,  according 
to the State Department.  “It appears that the reset policy is collapsing,” Ariel Cohen, a senior fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington
think tank that describes its mission as designing and promoting
conservative public policies, said by phone yesterday. “The
Obama administration is caught between a rock of realpolitik and
a hard place of its and Congress’s human rights agendas.”  The dispute comes amid frustration at delays to Russia’s
entry into the World Trade Organization and U.S. plans to place
elements of a missile-defense system in eastern  Europe . Russia
will take “corresponding measures” in response to the visa
ban, President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s spokeswoman,  Natalia Timakova ,
said yesterday without providing details.  ‘Unfriendly Steps’  “The Russian side won’t leave such unfriendly steps
without a response to defend the sovereignty of our country and
the rights of Russian citizens against unjustified acts of
foreign states,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement
published on its website July 27.  The State Department has no comment on  Russia ’s vow to
retaliate for the visa ban, said Julie Reside, a spokeswoman.  “We’re following our own protocol in how we deal with
this,” she said. “We expect to continue working with them on a
range of issues.”  Magnitsky, a former partner at the U.S. law firm Firestone
Duncan and a lawyer for Hermitage, once the biggest foreign
investment fund in Russia, died in November 2009 after almost a
year in pre-trial detention.  ‘Different Way’  He said he was abused and denied medical treatment to force
him to drop fraud allegations against Interior Ministry
officials. Prosecutors this month opened an investigation of two
prison officials, including a doctor, over Magnitsky’s death.  The State Department confirmed on July 27 that it imposed a
ban on some Russian officials after an “extensive” probe.  “I know they’re trying to help,” Mikhail Fedotov, head of
Medvedev’s human rights council, said by phone on July 27.
“They could have helped us in a different way -- a way that
wouldn’t cause friction.”  The ban came after U.S. senators including Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona  and independent  Joseph Lieberman  of
 Connecticut  proposed  legislation  that would impose tougher
sanctions, including a visa ban and asset freeze, on 60 named
officials implicated in the Magnitsky case.  They are from the Federal Security Service, the main
successor to the KGB, the Interior Ministry, Prosecutor
General’s Office, Federal Tax Service and Federal Prison
Service.  Human Rights  The Senate legislation would also target any Russian
officials responsible for extra-judicial killings, torture or
other gross human rights violations, with the aim of protecting
whistle blowers who expose illegal activity by the government.  The Russian human rights council, which also investigated
the Magnitsky case, presented Medvedev with its own list of
those who may be responsible.  “This list is more frightening for people responsible for
Magnitsky’s death because if it is put into practice, it will
open a door to prison for them,” said Fedotov.  Vice President  Joe Biden  in February 2009 announced plans
to “reset” relations with Russia. Later that year, Obama and
Medvedev brokered a new strategic-arms reduction treaty. Biden
said during a visit to Moscow in March that the two countries
would expand cooperation to include economic issues such as U.S.
support for Russia’s bid to join the WTO.  Increased Cooperation  The “reset” has increased cooperation between the nations
on a range of issues, including nuclear security and isolating
 Iran , Obama said May 26 after meeting with Medvedev at a summit
of Group of Eight nations in Deauville,  France . The two leaders
have built an “outstanding relationship,” he said.  “We’ve always said that’s not going to be done at the
expense of our basic principles, including human rights,” State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said.  The two countries may face a new strain in relations after
media reports of Russian involvement in a bombing near the U.S.
Embassy in  Georgia , said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the
Council on Foreign & Defense Policy in Moscow.  U.S. intelligence agencies linked a Russian agent to
bombings last year in Georgia, including one near the embassy,
the New York Times reported today, citing an American official.  A Sept. 22 blast in a vacant lot about 200 feet (60 meters)
from the embassy wall didn’t injure anyone or damage the
embassy, the newspaper said.  The row over the visa ban is a product of increasing
Congressional pressure on the Obama administration to toughen
its stance toward Russia, said Andrew Kuchins, director of the
Russia and Eurasia program at Washington-based Center for
Strategic and International Studies, yesterday by phone.  “It’s definitely an irritation,” he said. “There will be
some tit-for-tat, but it wouldn’t be a big blow to the core
issues that the Obama administration sees as important for the
reset and what our interests are in cooperation with Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  