-- 
S. African Wheat Producers May Seek Higher Import Tariff

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-28T16:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/s-african-wheat-producers-may-seek-higher-import-tariff-1-.html
Grain  South Africa , an industry
body, will decide “soon” whether to seek an increase in the
import tariff on wheat, General Manager Jannie  de Villiers  said
today by phone from Pretoria.  A higher duty would provide more certainty for wheat
farmers that they would be protected when prices fall, De
Villiers said. “We are currently getting the numbers together
to see if we would be able to apply successfully for an
increase,” he said.  While South Africa raised the duty last year, the move
didn’t induce farmers to plant more wheat, De Villiers said.
South African farmers are expected to plant 602,000 hectares
(1.49 million acres) this year, the second-smallest area ever,
the government’s Crop Estimates Committee said July 26.  Grain SA has had talks with the government on an increased
import duty, and “there is an understanding that it can
contribute to  job creation , rural development and  food
security ,” De Villiers said.  The South African government is aiming to create 5 million
new jobs by 2020 to cut the  unemployment rate  from 25.7 percent
to 15 percent.  South Africa is expected to import about 50 percent of the
wheat it consumes in the year starting Oct. 1, compared with 57
percent last year, Willie du Plessis, director of agricultural
banking at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said at a presentation in
Johannesburg today.  South Africans  are expected to consume about 3 million
metric tons of wheat during the period, according to Grain SA.  Bread Prices  There are “great opportunities” for local farmers to
increase production, Du Plessis said. The government may raise
the wheat  import tariff  “if it is serious about the
agricultural sector and food security,” he said.  The impact on retail prices for bread would be “minimal,”
he said. The wheat price contributes about a third to the retail
price of bread in South Africa, according to De Villiers.  The current duty of 140 rand ($20.89) per ton is applied
when prices for Hard Red Winter Wheat fall below $215 per ton in
Kansas City. The reference price was raised from $157 per ton
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  