-- 
S&P’s Chambers Says U.S. $4 Trillion Deficit Cut Is ‘Good Down Payment’

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-28T20:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/s-p-s-chambers-says-u-s-4-trillion-deficit-cut-is-good-down-payment-.html
Standard & Poor’s  reiterated that a
$4 trillion deficit cut would be a “good down payment” toward
stabilizing U.S. finances, according to  John Chambers , chairman
of the company’s sovereign rating committee.  The Senate is likely to begin voting this weekend on an a
proposal from Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to raise the
nation’s debt limit by the full $2.4 trillion President  Barack Obama  has requested, while cutting $2.2 trillion over a decade.
Reid said today he will move tonight to kill House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to cut $915 billion over 10 years. The Treasury
had set Aug. 2 as the date for when it would run out of cash.   “$4 trillion would be a good down payment,” Chambers said
in a video interview distributed by the New York-based ratings
firm.  “A grand bargain of that nature would signal the
seriousness of policy makers to address the fiscal situation in
the U.S.”  S&P, which has given the U.S. a top AAA ranking since 1941,
said on July 14 that the chance of a downgrade is 50 percent in
the next three months and may cut the rating as soon as August
if there isn’t a “credible” plan to reduce the nation’s
deficit.  “The $4 trillion, depending on whether it’s front loaded
or back loaded, is not going to do the trick in terms of
stabilizing the  U.S. government debt  to GDP ratio,” Chambers
said. “But it takes you pretty far along.”  The Treasury will give priority to making interest payments
to holders of  government bonds  when due if lawmakers fail to
reach an agreement to raise the debt ceiling, according to an
administration official. The official requested anonymity
because no announcement has been made.  The U.S. has said about $90 billion in debt matures on Aug.
4 and more than $30 billion in interest comes due Aug. 15.
Overall, more than $500 billion matures in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  