-- 
Safran Shares Rise on Forecast for Higher Full-Year Earnings

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T07:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/safran-lifts-2011-outlook-after-first-half-net-jumps-42-.html
Safran SA (SAF)  shares rose after the
aircraft engine maker posted a 42 percent increase in first-half
net income and raised its outlook for the full-year, reflecting
a recovery in the civil aviation market.  Shares rose as much as 5 percent in Paris trading, their
biggest intraday gain since July 20, and were 4.7 percent higher
at 29.30 euros as of 9:37 a.m. Safran predicted full-year
percentage growth in sales “in the mid-to -high single digits”
and recurring operating income “in the upper twenties.”  First-half net income rose to 317 million euros ($455
million) from 223 million euros as the company benefited from
the sale of spare parts and services for its CFM engines, which
power both  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 and Airbus A320 aircraft, Chief
Executive Jean-Paul Herteman said in a conference call.  “It was a very good first half,”  Yan Derocles , an analyst
at Oddo Securities in Paris, wrote in a morning note to
investors. “Their target is, in our view, still based on a
conservative assumption of an increase of 10 percent to 15
percent in the after-market civil segment.”  Safran and  General Electric Co. (GE)  through their CFM joint
venture make the world’s most widely used commercial engine, the
CFM 56. It’s the only powerplant available on Boeing Co.’s 737
and one of two for Airbus’s A320, each respectively the best-
selling models for the two airframe makers.  Leap Engines  CFM is offering a newer version of the engine, called Leap,
that will power Airbus’s re-engined A320 aircraft as well as
Boeing’s 737s. As with current 737s, CFM will be the only engine
available for the newer version of Boeing’s 737s, enabling it to
benefit from sales to airlines seeking improved fuel-efficiency
amid rising oil prices.  “The first half was very positive for our company and
carries strong promise for the rest of the year and also for the
years ahead,” Herteman said on the conference call today.  Safran also supplies brakes and landing gear for planes,
defense equipment and security equipment and services, including
airport screening machines and face- and iris-recognition
software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  