-- 
Sanofi Says It Retained Key Genzyme Executives After Deal

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-07-28T16:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sanofi-says-it-retained-key-genzyme-executives-after-deal-1-.html
Sanofi,  France ’s biggest drugmaker,
said it managed to retain key  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)  executives following
the acquisition of the U.S. biotechnology company.  “The level of employee turnover has not changed
significantly following the acquisition,” Sanofi Chief
Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher told reporters on a call
today.  Sanofi completed the acquisition of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme, the largest maker of medicines for
rare genetic disorders, for at least $20.1 billion in April to
gain innovative drugs that are less vulnerable to generic
competition. Viehbacher said today Sanofi has “pretty much
reached the conclusion of the integration phase.”  “I am very happy with the progress we’ve made,” said the
51-year-old CEO, who has been overseeing the combining of the
two companies. Paris-based Sanofi and Genzyme have “two very
different cultures” and Sanofi has created a so-called culture
work-stream to address those contrasts, he said.  “I wanted to make sure the differences were respected and
that we have a gradual coming together,” Viehbacher said today.  Manufacturing glitches at a Genzyme plant in 2009 led to
shortages of two of its main medicines, driving shares down and
leaving the U.S. biotech vulnerable to a takeover. Genzyme is
making significant progress on production but it’s taking longer
than expected to return to normal manufacturing levels of its
Fabrazyme treatment for patients suffering from Fabry disease,
Sanofi said today.  Executive Changes  Ron Branning, Genzyme’s global head of quality, who “has
played an extraordinarily important role, is committed to
staying with the organization,” Viehbacher said.  Scott Canute, head of global manufacturing and corporate
operations, left for personal reasons, and was replaced by Bill
Aitchison, former head of production at Sanofi’s vaccine unit,
Sanofi said.  The company plans to appoint a new Genzyme chief in
September or October, Sanofi said. French daily  Les Echos  said
May 23 that Belen Garijo, head of Sanofi’s pharmaceutical
operations in  Europe , would take that job this year. Merck KGaA
said this month that it hired Garijo as chief operating officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  