-- 
Scene Last Night: Marathon, Young Guns Aid Bowery Mission

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-28T18:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/scene-last-night-marathon-hsbc-young-philanthropists-aid-bowery-mission.html
Mario Caicedo went the distance as
co-chairman of the  Bowery Mission  Young Philanthropists “An
Evening on the Bowery” last night. The 33-year-old investment
analyst at Marathon Asset Management LP recruited six co-workers
to serve on the host committee for the event.  “The thing is, not that many people take on a leadership
role. When you know someone who does, you pay attention,” said
Jeffrey Stroll, a vice president at Marathon.  Besides Stroll, Marathon hosts included Michael Alexander,
Andrew Brady, Matt Breckenridge, Daniel Pine and Gary Uhliar.
They made up about a third of the committee. Their minimum
financial commitment was $250 each.  Caicedo “completely rallied this event,” said Alexander,
a senior vice president at Marathon.  The party was held at the Bowery Hotel terrace, just steps
away from the Mission, and included dancing, cocktails made with
 Catdaddy Carolina Moonshine , and a silent auction with items
such as a $1,500 night at the Lower East Side club  Southside  and
a one-year New Museum of Contemporary Art membership.  A “Bowery Swag” concession offered a red apron with the
organization’s name printed on for $10 and a mug for $7. Guests
received goodie bags that included  Liddabit Sweets  caramels.
HSBC Bank USA N.A. was an event chairman.  The Bowery Mission, established in 1879 and owned by the
Christian Herald Association Inc., offers food, shelter, job
training, legal aid and housing placement to men, women and
children. While Christian in orientation, it isn’t officially
affiliated with a particular church and serves people regardless
of their beliefs. Its donors come from all faiths. Last year the
Mission spent $8.5 million on its programs.  Serving Meals  Caicedo has lived near the Bowery Mission for 10 years.
About five years ago he talked to one of the homeless men and
decided to volunteer.  “I came to it as a neighbor,” Caicedo said. “I’ve been
so blessed my whole life, so getting involved made sense.”  His role as co-chairman of the event last night required a
$1,000 donation. He serves meals twice a month.  A direct experience at the Mission has drawn many of the
Young Philanthropists to commit to the organization.  Dan Beksha, 25, who works as a financial analyst, joined
the Young Philanthropists after volunteering once. He served on
the host committee for the event.  An Easy Sell  “We decided on venue and date and price, then I pitched it
to all my friends,” Beksha said. “It’s so easy to sell what
they do. For me, it’s the amount of direct service: Look at the
numbers,” he said, thumbing to a page in the event program.  “In 2010 the Bowery Mission provided more than 356,000
meals, 34,000 bags of groceries, and 72,100 nights of shelter,”
Beksha read from the program. “It’s amazing to be a part of
that.”  The event far exceeded its goals of selling 75 tickets and
losing no more than $1,000, said host committee member Tom
Summers, a restaurant designer: 250 people bought tickets and
the event raised almost $25,000.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 