-- 
Scientist Who Reported Polar Bears Drowning Is Suspended by U.S. Agency

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-07-28T16:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/scientist-who-reported-polar-bears-drowning-is-suspended-by-u-s-agency.html
A U.S. government wildlife biologist
whose work contributed to the listing of polar bears as a
threatened species has been suspended, according to a group that
supports government scientists.  Charles Monnett, a researcher in Anchorage with the  Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement, was
placed on paid administrative leave July 18 while the Interior
Department’s inspector general investigates “integrity
issues,” according to a copy of the suspension order provided
by Washington-based  Public Employees for Environmental
Responsibility  or PEER.  Monnett is overseeing several scientific studies that would
affect decisions on permits for oil and gas development,
according to PEER Executive Director Jeff Ruch. The group filed
a misconduct complaint today against government officials on
Monnett’s behalf.  “All of the scientific contracts previously managed by Mr.
Monnett are being managed by the highly qualified scientists at
BOEMRE,” agency spokeswoman Melissa Schwartz said today in an
e-mail. Monnett’s suspension was reported earlier today by the
 Associated Press .  In 2006, Monnett and a colleague reported observations of
polar bears drowning in open waters following a storm. The
paper, published in the peer-reviewed journal Polar Biology,was
cited by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in its 2008  decision 
to list the polar bear as threatened under the Endangered
Species Act.  President  George W. Bush ’s administration cited the effect
of global warming on the projected decline in sea ice that polar
bears depend on for survival.  Climate-Change Symbol  Average temperatures in parts of the Arctic have warmed at
10 times the global average, leading to “major reductions in
summer sea ice,” according to the Fish and Wildlife Service’s
decision. Less ice “may result in increases in bear mortality
associated with swimming when there is little sea ice to buffer
wave action.”  The designation became a symbol of the effects of  climate
change . “It caught public attention because it was the first
sighting of drowned polar bears in open water,” Ruch said in an
interview. “The bears were witnessed by other people. There are
contemporaneous notes and there are photos, so we’re mystified
as to what’s going on.”  The state of  Alaska  filed a lawsuit claiming the polar-bear
decision would limit resource development and the economy.  A federal judge rejected that challenge last month. The
agency’s listing “represents a reasoned exercise” of its
discretion based on the facts and the available science in 2008
when it made the determination, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan in  Washington  wrote in a 116-page ruling.  ‘Best Available Science’  “The Endangered Species Act decisions are predicated on
the best available science,” Chris Tollefson, a spokesman with
the Fish and Wildlife Service, said in an interview. “Our
understanding of that is constantly evolving.”  Tollefson said the Fish and Wildlife Service can review
changes “in what we understand to be the best available science
concerning a given species.”  President  Barack Obama  created an interagency working group
led by the Interior Department to oversee oil and natural-gas
exploration in Alaska. The group will coordinate permit
decisions and environmental reviews for onshore and offshore
projects, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s plan to drill in the
Chukchi and Beaufort seas.  “As we go into this period, this critical window where
permits are going to be decided, you’ll do it without the
benefit” of Monnett’s work, Ruch said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New
York at   jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  