-- 
Indian Market Regulator Eases Takeover Regulations to Counter M&A Slump

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-07-28T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sebi-raises-open-offer-size-trigger-limit-in-rule-aimed-at-reviving-m-as.html
India ’s market regulator eased
takeover rules, seeking to lure investors after mergers and
acquisitions in the South Asian nation slumped.  The new rules will help investors raise their holdings in
companies to as much as 25 percent, without having to offer to
buy additional shares from the public, the Securities and
Exchange Board of India’s Chairman U.K. Sinha told reporters in
Mumbai yesterday. The previous cap was 15 percent. Investors who
breach the new limit will have to buy an additional 26 percent
stake, Sinha said.  The regulations will help companies attract investors amid
a fall in the stock market, said Arindam Ghosh, a partner at law
firm Khaitan & Co. The value of acquisitions in India has
dropped 37 percent this year to $27.5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Foreigners account for 63 percent of this
spending, the data show.  “This would certainly assist companies in attracting
strategic, financial investors,” said Mumbai-based Ghosh.
Buyers “can now invest up to 25 percent, without being subject
to the rigors of going through an open offer.”  The market regulator, known as SEBI, rejected a proposal
from its panel that would have required acquirers to buy all
shares of the target company.  “The concern before the SEBI board was that we should not
do something that is likely to benefit certain set of acquirers
who may be from outside the country,” Sinha said yesterday.  ‘Game Changers’  In  Japan , the trigger for an open offer is 33.3 percent,
while in  Hong Kong  it is 30 percent and in Singapore 29.99
percent. In all three, breaching the limit requires an acquirer
to make an offer for the entire company.  “The impact of the revisions is not as forceful as
originally expected,”  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , equity
strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd., wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. “Having said that, these revisions will
still prove to be game-changers.”  SEBI abolished the practice of paying a so-called non-
compete fee to owners of target companies. India had allowed
payments of up to 25 percent over the open offer price in order
to prevent founders from competing.  “The main objective was to make the rules more minority
friendly,” said Manisha Girotra, chief executive officer of UBS
AG’s Indian unit in Mumbai. “The no-compete fees can be
negotiated. It will be now built into the price. Everyone will
get the benefit.”  The regulator also made it mandatory for the board of the
target company to recommend or reject any takeover offer. Sinha
didn’t say when the new rules would come into effect.  “This would make the deal making environment better,”
said Ranu Vohra, chief executive officer at Avendus Capital Pvt.
in Mumbai. “It would increase the seriousness and relevance of
companies making open offers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  