-- 
SEC Said to Favor Capital Buffer Plan for Money Market Funds

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sec-said-to-favor-capital-buffer-plan-for-money-market-funds.html
Money-market mutual funds would be
forced to create capital buffers equaling 1 percent to 3 percent
of assets to protect against losses under a plan now favored by
staff at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according 
to three people briefed on the regulator’s deliberations.  Top SEC officials, seeking to make money funds safer,
prefer the plan over another capital buffer idea crafted by
 Fidelity Investments  and calls to eliminate the funds’ stable
share price, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The concept
is based on recommendations submitted to the agency in January
by university economists known as the Squam Lake Group.  “Some variant of the Squam Lake proposal would be a
significant improvement that would reduce the risk that money
market funds pose systemic problems in the future,”  Eric Rosengren , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston  and a
frequent critic of the risk posed by money funds, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Regulators and fund executives have wrestled for almost
three years over how to prevent a recurrence of the run on  money
market funds  that followed the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. The industry has fought a
proposal to strip funds of their stable share price, saying it
would kill the product that manages $2.64 trillion for companies
and households, and represents the largest collective purchaser
of short-term corporate debt in the U.S.  Squam Lake Proposal  The SEC’s staff remains undecided on several details of the
plan, including exactly how big the buffer should be, two of the
people said. If the plan is endorsed by agency staff, SEC
commissioners will have to approve it and may still consider
rival proposals, the people said.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  The so-called Squam Lake proposal would require funds to
establish a segregated account holding cash or liquid assets
such as  U.S. Treasuries . The money would be used to bail out a
fund if it suffered investment losses.  Any fund failing to maintain the required buffer would be
forced to announce that failure and convert to a floating share
price within 60 days, according to the proposal.  Under the plan, funds would sell bonds, or subordinated
shares, to raise money for the buffer from a separate group of
investors. Those investors would lose money if the buffer were
tapped to cover investment losses.  ‘Significant’ Premium  The fund would pay bond investors interest, reducing the
return to fund shareholders. Shareholders would benefit from the
insurance provided by the buffer.  A key question is how much bond investors would demand in
return for taking on the fund’s investment risk.  “We don’t think it would be difficult to attract investors
or that the premium would be very significant,” René M. Stulz,
an economist at  Ohio State University ’s Fisher College of
Business and a Squam Lake Group member, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “We’re really talking about an extremely
low probability risk.”  The SEC could release a proposed rule and ask for public
comment as early as October, two of the people familiar with the
process said.  Gus Sauter, chief investment officer at  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc., said he would need to
study the Squam Lake plan in greater detail before saying
whether his firm would support it.  Fidelity Plan  “We certainly haven’t gotten to the point where we’re
satisfied enough to say any particular plan is the right way to
go,” Sauter said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Under the idea floated by Boston-based Fidelity in May and
backed by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , funds
would build buffers gradually over a number of years by
withholding returns. The money, which wouldn’t be segregated
from the fund, would be capped at 0.5 percent of assets to
prevent the fund price from rising above a stable $1 share
price.  “We are reviewing the details of the Squam Lake proposal
and are exploring several questions related to it, as well as
several variants of the concept,” Adam Banker, a Fidelity
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Banker said the firm looked forward to “continued
dialogue” with regulators and others in the industry.  Sauter said the Squam Lake plan had advantages and
disadvantages compared with the Fidelity proposal. “Certainly
it’s more expensive, and so would create some drag on
performance,” he said.  Floating Share Price  A government panel, charged with gauging systemic risks
under last year’s Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, directed
the SEC on July 26 to focus on three potential regulatory
reforms for money funds. In its annual report, the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, known as FSOC and headed by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , singled out proposals for a
floating share price, capital buffers and steps that would deter
fund investors from redeeming shares.  FSOC’s members also include SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  The  Investment Company Institute ’s money-fund working group
has scheduled a meeting with regulators for the second week in
August, two of the people said.  “The ICI remains open to ideas to strengthen money market
funds further, including ways to enhance liquidity and minimize
the risks of a fund breaking a dollar,” Ianthe Zabel, a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based trade group, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Enhance Liquidity’  ICI members have repeatedly warned that customers,
especially institutional investors, would abandon money funds if
they lost their stable share price.  Funds maintain a steady $1 share price by recording
holdings at their expected value at maturity and by rounding to
the nearest 1 cent. That means the fund can ignore small
fluctuations in the market price of holdings and suffer a loss
of less than half a cent without breaking the buck.  Groups including the FSOC and the Squam Lake economists
have said the stable share price also can induce investor runs.
Small losses grow as a proportion of a fund’s assets as
investors withdraw, giving shareholders an incentive to redeem
shares before others, they say. Advocates for a floating share
price include former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  and Sheila Bair,
former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  