-- 
Shell Profit Almost Doubles as Surging Oil Price Counters Production Drop

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-28T16:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/shell-says-net-income-almost-doubled-to-8-66-billion-in-second-quarter.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, said second-quarter earnings almost doubled
on higher oil prices and project startups in Qatar and Canada.  Net income rose to $8.66 billion from $4.39 billion a year
earlier, The Hague-based Shell said today in a statement.
Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, profit matched
analyst estimates.  “The cash generation in the company was already quite
strong and they proved it again this quarter,” said Dimitri Willems, who helps manage about 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
at Kempen Capital Management in Amsterdam.  Cash flow  from
operations rose 43 percent to $12.3 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser , who sold about $4
billion of “non-core” assets in the first half, is seeking to
boost production with a $100 billion investment plan through
2014. Shell started the  Pearl gas-to-liquids  and  Qatargas 4 
liquefied natural-gas ventures in the  Middle East  this year. It
also expanded an oil-sands project in Canada’s Alberta region.  “The first half of 2011 saw the successful startup of
three of the largest-scale projects anywhere in our industry
today,” Voser said in the statement. “The ramp-up of our new
projects should drive our financial performance in the coming
quarters.”  Statoil, Repsol  BP Plc (BP/) , Shell’s smaller rival, earlier this week reported
profit that missed analyst estimates following field disruptions
in the  Gulf of Mexico . Statoil ASA, Norway’s largest oil
company, and Repsol YPF SA of Spain both reported earnings today
that beat estimates.  Adjusted earnings at Shell came in at $6.6 billion, in line
with the mean estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shell’s Class A shares traded in  London  were little changed
at 2,266.5 pence. The stock is up 6 percent this year.  The startups in Qatar and  Canada  will contribute in excess
of 400,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day at their peak,
according to Voser.  Shell carried out work at its refineries in Canada, the
U.S., the Netherlands, Malaysia and Singapore this year. As a
result, refining availability fell to 90 percent in the second
quarter from 94 percent last year.  ‘Resilient Performance’  “Maintenance activities and weak industry refining margins
masked a resilient performance from oil products marketing and
chemicals,” the CEO said.  Production fell 2 percent to 3.046 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the quarter, mainly because of asset sales.
Shell plans to increase daily output to 3.7 million barrels in
2014. LNG sales rose 24 percent to 4.8 million tons in the
latest quarter.  Brent crude futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s crude, were on average 48 percent higher in the second
quarter compared with the year-earlier period. U.K. natural-gas
prices were 58 percent higher.  In  Mexico , Shell agreed to sell its 50 percent stake in an
LNG import terminal at Altamira for about $200 million. It also
completed the disposal of assets in  Chile  and the  Dominican
Republic  for about $700 million in total.  Prelude Floating LNG  Shell is expanding in Australia after agreeing in May to
invest as much as $12.6 billion in the  Prelude  floating LNG
project. Earlier this month, it agreed to join Japan’s Inpex
Corp. in a floating LNG project off Indonesia.  In the Gulf of Mexico, Shell started the  Cardamom field 
development last month. In May, the company warned that its oil
and gas production may be curbed by 50,000 barrels a day in the
Gulf because of delays in receiving drilling permits following
the Macondo crude spill last year.  Shell completed a  $1.8 billion Texas gas field  sale to
Occidental Petroleum Corp. this year and also disposed of stakes
in Canada, Pakistan and the U.K. This month it agreed to sell
assets in  Brazil .  Last month, Shell concluded the creation of a $12 billion
 biofuel joint venture  with Cosan SA Industria & Comercio in
Brazil. The partners plan to make transport fuel from wheat
stalks and sugar-cane bagasse, a sugar industry waste product,
in anticipation that the share of renewable energy in fuel will
double in the next 10 years.  In Malaysia, Shell together with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. agreed to invest in the offshore Sabah
Gas Kebabangan project, which will pump 130,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  