-- 
Shire Raises 2011 Forecast as Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-28T14:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/shire-raises-2011-forecast-as-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  raised its full-year sales
forecast after reporting second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates on higher-than-expected revenue from the
attention-deficit pill Adderall XR and drugs for rare diseases.  Sales growth in the second half will be “marginally
lower” than the 22 percent increase of the six months ending in
June, the Dublin-based company said in a statement today. Shire
said in February it expected product sales growth in 2011 to be
“at least in line” with the pace set last year, or about 16
percent.  Shire is benefiting from an expansion in the market for
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and for the treatments
it makes for rare genetic diseases, which have been boosted by
manufacturing problems at rival Sanofi’s Genzyme unit. The gains
may persist even after Sanofi resolves the issues, said Navid Malik, an analyst with Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in  London .  “While everyone’s waiting to see if there’s a rebound,
Shire continues to get traction in the market with patients,”
Malik said in a telephone interview today. “They’ll hold those
patients. They won’t necessarily lose them when the
manufacturing issues get resolved.”  Shire rose 75 pence, or 3.7 percent, to 2,125 pence at 3:06
p.m. in London trading. Before today, the stock had gained 33
percent this year, including reinvested dividends, compared with
an 11 percent advance in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals
Index of 17 companies. Among 28 analysts tracked by Bloomberg
who cover Shire, 13 rate it “buy,” 10 suggest holding the
stock, and 5 recommend selling it.  ‘Increased Expectations’  Earnings excluding some costs rose 32 percent to $256.3
million from $194.7 million a year earlier, the Dublin-based
company said today. Analysts predicted profit of $248.8 million,
the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “During the year we have seen market consensus for 2011
earnings increase,” Chief Executive Officer Angus Russell said
in the statement. “Our performance in the first six months of
the year has further underpinned our confidence in meeting these
increased expectations.”  Sales rose 25 percent to $1.06 billion, beating the $990.1
million average of eight analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue from Adderall XR jumped 83 percent to $147
million because of a one-time benefit from lower sales rebates
compared with a year earlier, the company said.  Virus Contamination  A virus contamination in 2009 at a Genzyme factory reduced
the supply of two drugs that compete with Shire’s Replagal and
Vpriv. Genzyme is taking longer than expected to return to
normal manufacturing levels of its Fabrazyme drug, Paris-based
Sanofi said today.  Revenue from Shire’s human-genetics unit climbed 49 percent
to $316.6 million, helped by sales of Replagal, which rose 46
percent to $119.9 million.  Vyvanse, Shire’s top-selling product, garnered $185.9
million, missing the average analyst estimate of $198.8 million.
That was because of a one-time rebate cost of about $20 million
because of a change in the estimate of Vyvanse inventory in the
U.S., Chief Financial Officer Graham Hetherington told reporters
on a conference call.  Shire expects costs related to research and development and
sales and administration to expand by 20 percent over 2010,
higher than a previous estimate of 13 percent.  “I think that’s slightly spooked people but this business
is investing for high growth and great momentum,” Malik said.
“I don’t see any reason why they shouldn’t continue investing
to deliver that growth.”  Shire has spent more than $5 billion on at least eight
licensing deals and four acquisitions since 2007, according to
the company. That’s added products for rare genetic diseases and
reduced Shire’s reliance on treatments for ADHD, which accounted
for about a third of sales last year compared with half five
years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  