-- 
Siemens Profit Falls 47% on Charges in Energy, Health-Care Units

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-28T11:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/siemens-profit-falls-on-fines-and-charges.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  reported quarterly profit
that missed analysts’ estimates after booking charges, a rare
lapse by Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  as he embarks on
his second term leading  Europe ’s largest engineering company.  Net income from continued operations fell 47 percent to 763
million euros ($1.1 billion) in the third quarter ended June 30,
falling short of analysts’ expectations for the first time in
eight quarters. Charges for a health-care business, a computer
services unit and a fine paid to Areva SA exceeded 1.4 billion
euros. Siemens fell as much as 3.5 percent in  Frankfurt , the
most in a month.  Loescher, whose contract was extended yesterday, built a
reputation in his first term on a more reliable performance,
after earnings under his predecessors were notoriously hard to
predict as Siemens bought and discarded assets. Loescher, who
declared an overhaul a thing of the past in November and said
Siemens had finally become a “normal” company, cautioned today
that support from a rebounding economy is starting to fade.  “The last couple of months have felt extremely retro,”
said  Ben Uglow , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, who has an
“overweight” rating on the stock. “This is the worst quarter
in three years in terms of earnings quality.”  First Outsider  The maker of trains, turbines and factory drives is
absorbing higher costs and exiting some businesses as Loescher
prepares for slowing growth. The executive spent much of his
first term trimming costs and shedding assets, and the CEO aims
to outgrow rivals and elevate sales to 100 billion euros. 53-
year-old Loescher became the first outsider ever to run Siemens
after a bribery scandal swept out his predecessors.  Siemens fell as much as 3.15 euros to 88 euros in
Frankfurt. The stock had fallen 1.7 percent this year before
today, valuing Siemens at about 83.33 billion euros.  The company reiterated profit will exceed 7.5 billion euros
for the year ending Sept. 30. The forecast excludes a 648
million-euro penalty to Areva in the quarter. Siemens booked 381
million euros in charges at the particle-therapy unit, an
advanced cancer treatment, and 350 million euros related to the
sale of its computer services unit to Atos SA of  France .  Falling Margins  Profit margins fell below 10 percent in all of Siemens’s
energy divisions, from double-digit levels last year. Fossil
power posted a loss on the Areva payment. Siemens said pricing
pressure is eating into the renewable-energy division, which
will have to settle for single-digit margins. The solar business
has struggled to meet company expectations.  “The biggest profit impact is clearly the one-offs, which
are surprisingly high in health care,” said Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “In
renewable energy and power transmission, business is clearly
getting more difficult and pricing pressure is high.” Schachel
recommends clients hold Siemens shares.  Loescher predicted the company will focus on organic growth
and add-on acquisitions to expand this year as Siemens considers
how to put its record cash to work. While markets continue to be
“robust,” risks are increasing in the global economic
environment, Loescher said today.  Not Prime Time  Sales in the quarter rose 2 percent to 17.84 billion euros,
lifted by higher revenue from the industrial businesses. New
orders jumped 20 percent, propelled by an agreement to supply
German rail operator Deutsche Bahn AG with as many as 300
trains, Siemens’ largest contract to date.  Currency fluctuation reduced growth in sales and order
intake by five percentage points in the quarter, as the euro
strengthened against the  U.S. dollar , Siemens said.  The charges in particle therapy add to some 378 million
euros accumulated since 2008, bringing the total to 759 million
euros. The technology is “not ready for prime time yet,”
Loescher said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. Siemens
treated just above 400 patients with the technology.  The Osram lighting business contributed 56 million euros in
profit in the quarter, a 24 percent drop, on revenue that was
little changed at 1.16 billion euros. Osram sales climbed 7
percent when adjusted for currency swings, while operating
profit dropped 48 percent to 61 million euros, Chief Financial
Officer Joe Kaeser said.  Siemens plans to sell the unit to investors later this
year, attempting one of the biggest share sales in  Germany  in a
decade. The plans for Osram’s public offering are unchanged,
Kaeser and Loescher told journalists on a call today.  Amsterdam-based Royal Philips Electronics NV, the No. 1
lighting company, on July 18 cut its outlook for sales growth in
the global lighting market to as little as 5 percent per year
until 2015, from an earlier prediction of as much as 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  