-- 
Soccer Clash May Force Players in Europe to Choose Between Club, Country

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-28T02:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/soccer-clash-may-force-players-in-europe-to-choose-between-club-country.html
Soccer players in  Europe  may have to
choose between national teams and clubs as a dispute between
their employers and the sport’s governing bodies over match
scheduling and finances threatens the game’s structure.  The European Club Association, a group representing about
200 of the continent’s teams including  Barcelona ,  Manchester
United  and AC Milan, wants the issues addressed before its
memorandum of understanding with FIFA and European soccer’s
governing body UEFA expires in 2014.  When that agreement ends, Europe’s top clubs will no longer
be legally bound to play in the Champions League, the sport’s
richest club competition, or release their players for
international exhibition matches or tournaments. Clubs may be
forced into decisive action if their concerns are ignored,
according to association board member Umberto Gandini.  “We are the ones who invest the money, we are the ones
who develop the players, we are the ones who give the players a
reason to play,” Gandini, a director of Italian champion AC
Milan, said in a telephone interview. “Without the clubs, what
do you think they are going to do?”  Disputes over the number of national team matches scheduled
by FIFA, the governing body’s reluctance to pay toward insurance
contributions and an increase in competition for television and
sponsorship contracts come at a time when FIFA’s governance is
under scrutiny because of corruption claims against senior
officials. More than a third of FIFA’s executive board has been
suspended or accused of wrongdoing in the past nine months.  ‘Keep on Fighting’  Clubs are being “vocal and aggressive” on the issues
because they “don’t think our opinion and inputs are taken into
proper consideration by the governing body,” Gandini said.  “We will keep on fighting to find the right balance
between national association football and club football,” he
said. “Into the future I cannot see exactly what will happen,
but for sure the ultimate position could well be a refusal of
cooperation or the refusal to accept the imposition of certain
rules.”  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  told reporters in  Rio de
Janeiro  yesterday that the Zurich-based organization needs to
find a consensus.  European clubs supplied three quarters of the players at
last year’s  World Cup  in  South Africa . Stars including  Bayern
Munich ’s  Arjen Robben  and Chelsea striker  Fernando Torres 
returned hurt from the tournament and missed the start of the
new season. FIFA’s decision last year to introduce an August
date for international exhibition games angered clubs because it
falls days before the start of most European leagues.  The clubs had asked FIFA to consult them before ruling on
changes to the match calendar.  Television and Marketing  UEFA’s decision to centralize its television and marketing
contracts for all World Cup and European qualification games
also has upset clubs because it reduces the amount of money they
are able to make through similar agreements.  “They are going to the same pockets in Europe,” Gandini
said. “The pockets that are paying for the  Champions League  in
2014, they are going to have UEFA who’s going to offer them,
against interest of clubs, the centralized activities of the
national teams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro via the London newsroom
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  