-- 
Sony Cuts Profit Forecast by 25% as Demand Slump Cripples Television Sales

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-07-28T07:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sony-trims-full-year-net-income-forecast-by-25-lowers-outlook-for-sales.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest exporter
of consumer electronics, cut its annual profit forecast after a
slump in demand in the U.S. and  Europe  led the company to lower
its estimate for television sales.  Net income may total 60 billion yen ($771 million) for the
year started April 1, the Tokyo-based company said in a
 statement  today, revising its earlier projection of 80 billion
yen. Tokyo-based Sony also cut its estimate for sales 4 percent
to 7.2 trillion yen.  Sony, reeling from the March earthquake that crippled its
factories and disrupted supplies, cut its TV forecast sales
forecast, citing slumping demand in Europe and the U.S. Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Stringer , who has budgeted 14 billion
yen in costs this year after the worst hacker attacks on its
network, is introducing a new PlayStation game player and tablet
computers to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and return Sony to profit after
three consecutive years of losses.  “The economic slowdown, especially in the U.S. and Europe,
is leading to a significant drop in TV prices, worsening the
industry’s over-supply situation,” Kota Ezawa, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said before the earnings. “Sony will
need to promote more restructuring.”  Sony fell 1.1 percent to close at 2,013 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement, widening its loss this year to
31 percent. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has slid
3.2 percent.  Bravia TVs  Sony kept its annual operating profit forecast unchanged.
It fell 59 percent to 27.5 billion yen in the first quarter.  Sales of Bravia televisions worldwide this year will be 22
million units, compared with an earlier estimate for 27 million,
Sony said in the statement today. Losses from the business may
be as large as in the year ended in March, Chief Financial
Officer Masaru Kato told reporters in  Tokyo  today, without
elaborating.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
televisions, earlier this month reported a 26 percent drop in
second-quarter operating profit after a slump in sales of flat
screens masked a surge in demand for smartphones and tablet
computers. The Suwon, South Korea-based company will report its
earnings tomorrow.  “Matured markets such as Europe and the U.S. started to
slow down,” Kato said. “That’s clearly affecting our TV
business. Shipments and sales are significantly lower and not
reaching our target.”  Quake-Related Charge  Sony also reported first-quarter net loss of 15.5 billion
yen, compared with profit of 25.7 billion yen a year earlier.
That missed the 2.5 billion yen loss average of three analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The maker of the Walkman music players booked net charges
of about 700 million yen in the quarter toward expenses of
restoring factories after the March 11 earthquake in  Japan 
forced a shutdown of factories.  The consumer products and services group, the division that
handles liquid-crystal display TVs, Vaio laptop computers,
Cyber-shot cameras and PlayStation game consoles, had an
operating income of 1.7 billion yen in the first quarter.  The professional, device and solutions group had an
operating income of 2.3 billion yen in the quarter while the
film division unit had an operating income of 4.3 billion yen.
The financial services unit had an operating income of 28.7
billion yen in the first quarter.  Tablets  Sony, the maker of Vaio laptops, plans to start offering
two models of its first tablet computers, the company said in
April. Sony is following Samsung and Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. in their pursuit of Apple, more than a year after the iPad
spurred a surge in demand for the devices.  Sony’s S1 model will feature a 9.4-inch liquid-crystal
display, as well as front and rear cameras. The S2 laptop-shaped
model will have dual 5.5-inch screens and feature cameras,
according to the company.  Last month, Sony named its next portable video-game player
the PlayStation Vita and said the cheapest model will cost $249
in the U.S., 249 euros in Europe and 24,980 yen in Japan. Sony
plans to start selling the Vita, which will have a five-inch
display using OLED, or organic light emitting diode, technology
and a rear touch pad, by the year-end holiday season.  Sony assumed an  exchange rate  of 80 yen to the dollar while
computing the forecasts compared with an earlier estimate for 83
yen, according to the statement. The exchange rate for the euro
to the yen was kept unchanged at 115 yen.  The three consecutive losses were the first in Sony’s
history since its listing in 1958.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 