-- 
Sony Cuts TV Forecast, Nintendo Game Player Flops as Earnings Outlook Dims

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-07-29T00:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sony-cuts-tv-forecast-nintendo-3ds-player-flops-as-outlook-dims.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co.
unexpectedly slashed their profit forecasts in response to the
failure of their televisions and handheld game players to keep
pace with products from Samsung Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Sony,  Japan ’s largest exporter of electronics, yesterday
cut its profit estimate 25 percent, citing lower TV demand in
 Europe  and the U.S. Nintendo, the world’s biggest maker of
video-game players, slashed its net income forecast 82 percent
to the lowest in a quarter century and lowered the price of its
new 3-D portable game player by as much as 40 percent.  “Both companies need to forget their past successes and
overhaul their businesses to adapt to the present,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku Capital Management, which oversees
about $7 billion of assets. “Competition is harsh. You really
need to make something that cannot be copied by others to make
profit in such a market.”  Sony, reeling from three straight years of losses without a
hit product, has dropped 31 percent this year. Nintendo has
plunged 41 percent as it failed to replicate the success of the
Wii. Deteriorating demand for the two electronics makers follows
disruptions in manufacturing from the record earthquake that
crippled the nation’s factories this year.  Nintendo tumbled to as low as 11,200 yen as of 9:34 a.m. on
the Osaka Securities Exchange. That’s the stock’s biggest drop
according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg stretching back
to May 18, 1990. Sony fell as much as 2.7 percent to 1,959 yen,
the biggest intraday drop in more than two weeks.  Missing Targets  Sony, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer , cut its target for Bravia TV sales 19 percent to 22
million units, citing worse-than-expected demand from consumers
in the U.S. and Europe.  The TV unit, which posted a loss of 75 billion yen ($964
million) in the year ended in March, may lose as much money this
fiscal year because shipments are “significantly” lower than
the company had anticipated, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato
told reporters in Tokyo. The business has posted seven
consecutive years of losses.  “It’s unthinkable Sony will start making money from TVs
any time in the foreseeable future,” Fukoku’s Sakurai said.
“Sony should seriously consider whether to stay in that
business.”  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of TVs,
earlier this month reported a 26 percent drop in second-quarter
operating profit after a slump in sales of flat screens masked a
surge in demand for smartphones and tablet computers.  Ditch TVs?  In  Osaka , Nintendo, which dominated game hardware in
consoles with the Wii and in portable players since the Gameboy
in 1989, said it will cut the price of its five-month old 3DS
handheld player by 40 percent to 15,000 yen in Japan and 32
percent to $170 in the U.S. starting mid-August.  “This 40 percent price cut was very surprising, much more
than I had expected,” said Eiji Maeda, a Tokyo-based analyst at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “I’ve never heard of such a big
price cut from Nintendo.”  The reductions led Nintendo to lower its annual profit
forecast to 20 billion yen, almost 70 percent below the lowest
of the 21 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, and a level
last seen in the year ended August 1986.  President Satoru Iwata is counting on the reduced prices
and new titles such as “Mario Kart” to spur demand for the new
portable player, as gamers flock toward Apple’s iPhone and
online games played on Facebook Inc.  Cheaper Than Vita  “Nintendo is getting desperate,” said  Koichi Ogawa , chief
portfolio manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo, which
manages $28 billion. “The video-game industry is in a tough
period with consumers shifting to playing on their
smartphones.”  The price cut will make the 3DS cheaper than the
PlayStation Vita portable player that Sony plans to introduce
later this year. In June, Nintendo unveiled the Wii U as a
successor to its best-selling Wii model.  “We needed to take a drastic measures,” said Iwata.  Nintendo is also facing increasing competition from Apple,
which has sold more than 200 million devices capable of
downloading and playing games. Apple’s App Store offers a choice
of more than 100,000 game and entertainment applications to
users of the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.  The forecasts come as Japanese companies aim to recover
from the damages of the March 11 earthquake, which shuttered
scores of factories and disrupted production worldwide. Sony
said it booked net charges of about 700 million yen in the
quarter ended in June for restoring its plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  