-- 
Soros Goes Private as Golden Era of Rock Star Traders Concludes

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   R o b e n   F a r z a d
-- 
2011-07-28T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/soros-goes-private-as-golden-era-of-rock-star-traders-ends-with-dodd-frank.html
Money can be dull. There are only so
many denominations, and only so many ways to make it. What’s
interesting are the people who risk it, and over the past four
decades no one has made more of a spectacle of risk than  George Soros , whose Quantum fund famously bet $10 billion that the  Bank
of England  would be forced to devalue the pound. Soros earned
$1 billion on that trade and incalculable legend points.  Now, Soros is going to stop risking other people’s money.
By the end of this year, his Soros Fund Management LLC will have
no outside customers for the first time in 42 years. The shift
concludes a process that began in 2000, when Soros stopped
accepting new investments, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Aug. 1 issue.  Four years later he turned management of the company over
to his sons Robert and Jonathan. On July 26, after months of
debate, the three men decided to return the less than $1 billion
of outsiders’ money Quantum still oversees and convert the firm
into a family office to manage almost $25 billion for George,
his family, and foundations.  There’s a two-word explanation for closing what was once
one of the world’s biggest  hedge funds  and consistently one of
the best-performing --- with returns of about 30 percent
annually in its first 30 years: Dodd-Frank. The law requires
hedge funds to register with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and provide information about customers, employees
and assets. By returning outsiders’ money, Soros Fund Management
escapes that rule and the loss of privacy that goes with it.  ‘Unfortunate Consequence’  “An unfortunate consequence of these new circumstances is
that we will no longer be able to manage assets for anyone other
than a family client as defined under the regulations,” the
brothers wrote in a letter to investors.  The move completes the 80-year-old Soros’s transformation
from speculator to philanthropist statesman, a role he has said
he first imagined for himself as a Hungarian émigré studying at
the  London School  of Economics & Political Science after World
War II. In the past 30 years, Soros said he’s given away more
than $8 billion to promote democracy, foster free speech,
improve education, and fight poverty around the world.  Soros’s retreat from the stage is a marker of just how much
the industry has changed --- and how much he’s changed the
industry --- since he opened his first fund in 1969 with
$4 million from investors and his own savings. Back then, hedge
funds catered mainly to wealthy individuals and managers stayed
out of the limelight. No one even bothered to track the number
of hedge funds, which differ from mutual funds because they bet
on falling as well as rising prices of stocks and other
securities and can concentrate their money in a handful of
positions.  Economic Trends  Soros -- a “macro” investor who profits from broad
economic trends rather than focusing on individual stocks or
bonds --- was among the first managers to give the industry
visibility. The world was his casino, and after his 1992 bet
against the pound, investors and governments were forced to pay
attention. Whenever a currency plunged, there were rumors Soros
had been betting against it. Mahathir Mohamad, the Prime
Minister of  Malaysia , called him a moron for profiting from the
ringgit’s decline in 1997, even though Soros was buying the
currency at the time.  In January 1998, Soros went to  South Korea  and met with
President-elect Kim Dae-Jung. His conclusion after the meeting
was that the country needed a reorganization of its entire
economy. If South Korea made such changes as strengthening its
banks and letting foreigners buy controlling stakes in its
companies, he said Quantum would invest up to $1 billion in the
country. South Korean stocks jumped 7 percent over the next
three days.  Russian Government  Later that year, Soros published an essay in the Financial
Times advising the Russian government to devalue the ruble by
15 percent to 25 percent. Investors took that as a sign he was
shorting the currency, and they reckoned they should bet on its
decline, too. Ruble-denominated bond prices plunged, and four
days later the government defaulted on its debt. Soros lost more
than $1 billion. He had owned Russian stocks and bonds--he
wasn’t shorting them. His investment in  Russia  had a higher
purpose.      “He felt that if he was a beacon of investment in
Russia, others would follow, and the capital inflows would
transform the society,” Robert Johnson, a former Soros managing
director, told author  Sebastian Mallaby  for his book “More
Money than God.” “There’s a philanthropic side of George that
started to interfere with the speculative one.”  Swaggering Exploits  Thanks in part to Soros’s swaggering exploits and returns,
by 2000 hedge funds were hot. Managers such as Julian Robertson,
Louis Bacon, and Paul Jones posted huge returns betting on
Japanese stocks, U.S. bonds, and European currencies. Some
graced the covers of national magazines and money poured into
the industry from pension funds, sovereign wealth funds,
endowments, and other institutions. Hedge fund assets climbed to
about $1.9 trillion as of mid-2008.  After  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  went bankrupt in
September 2008, hedge funds saw more than a quarter of their
assets disappear as markets cratered and clients pulled their
money out. While 1,471 funds went out of business, the slump
didn’t last long: Less than three years later, industry assets
have rebounded to $2 trillion, surpassing the 2008 peak.  What hasn’t bounced back is blind trust in the wisdom of
rock star managers. With the federal government demanding they
answer questionnaires as long as 80 pages as part of the
registration process, managers are getting much more scrutiny.  ‘Paternalistic Trend’  “It’s a growing paternalistic trend,” said Don Putnam,
managing director of Grail Partners, “made worse by
overregulation and the controversy good investors like Soros
attract in the market.”  Investors are paying more attention, too. As recently as
2007, managers might write a quarterly letter to discuss
investment themes and report performance. Now funds including
John Paulson’s Paulson & Co. provide weekly performance updates;
clients want to know what’s going on. Even star managers
complain that prospective customers can spend a year asking
questions and doing research before handing over any cash.  Other managers have decided to go private, too, thus
sidestepping SEC scrutiny.  Stanley Druckenmiller , who worked for
Soros for 12 years as his chief investment strategist, kicked
investors out of his Duquesne Capital Management LLC last year.  In March, Carl Icahn, 75, gave back $1.76 billion, telling
investors in a letter that “given the rapid market run-up over
the past two years and our ongoing concerns about economic
outlook, and recent political tensions in the  Middle East , I do
not wish to be responsible to limited partners through another
possible market crisis.”  Taking Risks  Soros didn’t begin taking risks by investing other people’s
money. Part of his appeal is that his biography is full of them.
He was born in Budapest in 1930. When the Nazis invaded the city
in 1944, Soros’s father arranged for false papers for his family
and friends that identified them as non-Jews. Most of the people
his father helped survived the war, Soros wrote in an essay
published in the  New York  Review of Books in late June.  “Instead of submitting to our fate we resisted an evil
force that was much stronger than we were --- yet we
prevailed,” he wrote. “Not only did we survive, but we managed
to help others.”  He added that the experience gave him an appetite for risk.
“This left a lasting mark on me, turning a disaster of
unthinkable proportions into an exhilarating adventure,” Soros
wrote.  Philosophical Studies  Arriving in New York at age 26, Soros landed a job as a
trader with Wall Street brokerage F.M. Mayer. He planned to work
for five years -- enough time, he reckoned, to save $500,000 and
return to  England , where he would pursue his philosophical
studies. Instead he stayed, eventually moving to Arnhold & S.
Bleichroeder Advisers, where he set up the predecessor to the
Quantum fund in 1969. He started his own firm in 1973.  In late 1988, after 19 years of 30-plus percent returns,
Soros hired Druckenmiller from mutual fund company Dreyfus to
oversee day-to-day trading so he could focus on philanthropy.
While Druckenmiller was the architect of the $10 billion British
pound trade, which forced the currency out of the European
exchange-rate mechanism, Soros served as his coach, encouraging
him to plow more money into the bet. Druckenmiller told
Bloomberg News last year that Soros taught him an important
lesson: When you’re sure you’re right, no trade is too big.  Technology Bubble  After losing money when the technology bubble burst in
2000, Soros involved more people within the firm in making
investment decisions and turned over some money to outside
managers. Druckenmiller left, together with another star
manager, Nicholas Roditi. Soros said he would settle for a
15 percent annualized return, about half what the fund had
posted since its start. Four years later, he made his sons
deputy chairmen.  Soros hardly walked away. It was his money and, according
to people who asked not to be identified because the fund is
private, he has no tolerance for losses. His flagship fund has
posted only one down year in its 42-year history. Soros isn’t a
yeller, yet his brusqueness could prove to be even more
disconcerting than a tirade, say former employees.  After an early argument with Druckenmiller over strategy,
Soros gave in, saying he’d move to  London  and stop meddling. His
parting words, according to Druckenmiller: “Now we’ll find out
whether I’ve just been in your hair too much or whether you
really are inept.”  Subprime Mortgage Crisis  In 2007, when his son Robert was the chief investment
officer and the subprime mortgage crisis was spreading, Soros
took over the management of the then $17 billion fund. Quantum
returned 32 percent that year, with much of the gains coming
from a rise in Chinese and Indian equities. The next year the
fund gained 8 percent, when hedge funds on average dropped about
19 percent. Between 1973, when Soros started his own firm, and
the end of 2010, Quantum made $35 billion in profit, net of
fees, according to an estimate from LCH Investments.  Soros has been outspoken about the causes of the financial
crisis. In an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , in January 2008, he blamed former Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan for “keeping  interest rates  too low too
long” and “ignoring dangers in the housing market.”  In an interview with Bloomberg News later that year, he
traced the crisis to 1980, when President Ronald Reagan and U.K.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher came to power. During that
time, borrowing ballooned and regulation of banks and financial
markets became less stringent, he said.  Performance Has Suffered  More recently, Soros weighed in on his fund’s management
again, according to two people familiar with the firm. This time
it was to tell his sons that Keith Anderson, the chief
investment officer, should go.  Anderson is the third trader, including Soros’s son, to
leave that job since 2000. While Anderson was popular with
employees, the fund’s performance has suffered in the past 18
months. In the first half of this year, Quantum lost about
6 percent, after gaining 2.5 percent in 2010. Other macro funds
have returned 5.6 percent over the past 18 months, according to
Hedge Fund Research, a firm that compiles industry data.  For almost as long as he’s been making money, Soros has
been giving it away. He opened his first foundation, the Open
Society Fund, in 1979, when he was managing about $100 million
and his personal wealth had climbed to about $25 million. His
initial focus was on funding scholarships for black university
students in  South Africa  and providing stipends for Eastern
European dissidents to study in the West.  Dissident Literature  Soros now funds a network of foundations that operate in 70
countries around the globe, everywhere from the U.S. to
Montenegro to South Africa and  Haiti . His money has paid for
Xerox machines that helped spread dissident literature in
Soviet-era Hungary, for training Burmese journalists reporting
on the military dictatorship’s 2007 crackdown, and for drug
treatment and early parole programs in Baltimore.  “Soros has been tremendously generous, and he’s been a
courageous risk-taker in his philanthropy,” said Aaron Dorfman,
executive director of the National Committee for Responsive
Philanthropy in  Washington . Caroline Preston, a writer at the
Chronicle of Philanthropy, said Soros “has built a reputation
as someone who tackles complex social issues and funds projects
even if they have a low chance of success.”  Initially, Soros didn’t want his philanthropic foundations
to survive him.  “The fate of other institutions has taught me that they
tend to stray very far from the founders’ intentions,” he wrote
in the New York Review essay. He changed his mind, though,
deciding that closing the foundations “would be an act of
excessive selfishness.”  Giving up philanthropy seems to be harder than backing away
from managing other people’s money.  “My success in the financial markets has given me a
greater degree of independence than most other people,” Soros
wrote. “This obliges me to take stands on controversial issues
when others cannot, and taking such positions has itself been a
source of satisfaction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Roben Farzad in New York at 
 rfarzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  