-- 
Sorouh Profit Rises as Abu Dhabi Developer Delivers More Completed Homes

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 
2011-07-28T08:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sorouh-profit-rises-as-abu-dhabi-developer-delivers-more-completed-homes.html
Sorouh Real Estate PJSC,  Abu Dhabi ’s
second-biggest property developer by market value, said second-
quarter profit more than tripled as the company increased
deliveries of completed properties to buyers.  Net income increased to 110.4 million dirhams ($30
million), or 4 fils a share, from 30.8 million dirhams, or 1
fil, a year earlier, the company said in a statement today. The
average estimate of six analysts was for a profit of 155 million
dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property values in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the  United
Arab Emirates , have declined 45 percent since the market’s peak
in mid-2008, after banks curtailed lending and demand waned. The
market probably needs three years to absorb the homes now being
built, thwarting price and rent increases, Chief Operating
Officer Gurjit Singh said in a July 6 interview.  “The significant increase in our revenues and
profitability has been driven principally by the handover of the
Sun and Sky towers,” Managing Director Abubaker Seddiq Al
Khouri said in a statement on the company’s website. “The
handover is very much on track.”  Sorouh has dropped 29 percent in Abu Dhabi trading in the
last 12 months, cutting the company’s market value to about 3.26
billion dirhams. The stock, which reached a peak of 10.48
dirhams in March 2008, fell 1.6 percent to 1.23 dirhams as of
12:12 p.m.  Delivering Homes  The company expects to hand over the keys to 7,000 homes
over the next four years, Chief Financial Officer Richard Amos
said on April 17. That excludes homes the developer is building
for a U.A.E. government housing program.  Sorouh started delivering completed units in the Sky Tower
at the end of the first quarter and has since handed over 113
properties, it said. So far, 275 units in the two towers have
been given to buyers.  Sorouh has started offering tenants the opportunity to own
their apartments after three years of renting, converting 90
percent of their lease payments into equity, according to the
statement. The company said it’s the first such initiative Abu
Dhabi.  “There’s clearly a positive outcome from deliveries,”
Singh said on a conference call today. “There is still downward
pressure on rentals because of rising supply. We’re now focusing
on getting a recurring income portfolio and long-term leases.”  Sorouh will probably collect 3.2 billion dirhams from
property buyers and commercial and residential renters this year
and will spend 3 billion dirhams on project completions, Singh
said in the July 6 interview. The developer has 2.35 billion
dirhams of debt due in 2014, according to Bloomberg data.  “We have a very strong cash position,” CFO Amos said on
the conference call. “It’s unlikely that we’ll tap the  bond
market .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Ross Larsen in  London  on 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 