-- 
Sprint Falls Most Since 2008 on Customer Losses

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T20:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sprint-posts-847-million-loss-as-wireless-subscriber-defections-continue.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, fell the most since 2008 in
intraday trading after reporting second-quarter results and
client losses that missed analysts’ estimates.  The second-quarter loss widened to $847 million, or 28
cents a share, from $760 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier,
the  Overland Park , Kansas-based carrier said today. Operating
income before depreciation and amortization fell 12 percent to
$1.31 billion, missing the $1.48 billion average estimate of
analysts compiled by Bloomberg, as client retention costs rose.  Sprint lost 101,000 customers on monthly contracts after
dropping 114,000 in the previous three-month period, starting a
new losing streak after reporting a gain in the lucrative users
in the fourth quarter of 2010 for the first time in more than
four years. The carrier is promoting handsets such as HTC
Corp.’s Evo to compete with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless ,
which both now carry  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  “It’s costing them more just to maintain their base than
anyone expected,” said  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in
 New York  who advises selling the shares. Sprint said it spent an
extra $120 million last quarter on customer acquisition and
retention costs to stay competitive.  Sprint fell 82 cents, or 16 percent, to $4.34 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
intraday drop since Dec. 1, 2008. The shares have gained 2.6
percent this year.  Analysts predicted a loss of 12 cents, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sprint said it had one-time
costs of 22 cents a share related to equity losses and taxes.  Falcone Deal  Sprint was expected to lose 25,000 contract subscribers,
according to the average estimate of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Verizon, the largest wireless carrier, added 1.3 million
contract subscribers last quarter, luring customers with the
iPhone and its new high-speed network, called 4G. AT&T, the
second-biggest carrier, pulled in 331,000 contract customers.  “This was a very unusual quarter in terms of the level of
competitive activity, but we emerged from the quarter very
strong, with June being by far the best net subscriber month of
the year so far,” Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said
today in a phone interview. “We’re entering the third quarter
with some momentum, and that’s why we reaffirmed all of our
guidance for the year.”  Forecast for Year  The company said today it continues to expect an increase
in contract subscribers in 2011, along with growth in the
average monthly revenue from those customers. Operating income
before depreciation and amortization will be little changed from
2010, excluding as much as $250 million in expenses for a
network investment plan, the company said.  Sprint also said today it agreed to a 15-year deal with
billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc. to share network
expansion costs and equipment.  LightSquared will pay Sprint to build and operate a
nationwide wireless network that uses high-speed long-term
evolution, or LTE, technology. During an 11-year period,
LightSquared will pay Sprint $9 billion in cash and credits
valued at about $4.5 billion. Sprint can use the credits to
acquire capacity from LightSquared, which plans to offer
wholesale wireless service.  Sprint has pledged $5 billion to upgrade its network over
the next three to five years. Using LightSquared’s network to
reduce the load on its own network will help Sprint handle the
surge in demand for wireless data.  Sales rose 3.6 percent to $8.31 billion, matching the
average analyst estimate.  Churn, or the rate at which customers left, was 1.75
percent for users on contracts, compared with the 1.71 percent
average estimate of analysts. Average monthly revenue from those
clients was $57, compared with the $56.25 average estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  