-- 
Statoil Profit Rises More Than Expected on Higher Oil Prices

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-07-28T13:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/statoil-profit-rises-more-than-expected-on-higher-oil-prices-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil
and gas company, said second-quarter profit rose more than
expected as gains in crude prices compensated for lower
production.  Net income attributable to shareholders climbed to 27
billion kroner ($5 billion), or 8.44 kroner a share, from 3.6
billion kroner, or 1.14 kroner, a year earlier, the Stavanger-
based company said today in a statement. That beat the 20.5
billion-krone average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales advanced to 159.5 billion kroner.  “Statoil delivered record net income in the second
quarter,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said in the
statement. “We continued to make progress within exploration
and project developments in the quarter, staying on track to
deliver future growth.”  Earnings of energy producers have been buoyed by rising
prices. Brent crude futures averaged $117 a barrel in the second
quarter, compared with $79 a year earlier. Houston-based
ConocoPhillips yesterday reported second-quarter net income of
$3.4 billion, exceeding estimates, while Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
 Europe ’s biggest oil company, posted a doubling of profit today.  Statoil got $112.1 per barrel in the second-quarter,
compared with $74.1 a year prior, while its average gas price
rose to 2.05 kroner per standard cubic meter, up from 1.61
kroner.  Output Falls  Statoil’s output fell 13 percent to 1.692 million barrels
of oil equivalent a day from 1.957 million barrels a year
earlier. Entitlement production dropped to 1,486 million barrels
a day, from 1,765 million a year prior.  The company reduced production at the North Sea Gullfaks
oil and gas field after shutting 50 wells because of safety
concerns in 2010. The Njord and Visund fields were temporarily
suspended in the quarter following damage to flexible risers.
Cuts to permitted production at the Troll and Ormen Lange gas
deposits, as well as maintenance shutdowns, also hurt output.  “The main reasons for the lower production are seasonally
lower gas production in  Norway , as well as planned
maintenance,” Teodor Nilsen, an analyst at First Securities ASA
who recommends buying Statoil stock, said in a July 13 note.  Statoil’s gas output fell 24 percent to 593,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day in the second quarter from a year earlier,
it reported today. “Commercial considerations related to gas
sales activities” may impact the company’s output guidance for
2011, which is forecast to be slightly below last year’s
production level of 1.888 million barrels a day, it said.  Delayed Sales  The company is delaying gas sales amid the slump in prices,
Lund said at a press conference in Oslo today.  “Overall a miss for Statoil today,”  Oswald Clint , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. with an “underperform”
rating on the stock, said in a report today. “While it is due
to weakness in the downstream business, the continued trend of
weak production numbers remains a key focus for us. Reduced
production permits, reduced water injections, continual
maintenance, production sharing contract effects, and natural
declines are all recurring effects and are not going away.”  Statoil’s shares were little changed, gaining 0.5 percent
to 134.9 kroner as of 3:08 p.m. in Oslo, capping this year’s
decline at 2.7 percent. The benchmark OBX Index fell 0.3 percent
to 385.630.  The producer last year agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in
Brazil’s offshore Peregrino field to  China ’s  Sinochem Group  for
$3.07 billion, a deal approved by the authorities in the second
quarter. Lund declined to specify what the returns from the
Peregrino sale would go toward.  Forecast Growth  “In our business it’s sensible to have a certain financial
flexibility to act on good opportunities,” Lund said in an Oslo
interview. “If you look at the industry on the whole, the large
companies are more concerned with their balance sheet because
there’s considerable uncertainty and volatility that speaks in
favor of having strong balances.”  The company, which has operating rights on about 80 percent
of Norway’s oil and gas output, is growing in countries
including  Canada  and the U.S. as Norwegian reserves dwindle.
Norway’s crude production peaked in 2000 and is forecast to drop
6 percent this year to about 1.7 million barrels a day,
according to the nation’s Petroleum Directorate.  In February, Statoil forecast output will grow an annual 3
percent on average over the next two years to about 2 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day, below a former target of 2.06
million to 2.16 million barrels.  Statoil said last month it expects production to grow to
more than 2.5 million barrels a day in 2020 as it expands
projects in the  Gulf of Mexico ,  Brazil  and  Angola . The company
will spend $16 billion on exploration, drilling and production
in 2012, on par with this year. Statoil expects to drill 20 to
25 high-impact wells in 2011 to 2013, it said June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  