-- 
Strapped Second Stage Is $21 Million Short in Broadway Gamble

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/strapped-second-stage-21-million-shy-of-broadway-goal-buys-more-time.html
Three years after agreeing to buy
its own Broadway house, New York’s  Second Stage  Theatre is
struggling to close the deal.  The highly regarded company, whose hits include “ Next to
Normal ” and “ The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee ,”
risks forfeiting a $3.65 million down payment should it fail to
come up with the $21.1 million balance for the theater by May
2012, according to a  financial statement  filed with the New York
State attorney general.  In April 2008, Second Stage announced its  plan  to purchase
the 597-seat Helen Hayes Theater for $24 million. Like most
nonprofits, it is still grappling with a recession that short-
circuited capital fundraising.  The group is also navigating Broadway’s blurring boundaries
between commercial and subsidized producers. Buying the Hayes
would make it the fourth nonprofit with at least one Broadway
house.  “People who used to donate to theaters now call themselves
producers and invest in commercial productions,” said Robyn
Goodman, who co-founded Second Stage in 1979 and is no longer
involved.  “And there’s homogeneity between the not-for-profits and
commercial producers. They’re bidding for the same plays.”  With fundraising suspended during the financial crisis, the
group postponed the Aug. 31, 2010 closing, the disclosure said.
The extension added $750,000 to the purchase price.  Blackstone Group  “Is it a daunting task to raise all the money? Yes,” said
Second Stage Chairman Stephen Sherrill, a managing director of
the private equity firm Bruckmann, Rosser, Sherrill & Co.  The theater’s board includes finance mavens along with
educators and artists such as actress Patti LuPone. The vice
president is Hamilton E. James, the president and chief
operating officer of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private equity company. He recently bought a Fifth Ave. duplex
from director Hal Prince for $24.9 million.  Second Stage is seeking $15 million from an individual or
corporation in exchange for renaming the theater. That’s $3
million more than  Manhattan Theatre Club  got in 2008, when it
sold the naming rights to the Biltmore Theatre to the family of
late press agent Samuel J. Friedman.  Difficult Venue  Martin Markinson and Donald Tick paid $800,000 for the
Hayes in 1979. Markinson, and Tick’s heirs -- he died in 2006 --
are entitled to terminate the sale and keep Second Stage’s
deposit, plus interest, if the company fails to pay the balance.  “I don’t see that happening,” Sherrill, 58, said of any
forfeiture. “We will extend or close the deal.”  An extension could result in another deposit, Markinson
said in an interview.  “I would be inclined to give them more time if they have
some money and they’re close,” he said. “We want to do a
deal.”  Markinson put the theater up for auction in 1988, assigning
a minimum bid of $5 million. It failed to sell. As Broadway’s
smallest house, it’s a difficult venue for commercial producers
to recoup costs.  Among other nonprofits, according to public filings the
 Roundabout Theatre Co.  leases the American Airlines Theatre and
Stephen Sondheim Theatre on Broadway and bought Studio 54 in
2003 for $22.5 million.  Manhattan Theatre Club bought the
Biltmore for $19.9 million in 2008 after leasing it for years.
 Lincoln Center Theater  leases the Vivian Beaumont, its Broadway
house, from  Lincoln Center  for the Performing Arts.  Bigger House  Sitting in a conference room at his firm’s 29th-floor
midtown office, Sherrill said that as expenses rise, it becomes
increasingly difficult for Second Stage to pay bills with the
296-seat house it leases west of Times Square. (During the
summer, it also operates in a 108-seat house on the Upper West
Side.)  Second Stage can better capitalize on commercial successes
of the contemporary American plays and musicals it presents with
a Broadway house, he said, instead of depending on commercial
producers for transfers.  “The Helen Hayes enables us to dramatically increase our
ability to sell tickets to our hits,” said Sherrill. He donated
at least $330,480 to Second Stage from 2008 to 2010, through
interest-free loans he made and then forgave, according to the
financial statement.  Sherrill said he has commitments of more than $15 million
toward Second Stage’s roughly $40 million capital campaign,
which also includes funds to renovate the theater.  “We’re in a good position,” said Second Stage Executive
Director Casey Reitz, a 35-year-old former development director
at  New York ’s Public Theater. “Our board is very enthused.”  Goodman now produces commercially and consults for the
Roundabout but remains a Second Stage fan. Enthusiastic about
the leadership of Carole Rothman, who is artistic director and
co-founder, Goodman believes Second Stage will complete the
purchase. Sherrill is also optimistic.  “This is ambitious,” he said. “I never thought it would
be easy.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 