-- 
Striking Greek Cabbies Say Government Must Pay for Black Market Licenses

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-07-28T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/striking-greek-taxis-demand-government-must-pay-for-black-market-licenses.html
When Giorgos became a taxi driver in
 Athens  two years ago, he did it the only way he could: by
breaking the law.  Unable to inherit a family business, he borrowed from the
bank and paid 100,000 euros ($143,010) for a license on the
black market. Now he says he may fail to meet his loan
obligations as the Greek government deregulates the taxi
industry and opens the door to new cars taking fares as part of
its commitment to a free market.  Thousands of drivers like 31-year-old Giorgos blocked
approaches to airports and disrupted ferry services in recent
strikes while demanding to be reimbursed for their illegal
licenses.  “People that bought licenses recently, which was the only
way to enter the profession unless it was passed on to you, will
lose their money,” said Giorgos, who asked that his last name
be withheld because of how he obtained his permit. “If they
want to do it this way, they should say the state is buying all
licenses for 50,000 euros.”  Greece  has until this month shielded everyone from taxi
drivers and hairdressers to pharmacists and lawyers from
competition and falling prices. That protection is now giving
way to the social and economic changes in new laws promised in
return for the debt relief by the European Union so Greece won’t
lose the euro as a shared currency.  ‘Soviet-Style’  The list of more than 150 occupations that were closed to
new entrants until the legislation went into effect on July 2
also included antique dealers, locksmiths, real estate agents
and print media delivery services.  “It’s a Soviet-style economy without the benefits of the
coordination and planning,” Yannis Stournaras, director general
of the  Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research  in
Athens, said by telephone. “Right now, the  Greek economy 
operates under a number of limitations that don’t exist in other
euro region countries or exist at a much lower level.”  More than 8,000 taxi drivers from across Greece gathered
outside parliament on July 26 to protest. Scuffles broke out
yesterday with officers at Piraeus, Greece’s biggest port, when
about 3,000 taxi owners tried to block access to some piers,
 police  spokesman Takis Papapetropoulos said.  Truck drivers led the frontline last year, staging
blockades on national highways for more than a week, preventing
delivery of raw materials and fuel to factories.  Lifting Restrictions  About 1,200 print media distributors went on strike across
Greece on July 2, causing a weeklong newspaper blackout. At the
end of the week, distributors agreed to cut their net profit
margin by 5 percentage points to 14.1 percent.  The law lifts restrictions on things such as how licenses
are issued and minimum prices. Licenses were often passed on to
family members or sold with a cash premium paid on top of the
regular transaction fee, while other professions were also
protected by the qualifications needed.  Opening up the economy was among the commitments made by
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to secure 110 billion
euros in emergency loans from the EU and International Monetary
Fund in May 2010. Papandreou is changing a system that was
designed to protect groups including unions, traditional
supporters of the Pasok party that was founded by his father and
that he led to power in  October 2009  elections.  Greece secured a second aid package last week of 159
billion euros, which includes 50 billion euros from bondholders,
as yields on Greek 10-year notes rose to a euro-era record of
18.21 percent on July 18 and investors bet on a default.  Papandreou’s Plea  “Our position on opening up professions, with certain
rules, is clear and the same goes for the specific issue of
taxis,” Papandreou said in a July 27 speech to party  lawmakers .
“I call on taxi drivers to cooperate, to consider the
consequences of strikes during the crucial tourism period.”  Tourism, Greece’s biggest industry, accounts for almost 16
percent of gross domestic product and almost one in five jobs in
the country, according to the  World Travel and Tourism Council 
in  London .  About 14,000 of Greece’s 28,000 taxis operate in Athens,
which has a population of 3.7 million. That equates to roughly
one taxi for every 264 inhabitants, compared with about one
black cab for every 350 people in London, based on data from
 Transport for London  in the U.K. capital.  The  Greek Taxi Federation , the group representing the
drivers, opposes opening the market and says the previous system
was designed to ensure drivers operated in the right places.  Not Closed  “Taxis service specific areas,” said Paris Kissas, the
organization’s general secretary, by telephone from Thessaloniki
on July 26. “Regulating licenses based on factors like
population or tourists that visit the area in our view doesn’t
constitute a closed profession.”  The federation is considering whether to lobby the
government for compensation for drivers who bought licenses and
won’t be able to cover their costs, Kissas said.  The government charges 3,000 euros to transfer a license to
another driver, Kissas said. On top of that, there’s the off-
the-books price to acquire the permit that reached as high as
200,000 euros in the past four years, he said.  “The current system in which you buy and sell taxi
licenses on the black market means  tax evasion , which works
against everyone,” Yiannis Ragousis, the minister in charge of
transport, said in an e-mail from his office on July 25. “Tax
evasion is a big scourge for Greeks and to not open this
profession is like putting a government seal of approval on the
black economy. We are decided on these changes.”  Meeting Drivers  Ragousis is scheduled to meet representatives from the taxi
federation today, his office said yesterday.  Greece’s budget deficit widened 28 percent in the first
half of 2011, with spending exceeding targets and revenue
falling short, according to government data published on July
20. The economy is forecast to shrink 3.8 percent this year
after a 4.5 percent contraction last year, the European
Commission in Brussels said on July 4.  Deregulating professions can help combat unemployment,
which stood at 15.8 percent in April, the government said.  Jose Manuel Barroso , president of the commission, created a
taskforce this month to direct funds to help Greece become more
competitive, tackle unemployment and boost growth.  Greece ranked 83rd among 139 countries in competitiveness,
down 12 places from last year and just below  Egypt , whose
president was overthrown this year, according to the  World
Economic Forum’s 2010-2011 Global Competitiveness Report.   ‘Chaotic, Sudden’  Some workers formerly protected by regulation agree that
change needed to happen, though they say the government hasn’t
done enough to cushion the impact on livelihoods as people adapt
to Papandreou’s austerity measures to win new international aid.  “Eliminating closed professions isn’t bad, that’s not what
we are against,” said Nikolaos Giannopoulos, who has run a
newspaper and magazine stand in Athens’s main Syntagma Square
since 1983. “The way the changes were carried through was just
completely chaotic and sudden. We are not against change but
there is no clarity on anything being done.”  Giorgos, speaking from his taxi in Athens, said he’s been
working at least 10 hours a day to cover the cost of purchasing
his license. He’s now bracing for an influx of more vehicles on
the road, operating with permits bought directly from the state.  More than 1,000 people have applied for taxi permits since
the law change because the business is lucrative, Stournaras at
the IOBE foundation said. Buying a license on the black market
was the same as any business taking a risk, he said.  “Instead of lowering the number of taxis, the government
is opening the gateway to a flood of new taxi drivers,” said
Giorgos. “It’s wrong. There are already too many.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 