-- 
Sun Art Frenzy Shows Hong Kong IPO ‘Dichotomy’ as Hypermarkets Beat Banks

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-07-28T01:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/sun-art-frenzy-shows-ipo-dichotomy-.html
The best debut of a  Hong Kong 
initial public offering since 2009 may not be enough to spur a
recovery in a market where investors have lost money on more
than half the sales this year.  Sun Art Retail Group Ltd., China’s largest hypermarket
operator, surged 41 percent yesterday in the biggest first-day
gain for an IPO of at least $500 million since cement maker BBMG
Corp. rose 56 percent in July 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Only 20 of the 49 companies that have gone public in Hong
Kong this year are trading above their offer price.  Sun Art “is a good reflection of the dichotomy we are
seeing in the market right now: some deals have faltered, while
others have done very well,” said Will Li, head of  equity
capital markets  for China at Deutsche Bank AG in Hong Kong. The
German bank wasn’t among Sun Art’s underwriters. “Investors do
have cash on hand but are being more selective.”  At least six companies have canceled or delayed Hong Kong
IPOs in the past three months, as demand wavers amid concern
China’s efforts to contain inflation will curb growth. Shanghai-
based Sun Art, which raised $1.2 billion, tapped investor
optimism that  consumer spending  will withstand possible  interest
rate  increases better than other areas of the economy as
household incomes rise.  Sun Art, backed by  France ’s Groupe Auchan SA, plans to use
proceeds from the IPO to expand in smaller Chinese cities where
real estate prices are lower than in Shanghai and Beijing, it
said this month. The company has 197 hypermarkets under the
“Auchan” and the Ruentex Group’s “RT-Mart” brands in the world’s
second-largest economy, and plans to open 48 stores in China
this year, according to Executive Director Peter Huang.  Beating Wal-Mart  The company’s 12 percent market share among hypermarket
operators in China tops that of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which has
11.2 percent, according to Euromonitor.  Sun Art’s IPO valued the company at 31.4 times 2010 profit,
while Hong Kong-listed Wumart Stores Inc., a Chinese supermarket
operator, has a multiple of 37.3 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Wal-Mart trades in  New York  at 12.8 times
2010 earnings, Bloomberg data show.  The CSI 300 Consumer Staples Index of 23 companies is the
best performer among 10 industry groups on China’s  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
this year with a 6.7 percent gain. The CSI 300 as a whole has
slipped 4.1 percent since Dec. 31 as of yesterday’s close.  “Investors are confident about the outlook for consumer-
related stocks as the sector will be less affected by policy
tightening in China,” said Michiya Tomita, who helps oversee
about $65 billion for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. in
Hong Kong. The broader appetite hasn’t returned given “ongoing
concerns about the  U.S. economy  and the European debt crisis.”  Top of Range  Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG managed Sun
Art’s offering as global coordinators, while BNP Paribas SA,
China International Capital Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley were joint bookrunners.  IPOs in Hong Kong have raised $15.3 billion this year,
about a quarter of 2010’s record $58 billion tally, Bloomberg
data show. Last year’s tally was bolstered by the sales of  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299)  and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., two of the three
biggest IPOs in Hong Kong’s history. In the U.S., companies and
their owners have raised $26.7 billion so far in 2011, compared
with $37.8 billion for all of last year.  Sun Art was one of just two companies this year to price a
sale of at least $1 billion at the top end of a range marketed
to investors. The other was MGM China Holdings Ltd., a casino
operator in Macau, where revenue is surging as visitors from
China flock to gambling tables.  IPOs Pulled  At the same time, China Everbright Bank Co. has struggled
to attract buyers for a share sale that may raise about $6
billion, amid concerns that loans to Chinese local governments
may turn sour.  Everbright Bank, which in June delayed the offering, is
seeking more so-called cornerstone investors before proceeding
with the deal, people with knowledge of the matter said last
week. Cornerstone investors are guaranteed shares in an IPO in
return for a pledge not to sell the stock for a fixed time
period.  Resourcehouse Ltd. and Hosa International Ltd. were among
companies that scrapped Hong Kong IPOs in May and June as
investors shied away from new equity. New  China  Life Insurance
Co. and China Guangfa Bank Co. are among companies planning
multibillion-dollar IPOs in Hong Kong as early as this year,
according to people with knowledge of the transactions.  “I don’t think  market sentiment  for IPOs in Hong Kong has
improved,” said Danny Yan, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Haitong International Asset Management, which oversees $600
million. “Other companies may find it difficult to raise funds
given the tight liquidity in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  