-- 
Suncor Second-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates on Costs

-- B y   J e r e m y   V a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-07-28T20:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/suncor-energy-second-quarter-profit-rises-4-1-on-oil-price-1-.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest
energy company, reported second-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates on higher costs to process bitumen and a
writedown of its Libyan operations.  Net income rose to C$562 million ($592 million), or 36
cents a share, from C$540 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier,
Calgary-based Suncor said in a statement today. Revenue rose 14
percent to $9.97 billion. Excluding the reduced value of its
Libyan holdings and gains from currency changes and asset sales,
per-share profit was 62 cents, 5 cents less than the average of
17 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Suncor’s costs to extract bitumen from  oil-sands  operations
in northern  Alberta  increased 43 percent because of upgrading
and maintenance expenses at its plants. Civil war in  Libya 
forced a production halt and Suncor said it’s “possible the
company may never resume operations” because its existing
contracts may be terminated. The company wrote down C$514
million for Libya, which it said accounted for 3 percent of its
consolidated assets at the end of 2010.  “Earnings were weaker than expected due largely to
extensive maintenance in the oil sands and downstream units,”
 Randy Ollenberger , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Calgary,
said in a note to clients.  Suncor fell $1.05, or 2.8 percent, to C$37.09 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have 14 buy and eight
hold ratings from analysts tracked by Bloomberg and are down 3.1
percent this year.  Production Costs  Costs at the company’s oil-sands operations increased to
C$51 per barrel in the second quarter compared with C$35.70 in
the same period a year earlier. The higher expense per barrel
resulted from fixed costs being spread over lower production,
Suncor said.  “The higher costs were wholly expected and due to planned
maintenance,” Chief Operating Officer  Steve Williams  said in an
investor conference call today. “The cost for the balance of
the year will be in the lower half of” of a range of C$30 to
C$40 a barrel, he said.  Production fell 27 percent to average 460,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day in the quarter, down from 633,900 barrels a
year earlier. The decline was because of asset sales, planned
maintenance at oil-sands projects and shuttered production in
Libya, Suncor said.  No Asset Sales  The company has no more asset sales planned this year and
is maintaining its annual output forecast at 520,000 barrels to
570,000 barrels a day, according to  results  posted on its
website.  Suncor in March completed a C$1.75 billion agreement with
 France ’s Total SA to develop bitumen mines, which yield a sticky
tar-like substance that’s refined into petroleum. The alliance
will help Suncor double its oil-sands production by 2020, the
company said.  Suncor is considering alternatives to TransCanada Corp.’s
proposed Keystone XL pipeline expansion, Chief Executive Officer
Rick George said on the conference call today. Other options for
getting Canadian oil-sands supplies to U.S. Gulf Coast refiners
include rail and other pipelines, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  