-- 
Swatch First-Half Profit Rises 24%; Increases Hengdeli Stake

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-28T13:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/swatch-first-half-profit-rises-24-increases-hengdeli-stake-3-.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest
watchmaker, said that earnings in the first half rose 24 percent
and boosted its stake in its Chinese retail partner.  Net income rose to 575 million Swiss francs ($717 million),
the Biel, Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Operating profit rose 21 percent to 756 million
francs, beating the median estimate of three analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  The maker of Omega and Breguet timepieces is getting more
revenue from  Asia  where rising incomes are fueling demand for
 luxury goods , helping offset the impact of a surging Swiss
franc. The currency has advanced 31 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and Swatch warned that “uncurbed
speculation” in the franc would cut into 2011 sales and profit.  “This strong set of figures demonstrates that Swatch can
achieve strong earnings growth in spite of the Swiss franc,”
 Antoine Belge , an analyst at HSBC, wrote in a research note.
“It’s a strong beat.”  Swatch shares advanced 2.4 francs, or 0.6 percent, to 426.7
francs at 2:22 p.m. in Zurich. The stock has advanced 31 percent
in the past year, giving the company a market capitalization of
22.4 billion francs.  Asian Expansion  The watchmaker may miss out on 1 billion francs of
potential revenue if current exchange rates continue, Chief
Executive Officer Nick Hayek told Tages-Anzeiger today in an
interview.  Swatch bought 500 million shares in  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) 
on July 21 for an undisclosed price, bringing its investment to
20.4 percent, according to a filing with the  Hong Kong  stock
exchange. Today’s share price values the additional stake at
about $257 million. Swatch previously held a stake of about 9
percent, said Beatrice Howald, a company spokeswoman.  Swatch acquired the shares from Best Growth International
Ltd., Ruby Chan, a spokeswoman for the Chinese retailer, said by
phone today. Best Growth, controlled by Chairman Zhang Yuping,
is the biggest investor in Hengdeli, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, which owns the rival
TAG Heuer and Hublot watch brands, owns about 6 percent of the
Chinese company, according to Bloomberg data.  While it’s unlikely that Swatch would want to take full
control of Hengdeli, the increased stake may allow the Swiss
company to influence strategy and how its brands are presented
in  China , Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Zurich, said by phone.  Protection Versus Takeover  “About half of Hengdeli’s products are Swatch brands, so
Swatch are protecting their interest in case someone else wants
to take them over,” Cox said. He rates the stock “buy.”  Hengdeli fell 3.6 percent, the most in three weeks, to
HK$4.04 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong.  Asia imported more than half of  Switzerland ’s watches
during the first half, according to the Federation of the Swiss
Watch Industry. The demand helped offset the impact of a
stronger franc, which reduces the value of revenue generated in
other currencies.  Net sales of watches and jewelry increased 13 percent to
2.75 billion francs during the first half, while revenue from
the unit that makes components and watch mechanisms rose about
30 percent to 964 million francs. The company said it’s seeking
to increase capacity to tackle “substantial” delivery backlogs
for movements, hands and dials.  “We are very confident regarding the future and consider
that the production force should facilitate the group in winning
market share,” Cheuvreux analysts wrote in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  