-- 
Swire Pacific Agrees to Sell Festival Walk Shopping Mall for $2.4 Billion

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-29T03:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/swire-pacific-agrees-to-sell-festival-walk-shopping-mall-for-2-4-billion.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)  agreed to sell
the Festival Walk shopping center for HK$18.8 billion ($2.4
billion) to a unit of Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte in the
biggest property transaction ever for the  Hong Kong  landlord.  The company will sell the commercial complex in Hong Kong’s
Kowloon Tong area to Mapletree Investments Pte, according to a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. Swire will
record a profit of HK$1.6 billion from the sale with a book
value of HK$17.2 billion at the end of 2010, the statement said.  Hong Kong overtook Sydney as the world’s second-most
expensive city to lease shopping space after rents jumped 46
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months, on
increased spending by cashed-up Chinese tourists, according to a
June 1 report by CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. Swire, which last
year shelved a plan to spin off its real estate unit, is
building five shopping malls and offices in  China  including in
Guangzhou and Chengdu.  “A large part of the proceeds will probably go to funding
their China development,” said  Castor Pang , head of research at
Core-Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd. in Hong Kong. “This
should be timely as it has now become more difficult for
developers to borrow money in China because of the government
curbs.”  Swire’s shares fell 0.3 percent to HK$110.10 as of 11:36
a.m. in Hong Kong trading, reversing an earlier gain of 0.5
percent. They have risen 0.3 percent since June 28, when Sing
Tao Daily reported the company may sell the complex for as much
as HK$22 billion. Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has
risen 1.6 percent in the period.  Rental Income  Nomura International Ltd.’s Hong Kong-based analysts
Perveen Wong and Paul Louie valued the 1.2 million-square-foot
commercial complex at HK$18.3 billion in a June 28 report. The
current selling price would assume a HK$15,550 per-square-foot
value for the complex built in 1998.  Swire is “happy with the sale price which it finds
attractive and reflective of the quality of the assets,”
spokeswoman Cindy Cheung said in a phone interview today. She
declined to comment on the differences between the sale price
and what was reported in media report earlier.  It is Mapletree’s first commercial property acquisition in
Hong Kong, according to an e-mailed statement from the company,
a unit of Temasek, a  Singapore  state-owned investment firm.  Continuing Trend  The mall’s “rental income has increased consistently year
on year since inception,” Mapletree Chief Executive Officer
Hiew Yoon Khong said in the statement.  “We are very confident
that this trend will continue into the future.”  Rents at Festival Walk is about 30 percent lower than Times
Square shopping mall, where high-end fashion stores pay as much
as HK$500 per square foot a month, said Helen Mak, Hong Kong-
based director of retail services at Colliers International.
 Causeway Bay , where Times Square is located, is home to Russell
Street, the world’s second-most expensive retail strip,
according to Colliers.  “It’s possible Mapletree may find Festival Walk’s
expertise in retail mall management useful for its other
projects in mainland China,” said Mak.  Mapletree said in May it plans to start a new China-focused
fund of at least $500 million to invest in commercial-related
properties in first-tier and second-tier cities over two to
three years.  More Chinese Tourists  Chinese tourists visiting Hong Kong, a former British
colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997, jumped 26 percent to
22.7 million in 2010 from a year earlier, according to the
city’s tourism board. The figure reached a daily record of
122,893 on April 30 this year, according to the organization.  Festival Walk , which comprises 980,000 square feet of
shopping space and 229,000 square feet of  office space , is
located next to a train station connecting Hong Kong and its
border with the Chinese city of Shenzhen.  Tenants of the mall include U.K. department store chain
Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Hennes & Mauritz AB.,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer.  Proceeds from the sale will put the company “in a strong
position to continue its major investment programs,” Swire
Chairman Christopher Pratt said in an e-mailed press release
today.  Swire, which controls Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., owns
about 17.8 million square feet of investment properties in Hong
Kong including the Pacific Place and the Island East commercial
complexes.  Swire’s properties in China include the Sanlitun Village
retail complex in Beijing, the 99-room luxury hotel Opposite
House in the capital’s Chaoyang district and the Beaumonde
Retail Podium in the southern city of  Guangzhou . It is building
five projects with a total gross floor area of 12.9 million
square feet.  China is expanding measures to rein in real estate prices
nationwide, including raising  interest rates  five times since
October.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  