-- 
U.K. Bid to Limit Exposure to BT Pensions Rejected by Judge

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T16:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-k-bid-to-limit-exposure-to-bt-pensions-rejected-by-judge.html
The U.K. government lost a legal bid
to limit its liability for  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  workers’ pensions, which
lawmakers guaranteed after the telecommunications group was
privatized in 1984.  The government’s case centered on a merger of pension plans
in 1993, which added around 61,600 people and liabilities of 9.5
billion pounds ($15.5 billion) to BT’s plan. Judge George Mann
in London ruled today the U.K.’s attempt to raise that issue
would be “an abuse of process” and rejected it.  “It would be nice to get back to what this litigation is
really about,” he said.  As part of an ongoing legal battle about the extent of the
guarantee, Mann ruled in October the government would be liable
for the pensions of employees hired before and since the
privatization if the telecommunications company collapsed. The
London-based company’s pensions had a deficit at the end of
September of about 5.2 billion pounds, down from 7.9 billion
pounds at the end of June 2010.  BT said in statement that today’s ruling clarified what the
government would be able to contest in a trial scheduled for
November to resolve the remaining questions about the extent of
the guarantee.  “It is not the judgment in the case on the scope of the
guarantee itself -- that hearing is due to take place in
November,” the company said.  340,000 Members  BT’s pension program has about 340,000 members, making it
one of the largest, privately funded plans in the U.K.  A spokesman for the U.K. Department for Culture, Media and
Sport said it was too early to say what effect today’s judgment
would have on the overall case.  The company announced in November it will use the Consumer
Prices Index instead of the Retail Prices Index to calculate
some pension payouts. Doing so will reduce the pension deficit
and alter funding requirements after 2011.  The U.K pension regulator said in May it still had
“substantial concerns” about BT’s pension funding. A review of
the plan was put on hold until the legal disputes surrounding
the government guarantee are resolved.  The case is: TLC 637/09 BT Pension Scheme Trustees v
British Telecommunications Plc & ors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  