-- 
U.K. Retail-Sales Index Falls to Lowest in 13 Months, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-k-retail-sales-index-falls-to-lowest-in-13-months-cbi-says.html
A U.K. retail-sales index fell to
its lowest level in 13 months in July as Britons curtailed
spending on groceries and home improvement, according to a
Confederation of British Industry survey.  The gauge slipped to minus 5 from minus 2 in June, the
London-based business lobby said in a report today. That’s the
lowest since June 2010 and stores expect the drop in sales to
accelerate “slightly” in August, the CBI said.  The U.K. economy barely grew in the second quarter, data
this week showed, and  consumer confidence  fell in June as
Britons grew more pessimistic about the outlook for spending,
 Nationwide Building Society  said. Households are seeing their
spending power eroded at the fastest pace since the 1970s as
inflation outpaces wage growth and the government implements
budget cuts to reduce the deficit.  “Rising prices, especially for fuel, continue to impact
consumer confidence and make life tough on the high street,”
Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit and chair of the CBI’s distributive trades
panel, said in a statement. “With consumer confidence fragile,
U.K. retailers continue to face challenging times.”  The decline in July was led by grocers, home-improvement
retailers and specialist food and drink stores. Demand at
grocery stores fell to the lowest level since December 2008, the
CBI said. Sales growth at clothing stores was “modest,” while
demand for durable household goods fell “rapidly.”  ‘Below Average’  The CBI said that sales were “well below average for the
time of year, and well below expectations.” The report was
based on a survey of 71 retailers between June 28 and July 19.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said on July 13 that sales growth at British stores
open at least a year missed some estimates because of stagnant
general-merchandise revenue. “The coming quarter and coming
half-year will be a very challenging one,” Chief Executive
Officer  Marc Bolland  said.  Demand on suppliers decreased in July, the CBI said, with a
gauge of orders dropping 8 points to minus 13, the lowest
reading since May 2010. An index of the volume of stocks in
relation to expected demand rose 1 point from a seven-month low
to 17, while the measure of sales for the time of year plunged
to minus 33 from minus 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  