-- 
U.K. Stocks Increase, Erasing Earlier Drop; FTSE 100 Index Advances 0.3%

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-28T16:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-k-stocks-decline-on-u-s-debt-talks-as-centrica-carnival-shares-fall.html
U.K. stocks climbed as results from
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  to  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  outweighed the continued
stalemate between U.S. lawmakers on how to increase the nation’s
debt limit and avoid a default.  BAE jumped the most in more than two years after  Europe ’s
largest arms announced a share buyback while BT advanced 3.8
percent after reporting increased profit. Shire Plc rallied 4.2
percent as the drugmaker raised its sales forecast.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 16.63, or 0.3 percent, to
5,873.21 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London after earlier falling
as much as 0.9 percent. The gauge has still lost 3.6 percent
from this year’s high in February amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will derail the economic recovery. The
FTSE All-Share Index rose 0.2 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index slid 1 percent.  “Investors proved their resilience to be able to prevent a
mass selloff even if U.S. politicians continue to threaten their
country’s AAA rating,” said  Angus Campbell , head of sales at
Capital Spreads in  London . “Bond markets are yet to have
panicked and as a result equities have recovered.”  The U.S. House of Representatives plans to vote today on a
Republican proposal to increase the debt limit. House Speaker
 John Boehner  of Ohio gained support among fellow Republicans
after reworking the legislation to cut $917 billion over 10
years. All 51 Senate Democrats and two independents signed a
letter yesterday pledging to oppose the measure.  U.S. Debt Rating  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have said they may cut the U.S.’s top-level sovereign
rating if officials fail to resolve the stalemate on the $14.3
trillion borrowing ceiling before the Treasury Department’s
deadline on Aug. 2.  In the U.K. today, nine FTSE 100 companies released
results, while a further four, including British Airways-owner
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA and British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc, are expected to report tomorrow.  BAE rallied 4.9 percent to 306.8 pence after the arms
company announced a 500 million-pound ($817 million) share
buyback and a lower  tax rate . The share repurchase will boost
adjusted earnings per share by about 5 percent, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst John Middleton.  BT jumped 3.8 percent to 197.9 pence following three days
of declines. The U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company said
first-quarter operating profit rose 2.6 percent as it won high-
speed broadband clients and market share from rivals.  BT extended gains after the U.K. government lost a legal
bid to limit its liability for BT workers’ pensions, which
lawmakers guaranteed after the company was privatized in 1984.  Shire Surges  Shire rallied 4.2 percent to 2,136 pence after the Dublin-
based drugmaker raised its sales forecast. The company also
reported second-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates on
higher-than-expected revenue from its attention-deficit pill
Adderall XR.  Satellite services company  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  gained 3.9 percent
to 537 pence after LightSquared Inc. struck a 15-year pact with
Sprint Nextel Corp. to share network expansion costs and
equipment. The deal is worth at least $13.5 billion.  Inmarsat reported higher first-quarter revenue in May
citing a north American spectrum-cooperation accord the company
struck with LightSquared.  ITV Plc (ITV)  also advanced, rallying 3.1 percent to 71.05 euros
as analysts recommended the shares following yesterday’s
conference call with analysts.  JPMorgan reiterated its “overweight” recommendation,
saying the company gave “reassuring” update after it reported
first-half results. Citigroup Inc. advised investors to “buy”
ITV, saying the stock is as “cheap as ever” while Morgan
Stanley raised its price estimate to 80 pence from 75 pence.  Inchcape  Inchcape Plc (INCH)  surged 8.4 percent to 390 pence after the
operator of car dealerships reported first-half pretax profit
that topped analyst estimates, led by sales in  Russia  and
emerging markets.  Among declining shares,  Centrica Plc (CNA)  lost 2.3 percent to
313 pence. The U.K.’s largest energy supplier reported a 19
percent drop in first-half operating profit to 1.26 billion
pounds as warmer winter weather cut demand for natural gas.  Carnival Plc fell 3 percent to 2,161 pence after rival
 Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  forecast lower earnings than
previously predicted. The company cited the Arab uprisings in
north Africa.  IAG slipped 0.8 percent to 232.6 after competing carriers,
Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, said they will
rein in capacity growth after earnings fell short of analyst
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  