-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Drops as Outlook for Economy Darkens

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-k-consumer-confidence-drops-as-outlook-for-economy-darkens.html
U.K. consumer confidence fell in
July as Britons became more pessimistic about the economic
outlook, adding pressure on the  Bank of England  to keep the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low.  A sentiment index dropped to minus 30, the lowest since
April, from minus 25 the previous month and minus 22 a year
earlier, London-based GfK said in an e-mailed statement today.
All five measures of the index fell, with a gauge of
expectations for the economy in the coming year showing the
biggest decline.  The U.K. economy expanded 0.2 percent in the second quarter
after stagnating over the previous six months, and a report
yesterday showed a retail-sales index fell to the lowest in 13
months in July. Even with the economic recovery under pressure,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said July 26 he’ll
stick to his deficit-reduction program, the biggest since World
War II.  “What will concern the government most is that the biggest
drop of 9 points was in people’s expectations of the performance
of the economy over the next 12 months,” Nick Moon, managing
director of GfK social research, said in the statement.
“Retailers can expect tough conditions to persist for a while
yet, threatening an already fragile recovery.”  GfK’s measure of shoppers’ outlook for the economy fell to
minus 27 in July from minus 18 the previous month, and
expectations for their personal finances fell 4 points to minus
12. A gauge of their willingness to make major purchases dropped
to minus 31 from minus 27.  ‘Exceptional’ Squeeze  London-based  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s biggest home-
improvement retailer, said July 21 sales at U.K. stores open at
least a year fell 5.5 percent in the 11 weeks ended July 16,
excluding currency swings.  “The U.K. market remains challenging,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire said. “We are very optimistic about our
prospects this year and beyond. If the public-sector
unemployment fears start to diminish in the second half, I think
we will gradually see an improvement, but we’re certainly not
assuming a rapid bounce back.”  Consumers are getting squeezed by inflation that’s soared
to 4.2 percent, more than double the Bank of England’s 2 percent
target. A retail index by the Confederation of British Industry
fell to minus 5 this month from minus 2 in June, led by grocers
and home-improvement stores. Policy maker  David Miles  said on
July 27 that the squeeze on household incomes from inflation has
been “exceptional.”  Bank officials left the benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent this month and held their bond-purchase plan
at 200 billion pounds ($327 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  