-- 
U.S. Rating, U.K. Hedge Funds, Broker Abuses: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-28T12:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-debt-rating-u-k-hedge-funds-broker-abuses-compliance.html
Standard & Poor’s  President Deven
Sharma declined to pick a winner among deficit-reduction plans
being debated by U.S. lawmakers, telling a House panel that
decisions on whether to downgrade the nation’s debt will hinge
on the long-term impact of any final measure.  S&P has monitored congressional debate over budget-cutting
proposals offered during negotiations aimed at increasing the
$14.3 trillion federal debt limit before an Aug. 2 deadline,
Sharma said yesterday in response to questions at a House
Financial Services subcommittee hearing on credit-rating firms.  The rating company is waiting for the final proposal before
deciding whether keep  U.S. debt  at the firm’s highest ratings
level, Sharma said at the hearing, which was called to review
the performance of credit-ratings firms since last year’s
passage of the Dodd-Frank Act.  S&P analysts said on July 14 that the U.S. could lose its
AAA credit rating if policy makers can’t resolve their
differences over the debt limit and structural deficits. Sharma
backed the analysts’ view yesterday, telling lawmakers that any
change would reflect slightly increased risk rather than a view
that the country would actually default on its obligations.  For more, see Compliance Policy and Interviews section,
below.  Compliance Policy  Banks Find Few Signs of Distress in Repo, Credit Markets  U.S. banks searching for hints of credit-market distress
ahead of next week’s deadline to raise the debt ceiling are
finding few signs of panic so far.  Commercial banks and securities firms are tracking how
money-market funds adjust holdings and whether participants in
repo markets, where financial firms obtain short-term financing,
change terms for collateral including Treasuries, according to
executives in charge of finance operations at five of the
largest U.S. banks. They are also looking for disruptions in
commercial paper and swaps markets, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the deliberations are private.  Lenders are making contingency plans in case President
 Barack Obama  and Congress fail to reach agreement before an Aug.
2 deadline. Commercial banks are focused on a potential
downgrade to the U.S. debt rating, with a default considered
unlikely, said the executives. With less than a week to the
deadline, key market indicators have remained stable.  The Republican-led House remains on a collision course with
the Senate and the White House over competing plans to increase
the debt limit. Obama has threatened a veto of House Speaker
John Boehner’s two-step plan to raise the debt ceiling.  Standard & Poor’s, which has given the U.S. a top ranking
since 1941, reiterated July 21 that the chance of a downgrade is
50 percent in the next three months. The ratings firm said it
may cut the nation as soon as August.  For more, click here.  Banks Protected Against Hedge-Fund Default, U.K. Watchdog Says  Hedge-fund defaults pose a limited risk to the stability of
the financial system because banks have reduced their potential
losses, the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  said in a report
yesterday.  Hedge funds ’ “footprint remains modest within most
markets” when measured against the size of their holdings, the
FSA said in the  report . The average potential loss for a bank in
the survey in the event of a hedge fund default is less than $50
million, the survey found.  Hedge funds and private-equity firms have come under
scrutiny from lawmakers who said they were partly to blame for
the financial crisis. The EU approved measures last year to
require hedge fund managers to restrict bonuses and increase
disclosure to regulators.  About 75 percent of hedge funds reported positive returns
for the period from April to September of last year, the FSA
said in a separate  survey  published on its website in February.  Compliance Action  SEC Sweep Finds Broker Abuses in Structured Notes Marketing  Brokers may have taken advantage of some individual
investors when selling them structured notes, a type of debt
bundled with derivatives, according to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Brokers sold the securities, which are marketed as high-
yielding alternative investments, at “disadvantageous” and
unsupported prices and didn’t disclose fees, according to a
report yesterday, which was based on a sweep that examined the
operations of 11 broker-dealers, including three large firms
associated with banks. The SEC didn’t name the companies.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of structured products
as banks sold a record $25.3 billion of the complex investments
in the U.S. in the first half of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The SEC said it issued the report partly
to encourage brokerages to supervise their representatives more
closely.  The sweep, conducted by staff of the office of compliance
inspections and examinations, or OCIE, found that on “numerous
instances” sales of securities called reverse convertibles
didn’t fit the clients’ investment objectives. Many brokers
lacked training to sell structured products.  Georgia and Massachusetts have begun probes of the sale
reverse convertible bonds, short-term bonds that convert into
stock if a company’s share price plummets.  For more, click here.  Iveco Magirus Fined $25.3 Million, Rosenbauer Escapes Penalty  A German company that makes fire-fighting and civil-
protection vehicles, Iveco Magirus Brandschutztechnik GmbH, was
fined 17.5 million euros ($25.3 million) for price fixing on
fire trucks with turntable ladders.  Rosenbauer International AG (ROS) ’s Metz Aerials GmbH & Co. KG
unit was also part of the cartel, the German cartel office said
in a statement yesterday. Rosenbauer wasn’t fined because it
reported the violations in 2010. The cartel office conducted
raids in May 2010.  The fine can be appealed, the agency said, adding it was
based on a settlement with Iveco Magirus. The cartel colluded on
prices of trucks with revolving ladders from 1998 until November
2007. Iveco Magirus and Rosenbauer hold nearly all the market
for the vehicles, the cartel office said.  Iveco Magirus, based in Ulm, Germany, said in a statement
the violation went back several years and happened under
different management. Iveco Magirus ended the infringing
behavior in 2007, it said.  Danish Insolvency Rules Boost Bank Funding Costs, Moody’s Says  Danish banks will have to pay out higher returns on their
debt to attract international investors as  Europe ’s toughest
insolvency laws increase funding costs and hurt profitability, a
Moody’s Investors Service executive said.  Danish lenders are under pressure to refinance 160 billion
kroner ($31 billion) in government-guaranteed debt due in 2012
and 2013 and face elevated borrowing levels after the failure of
banks Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S showed the
government was committed to allowing senior bondholders to share
losses, Moody’s Vice President and Senior Credit Officer Oscar
Heemskerk said.  The so-called Bank Package III refers to rules Denmark put
in place in October and set a European Union precedent for
senior creditor losses following a bank’s failure.  Moody’s has downgraded a number of the country’s lenders
since February, including Danske, as it factors out state
support.  Deutsche Boerse’s NYSE Deal Threatens Competition, AFME Says  Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s combination will
hurt competition in derivatives and listings, the exchanges’
biggest customers told the European Union as regulators weigh an
in-depth probe of the deal.  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , a group
that represents banks and brokers including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG,
identified seven areas for further antitrust scrutiny in a
submission to the  European Commission  obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The companies forecast cost savings of $400 million when
they announced the deal in February. AFME said it “has seen
nothing to suggest that a fair share of any such savings would
be passed on to end users.”  Deutsche Boerse’s rivals and customers are being asked by
EU regulators whether its bid for NYSE Euronext, valued at about
$9.3 billion, would reduce competition for derivatives and
equity trading and clearing. The commission, in a survey with
more than 165 questions obtained by Bloomberg News, has asked
what effect the deal to create the largest owner of equities and
derivatives markets would have on access to market data.  “There are currently major flaws in the competitive
functioning of certain of the markets in which” the companies
operate, AFME said. “The proposed merger would exacerbate these
competition issues as well as raising new ones.” Post-merger
issues include barriers to entry and decreased competition in
listing services, according to AFME.  Ruediger Assion, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse, didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment. Rob McIvor, London-based spokesman for AFME, declined
to comment on the group’s replies to the questionnaire, as did
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission in Brussels, and
Caroline Nico, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext in Paris.  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Said to Be in Talks With U.S. in Lending Probe  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, is
negotiating with the  Justice Department  to resolve a probe of
whether the lender directed blacks to subprime loans, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The investigation is being conducted by the Justice
Department’s  Civil Rights Division  and involves the lender’s
actions during the housing bubble, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Wells Fargo still faces a 2008 lawsuit by the city of
Baltimore alleging a “pattern or practice of illegal and
discriminatory mortgage lending” leading to foreclosures on
Wells Fargo loans in minority neighborhoods.  Last week, the bank agreed to pay a record $85 million fine
and compensate clients to settle  Federal Reserve  claims that it
steered reliable borrowers into subprime loans and falsified
information in mortgage applications, according to a July 20
statement announcing the accord.  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, declined to comment on the U.S. discriminatory lending
investigation. Of the Baltimore case, she said the bank is
“confident in our position in the lawsuit.”  The Baltimore case is Mayor and City Council of Baltimore
v. Wells Fargo, 08-cv-00062, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Baltimore).  For more, click here.  Mediaset Loses Challenge on $7.2 Million in Decoder Subsidies  Mediaset SpA (MS) , Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s
broadcaster, lost its appeal against a European Union order to
repay about 5 million euros ($7.2 million) in state aid for
digital television decoders.  The Italian subsidies in 2004 and 2005 to enable customers
to watch digital programs constituted illegal state aid and
broadcasters that received the aid are obliged to repay the
amounts, the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg said today.  The Brussels-based European Commission, the  executive
agency  for the 27-nation EU, in 2007 said the government
handouts amounted to more than 200 million euros for Italians
who purchased digital terrestrial decoders, while satellite
technology was excluded. Mediaset was among companies that were
indirectly helped by the subsidies, the EU regulator said.  Mediaset, which is based near Milan and runs three major
free-to-air TV channels, appealed a lower EU court ruling from
last year, saying the decision failed to assess whether the
commission “sufficiently established” that Mediaset benefitted
from the subsidies.  The broadcaster repaid the aid plus interest, amounting to
about 5 million euros, Bernd Martenczuk, a lawyer for the
commission, told the EU court at a hearing in May.  Mediaset’s press office declined to immediately comment on
the ruling.  The case is  C-403/10 P , Mediaset v. Commission.  Diageo Agrees to Pay $16 Million to Settle Corruption Claims  Diageo Plc (DEO) , maker of Johnnie Walker scotch and Smirnoff
vodka, will pay more than $16 million to resolve U.S. regulatory
claims the firm bribed officials in South Korea, India and
Thailand to win sales and tax benefits.  Units of London-based Diageo paid more than $2.7 million in
bribes from 2003 to 2009, recording them as legitimate business
expenses for vendors and private customers, or omitting them
altogether, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
yesterday. The firm made about $11 million in profits as a
result of the payments, the regulator said in an administrative
order.  Diageo resolved the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Payments were made to hundreds of Indian officials who were
responsible for purchasing or authorizing the sale of its
beverages, the SEC said. In Thailand, bribes of about $12,000 a
month were paid for four years to a government official who
lobbied for the company in tax and customer disputes, according
to the administrative order.  Travel and entertainment expenses were paid for South
Korean officials involved in tax negotiations, the SEC said.
South Korean military officials routinely got gifts from Diageo
employees aiming to win or keep business, the agency said.  “Diageo takes the SEC’s findings seriously and regrets
this matter,” the company said in a statement. The company said
it has “enhanced” systems and controls to prevent the
occurrence of such issues “everywhere the company operates.  Madoff Trustee’s Actions to Be Probed by GAO, Lawmaker Says  The actions of the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
Bernard Madoff’s firm will be investigated by the U.S.
 Government Accountability Office , said U.S. Representative  Scott
Garrett , who requested the probe.  The GAO agreed to conduct “a comprehensive evaluation” of
the activities of the trustee, New York lawyer  Irving Picard , as
well as the  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  and the
 Securities and Exchange Commission  in connection with the
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC liquidation, said
the  New Jersey  Republican in a statement on his website
yesterday.  In February, Garrett introduced a bill that would amend the
Securities Investor Protection Act to block Picard from pursuing
“clawback” claims to recover profits from innocent Madoff
investors, he said in the statement. Garrett is chairman of the
House Financial Services  Subcommittee on Capital Markets  and
Government-Sponsored Enterprises.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment. Ails Wolf, an outside
spokeswoman for the SIPC, had no immediate comment.  “We will provide our full cooperation in conjunction with
any inquiry by the GAO,” Amanda Reus, a Picard spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Merriman Says SEC Inquiry Into Groupon Is Standard  Jon Merriman, co-founder of  Merriman Holdings Inc. (MERR) , talked
about a possible study by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission of Groupon Inc.’s operating-income accounting, and
the outlook for initial public offerings in the technology
industry.  The inquiry is part of a routine review of the coupon
site’s initial public offering, a person familiar with the
matter said. Merriman spoke with Emily Chang on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg West.” Bloomberg’s Cory Johnson and
Doug MacMillan also discussed the outlook for Groupon.  For more, click here and click here.  Ryanair’s O’Leary Demands BAA Refund for ‘Overcharging’  Michael O’Leary, chief executive officer of Ryanair
Holdings Plc, talked about a complaint filed with the  Civil
Aviation Authority  and  Competition Commission  against BAA Ltd.
over charges at Stinted airport.  He spoke yesterday with Bloomberg’s Fluvial Rotunda in
Rome.  For the video, click here.  Wilson Says ‘Right to Worry’ About U.S. Debt Downgrade  David Wilson, chief national bank examiner at the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, John Ramsay, deputy director of
the Securities and Exchange Commission’s  Division of Trading and
Markets , and Mark Van Der Wide, senior associate director of the
Federal Reserve’s  Division of Banking Supervision and
Regulation , testified about the oversight of credit-rating
companies and the possibility that U.S. debt will be downgraded.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 