-- 
U.S. Stocks Retreat as Optimism Over Debt Compromise Fades

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-28T22:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-akamai-citrix-decline-on-forecasts.html
U.S. stocks fell, dragging the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a fourth day, as lawmakers
indicated they were no closer to reaching an agreement to
increase the debt ceiling and avoid default.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  erased an advance of as
much as 82 points after optimism faded that Democrats and
Republicans would be able to compromise over cutting the federal
deficit.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  slipped 2.2 percent as its earnings
trailed analysts’ estimates. Technology stocks led gains in the
S&P 500, with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  climbing 2 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the stock.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.3 percent to 1,300.67, its lowest
level for the month, at 4 p.m. in New York. The Dow slipped
62.44 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,240.11.  “There is no positive news on the debt discussions out of
Washington,” Brad Pleimann, head of equity trading at Piper
Jaffray & Co. in  Minneapolis , wrote in an e-mail before the
market closed. “Everyone believes, or at least hopes, that a
deal will get done, but as we approach the close with no new
news traders begin to unwind risk.”  The  S&P 500  retreated 3 percent over the previous three
days amid concern lawmakers will fail to agree on an increase in
the U.S. debt ceiling by an Aug. 2 deadline in order to avoid a
default. A House vote on Republican  John Boehner ’s debt-ceiling
measure scheduled for 6 p.m. tonight in Washington was delayed,
though a spokeswoman for Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said the
vote would take place “this evening.”  Possible Compromise  If the measure passes in the House, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said he plans to bring the legislation immediately to
the Senate floor and “it will be defeated,” paving the way for
Senate votes this weekend on a possible compromise.  The S&P 500 rallied as much as 0.9 percent earlier as Labor
Department figures showed jobless claims declined by 24,000 to
398,000 last week, the lowest since April. The median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to
415,000. There were no special factors associated with the
decrease other than the usual volatility that occurs each year
in July, a Labor Department spokesman said. Stocks also climbed
earlier as the number of contracts to purchase previously owned
U.S. homes unexpectedly rose in June as buyers tried to take
advantage of lower prices and borrowing costs. The 2.4 percent
rise in the index of pending home resales followed an 8.2
percent May gain, the National Association of Realtors said
today in  Washington . Economists forecast a 2 percent drop,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Exxon Results  D.R. Horton  advanced 2.6 percent to $11.90 after reporting
a third-quarter profit of 9 cents a share as it benefited from
cutting costs. Analysts expected a profit of 6 cents a share.  Before the jobless claims data was released at 8:30 a.m.
Washington time, stock futures dipped after Exxon reported its
results. The company’s second quarter profit fell short of
analyst estimates as a slump in international refining profits
limited the benefit of higher  oil prices . Net income rose to
$2.18 a share from $1.60 a share a year earlier. The world’s
largest publicly traded oil company had been expected to earn
$2.32 a share, based on the average estimate of seven analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. Exxon fell 2.2 percent to $81.46.  Earnings Season  Exxon was among about 60 companies in the S&P 500 releasing
results today. About 78 percent of companies in the gauge that
have reported earnings since July 11 have exceeded analyst
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DuPont Co. increased less than 0.1 percent to $52.30 after
raising its full-year earnings forecast and posting second-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates because of rising
sales of paint pigment and biotech-crop seeds.  Technology companies increased 0.1 percent for the biggest
gain among groups in the benchmark index for U.S. equities.  Cisco gained 2 percent to $16.01 for the biggest increase
in the Dow. The largest maker of networking gear was raised to
“buy” from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs Group, which cited the
outlook for higher earnings estimates.  LSI Corp. (LSI)  rose the most
in the S&P 500, rallying 14 percent to $7.35. The maker of chips
used in computer disk drives forecast third-quarter sales from
continuing operations of $535 million to $565 million. Analysts
had predicted $510.7 million on average.  Akamai, Sprint Tumble  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , which operates a server network
that helps websites load faster, slumped 19 percent to $23.84
after third-quarter revenue and earnings forecasts missed
estimates. Profit will be 31 cents to 34 cents a share,
excluding some items, said Akamai Chief Financial Officer J.D.
Sherman on a conference call late yesterday. That compares with
analysts’ estimates of 38 cents.  The S&P 500 Telecommunication Services Index fell the most
among 10 groups in the benchmark gauge, losing 2.2 percent.
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  retreated 16 percent to $4.34 after the
third-biggest U.S. mobile-phone carrier reported a loss for the
15th consecutive quarter as more customers dropped their
contracts.  BMC Software Inc. (BMC)  fell 8.8 percent to $44.61 after the
maker of  business software  said sales were $502.4 million,
missing the average estimate of $508.3 million predicted by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “In the last couple of quarters we saw how the bulls had
the ball on earnings,” Ryan Bend, who oversees $1.3 billion as
 money manager  at Federated Investors Inc.’s Prudent Bear Fund,
said in a telephone interview from Pittsburgh. “Now we’re
seeing stocks getting hit if they don’t take numbers up or if
they miss they’ll get crushed, and that’s a bearish signal for
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  