-- 
U.S. Contingency Plan Said to Give Priority to Bondholders

-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-28T23:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-contingency-plan-gives-bondholders-priority.html
The  U.S. Treasury  will give priority
to making interest payments to holders of  government bonds  when
due if lawmakers fail to reach an agreement to raise the debt
ceiling, according to an administration official.  The official requested anonymity because no announcement
has been made. The Treasury has said about $90 billion in debt
matures on Aug. 4 and more than $30 billion in interest comes
due Aug. 15. Overall, more than $500 billion matures in August.  The $90 billion in six-month Treasury bills maturing Aug. 4
pared losses after the comments. Obama administration officials
will brief the public no earlier than after financial markets
close tomorrow on priorities for paying the nation’s bills if
the $14.3 trillion limit isn’t raised, a Democratic Party
official said earlier.  “The announcement is reassuring, but there’s really no
alternative to favoring the bondholders,” said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in  New York  at
Jefferies Group Inc., which as one of the 20 primary dealers is
obligated to bid in Treasury sales. “The alternative would
point to a default”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has repeatedly said
the government’s authority to borrow will run out on Aug. 2
unless Congress raises the debt ceiling. Republicans and
Democrats have been unable to agree on an increase in the debt
cap or budget cuts, leading to concerns that the U.S. will lose
its AAA credit rating.  Six-Month Bills  The rate on six-month Treasury bills due two days after the
debt-ceiling was 0.155 percent at 4:51 p.m. in New York, down
from as much as 0.2 percent. It was 0.11 percent yesterday.  The House and Senate are at odds over budget cuts tied to a
vote to raise the debt ceiling. House Speaker  John Boehner ,
Republican of  Ohio , would cut $915 billion in spending and tie a
future borrowing increase to enactment of a deficit-slashing law
late this year. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , Democrat of
 Nevada , said he would move to kill Boehner’s plan, paving the
way for Senate votes this weekend on a possible compromise.  Bankers such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 Jamie Dimon  called on President  Barack Obama  and Congress to
raise the limit.  `Very Grave'  “The consequences of inaction -- for our economy, the
already struggling job market, the financial circumstances of
American businesses and families, and for America’s global
economic leadership -- would be very grave,” the executives
wrote in the letter sent today by the Financial Services Forum,
a Washington-based trade group representing the largest banks.  Federal Reserve  Bank of San Francisco President John C. Williams said the central bank doesn’t have a “magic wand” to
help the economy if the U.S. government defaults.  “Make no mistake -- the Federal Reserve doesn’t have a
magic wand that will allow the economy to get through a crisis
of this magnitude unscathed,” Williams said during a speech in
 Salt Lake City  today. “A federal default must be avoided.”  Treasury officials have a previously scheduled meeting for
tomorrow with Wall Street bond dealers ahead of next week’s
quarterly auctions of notes and bonds. The officials will talk
with the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which includes
executives from financial firms such as JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,
Bank of America Corp. and Pacific Investment Management Co.  Prioritizing Payment  The Treasury has in the past said it cannot pick and choose
which bills to pay in the event it can’t borrow enough to cover
all its obligations, a process members of Congress called
“prioritization.”  “This ‘prioritization’ proposal advocates a radical and
deeply irresponsible departure from the commitment by presidents
of both parties, throughout American history, to honor all of
the commitments our nation has made,” Geithner said in a letter
to Congress last month.  Deciding which obligations to pay first poses legal and
practical challenges, forcing the administration to choose among
the Social Security recipients, bondholders and military
personnel.  “You’re picking winners and losers,” said Stephen Myrow,
managing director and chief operating officer of ACG Analytics
in Washington and a former chief of staff to Deputy Treasury
Robert M. Kimmitt during the administration of President  George
W. Bush . “It’s a lose-lose proposition.”  Bills Due  In the month of August, Treasury has $49.2 billion in
Social Security benefits due, including $23 billion on Aug. 3,
according to the Bipartisan Policy Center, a coalition of former
budget officials. Also due next month are $50 billion in
payments for Medicare and Medicaid, $12.8 billion in
 unemployment benefits , $2.9 billion in military active-duty pay
and $14.2 billion in federal salaries and benefits.  “The size and complexity of the federal government to
prioritize payments, especially in a compressed time under
pressure -- no doubt it’s difficult,” said Brian Gardner,
senior vice president of Washington research at New York-based
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  The administration has also been reluctant to discuss
prioritization because it wants to maintain pressure on Congress
to raise the debt ceiling before the Aug. 2 deadline, said J.D.
Foster, a senior fellow at The  Heritage Foundation  in
 Washington .  “Prioritization is about how to function if the ceiling
does not go up, which the administration is adamant must never
happen,” Foster said.  The government’s legal authority to pay some debts and not
others is unclear, said Jay Powell, visiting scholar for the
Bipartisan Policy Center and under secretary of the Treasury for
finance for President  George H.W. Bush .  In 1985, the Government Accountability Office released a
legal opinion affirming Treasury’s authority to prioritize
payments. No administration has taken advantage of that opinion.  “There is no explicit statutory authority for the
executive branch to prioritize payments,” Powell said. “In our
system of government Congress decides what to pay and orders the
executive branch to carry out its wishes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Uchimiya at 
 euchimiya@bloomberg.net  