-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Falls as Treasury Backup Plan Revealed

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T21:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-company-credit-holds-at-1-week-high-before-debt-limit-vote.html
The cost to protect the debt of U.S.
companies from losses fell as jobless claims dropped and the
Treasury planned to give priority to holders of  government bonds 
if lawmakers don’t reach a deal to raise the federal debt limit.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.4 basis point to a
mid-price of 95.8 basis points as of 5:01 p.m. in New York.  Traders pushed the index lower as applications for
 unemployment benefits  fell by 24,000 to 398,000 in the week
ended July 23, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The  U.S. Treasury  is making contingency plans if
lawmakers don’t reach a compromise deal to increase the nation’s
borrowing limit before a possible default on Aug. 2, an
administration official said, who requested anonymity because no
announcement has been made.  “Things have been pretty well behaved,” said Noel Hebert,
credit strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in  New
York . “People seem to just be sitting and waiting to see what
we’re going to get,” he said, referring to the possibility of
an agreement over the debt ceiling.  The benchmark credit index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The gauge has
risen from 92.4 on July 21 on concern that the nation may lose
its highest AAA credit rating.  The “long-term growth rate of the debt” would be the
biggest factor in the decision to lower the country’s top-level
grade,  Standard & Poor’s  President Deven Sharma told U.S.
lawmakers yesterday. The rating company will wait to see a final
proposal before acting, he said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  