-- 
U.S. Banks Urge Congress to Close Deal on Debt-Limit Debate

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-07-28T17:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-banks-urge-congress-to-close-deal-on-debt-limit-debate.html
Bankers including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  chief Jamie Dimon called on President
Barack Obama and Congress to raise the federal debt limit to
steer the U.S. government away from the threat of default.  “The consequences of inaction -- for our economy, the
already struggling job market, the financial circumstances of
American businesses and families, and for America’s global
economic leadership -- would be very grave,” the executives
wrote in the letter sent today by the Financial Services Forum,
a Washington-based trade group representing the largest banks.  The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote today on
a debt-limit proposal that would face opposition from the
Senate’s Democratic majority, setting up a congressional
showdown ahead of the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the $14.3
trillion ceiling. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, has pledged to kill House Speaker John Boehner’s
measure if the Ohio Republican’s plan is sent to the Senate.  As congressional leaders continued to wrangle over debt-
limit proposals, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2 percent
yesterday, the biggest drop in almost two months. The cost of
insuring against a U.S. default climbed to the highest level
since February 2010.  ‘Tremendous Blow’  “A default on our Nation’s obligations, or a downgrade of
America’s credit rating, would be a tremendous blow to business
and investor confidence -- raising  interest rates  for everyone
who borrows, undermining the value of the Dollar, and roiling
stock and bond markets -- and, therefore, dramatically worsening
our Nation’s already difficult economic circumstances,” the
group of financial-industry executives wrote in the letter to
the U.S. Congress and the White House.  In addition to Blankfein and Dimon, the letter was signed
by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO Brian Moynihan, Vikram Pandit, CEO
of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  President and CEO James Gorman, Richard K. Davis, chairman and CEO of U.S. Bancorp,
Robert Kelly, chairman and CEO of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
and John Stumpf, chairman and CEO of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Thomas J. Wilson, chairman and CEO of  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , Jim Weddle, managing partner of Edward Jones, Steven A. Kandarian,
president and CEO of  MetLife Inc. (MET) , John R. Strangfeld, chairman
and CEO of Prudential Financial Inc., Joseph L. Hooley, chairman
and CEO of  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Rob Nichols, the president and
CEO of the Financial Services Forum, also signed.  Backing Boehner  The executives’ letter came on the same day the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce , Financial Services Roundtable,  National
Association of Manufacturers  and National Retail Federation
joined with 111 other business associations to urge House
members to vote for Boehner’s proposal.  “While no legislation is perfect, the current proposal
cuts spending immediately by more than the extension of the debt
ceiling, provides an enforceable mechanism to produce additional
spending reductions with extensions of the debt limit predicated
on these cuts, and allows for a vote on significant procedural
change to our budgeting process,” the associations wrote in the
letter sent to House members today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Cook in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  