-- 
U.S. Debt-Agreement Delay Risks Creating a Lehman-Like Moment, Gieve Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-07-29T07:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-debt-agreement-delay-risks-lehman-like-moment-gieve-says.html
Former Bank of England Deputy
Governor John Gieve said U.S. officials’ delay in agreeing on a
deal to raise the debt limit runs the risk of a disaster that
would echo the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   “The problem with this kind of brinkmanship is, as we saw
around Lehman -- after all the Treasury wanted to save Lehman --
if you leave it to the last minute that something can go wrong,
something practical goes wrong, and you run out of time,” Gieve
said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Last Word” yesterday. “I’m sure both sides
fully expect to do a deal, but they’re running it very fine.”  Gieve was deputy governor for financial stability at the
U.K. central bank when  Lehman Brothers  filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008. U.S. Republicans and Democrats have been unable
to agree on an increase in the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt cap
or budget-deficit cuts even as the government’s authority to
borrow is set to run out on Aug. 2.  Republicans led by House Speaker  John Boehner  were forced
to scrap a vote yesterday in  Washington  on his plan to cut the
federal deficit and raise the U.S. debt ceiling after he failed
to amass enough support for his proposal.  Gieve, who is now an adviser at hedge fund GLG, part of Man
Group Plc, said the delays may cost the U.S. its AAA credit
rating even if lawmakers agree to raise the borrowing limit. He
also said he expects a deal and that the U.S. will avoid another
recession. Still, a disorderly default would rock the global
economy, he said.  Disorderly  “If they default in a disorderly way this August because
they can’t reach agreement, that really is going to blow the
world economy sideways, and then I think we are looking at a big
event that will cause another recession,” Gieve said. “If they
reach a temporary deal that’s to be revisited next year before
the election, and someone blinks enough to keep paying their
debt and keep paying the interest, I don’t think we need see a
double dip.”  Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have traded
below 3 percent for most of this month, less than the average of
4.05 percent over the last decade and below the average of 5.48
percent when the U.S. was running budget surpluses between 1998
and 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  