-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Trading Surges 80% as Debt Deadline Approaches

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-07-28T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-credit-swap-trading-surges-80-as-debt-ceiling-deadline-gets-closer.html
Trading of credit-default swaps
insuring U.S. Treasuries soared almost 80 percent as the
deadline nears for plans to cut the nation’s budget deficit and
raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit to avoid default.  Traders bought and sold 41 contracts in the week through
July 22, insuring a daily average of $250 million of U.S. debt,
up from $140 million during the past month, according to the
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  The country was the tenth most
traded among the 1,000 entities tracked by DTCC, with 1,063
outstanding trades covering $4.9 billion of debt -- a third of
the total on German bunds.  Failure by President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders
to reach a debt agreement may force the government to delay bond
payments, causing a credit event that would trigger insurance
payouts. The parties are struggling to reach a compromise before
Aug. 2, the date Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the
government will run out of options.  “While investors remain hopeful that the debt ceiling will
be raised prior to Aug. 2, it is still unclear if such a move
will be accompanied by a deficit reduction package that will be
large enough to placate the  ratings agencies ,” Barclays Capital
strategists led by Bradley Rogoff in  New York  wrote in a note to
investors.  Treasury Yields  For all the concern about a default, yields on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note are about 3 percent, below the
average of 4.05 percent over the last decade and less than the
average of 5.48 percent when the U.S. was running budget
surpluses between 1998 and 2001.  The U.S. determinations committee of the International
Swaps & Derivatives Association may call a failure-to-pay  credit
event  after a three-day grace period, said David Geen, general
counsel for ISDA. The industry group sets standards in the swaps
market and runs the committee of dealers and investors that
determine when payouts are made.  A technical default would allow swap buyers to be
compensated even if the debt commitments are eventually honored.  “For CDS, if it triggers it triggers,” London-based Geen
said in an interview today. “If they fail to make a payment and
the grace period passes, even if they cure it the next day, it
still triggers.”  Debt Auction  That would cause an auction to settle swaps based on the
value of the cheapest securities available. While U.S. Treasury
debt typically trades at or above par, some longer-dated bonds
are quoted below face value.  The government’s $25.9 billion of bonds due in February
2039 traded at 87 percent of face value, meaning swaps buyers
would be paid 13 percent to settle the contracts.  “Even under a scenario of failure to raise the debt
ceiling, we view default a lower likelihood outcome relative to
payment prioritization,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , a credit strategist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, wrote in a note to
investors. “Such an outcome however implies a government
shutdown and the negative economic consequences of this would
weigh negatively on credit spreads, albeit less than that under
the dire version of the ‘default’ scenario.”  While credit swaps signal less than a 2 percent chance the
government will default within the next year, the insurance
contracts are the most expensive they’ve ever been. Swaps
insuring Treasuries for one year cost a record 80 basis points
yesterday, according to CMA, up from 46 basis points last week
and 23 at the start of the year.  One-year contracts surpassed longer-term insurance for the
first time this week and are now more expensive than  Saudi
Arabia ,  Belgium ,  Turkey  and  Thailand , CMA prices show.  Five-Year Swaps  Five-years contracts are trading at 63.5 basis points, the
highest level since March 2009, and signal a 5 percent chance of
default within that time, according to CMA. That compares with
37 basis points in April and a record 100 basis points at the
peak of the financial crisis in 2009.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “If CDS is triggered, you’d get paid out but then your
protection is gone,” ISDA’s Geen said. “Your protection would
effectively be knocked out and settled and if you had to re-
hedge, it could cost more.”  Notional Value  Swaps on  U.S. debt  are relatively new, having only been
tracked by CMA since 2007, when they cost less than 10 basis
points a year. Trading is still low compared with outstanding
securities. While the notional value of protection has increased
57 percent this year, the amount is only 0.05 percent of total
marketable U.S. public debt.  Swaps on the U.S. also cover a fraction of contracts on
European governments. Italy has $25 billion of swaps
outstanding, the most in the world, followed by  France  with $21
billion and  Spain  with $18 billion. Swaps on  Germany  cover $16.5
billion and the U.K.’s protect $12.3 billion.  “I always thought buying CDS protection on the U.S. was a
complete waste of money because if the U.S. defaulted, you’d
never find a counterparty who would pay you,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at Evolution Securities in  London .
“However I was wrong, because this is the one scenario where
you should definitely be paid out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  