-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Fell Last Week

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T14:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/u-s-consumer-confidence-falls-on-economy-concern-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Consumer confidence  dropped last
week as Americans’ views of the economy plunged to the lowest
level since the recession.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 46.8 in the
period to July 24, the lowest since May, compared with minus
43.3 the prior week. Six percent of those surveyed said the
economy was in good shape, the fewest since April 2009.  Seniors and the unemployed were among those showing the
most negative readings, a sign that partisan wrangling over the
nation’s budget deficit was jarring those likely to be affected
by cuts in spending. Unemployment above 9 percent, falling  home
prices  and a rebound in gasoline costs may be weighing on
sentiment overall, posing a risk for  consumer spending .  ”The stuff in Washington is really weighing on people,”
said  Brian Jones , an economist at  Societe Generale  in New York.
“The magnitude of the declines that we’ve gotten certainly
bears watching. What’s more worrisome is that if consumer
confidence  has deteriorated that much, you can just imagine
what business confidence has done.”  The comfort gauge reached a nine-month low of minus 49.4 in
May after the price of regular gasoline climbed to $3.99 a
gallon.  Political Rift  Sentiment among Democrats and political independents fell
last week to the lowest level in two months, while that for
registered Republicans climbed to the highest level since April,
the report showed. Republican confidence exceeded that of
Democrats by the most since March.  “The Republicans like budget cuts and the Democrats
don’t,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors
Inc. in
Holland,  Pennsylvania . “The Republicans think the tide has
turned politically in their direction. Basically, the Democrats
have capitulated.”  Another report today indicated weakness in the labor market
may be starting to abate. Applications for unemployment
insurance payments declined 24,000 in the week ended July 23 to
398,000, the fewest since April. Economists forecast a drop to
415,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned homes
unexpectedly rose in June as buyers tried to take advantage of
lower prices and borrowing costs, figures from the National
Association of Realtors also showed today. The 2.4 percent rise
in the index of pending home resales followed an 8.2 percent May
gain.  Contracts Canceled  The rise in May didn’t translate into an improvement in
sales as contracts were canceled due to stricter lending rules
and low appraisal, the group said earlier this month.  Stocks advanced as the drop in jobless claims and increase
in pending sales helped offset concern over debt-limit
negotiations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent
to 1,310.02 at 10:55 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities 
climbed, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
2.96 percent from 2.98 percent late yesterday.  All three of the index’s subcomponents fell last week. The
gauge of Americans’ views of the economy, which is the
difference between those with positive versus negative opinions,
sank to minus 88.1 from minus 83.7 the prior week.  Broad-Based Drop  The measure of personal finances retreated from a more than
two-year high, while the buying climate index fell to the lowest
level since early June.  The report “may well reflect frustration with the debt
debate in Washington, with a variety of polls showing broad
public concern about the economic impact of a default if it were
to occur,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement.  Party leaders are readying dueling proposals to cut the
government’s budget deficit and raise the debt ceiling by Aug.
2, the date the Treasury Department says the U.S. will lose its
borrowing authority.  Confidence deteriorated in six of the seven income
categories, including households making more than $100,000,
today’s report showed, indicating few were spared from the
growing concern with the debt talks.  The measure of confidence for consumers 65 and older fell
to minus 55.2, the lowest level since at least October 2009,
when it was at minus 55 and the data were rounded.  Comfort Breakdown  Sentiment among women dropped last week to the lowest level
since March and that of the unemployed fell to the second-
weakest point of the year.  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began December 1985, has
averaged minus 44.7 this year compared with minus 45.7 for all
of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the recession ended,
the report showed.  The measure has been less volatile than other confidence
gauges, hovering this year within about 5 points of the 2011
average. In contrast, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment dropped in July to its
lowest level in more than two years. The Conference Board’s
index unexpectedly rose in July from an eight-month low.  A housing market that’s struggling to improve could be
contributing to consumers’ pessimism. Home prices in 20 U.S.
cities fell in the year ended May by the most in 18 months, the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values showed earlier this
week. Sales of new U.S. homes also dropped in June for a second
straight month, the Commerce Department reported.  Spending Outlook  Unemployment hovering above 9 percent is keeping consumers
out of stores, said Scott Davis chief executive officer of
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   “We have to get unemployment rates down in this country to
get consumer confidence up,” Davis said on a July 26 conference
call with analysts. “What we’re seeing here is a lack of
consumer confidence. They’re not buying goods.”  UPS officials projected a “fairly slow” third quarter for
the world’s largest package-delivery company.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 U.S.
residents age 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked
for their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate. Results are combined with data from the previous three
weeks, and the percentage of negative responses is subtracted
from the share of positive views on each question, with the
results then averaged.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  Field work for the index is done by Social Science Research
Solutions in Media, Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  