-- 
Lukoil Talks With Bulgaria Canceled, Permits Remain Revoked

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-07-28T15:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/lukoil-talks-with-bulgaria-canceled-permits-remain-revoked-1-.html
Talks between OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s
second-biggest crude oil producer, and the Bulgarian government
over the decision to revoke the company’s permits for storing
fuel in the country are canceled, the  Finance Ministry  said.  The government didn’t say, in a statement released at the
ministry, why negotiations scheduled for today on the licenses
for the company’s Lukoil Neftochim Burgas plant were abandoned.  “The order revoking the storage licenses remains in
force,” the ministry said in the statement. The permits were
withdrawn yesterday after the refinery failed to install fuel
gauges allowing authorities to calculate excise duty remotely.  The facility “will stop operations in 20 to 30 hours,”
Valentin Zlatev, head of the plant, said in Sofia today. Lukoil
may seek to overturn the revocation in the courts as the company
had already told the government of installation delays, he said.  Lukoil will arrange imports of motor fuel for its filling
stations, which have reserves of 20 to 30 days, Zlatev said.
Jet fuel for Neftochim Burgas,  Bulgaria ’s only supplier with
sales for 175 aircraft a day, is also needed, he said.  Bulgaria asked oil traders to use the gauges linked to the
customs office a year ago to curb  tax evasion . Lukoil’s unit
said it borrowed $11 million to install them by the year-end.
Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said yesterday a commitment to use
the gauges in the next two months would resolve the situation.  “Everyone should be equal before the law,” Borissov told
reporters in Sofia today. “The refinery hasn’t shown that it
has taken any steps to start installation of the new gauging
system or even signed a contract with a supplier.”  Bulgaria can import Greek or Romanian fuel, Petrol Trading
Association President Andrei Velchev said. The country uses 2.9
million metric tons of fuel a year, according to Zlatev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  