-- 
Ex-Rebel, Now Peru’s President, Riles Backers

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-28T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/humala-backers-cry-foul-as-former-peru-rebel-tilts-to-investors.html
Peruvian President-elect Ollanta
Humala spent the last two months convincing investors he won’t
stifle economic growth with an anti-business agenda. He now
faces the anger of backers who say he pandered to the markets.  Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , takes office today vowing to reconcile pledges to boost
spending on the poor while attracting foreign investment. After
stocks and bonds plunged when he was elected June 5, on concerns he
would increase state control of the economy and raise mining
royalties, Humala named a cabinet mostly composed of businessmen
and officials from the previous two administrations.  “We’re worried,” said Mario Huaman, head of the General
Workers’ Confederation, Peru’s largest  labor  group, which
endorsed Humala in the election. “We’ll listen very carefully
to what he says in the coming days and see if he shares our
views. Then we’ll decide our plan of action, our plan to fight.
He promised change.”  Humala, 49, has already seen support taper off in polls. If
the decline continues, he may attempt to rally the Andean
nation’s mostly-indigenous poor who celebrated his victory and
abandon the restraint that’s surprised investors, according to
the Eurasia Group, a New York-based research company.  Tougher Stance  Humala’s cabinet picks reflect plans announced during his
 campaign  to toughen negotiations with mining companies without
taking Peru down the path of  Venezuela , where Chavez has
nationalized foreign companies and billions of dollars in
investments were lost.  In a cabinet of 18 officials, five are businessmen and
seven served in former government positions. The key post of
finance minister went to Miguel Castilla, an economist educated
at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore and  Harvard University 
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , who was deputy  finance minister 
under outgoing President  Alan Garcia . Humala also retained Julio Velarde as central bank president.  Since Velarde was reappointed to a second, five-year term
on July 17, the yield on the nation’s benchmark sol-denominated
bond due 2020 has fallen seven basis points to 6.23 percent
yesterday, a four month high, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The Lima General Index of Stocks has gained 7.9
percent since the announcement, after falling a record 12
percent the day following Humala’s election victory.  ‘Very Positive’  Retaining Velarde and Castilla is “very positive,” said
Roque Benavides, chief executive officer of Cia. de Minas
Buenaventura SA,  Peru ’s biggest precious metals producer.  “There are very, very good ministers who have been called
to contribute,” Benavides said yesterday in a conference call
with analysts. “What we have now is better than what we
expected.”  While investors are pleased, Humalas’s support in a July
13-15 poll declined to 41 percent from 70 percent a month
earlier according to Lima-based polling firm  Ipsos Apoyo . The
nationwide poll of 1,200 people had a margin of error of 4.38
percentage points.  Should the new president’s support continue to slip, or
should the economy falter, he “could be tempted later on in his
mandate” to adopt less market-friendly policies, Erasto
Almeida, a political analyst at Eurasia Group, said July 25 in
an e-mailed report.  Humala pledged to better distribute Peru’s mining wealth to
defeat Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, daughter of jailed former
President  Alberto Fujimori . While economic growth averaging 5.6
percent the last decade, the fastest in  Latin America , has
spurred employment and doubled per capita income to $5,224, a
third of Peruvians still live in slums and survive on less than
a dollar a day without basic services such as running water.  Humala during the campaign vowed to raise the monthly
 minimum wage  to 750 soles ($274) from 600 soles starting in
2012, create pensions for the indigent, and boost spending on
health and education through a windfall tax on gold and copper
producers such as London-based Anglo American Plc and Southern
Copper Corp. of Phoenix,  Arizona .  ‘Great Hopes’  “The new government has built up such great hopes that if
it doesn’t follow through there’ll be a big divorce,” said
Renee Ramirez, general secretary of Peru’s Education Workers
Union. “We’re not going to keep quiet. We threw our weight
behind Humala but we didn’t write him a blank check.”  Investors are also being cautious. Peru’s $153 billion
economy expanded 7.1 percent in May from the year before, the
slowest pace in 15 months, as businesses cut spending while
waiting for Humala to detail his economic plans.  Mining companies including  Southern Copper  and Buenaventura
have said a tax on sales may make the industry less competitive
and derail as much as $42 billion in planned mining investment.  Unpopular Leaders  Peruvians have a history of rapidly growing disillusioned
with their leaders. Garcia, even after delivering 8.8 economic
growth last year, leaves office with a 42 percent approval
rating. Former President  Alejandro Toledo , who lent his support
to Humala after losing to him in the first round of voting, saw
support for his presidency fall to a low of 8 percent a year
before leaving office in 2006.  Humala needs popular support to overcome a divided
 Congress , where his Gana Peru coalition has 47 of 130 seats.  “He has to find a way to keep the base close while not
letting it dictate economic policy,” Alvaro Vargas Llosa, a
senior fellow at the Independent Institute research organization
in  Washington  and the son of novelist Mario Vargas Llosa, said
in response to e-mailed questions.  Some Humala supporters aren’t optimistic.  “He is Peru’s only hope,” said Milagros Canseco, 36, who
sells candies and washes car windows at a busy intersection in
downtown  Lima . “But we have heard all this before. They all
promise to help the poor, and I’m still here on the streets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  