-- 
Humans’ Sheer Numbers Enabled Europe Dominance 40,000 Years Ago

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-07-28T18:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/humans-sheer-numbers-enabled-europe-dominance-40-000-years-ago.html
Humans may not have been more
aggressive than the Neanderthals they replaced in  Europe  40,000
years ago. They were more prolific, growing their population ten
times faster, a study suggests.  Better tools, food storage techniques and, importantly,
stronger social bonding helped humans multiply at a faster rate,
helping to drive the Neanderthals into extinction over a 15,000-
year period, according to a study in the journal Science.  The researchers used new methods to assess human  population
growth , measuring the number and density of skeletal remains,
living places and tools in a 75,000 square kilometer location in
western  France . Neanderthals, who had been in control of Europe
for almost 300,000 years, rapidly went extinct after humans
arrived, said  Paul Mellars , lead author of the study.  “There were not only more of them but they were living in
larger social groups of people living and acting together,”
said Mellars, a professor of prehistory at the University of
Cambridge in the U.K. in a phone interview. “The culture of the
humans was more elaborate, with superior firepower, like the
Europeans that later invaded  North America .”  During a 15,000-year period that began 55,000 years ago,
the number of human living sites more than doubled, researchers
found. A statistical analysis led them to conclude that there
was a tenfold increase in human population during the period.  From  Africa   Humans, who came from Africa, took hold in Europe during
the transition from the Chatelperronian to the Aurignacian
periods around 45,000 years ago, Mellars said. There were 108
human dwelling sites during the period, compared with 30
Neanderthal ones. The density of tools and the number of animal
remains used by modern humans was at least twice as many as
those used by Neanderthals.  That shows humans “must have been doing something
dramatically more efficient in terms of extracting food from the
environment,” Mellars said.  Though the exact number of each population is nearly
impossible to know, there may have been several hundred
Neanderthals in the area studied by the researcher, compared
with several thousand humans, Mellars said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 