-- 
UN’s Iraq Mission Poised for Larger Role as U.S. Forces Withdraw

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-28T14:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/un-s-iraq-mission-poised-for-larger-role-as-u-s-forces-withdraw.html
The  United Nations  is poised to play
a larger role in  Iraq ’s economic development and political
reconciliation as U.S. military forces withdraw.  The  Security Council  voted 15 to 0 today to extend the UN
mandate in Iraq for 12 months. UN officials say the coming year
will see its mission restored from the crippling explosion of a
2003 terrorist attack in Baghdad, the worst in the world body’s
history.  “There has been a strong feeling that there is a lot more
we can do than we have been doing,” UN Under-Secretary-General
Lynn Pascoe said in an interview after returning from a trip to
Iraq last month. “We think that in this period we will be able
to step up our efforts.”  U.S. and Iraqi officials say they want a stronger UN push
to resolve a dispute over  oil fields  in northern Iraq, where the
government in Baghdad and the Kurdistan Regional Government both
seek control. They’re also seeking implementation of a UN-
drafted $1.9 billion economic aid plan that aims by 2014 to
revive a private sector decimated by the U.S.-led invasion and
ensuing civil war. At least 20,000 companies shut their doors,
the UN said.  The UN will “play a critical role” in Iraq, said Curtis
Cooper, spokesman for the U.S. State Department’s office of
international organizations. The UN should also increase efforts
to help the 1.75 million Iraqis who have been forced from their
homes by the civil war, and resolve remaining issues with Kuwait
stemming from Iraq’s 1990 invasion, he said.  Leaving ‘Caves’  UN confidence is partly based on the planned move into the
former office of the U.S. Agency for International Development
in  Baghdad , refurbished with $50 million in Iraqi funding. Many
UN workers in Baghdad have been living in containers that Pascoe
called “caves,” and are compelled to travel in U.S.-mandated
security convoys.  The new UN compound will allow the permanent move into Iraq
of about 250 UN workers who have been commuting from Amman,
Jordan, a security precaution since the August 2003 suicide
bombing in Baghdad that killed Sergio Vieira de Mello, the head
of the UN mission, and 21 other workers. That will increase UN
staffing in Iraq to more than 1,100 by mid-2012, representing 15
different aid and development agencies.  While final security arrangements aren’t set, Pascoe said
the withdrawal of U.S. forces, to be replaced mainly by Iraqi
security, should increase UN mobility by eliminating the need
for large convoys. Workers will be out from under the “U.S.
security bubble,” he said.  Iraqi Forces  “Iraqi forces will step in to fill the gap, and they are
capable now,” Hamid al-Bayati, Iraq’s ambassador to the UN,
said in an interview.  Optimism is tempered by the UN’s troubled history in Iraq,
including former Secretary-General Kofi Annan’s assertion that
the U.S. invasion was illegal, lack of funds for the development
plan and persistent targeting of the UN by al-Qaeda-linked
terrorists.  “The UN will more and more have to provide for its own
security,” Joost Hiltermann, deputy director of the  Middle East 
and North Africa division of the Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group  said in an interview. “That is going to be a cost
and risk factor. The UN is rather allergic to risk. The trauma
is still there and no one wants to be responsible for the next
attack. There is an overemphasis on security, which affects
effectiveness.”  ‘Continuing Threat’  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a July 15 report on
the mission in Iraq that there has been a “significant” rise
in assassinations of political leaders, government officials and
security personnel in the past three months. Recent attacks on
U.S. military installations “underscore the continuing threat
UN operations face in Iraq,” he said.  Of the $1.9 billion needed for the development plan, which
includes cutting Iraq’s 22.9 percent poverty rate by 30 percent,
only $538 million is in hand. Foreign  government aid  has dried
up and a national law barring international organizations from
receiving Iraqi funds, according to UN economist Simona
Marinescu.  “There is no fresh money coming in,” she said.
Initiatives to spur business growth, reduce the number of state-
owned companies and diversify Iraq’s oil-based economy haven’t
made it into law. “Everything is ongoing,” Marinescu said.  Progress on settling the border dispute between the Kurds
and central government also is problematic.  “The gaps are huge,” Pascoe said.  Kurdistan Arrangement  Departure of U.S. forces also will lead to the end of the
so-called Combined Security Mechanism, consisting of elements of
American, Kurdish Peshmerga and Iraqi security forces. No
successor arrangement has been negotiated, leaving a security
gap in the volatile northern region.  “There is a real question about how much we can help,”
Pascoe said, referring to the security gap. “The interesting
thing is how eager everyone is that we stay deeply involved.
They see the UN as the one impartial body everyone listens to,
and they want us to do more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  