-- 
United Cancels More Newark Flights Amid Pilots’ Sick Leave

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-07-28T20:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/united-continental-cancels-6-flights-on-pilots-calling-in-sick.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s
Continental Airlines unit canceled six more flights today, on
top of 24 yesterday, because of pilots who said they were too
ill to work.  “An unusually high amount of pilots calling in sick”
forced the carrier to scrub five departures at its Newark hub in
 New Jersey  and one in Houston, a spokeswoman,  Megan McCarthy ,
said by phone. A so-called sickout caused yesterday’s
cancellations, news website Click2Houston.com reported.  Continental’s  Air Line Pilots Association  chapter has said
it has a shortfall of at least 200 pilots, and that members are
having to fly extra trips to cover the schedule. The chapter
chairman told members today the union and its leaders “strongly
oppose actions of any pilot or group of pilots designed to
disrupt Continental’s operations.”  “This includes any use of sick leave for any purpose other
than what it was designed to do,” Captain Jay Pierce wrote in a
memo. “In short, disruptive actions must not take place and if
they have taken place, they must stop.”  Most of the pilots who cited illness today fly  Boeing Co. (BA) 
737 jets, McCarthy said from  Chicago , where United Continental
is based. The narrow-body planes are typically staffed by junior
pilots. Five of the cancellations were for domestic trips, and
one was to Mexico City, she said.  Railway Labor Act   The Railway Labor Act, which governs airline labor
relations, forbids strikes, walkouts and other work slowdowns
such as sickouts unless the union has been freed to do so by the
 National Mediation Board .  United Continental was formed when UAL Corp.’s United and
Continental Airlines Inc. merged in October, creating the
world’s largest carrier. The airlines must operate separately
until they receive a joint certificate later this year from the
 Federal Aviation Administration .  United and Continental together make more than 5,700
flights a day and have about 9,900 pilots among their 86,000
employees.  A July 14 agreement between United Continental and unions
for the separate subsidiaries cleared the way for offering 201
pilot vacancies at Continental, which was based in Houston
before the merger, to furloughed United pilots. The pilots would
start training in September and wouldn’t begin flying until
year’s end, Continental’s union chapter said at the time.  United Continental fell 90 cents, or 5 percent, to $17.16
at 4:05 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
most among 11 carriers in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. The
shares have tumbled 28 percent this year.  Sickout History  Pilot sickouts can result in court orders prohibiting
employees from taking those actions.  United won an appeals court ruling in March 2009 barring
pilots from a work slowdown that led to 329 canceled flights
over two months. The United pilots union testified that an
increased number of sick calls during that period was “purely a
coincidence” and wasn’t a coordinated effort.  In February 1999, American Airlines pilots called in sick
over 11 days to protest plans to add pilots from Reno Air Inc.
to their seniority list. American was forced to cancel 6,600
flights, costing parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  $250 million and snarling U.S.
air traffic. A federal judge later ordered the  Allied Pilots
Association  to pay American $45.5 million in damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  