-- 
Turkey, S&P Diverge on Outlook; Basci Says No ‘Hard Landing’ for Economy

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-07-28T14:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/turkey-s-p-diverge-on-outlook-basci-says-no-hard-landing-for-economy.html
Turkey ’s central bank said there was
no risk of a “hard landing” for the country’s economy,
disagreeing with an assessment by Standard & Poor’s yesterday.  There is no overheating in the economy and the central bank
is prepared for any sudden halt in foreign capital inflows,
governor Erdem Basci said at a news conference in Ankara today.  Basci’s words were in contrast to the statement by Standard
& Poor’s, which said a rapid economic slowdown was likely and
the government should aim for a higher  budget surplus  excluding
interest payments to help deal with a widening current account
deficit.  “We see no risk of overheating or a hard landing,” Basci
said. The bank has the tools to deal with any sudden halt in
inflows of foreign investment into Turkey’s markets, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch have said there’s uncertainty
over the outlook for the country’s credit, and the lira is the
worst performing currency this year on concern that the current
account deficit threatens stability of the economy. The gap has
widened to the biggest since records began in 1984. The country
grew an annual 11 percent in the first quarter of the year, the
fastest rate among the Group of 20 major economies, drawing in
more imports of oil and consumer goods.  ‘Rapid’ Slowdown  “If the debt flows stop coming into the economy and if the
economy comes to a hard landing and slows down really rapidly,
which we think is likely, that could really hit public
finances,” S&P analyst  Frank Gill  said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Gill said Turkey’s fiscal position is “too
accommodative,” urging the government to slow spending. Basci
said fiscal policy is tighter and supports the central bank’s
aims after the government pledged to save extra income from a
tax restructuring offer.  Basci also disagreed with an IMF assessment last week that
the current account deficit may widen to 10.5 percent of
economic growth this year. The deficit will remain in single
figures, he said today.  The lira rose 1.1 percent to 1.6729 per dollar at 5:43 p.m.
in Istanbul, advancing for a third day after reaching the
weakest in more than two years on July 25. The main  ISE National
100 index (XU100)  of shares gained 2.2 percent to 62,530.88. Yields on
two-year benchmark bonds fell 14 basis points to 8.81 percent.  The IMF predicted the expansion of the economy may slow to
2.5 percent next year from 8.7 percent in 2011.  Fitch places Turkey one level below investment grade, while
Moody’s Investors Services and Standard & Poor’s rank the
country two grades below investment status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  