-- 
Vodafone Climbs After Winning First Dividend From U.S. Venture Since 2005

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-29T16:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/vodafone-to-pay-gbp2-billion-dividend-on-verizon-agreement.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  climbed the most
in four months in London trading after announcing a one-time
dividend of 2 billion pounds ($3.3 billion), the first payout
from its U.S. venture since 2005.  Verizon Wireless, in which Vodafone owns a 45 percent
stake, said yesterday it will pay a $10 billion dividend.
Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, will receive 2.8 billion
pounds in total and use the remaining 800 million pounds to
reduce net debt.  “It’s come in a few months early,” said  Steve Malcolm , an
analyst at Evolution Securities in London. “It’s the end of a
long, widely anticipated, journey, but good news.”  The payout may appease Vodafone shareholders who criticized
the absence of returns from the  Verizon Wireless  stake and
pushed the company to consider selling the holding or merging
with the U.S. wireless operator. Verizon Wireless had focused on
paying debt, rather than dividends. The unit’s borrowings
swelled when it bought Alltel in 2009, taking on more than $20
billion in debt.  Vodafone’s gross dividend yield, at about 6 percent, trails
that of Europe’s biggest phone companies. Deutsche Telekom AG’s
yield is 6.5 percent, compared with 9 percent for Telefonica SA
and as much as 9.8 percent for France Telecom.  Reinvesting  “The dividend from Verizon Wireless allows us not only to
reward our own shareholders with an immediate and sizeable cash
return, but also to continue to reinvest in our business,”
Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said in the
statement.  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone company, rose 4
percent to 172 pence, the steepest increase since March 21. The
shares have gained 14 percent over the past 12 months.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , which owns 55 percent of Verizon Wireless,
dropped 0.7 percent to $35.42 at noon in  New York .  Vodafone repeatedly opted to keep its stake in the venture,
the largest wireless carrier in the U.S. Verizon said in May
last year it would be interested in purchasing Vodafone’s
holding and the partners held talks in March 2010, discussing
options including a merger, buyout or a dividend payout, two
people familiar with the deliberations said at the time.  Verizon Wireless will still have enough funds to buy
assets, such as any divestitures that may be part of AT&T Inc.’s
acquisition of  T-Mobile USA , said spokesman  Peter Thonis . The T-
Mobile deal, announced in March, would make AT&T the biggest
U.S. carrier.  ‘Pretty Good’  Vodafone Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said last
month Vodafone could potentially get an annual dividend of as
much as $5.5 billion from its holding, based on Verizon
Wireless’ annual free cash flow of $10 billion to $12 billion.  The Verizon payment is “pretty good,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .
Investors may be concerned “about the lack of promise of
continuity but because Verizon needs the cash to cover their
corporate dividend, it will be continuous.”  Former Vodafone Chairman  John Bond  told shareholders in
London this week that the prospect for a dividend from Verizon
Wireless, its U.S. venture, looks “very good.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  