-- 
Volkswagen Joins BASF, Siemens in Suggesting Germany’s Export Boom Fading

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s ,   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-28T15:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/volkswagen-joins-basf-siemens-in-suggesting-export-boom-fading.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , BASF AG and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , three of Germany’s biggest companies, reported earnings that
missed analyst estimates and became more cautious about the
outlook amid rising commodity costs and cooling export markets.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, said full-year
profit growth will be dampened by rising raw-material prices and
exchange-rate swings. BASF’s second-quarter operating profit was
little changed and Siemens said the risks in the economic
environment are “increasing somewhat.”  The three companies, with a combined market value of about
200 billion euros ($285 billion) and 845,000 employees, were
among the biggest beneficiaries of the global economic recovery
last year amid demand for  power plants , machinery, chemicals and
cars.  Oil prices  have climbed 19 percent in the past 12 months,
while steel prices have gained 7 percent. The euro has advanced
10 percent against the dollar in the past year, meaning German
companies earn less on products sold outside the euro region.  “This year companies will just have to deal with higher
input costs, especially industrial companies, and  Germany  has
lots of industrial production,” said Richard Batty, a global
investment strategist at Edinburgh-based Standard Life
Investments, which had 183 billion euros of assets under
management as of December.  BASF, whose stock has climbed 37 percent in the past 12
months, dropped as much as 6.1 percent to 61.85 euros in
 Frankfurt , leading a decline in Germany’s benchmark DAX 30
Index. Siemens shares fell as much as 3.5 percent to 88 euros
and Volkswagen slumped as much as 7.6 percent to 133.15 euros.  Missing Estimates  Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW’s second-quarter profit before
interest and taxes of 3.17 billion euros missed the 3.26
billion-euro average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. BASF, based in Ludwigshafen, reported operating
profit of 2.24 billion euros, short of a 2.4 billion-euro
average analyst estimate.  While Germany’s economy is still Europe’s bright spot,
growth may be poised to slow in the second half and into 2012.
Business confidence and investor optimism fell more than
economists forecast in July and the Bundesbank predicts growth
will cool to 1.8 percent in 2012 from 3.1 percent this year.  “Our markets are still robust, although the risks are
increasing somewhat in the global economic environment,”
Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said in the
statement.  Muted Outlook  Siemens, which relied on Germany for just 15 percent of its
new orders last year, said profit in the fiscal third quarter
dropped 47 percent because of a fine tied to a nuclear energy
joint venture and charges at the health-care subsidiary.  The muted outlook today contrasts with Loescher’s stance
last year, when the company raised its full-year outlook after
beating analyst estimates in the quarter. Siemens ended a
program in 2010 that placed as many as 19,000 workers on shorter
shifts as factories grappled with lower demand during the
financial crisis.  BASF said customers have become more cautious about
ordering and the company already observed an economic slowdown
towards the end of the second quarter. Chief Executive Kurt Bock
said the company will raise prices to help compensate for rising
raw-material costs.  “When they say demand will be stable, they mean that there
is no demand growth,” said Oliver Schwarz, a Hamburg-based
analyst at Warburg, which rates BASF “buy.” “We didn’t expect
it to collapse to zero.”  ‘Challenging’  VW is being squeezed by rising production costs and lower
profit on cars sold outside  Europe . The company has forecast a 5
percent increase in global deliveries this year after selling a
record 7.2 million cars, SUVs and vans in 2010. The German
manufacturer sold more than 4 million vehicles between January
and June for the first time.  The second-quarter operating margin rose to 7.9 percent
from 6 percent. Net income in the period more than tripled to
4.67 billion euros.  “The coming months will be challenging for us and will
require us to work hard to maintain this high level,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in the statement.  Siemens and BASF were among German companies that put
workers on reduced hours during the financial crisis to avoid
laying off employees. BASF made a special payment of 50 million
euros to employees at the end of last year to reword them for
what the company called an “extraordinary team effort in
bringing our company successfully through the crisis.”  Siemens employees also received a one-time bonus and
accelerated a pay increase after the crisis ended. Loescher said
today that the engineering company still has more than 3,000
unfilled job vacancies.  “German companies will have a much harder time trying
to compete against cheap product offerings made in countries
with much lower cost bases,” said Christoph Ohme, a  fund
manager  at DWS in Frankfurt, which has about 283 billion euros
under management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net 
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net 
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  