-- 
Volkswagen Warns of Increasing Costs After Profit Trails Analyst Estimates

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-28T14:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/volkswagen-raises-2011-earnings-forecast-after-first-half-profit-doubles.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
automaker, said rising commodity prices and a strengthening euro
will damp earnings gains this year after reporting lower-than-
expected profit.  VW’s second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes of
3.17 billion euros ($4.55 billion) missed the 3.26 billion-euro
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 22 percent to 40.3 billion euros. The shares dropped the
most in more than five months.  “We expect the group’s sales revenue and operating profit
in 2011 to be significantly higher than the previous year,” the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said in a statement today.
“However, the continuing volatility in interest and exchange
rates and commodities prices will weaken the volume effect.”  VW is being squeezed by rising production costs and lower
profit on cars sold outside  Europe .  Oil prices  have climbed 19
percent in the past 12 months, while steel prices have gained 7
percent. The euro has advanced 10 percent against the dollar in
the past year, meaning VW earns less on cars sold outside its
home region.  “Up until today, the market has gotten used to VW beating
expectations,” saidDaniel Schwarz, a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Commerzbank AG who recommends buying the shares. “VW simply
failed today to deliver the good news people were looking for.”  Shares Drop  VW fell as much as 10.90 euros, or 7.8 percent, to 133.15
euros, the biggest drop since March 15, and was down 4.7 percent
to 137.35 euros as 4:42 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has
gained 13 percent this year, valuing the German carmaker at 60.9
billion euros.  Volkswagen is expanding in the U.S. and emerging markets
including  China  and  Russia  in a bid to surpass Toyota Motor
Corp. as the world’s biggest carmaker by 2018. The maker of the
Golf hatchback is also growing in Europe, where it boosted
market share in the first half to 22.8 percent from 21.1 percent
at the expense of  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and PSA Peugeot Citroen.  The second-quarter operating margin rose to 7.9 percent
from 6 percent. Net income in the period more than tripled to
4.67 billion euros.  “The coming months will be challenging for us and will
require us to work hard to maintain this high level,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in the statement.  The company has forecast a 5 percent increase in global
deliveries this year after selling a record 7.2 million cars,
SUVs and vans in 2010. The German manufacturer sold more than 4
million vehicles between January and June for the first time.  Ford Profit  Ford’s second-quarter pre-tax operating profit slipped 2.2
percent to $2.88 billion because of weaker demand in Europe and
 North America . Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker,
dropped its target of lifting 2011 automotive profits after
being hit by supply disruptions stemming from the March
earthquake in  Japan  and rising raw material costs.  Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-largest carmaker, said today
that first-half operating profit slumped 19 percent to 630
million euros, burdened by sluggish demand for aging models such
as the Clio compact.  Strong orders for the Golf and Tiguan as well as Audi’s A6
sedan and SUVs, prompted VW to expand production in the third
quarter. VW will run reduced shifts during a traditional three-
week summer vacation at German plants in Wolfsburg and Emden and
add Saturday shifts between Aug. 20 and Sept. 24.  Production Boost  Audi, the biggest contributor to VW group profit, suspended
summer holidays at its main factory in Ingolstadt to maintain
output of the Q5 SUV and has extended around-the-clock
production of the Q7 SUV at a factory in Bratislava, Slovakia,
until year’s end.  VW plans to invest 51.6 billion euros in its automotive
business over the next five years, with an additional 10.6
billion euros to be spent through its two joint ventures in
China, the world’s largest auto market and VW’s top sales
region. The company plans to hire more than 50,000 workers
through 2018 as it targets deliveries of more than 10 million
vehicles per year.  Future growth may also stem from pending mergers. VW
secured a majority stake in  MAN SE (MAN)  after a takeover offer and
aims to combine the Munich-based truckmaker with  Scania AB (SCVB) , the
Swedish competitor that’s 71 percent-owned by VW. A planned tie-
up with Porsche SE is designed to double output by the sports-
car maker to about 200,000 units by 2018.  Porsche Merger  VW is doing “everything” to support efforts to complete
the Porsche merger by the end of the year, Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said today on a conference call.  Legal and tax-related obstacles remain unsolved,
threatening to delay the merger, Poetsch said, putting the
likelihood of the merger happening in the remainder of 2011 at
50 percent.  VW is reviewing its partnership with  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  as
cooperation with the Japanese carmaker has been developing
“more slowly than expected,” Poetsch said, without being more
specific. Cooperation between the two manufacturers is not being
pursued “with the desired level of intensity,” the CFO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  