-- 
Wheat Advances on Speculation U.S. Yields May Decline

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-07-28T09:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/wheat-advances-on-speculation-u-s-yields-may-decline-correct-.html
(Corrects delivery month in second paragraph.)  Wheat futures gained for a third
day, erasing losses earlier, on speculation that the U.S.
production may be smaller than the government estimate. Corn
futures fell.  December-delivery wheat gained 0.2 percent to $7.47 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, reversing losses of as
much as 0.8 percent earlier. Futures have gained 21 percent in
the past year.  Northern  North Dakota  farmers may harvest fewer bushels per
acre of hard-red spring wheat this year than in 2010, based on
field surveys on the Wheat Quality Council’s annual tour of
crops in the state. Yields may average 42.1 bushels an acre,
based on 151 samples collected on the second day of the tour by
the council in northwest and north-central part of North Dakota.  In 2010, the estimated yield was 46.3 bushels, council data
show. North Dakota accounts for about 47 percent of the acreage
planted to spring wheat in the U.S., according to the Department
of Agriculture.  The results “suggest USDA estimates of the high-protein
crop may be overstated,” Lynette Tan, an analyst at Phillip
Futures Pte. said in a report to clients today.  Corn for December delivery fell as much as 0.9 percent to
$6.8525 a bushel in  Chicago , before trading at $6.8725 a bushel.
November-delivery soybeans were little changed at $13.79 a
bushel.  Soybean futures may advance as much as 9.2 percent as a
recent trading pattern shows more bullish potential than trends
in corn and wheat, according to a technical analysis by Trading
Central SA. The oilseed, which has lagged behind corn in the
past year, may advance to $14.52 per bushel, and then rally to
$15.05, Ludwig Garric, an analyst at Trading Central, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  Garric’s forecast was based on a “bullish, symmetrical
triangle pattern” which some traders use as a gauge to indicate
buyers may be willing to pay more after each decline within a
rally, extending an asset’s gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  