-- 
World Bank’s IFC Tops Kangaroo Bonds Amid U.S.’s Impasse: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-29T01:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/world-bank-tops-2011-kangaroo-bonds-amid-u-s-s-impasse-australia-credit.html
The World Bank Group’s International
Finance Corp. priced the biggest offering in  Australia  by a
foreign issuer in more than a year as demand surged for top-
rated bonds amid concern the U.S. and European debt crises will
curb global economic growth.  The fixed- and floating-rate notes due August 2016 from
Washington-based IFC priced to yield 15 basis points more than
swap rates July 27, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The A$1.5
billion ($1.65 billion) sale was the first kangaroo bond by a
top-rated U.S. borrower since January and the largest by any
issuer since March 2010, the data show. Landwirtschaftliche
Rentenbank of Germany added A$500 million to its April 2018
securities at 116 basis points above government debt yesterday.  The U.S. may lose its top credit grade unless President
 Barack Obama  and Congress reach a lasting agreement to lift the
nation’s $14.3 trillion borrowing cap, with both  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service placing their ratings for
the country on review this month. That’s not stopping investors
in Australia’s kangaroo bond market from rewarding U.S.
borrowers with lower relative yields on speculation the impasse
is less of a threat than Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Arguably the U.S. risks are less because their capacity
to work through their issues is greater, whereas Europe is
challenged by the problems caused by having a single  exchange
rate  for a very diverse economy,” said  David Plank , Sydney-
based head of research at Deutsche Bank AG.  Europe  Spreads Widen  European borrowers accounted for the five biggest increases
in relative yields in the past month among the top-rated
borrowers in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Australian Quasi &
Foreign Government Index. The gauge has delivered 6.2 percent
returns this year, compared with a 6.1 percent advance for
Australian government debt, the Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Spreads on kangaroo bonds sold by Instituto de Credito
Oficial, a Spanish government agency that lends to businesses,
have widened 20 basis points in the past month to 264 more than
 government bonds , the most of any securities in the index. The
yield premium on European Investment Bank notes widened 10 basis
points to 87, the index data show.  That compares to increases of between 3 and 5 basis points
for U.S.-based IFC, International Bank for Reconstruction &
Development and  Inter-American Development Bank , the data show.  Greece , Default  Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating to CC on July
27, two steps above default, and said the nation will partially
default on its debt once a European Union plan is implemented.  “I think there will be ongoing demand for European issues
because their spreads are wider and so compensate for this
additional risk,” Plank said.  EU leaders agreed last week bondholders will contribute 50
billion euros to a new rescue package, with euro-region
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  putting up a
further 109 billion euros.  In the U.S., the Republican-led House remains on a
collision course with the Senate and the White House over
competing plans to increase the debt limit. Obama has threatened
to veto House Speaker  John Boehner ’s two-step plan to raise the
debt ceiling.  The  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book survey July 27
the  U.S. economy  expanded at a slower pace in more parts of the
country since the beginning of June.  Earlier this month the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said that
the nation’s growth pace may be weaker than previously forecast,
retreating from a prediction two months earlier that the economy
will expand 4.25 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1999.  Inflation Quickens  Still, data released July 27 showing the fastest consumer
price increases since 2008 saw traders end bets on a cut in
borrowing costs. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Australian corporate bonds instead of government debt rose to
180 basis points the same day, the highest since Feb. 2, Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Inflation expectations, which had been declining on concern
European and U.S. debt crises will roil global markets, gained
as the data showed measures that strip out volatile prices such
as food and energy exceeded economists’ forecasts.  The Australian dollar soared to a post-float record and has
climbed 24 percent against the greenback in the past year as a
mining-investment boom drove unemployment below 5 percent. The
currency bought $1.0988 as of 10:29 a.m. in Sydney, after
touching $1.1081 on July 27, the most since exchange controls
were scrapped in 1983.  The benchmark 10-year bond yield fell six basis points to
4.84 percent today, or 189 basis points more than similar
maturity Treasuries. The gap to yields on Australian inflation-
linked debt shows investors expect average annual inflation of
2.76 percent over the coming 10 years.  Safer Bet  Australia is being seen as a safer bet than both the U.S.
and  Germany  for the first time since April 2010. Credit-default
swaps to cover the South-Pacific nation’s debt for five years
traded at 57 basis points yesterday, according to CMA prices in
 New York . CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Contracts on U.S. Treasuries were at 64.37 and those on
German bunds cost 63.17.  Sales of kangaroo bonds slowed from a record start as
relative yields widened after the  Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority  said in February the securities don’t count
as assets local banks must hold under Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision standards.  Yields Drop  The extra yield investors demand to hold IFC’s 5.75 percent
notes due 2015 compared to the swap rate widened to as much as
27 basis points in March before tumbling to 2 basis points on
July 21, matching the lowest in data going back to June 2010,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  The yield on IFC’s notes compared to Australian-dollar debt
sold by EIB due the same year touched the lowest in more than
four months on July 26, the ANZ prices show.  “Investors want something like IFC which has paid-in
capital that’s not as sensitive to particular regional
instability,” said Anne Anderson, who helps manage more than
A$21 billion as head of Asia-Pacific fixed income for UBS Global
Asset Management Australia Ltd. “The U.S., it’s a political
impasse but it is just between parties not between nations and I
think that’s the critical difference. It’s more likely that
you’ll eventually get resolution in the U.S., isn’t it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  