-- 
Yemen Forces Clash With Tribesmen at Republican Guard Camp North of Sana’a

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-07-28T13:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/yemen-forces-clash-with-tribesmen-at-republican-guard-camp-north-of-sana-a.html
Yemeni military planes carried out
strikes on armed tribesmen who seized control of part of a
training facility for the country’s elite forces north of the
capital, Sana’a.  Dozens of people were killed as soldiers clashed with
tribesmen at the al-Samaa camp used by Yemen’s Republican Guard
forces, Yahia al-Shabi, a local resident, said in a telephone
interview today.  The government accused the opposition Al-Islah party of
involvement in the tribal raid on the camp, about 40 kilometers
(25 miles) north of Sana’a, said Abdu al-Janadi, Yemen’s deputy
information minister, at a press conference today. He didn’t
cite a death toll. The  Defense Ministry  said on its website that
the army suffered “heavy losses” and that the attackers also
sought to gain control of Sana’a international airport.  Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s government is trying
to quell demonstrations against his rule that began in January.
The president, who is recovering in neighboring  Saudi Arabia 
from injuries sustained in an attack on his compound, also faces
tribal revolts, secessionist movements and al-Qaeda militants.
His son Ahmed, who was once expected to be Saleh’s successor, is
head of the Republican Guard.  The U.S., Gulf Arab nations and Yemeni opposition groups
have called on Saleh to transfer power to Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi.  Six months of unrest have cost the country’s businesses
more than $17 billion, and forced 500 factories to close, al-
Janadi said. He warned that the government “may reach a point
at which it will be unable to pay the salaries of employees.”  In the southern city of Taiz, one soldier was killed and
another wounded in clashes between security forces and gunmen,
said Nashwan al-Ariki, a witness. In Hadramaut province, one
protester was killed and three others wounded when police fired
on crowds demonstrating over shortages of fuel and the collapse
of social services, Naser Ba-Qazquz, an opposition leader, said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 