-- 
Yuan Little Changed as Debt Concerns Offset by Inflation Risk

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-28T08:54:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/yuan-little-changed-as-debt-concerns-offset-by-inflation-risk.html
China ’s yuan was little changed as
concern economic growth will slow due to spending cuts in the
U.S. and  Europe  was offset by optimism the central bank will
allow currency gains to curb inflation.  The delay among U.S. policy makers in extending the
nation’s debt ceiling signals long-term weakness in the dollar
that will push up commodity prices and pose serious global
inflation risks, according to a front-page editorial today in
the official China Securities Journal. The central bank set its
daily yuan fixing 0.02 percent weaker at 6.4438, compared with
6.4426 yesterday, which was the highest level since July 2005.  “A stronger yuan helps suppress the prices of imported
goods and that is obviously an important channel through which
domestic inflation can be countered,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
Hong Kong-based senior currency strategist at Scotia Capital,
the investment banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia. “I’d
interpret today’s fixing as yuan bullish.”  The yuan closed at 6.4428 per dollar in  Shanghai  compared
with 6.4433 yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It touched 6.4375 yesterday, the strongest level
since the country unified official and market exchange rates at
the end of 1993.  In the offshore market in  Hong Kong , the yuan was little
changed at 6.4365. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped
0.06 percent to 6.3755, a 1.1 percent premium to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ADB Outlook  The Manila-based  Asian Development Bank  warned today that
Asian nations need to implement policies to curb inflation even
as the global economy slows.  The lender’s forecast for growth of 7.9 percent this year
in emerging East Asian economies may be revised lower, according
to its Asia Economic Monitor report, which was prepared by the
ADB’s Office of Regional Economic Integration. Economies in the
region face the risk of increased financial market volatility
and destabilizing capital flows, the ADB said.  China’s economy  and financial markets may withstand the U.S.
and European debt crises better than most Asian nations,
according to a research report from Credit Suisse Group AG.
Lending by U.S. and European banks is “a virtual irrelevance”
for China, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  