-- 
Hyundai Motor Profit Rises 37% After Earthquake Disrupts Toyota, Honda

-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 
2011-07-28T06:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/hyundai-profit-rises-37-after-quake-disrupts-toyota-honda.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest carmaker, had a 37 percent gain in second-quarter profit
as the company increased production to fill the void left by
disruptions at Japanese rivals.  Net income was 2.3 trillion won ($2.2 billion) in the three
months ended June 30, compared with 1.68 trillion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. This compares with the 2.2 trillion won average of five
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales advanced 19 percent to 20 trillion won, led by fuel-
efficient models including Elantra and Accent. Hyundai ramped up
production overseas to combat gains in the South Korean won and
take advantage of factory shutdowns at Toyota Motor Corp. and
Honda Motor Co. after the March earthquake.  “Hyundai’s significant growth in sales volume has been
enough to offset the recent strong performance of the won,” Cho Soo Hong, an analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in
 Seoul , said before the earnings announcement. “The company will
face tougher competition in overseas markets as Japanese
automakers production is returning to normal.”  Hyundai Motor’s shares fell 1.7 percent to 239,000 won at
the 3 p.m. close of trading in Seoul. The shares have gained 38
percent this year, compared with a 5.1 percent gain in the
benchmark Kospi Index.  Strong Won  The won has advanced 6.5 percent this year, making it
 Asia ’s second-best performing currency in 2011. Hyundai Chief
Financial Officer Won-Hee Lee today said the strong won is a
concern. A stronger won hurts South Korea’s exporters because it
cuts the value of repatriated earnings.  Hyundai Motor’s second-quarter sales volume rose 13 percent
to 1.04 million units, according to the company’s statement
today. Domestic sales gained 16 percent and overseas sales rose
12 percent.  The carmaker will introduce new models in the second half
of this year to compete with Toyota’s Camry sedan, Lee said.  Hyundai Motor has no plans to increase incentives in the
U.S. and aims to increase premium model sales in the market, he
said.  In  South Korea , Lee expects competition will heighten from
imported models from the free-trade agreement with the European
Union. The carmaker has order backlog in all export markets, Lee
said.  China , Europe  In China, the carmaker sees demand for mid-sized sedans and
sport-utility vehicles rising in the world’s biggest auto
market, Lee said.  Vehicle sales at the company’s plant in  Czech Republic 
increased by 30 percent, and by 24 percent at its factory in
 Turkey , compared with a year earlier, according to company data.  Hyundai’s plant in Russia, which opened in September 2010,
produced more than 10,000 units each month during the second
quarter. The company plans to increase annual output of Accent
models, known as Solaris in  Russia , at the Russian plant to
200,000 units, from 150,000, it said in an e-mailed statement on
July 8.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods and
administrative expenses, rose 22 percent to 2.1 trillion won in
the second quarter from 1.7 trillion won, the carmaker said in
today’s e-mailed statement.  Toyota’s global production dropped 9.2 percent in June
while domestic output slumped 16 percent as it worked to restart
factories after the nation’s record earthquake and tsunami
caused shortages of parts and electricity. Honda said global
production plunged almost 45 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  