-- 
Zaha Hadid’s $439 Million Sea Creature Floats Over Olympic Pool

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-28/zaha-hadid-s-439-million-sea-creature-floats-over-olympic-pool-interview.html
“Some sort of sea life creature”
is how architect  Zaha Hadid  describes the 269 million pound
($439 million) Aquatics Centre she just completed for the  London
2012 Olympic Games .  The pool complex has an undulating roof that looks like a
big skate fish. Temporarily tucked under its wings are chunky
legs to fit the extra 15,000 seats needed for the Games; the
legs will come off later to restore the original contours.  The Aquatics Centre is the first London landmark by Iraqi-
born Hadid, who has long been an unsung heroine in the U.K. --
despite living here for the past four decades, and becoming the
first woman, in 2004, to win the  Pritzker Architecture Prize .  When we meet for a poolside conversation, she wears black
leggings and a dramatic gold ring that practically covers one
finger. Dabbing her eyes with tissue, she says she’s “not
crying or anything” -- just suffering from an allergy.  I ask what it’s like opening her first Olympics project.  Hadid: It’s fantastic.  London  is going to be amazing next
year. Everybody is going to be involved in this energy in the
city. It’s an incredible place now, and I think this really is
one of the things which will add to it.  Nayeri: You’ve got this waved, undulating roof.  Hadid: You need more height in the diving than you do in
the swimming. So it’s really a design that has two heights. It
would be quite nice to see what it’s like from the pool, looking
up!  It could be like some sort of sea life floating above you,
like a sea creature.  London Landmark  Nayeri: Are you happy to finally have a landmark in London?  Hadid: Yes, because I think it’s very important to do
public work buildings, whether museums or theaters or libraries
or sports facilities that are open to many people. It’s very
nice to do housing, but it’s private, has an impact on the
street.  Nayeri: Were you irritated by the press coverage about cost
overruns?  Hadid: We have to clarify what it is. The number is not the
cost of only the building. It’s the cost of the building, it’s
inflation, it’s VAT, it’s the fee, it’s the bridges, it’s a
whole bunch of things which go with it.  They want to give it an overall cost. That’s not
necessarily a construction cost.  Nayeri: You’re not hit by recession in your portfolio?  Hadid: Eventually I’m sure everybody will be. There are
other places. Once some players maybe subside, others appear.  Nayeri: What do you mean?  Hadid: I think there is a downturn generally, but there is
other work -- in  South America  now. You have work still in  Asia ,
a lot of work, and  China  is still a buoyant economy.  Nayeri: Does that worry you?  Hadid: Of course, but I think there’s a bigger story. Not
just me. What do you do about the economy? It’s a different
issue altogether than whether our  office  or other offices will
have a problem.  I think other worlds are emerging.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 