-- 
‘Hoop Dreams’ Director, Composer Named Sxip Get $50,000 Grants

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-12-05T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/-hoop-dreams-director-composer-named-sxip-get-50-000-usa-artist-grants.html
A documentary filmmaker, a group of
edgy choreographers and a glass artist are among the 52 winners
of the 2011  United States Artists  fellowships.  The $50,000 grants, announced today at a ceremony hosted by
actor Tim Robbins in  Santa Monica ,  California , went to a group
ranging in work from poets to photographers and in age from 31
to 78.  The winners include Steve James, who directed the 1994
documentary “Hoop Dreams” about the struggle of two black
teenagers to become professional basketball players; Tennessee-
based photographer  Mike Smith , known for images of rural
 Appalachia ; modern-dance pioneer Donald Byrd, who choreographed
“The Color Purple” on Broadway; and experimental composer  Sxip
Shirey , whose offbeat guitar playing blends odd noises with
music.  “The grant allows me to work on my next film without
having to secure funding immediately,” said James, whose most
recent documentary, “ The Interrupters ,” had its premiere at
this year’s  Sundance Film Festival .  USA provides funds for “the most innovative and
influential artists” in their field who struggle to maintain a
steady income, the Los Angeles-based nonprofit said in a
statement.  “Our staff makes the phone calls to the winners, and
sometimes they’re crying or they’ll say, ‘You’ve pulled me back
from the edge,’” Katharine DeShaw, USA’s executive director,
said in a phone interview. “You get a sense that the award is a
real life saver.”  Candidates are nominated by an anonymous panel of people in
the arts and then apply for grants. Past recipients have
included cartoonist Chris Ware, fashion designers Kate and Laura
Mulleavy of  Rodarte ; choreographers Benjamin Millepied and Bill T. Jones; and the novelist Sapphire.  Origins  The Ford,  Rockefeller , Prudential and  Rasmuson  foundations
helped set up the USA Artists program in 2005 with $22 million
in seed money. Those institutions teamed up last year with the
Omaha-based Todd and Betiana Simon Foundation to expand the
program by establishing a $50 million endowment and capital
campaign.  Other winners this year include glass artist  Beth Lipman ,
architectural designer Jenny Sabin, guitarist  Manuel Barrueco ;
poet  A.E. Stallings  (who won a $500,0000 John D. and Catherine
T. MacArthur Foundation “genius grant” in September);
assemblage artist John Outterbridge; and theater artist and
painter  Roger Shimomura  whose work addresses Asian-American
stereotypes.  A complete list of the grant winners can be found at
 http://www.unitedstatesartists.org .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 