-- 
A-Rod Cages Owen Wilson Amid Ugly Art, Hookers at Miami Basel

-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/a-rod-wows-owen-wilson-amid-miami-basel-s-ugly-art-hookers-lance-esplund.html
The scene recalled the heyday of
Tyco’s  Dennis Kozlowski  and the melting statue of
Michelangelo’s David that adorned his wife’s birthday
party.  We were at the W South Beach Hotel reception hosted in
part by  Ruinart Champagne (MC) , an official sponsor of Art Basel
 Miami Beach , the 10th incarnation of the U.S.’s largest
contemporary-art fair.  Guests dipped giant communion wafers into fountains of
white and dark chocolate that streamed from the penises of
two gleaming silver putti in Angel Otero’s sculpture
“Pissing Contest II.” (If you were wondering, it was a draw.)  Later that Tuesday night, the opening party of
 London ’s White Cube Gallery at the Soho Beach House
featured bartenders dashing at breakneck speeds as guests
elbowed one another over tables heaped with chicken, lamb,
crab and paella. A wild boar was roasting outside in a
clearing on a spit. Bikini-clad models poured tequila shots
at bars floating in the swimming pool.  Miami’s fair -- where everything is not only
permitted, but encouraged -- has always been more Art
Bacchanal than Art Basel, the Swiss urfair. Sponsors and
guests alike know that Miami is better built for pleasure
than business. Still, you would have to be completely
blasted not to sense the air of unease tormenting the place
as dark little Euro bulletins burst through the sunshine.  Impulse Buy  By day, hung-over dealers scrambled to make sales to
hung-over collectors. Many artworks sold. I watched a woman
impulse-buy a $60,000 decorative, landscape-inspired
abstract painting to hang “you know, over that chair in
the hallway” -- as she explained to her girlfriend.  Word on the street, however, was that most six- and
seven-figure works idled on dealers’ floors.  ABMB’s over-the-top parties argued for the height of
confidence. The term “museum quality” was bandied about
along with other dubious labels.  I heard one dealer refer to a piece that combined 2-D
and 3-D elements surrounding the dog star Lassie as
“phenomenological.”  The overall tone of the fair -- where European
visitors were fewer than last year and sales were weaker --
was that the end might not be far off.  Blue-chip dealers were playing it safe, showing mostly
average works by household names -- Calder, Chagall,
Dubuffet, Giacometti, Alex Katz, Ellsworth Kelly, Leger,
Modigliani, Picasso and Chaim Soutine.  Arp’s ‘Torso’  There were exceptions. Jean Arp’s abstract marble
“Torso” (1960) -- conflating female nude, bone, cloud,
tree and flower -- reminded me that ABMB brings
masterpieces, if only briefly, out of hiding. It was
offered at $1.5 million.  Continuing to play it safe are Miami’s private
contemporary-art collections, which (primarily curated by
art advisers) are as predictable, impersonal and fashion-
conscious as their collectors’ garages. Unlike their
driveways, however -- where one can encounter world-class
workmanship by respected names such as Bentley, Ferrari and
Lamborghini -- their warehouse galleries and great rooms
are generally filled with outrageously priced brand names
that amount to visually vapid art.  At the Craig Robbins, Rubell Family, and Adam and
Lenore Sender collections, among others, the usual A-list,
status-symbol suspects reared their ugly-art heads.
Shallow, one-note works with easily digestible content
reign.  Owen Wilson  in Cage  New York Yankee Alex Rodriquez hosted an exclusive
art-warming party at his Miami home, where A-Rod’s zero-
gravity-swimming-pool-bay-view is the real money shot.
Rodriquez, who began, predictably, with Warhol, showed off
his purchasing power more than his power hitting. The
house’s expansive, contemporary-art-filled interior has
almost as many sweeping vistas as its backyard.  Visitors were drawn to his infamous, indoor batting
cage, which contained a contemporary display of Nate
Lowman’s simple-minded smiley face and bullet hole
paintings. The latter, like Warhol’s “Flowers,” comprise
a single shape with a round “hole” in the center. The
desired effect, I dread to think, was to equate fast ball
with speeding bullet.  “Amazing!” said actor Owen Wilson as he left. I’m
not sure if Wilson was referring to A-Rod’s art or his
enormous cage, custom-built to improve his batting average.
I vote for the cage.  ‘American Exuberance’  The  Rubell Family Collection  mounted the show
“American Exuberance,” whose centerpiece was  John
Miller ’s “A Refusal to Accept Limits” (2007). Miller’s
installation -- perhaps both an omen and ABMB theme -- is a
debris field of broken Greco-Roman columns and odds-and-
ends, including machine guns, all covered in imitation gold
leaf.  Included in the show is Bert Rodriquez’s coiled, neon
word sculpture, which reads “The True Artist Makes Useless
S--- for Rich People to Buy.” (This is also the artwork’s
title.) I hope the Rubells paid an enormous sum for this
sculpture. It fits in nicely with the rest of their
collection.  In a setting like ABMB -- where you rub shoulders with
P. Diddy,  Naomi Campbell ,  Michael Douglas  and  Catherine Zeta-Jones ; where women wear white crocheted dresses,
thongs and posture-altering stones -- the contemporary art
(most of it forgettable) has a lot of competition.  Discoveries  To be surprised, you had to venture into the smaller
galleries and satellite fairs. Discoveries for me were
Christopher Kurtz’s wood sculptures, including “First
Dark” (2010), an abstract amalgamation of ornament, bird
and star; Valerie Favre’s inventive, narrative ink drawings
and collages exploring themes of performance and dream; and
the quirky, mixed-media tree sculptures of Gonzalo
Gonzalez.  Perhaps in Miami, sex sells better than art; or maybe
they’re somehow related. Rumor has it that the success of
ABMB is in direct proportion to the number of prostitutes
that decorate certain hotel lobbies. More equals more.  Private Paradise  When I returned in the wee hours to the Fontainebleau
Hotel, bleached-blond girls -- perched on cushioned benches
under inverted wedding-cake chandeliers, each her own
private paradise -- shone like amber beacons floating in
the pink-and-blue glow of the lobby.  There were usually about a dozen prostitutes on duty.  But not everyone seemed to have thought his visit a
rip-roaring success. On my return flight to  New York , I
encountered a disgruntled man who was wearing a t-shirt
that read: “Please Buy My Art.”  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Editors: Manuela Hoelterhoff, Jeffrey Burke.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 