-- 
Affymax Jumps Most in 16 Months on FDA Anemia-Drug Review

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-05T21:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/affymax-anemia-drug-works-as-well-as-approved-drugs-fda-says.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  surged the most in 16
months after U.S. regulators said the company’s experimental
anemia medicine works as well as drugs sold by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  for patients with chronic kidney disease.  Affymax climbed 19 percent to $6.26 at 4 p.m.  New York  time
in the biggest gain since August 2010. The drug, peginesatide,
is “non-inferior” to Amgen’s Epogen and Aranesp and J&J’s
Procrit,  Food and Drug Administration  staff evaluating whether
the product should be approved for sale said in a  report  today.  Peginesatide would be the first marketed therapy for  Palo
Alto , California-based Affymax, competing with drugs such as
Epogen, which generated 2010 sales of $2.5 billion. FDA
reviewers also said the medicine is as safe as Epogen and
Procrit for people on dialysis, the patient group for whom
Affymax seeks approval. An advisory panel will meet Dec. 7 to
evaluate the drug.  “We believe the probability of approval for the dialysis
indication is high and that the FDA may have left the door open
to approval” for chronic kidney disease patients who aren’t on
dialysis,  William Tanner , an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets
in New York, said today in a note to clients after reviewing the
FDA staff report.  The effects of peginesatide last longer, making it more
convenient and less expensive, according to Affymax’s September
quarterly report. The drug can be injected once a month,
compared with an initial dose of three times weekly for Epogen.  Safety Data  The treatment had “similar safety results” for patients
on dialysis to Epogen and Procrit, according to the FDA staff
report. While clinical trials showed peginesatide may pose a
greater risk than approved treatments for patients who aren’t on
dialysis, agency reviewers said they weren’t able to determine
whether “baseline demographic imbalances” skewed those
results.  Affymax is seeking approval only for adult patients on
dialysis, according to a  company briefing document  posted today
on the agency’s website. The FDA aims to rule on the application
by March 27. Affymax had formerly referred to peginesatide as
Hematide.  Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks,  California , signed a seven-
year agreement with dialysis provider  DaVita Inc., (DVA)  based in
Denver,  Colorado , to replace a deal expiring Dec. 31 that will
meet at least 90 percent of DaVita’s requirements to treat
anemia, Tanner said in a client note, Nov. 18.  Fresenius, DaVita  Amgen also signed a non-exclusive agreement with  Fresenius
Medical Care AG  for an undisclosed amount of years, Tanner said.
Fresenius and DaVita are the largest dialysis providers
respectively by annual revenue.  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, began this year reimbursing for all services
associated with end-stage kidney disease in one bundled payment
to attempt to save money.  “In a bundled reimbursement environment, peginesatide
could provide an attractive alternative to dialysis providers
seeking to maximize profits,” Tanner said.  The FDA recommended in June that doctors use the lowest
possible doses of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents like Epogen
because of potential heart risks. The agency in 2006 first
warned that high doses of the anemia drugs may cause heart
attacks and strokes.  The FDA advisory panel will vote Dec. 7 on whether the
benefits of peginesatide outweigh its risks, “considering the
safety issues associated with other agents used to treat the
anemia” that results from chronic  kidney disease , according to
 draft questions  posted today on the agency’s website.  ‘Broader Issues’  While the agency “seems possibly open” to approving
peginesatide, the drug still faces a “difficult road,”  Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , said
today in a note to clients.  “Although a net positive panel vote could occur in theory
given the panel is only considering the data at hand and not
external factors, we think the hurdle is higher for FDA to
actually go ahead and approve it because of broader issues”
such as “continued regulatory scrutiny” of the drug class and
a “lack of unmet need for a new agent,” Yee said.  Peginesatide is an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent Affymax
said proved non-inferior in late-stage  clinical trials  to
epoetin and darbepoetin, which include drugs such as Amgen’s
Epogen and Aranesp. The safety of the drugs in regard to death,
stroke and heart attacks was also similar for dialysis patients.  The trials consisted of 2,609 patients.  Affymax and Osaka, Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) 
are co-commercializing peginesatide in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in  Washington  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 