-- 
Afghanistan to Appeal for Aid Until 2030 as Global Donors Discuss Plight

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-05T03:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/afghanistan-to-appeal-for-aid-until-2030-as-global-donors-discuss-plight.html
Afghanistan  plans to appeal at a
conference in Bonn today for international economic aid to
continue to 2025 and for donors to help pay for its security
forces until 2030 to avoid having progress “come undone.”  Afghan officials plan to describe the nation’s precarious
position and long-term needs, according to a copy of the report
obtained by Bloomberg News. It acknowledges the government’s
economic plight -- the  World Bank  estimates Afghanistan will
need about $7 billion a year for the next decade -- and warns
that unless its budget gap is met “the good work of the past
ten years will come undone.”  About 90 delegations, totaling more than 1,000 participants,
are gathering to discuss Afghanistan’s future ten years after
the first Bonn conference was held to show support for the post-
Taliban government of President  Hamid Karzai .  Pakistan ’s
decision to boycott the meeting, in response to a Nov. 25 NATO
strike killed 24 of their soldiers, may diminish the effort.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her
counterparts will discuss economic strategies, including the
“New Silk Road” regional trade framework, to create that
support after 2014, when Karzai is slated to step down and NATO
troops withdraw, ending billions in related military aid.  ‘Hopeful but Dubious’  “I’m hopeful but dubious,” said Robert Hathaway, director
of the Asia Program at the Wilson Center in  Washington ,
commenting on Afghanistan’s future prospects. “Even if Pakistan
were fully participating, I think the idea of a regional
cooperation toward a settlement is going to be very difficult.”  The central goal of the Bonn session will be to ensure that
international aid continues, said a State Department official
who briefed reporters under ground rules that don’t allow him to
be named. Many countries have invested blood, treasure and
resources in Afghanistan over the past decade, the official said,
and it will still take more time to get the country on its feet.  President  Barack Obama  called Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari on Saturday and Clinton spoke with Pakistani Prime
Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  to express their condolences
and stress U.S. commitment to the relationship, according to
statements from the White House and State Department. Pakistan,
a central player in the international strategy on Afghanistan,
is sticking to its boycott.  The Afghans’ Transition Strategy lays out as goals to
assume full responsibility for security by 2015, to end reliance
on non-security foreign aid by 2025 and to have an Afghan-funded
“professional, highly effective” national security force by
2030.  Corruption Problems  Afghans want to attract private sector investment and
improve the country’s ranking on  Transparency International ’s
Corruption Perception Index. Currently ranked among the world’s
worst at 180 out of 182, Afghan officials would like to rise to
150 in three years.  Corruption and weak governance are “fully half of the
reasons for Afghanistan’s problems, apart from insecurity and
the Taliban,” said Haroun Mir, a political analyst at the
Kabul-based Afghanistan Center for Research and Policy Studies.  The Bonn conference won’t improve Afghanistan’s future
because it won’t address “those obvious weaknesses,” Mir said
in a phone interview.  Afghanistan will also be asking country donors for
continued aid at a time of financial crisis and constraint in
 Europe  and the U.S. The Afghan Ambassador to the U.S. Eklil Hakimi acknowledged the financial squeeze that might make it
hard for the international community to commit aid.  Replacing Military Spending  “We are mindful of the financial climate, but this aid
will be lower than military spending,” he said in an interview.  The Afghan economic plan argues that the levels of aid
requested are relatively small. The $10 billion needed to make
up the country’s fiscal gap in 2015 represents a 40 percent
reduction from current aid levels, the report says.  Many Afghans see international support as their country’s
only protection against Pakistan efforts to use its influence
with the Pakistan-based Taliban and allied Islamic militant
guerrillas to pressure or dominate Afghanistan, said Afghan
analysts including Ahmad Saeedi, a retired diplomat in Kabul.  “If the international community fails to support us
financially, Pakistan will be in a position to bring our country
under its influence, as it did from 1996 to 2001, during the
Taliban regime,” he said in a telephone interview.  Afghan and U.S. officials, including the former Joint
Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen and President
Karzai, charge that elements of Pakistan’s army use their
backing for the Taliban to fight a proxy war in Afghanistan.  Pakistan denies manipulating militant groups and its
leaders say national security interests require a friendly
Afghan government that isn’t too close to Pakistan’s historic
rival  India .  In Bonn, Afghan officials will announce the reintegration
of about 3,000 Taliban fighters into Afghan society, said Hakimi,
the ambassador to the U.S.  Hathaway of the Wilson Center said he was skeptical that
the plans to build a regional trade block will be enough to
induce militants to embrace reconciliation. Those most
responsible for instability in Afghanistan today “are not going
to be dissuaded because of new trade routes or by the prospect
of regional trade ties,” he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Bonn at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  