-- 
Air France to Add 16 Routes at Toulouse in EasyJet Challenge

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-12-05T12:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/air-france-to-add-16-routes-at-toulouse-in-easyjet-challenge.html
Air France plans to fly to 16 new
destinations from Toulouse as of April, including Berlin, Prague
and Vienna, as it creates a hub in the southwestern city to fend
off airlines including  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  in its home market.  The new routes will more than double to 28 the number of
cities served from the second French regional base that the
carrier has set up this year. Air France established a hub in
the Mediterranean city of Marseille in October and will add six
routes in Nice in the southeast in April.  The airline, owned by Air France-KLM Group, is adding short
and medium-haul routes outside its Paris Charles de Gaulle
airport base to catch up with other European network carriers
seeking to stem low-cost rivals’ growth. The three new hubs will
contribute an estimated 950 million euros ($1.28 billion) in
sales in 2012, division Chief Executive Officer Alexandre de Juniac said today.  “The idea is to add the best practices of low-cost
carriers, with the full services of  Air France (AF)  and attractive
fares,” Juniac said at a press briefing in Toulouse.  De Juniac, a former adviser to French finance ministers,
was appointed head of the Air France brand in November after
group chief Pierre-Henri Gourgeon left in October amid losses.  Air France-KLM rose as much as 3.5 percent to 4.44 euros at
1:10 p.m. in Paris. That pared the stock’s decline this year to
67 percent.  Cost-Cut Plans  Air France will outline cost-cutting measures in January in
advance of a larger-scale strategy announcement planned for May
or June, de Juniac said at the press conference, his first
public appearance as the division’s CEO.  The so-called transformation plan will include
refurbishment of business-class cabins in the airline’s  Boeing
Co. (BA)  777-model fleet, de Juniac said. Eliminating jobs will be
the “last thing” Air France will do to achieve savings, he
said.  The new hubs are part of a program to restore medium-haul,
point-to-point routes’ profitability by the end of 2013, he
said. Those services include flights from Paris Orly as well as
French airports outside the capital city.  The airline will assign 10 Airbus SAS A320-series planes to
Toulouse and expects eventually to have a workforce of 350
people there, with 120 pilots and the remainder cabin
attendants. The planes will be able to fly 11 hours and 30
minutes a day on average, compared with the eight hours and 15
minutes that they were used when based in Paris.  Destinations  Other new European routes served from Toulouse will include
 Athens , Brussels, Geneva and Hamburg as well the island of
 Malta , the Spanish towns of Malaga and Seville, and the Italian
cities of Naples and  Venice . Mediterranean destinations outside
 Europe  will include Istanbul, Tunis and Casablanca and
Marrakesh,  Morocco .  Nice’s six additional destinations will be Athens,
Istanbul, Naples,  Tel Aviv  and Venice as well as Barcelona,
 Spain .  Low-cost carriers in France account for about 24 percent of
national airline traffic, as measured in revenue passenger
kilometers, about half the penetration rate of such airlines in
other major European markets, according to Luton, England-based
EasyJet, which opened its first base in the country in 2001.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-biggest carrier by
traffic after Air France-KLM, set up Germanwings in 2002 to
defend regional routes. Madrid-based Iberia, now part of
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA with British
Airways, combined its no-frills unit with Vueling SA in 2009.  EasyJet is already planning a counter-move against Air
 France ’s domestic expansion, with plans unveiled in October to
open bases in Toulouse and Nice. EasyJet will place two Airbus
A319 narrow-body airplanes at each location for next year’s
summer season, expanding its fleet in France to 24 aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at  