-- 
Airlines Flying on Clean Fuel Should Pay Less Tax, Branson Says

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-12-05T17:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/airlines-flying-on-clean-fuel-should-pay-less-tax-branson-says.html
Governments need to make it “very
clear” that jet fuel made from sources such as inedible plants
and organic waste aren’t taxed like regular fuel, said  Richard Branson , founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.  A push by governments to remove taxes levied on airlines if
they switch to using clean fuel would provide “enormous
encouragement to the  airline industry ” to invest further in
biofuel companies, Branson said today in a telephone interview.
Virgin already has invested in Gevo Inc. and Solazyme Inc.  The airline spends more than $2 billion a year on fuel and
there is “billions and billions and billions” there for the
taking by the clean  energy industry , the entrepreneur said. The
industry fuel bill was $139 billion in 2010.  “Governments need to make it clear that if it’s clean fuel
it shouldn’t be taxed and if it’s dirty fuel it should be taxed
and that seems to be the best way to speed things up,” he said.
The  International Air Transport Association , which estimates the
aviation industry accounts for  2 percent  of global carbon-
dioxide emissions, set a target in 2007 to eliminate these
emissions from  air travel  by 2050.  The Carbon War Room, a not-for-profit organization funded
by Branson, today started a web and information site aimed at
reducing the use of traditional jet fuels by as much as 50
percent. It will also play a role in talking to governments to
try and push a “no-tax on clean fuel policy,” Branson said.
“I think they will be knocking at an open door as it will be
very difficult for governments to disagree with that,” he said.  ‘Reduce Air Fares’  Aviation could move from being one of the dirtiest
industries to being one of the cleanest rapidly, Branson said.
He hopes that this can be achieved by 2020.  Virgin Atlantic, which in 2008 became the first airline to
fly a plane using first-generation biofuel made from babassu
nuts and coconut oil mixed with kerosene, plans in two to three
years to fly planes using fuel made from waste gases from  steel
mills .  Over the next year it will work with LanzaTech NZ Ltd.,
which makes the fuel, to sign deals with aluminum and steel
plants so they can roll out production “as fast as possible.”  There are about 1,800 tanks filling airplanes around the
world with fuel so once there are two to three companies
producing renewable jet fuel, it will be easy to supply them to
the airline industry, Branson said.  Airlines on July 1 won approval from the U.S. technical
standards body ASTM International to blend fuel from inedible
plants and organic waste with traditional kerosene-based jet
fuel. Since approval,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  and Air
France-KLM Group have flown planes using the fuel.  ASTM is now testing fuel made from alcohols, and this is
expected to be approved in 2013.  Renewable  aviation fuel  would provide competition to
traditional jet fuel. “Ultimately if you have a competitor, we
might be able to reduce costs and therefore reduce airfares,”
Branson said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  