-- 
Malaysia Lawyers March as MPs Back Street Protest Ban

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-12-05T02:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/malaysia-lawyers-march-as-mps-back-street-protest-ban-correct-.html
(Corrects which house of parliament in first paragraph of
story first published on Nov. 29.)  Malaysian lawyers demonstrated in
the capital today as the lower house of parliament voted on
legislation to ban street protests two months after Prime
Minister Najib Razak promised an overhaul of security laws.  The lower house approved the Peaceful Assembly Bill 2011 as
about 500 lawyers representing Malaysia’s Bar Council marched to
parliament and opposition politicians led by  Anwar Ibrahim 
walked out before the vote. The upper chamber and the country’s
king must also approve the bill before it becomes law.  The plan passed today would require organizers to inform
police of their intentions 10 days in advance, a change from an
earlier version submitted last week calling for a 30-day notice.
The bill includes a ban on protesters congregating within 50
meters (164 feet) of prohibited areas like schools, hospitals
and places of worship.  “From a PR perspective, it doesn’t look very good,” said
Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at UCSI University in Kuala
Lumpur. “Many people were quite hopeful that the prime minister
would deliver a bill that would truly protect the right to
assemble, rather than one that would include so many
restrictions.”  Najib’s National Front coalition government introduced the
measures four months after police fired tear gas and arrested
more than 1,600 people protesting in  Kuala Lumpur  for cleaner
and fairer elections. The prime minister on Sept. 15 promised to
repeal laws that allow detention without trial and eased rules
restricting media freedom.  The Bar Council issued a statement Nov. 24 claiming the
draft public-assembly law violates Malaysians’ freedom of
assembly assured under the Federal Constitution.  ‘Real Concerns’  “Malaysia’s lawyers are marching out of real concerns that
Malaysians’ freedom of peaceful assembly and association are
under threat from the proposed law,” Phil Robertson, deputy
Asia director of  Human Rights Watch  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Najib, who must call a general election by early 2013, is
under pressure to gain back seats lost in the 2008 election,
when his National Front coalition won the general elections by
the narrowest margin since independence in 1957. Najib, 58, was
named prime minister in April 2009 after Abdullah Badawi
resigned mid-term to take responsibility for losing control of
five of the Southeast Asian nation’s 13 states in the previous
vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Singapore at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  