-- 
Ally, Apple, Madoff, AT&T, Altria, JPMorgan in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-05T11:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ally-financial-apple-madoff-pfizer-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage
unit stopped buying home loans in Massachusetts after the state
accused the five biggest providers of conducting illegal
foreclosures.  “Recent developments have led mortgage lending in
Massachusetts to no longer be viable,” Detroit-based Ally said
in a statement. Ally, owned mostly by the U.S. government after
being bailed out during the 2008 financial crisis, is ranked
fifth this year among the nation’s mortgage lenders.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  sued Ally and
four other mortgage lenders Dec. 1 for allegedly trying to seize
homes when they didn’t hold the mortgage on the properties.
Failure to obtain valid mortgage assignments before foreclosure
has affected titles to “hundreds, if not thousands, of
properties” in the state, she said.  “The company is disappointed that it can no longer
participate in offering certain financing options in
Massachusetts,” Ally said in its statement. “However, it has
an obligation to manage risks and  deploy capital  in an
appropriate manner and in a way that protects the investment of
the U.S. taxpayer.”  Ally will continue making direct loans in the state,
according to Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally. The lender will
honor any commitments through Dec. 5 and continue servicing
existing customers, the statement said. Mortgage servicers send
out and collect bills, and handle foreclosures if borrowers
don’t pay.  Matt Anderson, a spokesman at the U.S. Treasury Department,
which owns 74 percent of Ally, declined to comment.  Coakley’s lawsuit also named Bank of America Corp.,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co.  The case is Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. Bank of
America NA, 11-4363, Suffolk County Superior Court (Boston).  For more, click here.  SEC’s Data Crunchers Find Clues Leading to Hedge-Fund Cases  Four hedge-fund fraud cases filed in the past three weeks
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are the first
products of the agency’s initiative to build cases on data
analysis instead of outside tips, Bloomberg News’ Jesse Hamilton
reports.  With a system the SEC calls an “aberrational performance
inquiry,” analysts use data-mining to scrutinize hedge-fund
returns and other factors. When they identify outliers,
investigators can conduct a further review, the agency said in a
statement Dec. 1.  As a result the SEC took action against three separate
hedge fund firms and six people in the past month for misconduct
including improper use of fund assets, fraudulent valuations and
misrepresenting fund returns.  “Hedge-fund managers depend on valuation and performance
for both their compensation and marketing,” Bruce Karpati, co-
chief of the SEC’s asset-management enforcement unit, said in an
interview. “These managers have either manipulated performance
or engaged in other falsehoods in order to line their own
pockets at the expense of investors.”  “The significant thing about these types of analytics is
that we can detect these types of frauds without a complaint or
tip,” Karpati said. “So now we’re able to get to conduct
earlier.”  For more, click here.  Apple Wins Extension on Samsung Tablet Ban in  Australia   Apple Inc. won a one-week extension of a ban on  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s sales of its latest tablet computer in
Australia, delaying pre-Christmas sales, in a battle that began
in April in the U.S. and spread to four continents.  High Court Justice John Dyson Heydon extended the ban Dec.
2 on the release of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 to Dec. 9. On that
day, the country’s top court will consider Apple’s request for
permission to appeal a lower court’s order issued earlier this
week, which lifted a ban on the product that has been in place
since mid-October.  “A stay for one week will cost Samsung, in effect, one
week’s trade,” Heydon said, following a 90-minute hearing in
Sydney. The extension will hurt Samsung “but not to extend the
status quo is likely to be injurious to Apple,” he said.  The decision scuttled Samsung’s plan to begin importing the
Galaxy Tab 10.1 into Australia over the weekend and take
advantage of the pre-Christmas shopping season. The company had
said if it can’t sell the tablet in Australia before Christmas
it would scrap its release in the country.  “This is a critical period of time,” Katrina Howard,
Samsung’s lawyer, told Heydon Dec. 2. “Even one day can make a
difference.”  The battle between the companies began in April, when Apple
sued Samsung in the U.S. and accused it of “slavishly” copying
the designs of  iPhones and iPads .  The appeal case is Samsung Electronics Co. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
NSD1792/2011. Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more, click here.  Madoff Associate Kohn Has $42 Million Frozen by U.K. Judge  A London judge froze 27 million pounds ($42 million) of
Sonja Kohn’s assets and ordered the former associate of  Bernard
Madoff  to move funds to the U.K. as the administrators of
Madoff’s European operation seek recoveries for victims of his
fraud.  Judge Julian Flaux said Kohn should repatriate as much of
the 27 million pounds as possible to the U.K. within 56 days,
adding it may be at risk as a result of “the nature of the
wrongful conduct which is alleged against her.”  Liquidators of Madoff’s estate are pursuing Kohn and the
directors of Madoff Securities International Ltd., the company’s
English unit, for the return of assets.  “This freezing order is a routine measure for such cases
under English procedures and it is actually a good result in
light of the entire case,” her lawyer, Clemens Trauttenberg,
said by phone from Vienna.  The former chairwoman of Bank Medici AG, according to a
prior ruling from Flaux, made at least $56 million introducing
clients to Madoff, who pleaded guilty in 2009 to using money
from new investors to pay off old ones in a Ponzi scheme,
sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits. He is serving
150 years in prison in North Carolina for the fraud that caused
his New York-based firm to collapse in December 2008.  Kohn, who is suffering from health problems, has a house in
Switzerland and fund investments worth at least 15 million
pounds as well as bank accounts as far away as Israel, lawyers
said Dec. 2.  Steve Akers, one of the administrators of Madoff Securities
International, declined to comment.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Stephen Ernest John Raven, 10-1468, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division (London)  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  AT&T, Sprint Sued Over Carrier IQ Tracking Software  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , Apple Inc. and T-Mobile USA
were sued by mobile phone customers who claim that Carrier IQ
Inc. tracking software installed on their phones violates U.S.
wiretapping and computer fraud laws.  The lawsuit cites a YouTube report by a technology blogger
that purported to show that Carrier IQ software collects
information on phone users’ locations, applications and Web
browsing and even the keys they press. Four consumers filed a
complaint Dec. 2 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware,
seeking to block the carriers and phone makers from using the
software.  Carrier IQ software logs user activity and runs in the
background of mobile devices. After the YouTube report, the U.S.
Senate Judiciary Committee contacted the company seeking
information and alleging that the software may violate federal
privacy laws, according to a copy of the complaint supplied by
David Straite, an attorney for the plaintiffs. The filing of the
lawsuit couldn’t be confirmed Dec. 2 through electronic court
records.  AT&T and Sprint, the second- and third-largest U.S.
wireless providers, said in e-mailed statements on Dec. 1 that
the software data is used to improve service performance. Apple
stopped supporting Carrier IQ in most products and will remove
it completely in a future software update, Natalie Harrison, an
Apple spokeswoman, said in a Dec. 1 e-mail.  The customers who sued seek compensatory and punitive
damages on behalf of all others whose devices contain the so-
called rootkit software from Mountain View, California-based
Carrier IQ, which is also named as a defendant in the suit. The
software is currently installed on 150 million phones worldwide,
according to the complaint.  Violations of the federal wiretap laws, which prohibit
willful interception of wire or electronic communication, can
result in damages of $100 a day per violation, according to the
complaint.  Carol Roos, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  Tom Neumayr, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple; Leigh Horner, a spokeswoman for Overland Park, Kansas-
based Sprint Nextel; and  T-Mobile USA (DTE)  representatives didn’t
return calls seeking comment after regular business hours on
Dec. 2. Carrier IQ spokeswoman Mira Woods didn’t respond to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Pacilli v. Carrier IQ, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Oracle Accuses HP of False Advertising in Revised Itanium Suit  Oracle Corp., accusing  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  of false
advertising in a revised countersuit, said HP secretly paid
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  to continue producing the Itanium computer chip.  Oracle claims HP “made false and deceptive statements” to
Oracle and the public regarding the future of the chip to induce
Oracle to continue to build software that runs on HP servers
that use the Itanium chip, according to an amended complaint
provided by Deborah Hellinger, an Oracle spokeswoman. Filing of
the document couldn’t be immediately confirmed through
electronic state court records Dec. 2.  HP and Intel had an Itanium collaboration agreement under
which Intel would prolong Itanium instead of discontinuing the
chip, according to the complaint.  The agreement was kept secret until Oracle uncovered it in
a lawsuit first filed by HP against Oracle in June. HP alleged
then that Oracle used “strong arm tactics” to force customers
to shift away from HP’s Itanium server hardware to Oracle’s own
server hardware.  Details of the Itanium agreement, such as the date it was
signed and how much HP paid Intel, are blacked out of the
document. Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, seeks to
rescind an agreement that settled litigation over Oracle’s
hiring of former HP Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd, as well
as unspecified damages.  “Oracle is in breach of its contractual commitments to HP,
and it has failed to honor its promises to customers,” Michael
Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based HP, said
Dec. 2 in an e-mailed statement responding to Oracle’s new
claims. “Oracle should be addressing and rectifying this
conduct rather than making up claims against HP.”  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 111-
cv-0203163, California Superior Court (Santa Clara County).  Pfizer,  Teva (TEVA)  Accused of Keeping Generic Drug Off Market  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Wyeth unit and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
were accused by a group of prescription drug retailers of
illegally keeping a generic version of the Effexor XR
antidepressant off the market.  “Wyeth engaged in an overarching anticompetitive scheme to
prevent and delay the approval and marketing of generic versions
of Effexor XR,” the retailers, including  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and
 Kroger Co. (KR) , said in a complaint filed Nov. 30 in federal court
in Trenton,  New Jersey .  The retailers allege that Wyeth fraudulently obtained
patents and engaged in “sham litigation” to delay generic
versions of the extended release drug. They also alleged that
Wyeth and the U.S. unit of Israel-based Teva Pharmaceuticals
Industries Ltd. colluded to keep Teva’s generic version off the
market until June 2010.  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for New York-based Pfizer, and
Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva  North America , didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the lawsuit after
regular business hours Dec. 1.  The case is Walgreen v. Wyeth, 11-6985, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Apple Loses Bid for Order in Effort to Block Samsung Galaxy  Apple Inc. lost a request for a court order in its bid to
block sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s 4G smartphone and
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer, according to a ruling that was
posted on a court docket and then removed.  The iPad maker, in its lawsuit filed in federal court in
San Jose, California, sought an order blocking Samsung from
selling its Galaxy line of mobile devices products in the U.S.
based on claims they violate Apple patents. The lawsuit is part
of a legal battle between the companies being fought in 10
countries.  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that the ruling
confirms its long-held view that Apple’s arguments lack merit.  “In particular, the court has recognized that Samsung has
raised substantial questions about the validity of certain of
Apple’s design patents,” according to the statement. “We are
confident that we can demonstrate the distinctiveness of
Samsung’s mobile devices when the case goes to trial next
year.”  The two companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to Samsung. The conflict began in April,
when Apple filed the San Jose lawsuit claiming the Suwon, South
Korean company’s Galaxy devices copied the iPhone and iPad.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said Dec.
3 in an e-mail. “This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as
we’ve said many times before, we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  According to the court docket in San Jose, the ruling,
which was posted temporarily in error late Dec.2, was later
filed under seal.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Altria Unit Must Pay $47.7 Million to Oregon, Court Rules  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA must pay $47.7
million to Oregon, the state’s Supreme Court ruled, rejecting
arguments from the biggest U.S. cigarette maker that the tobacco
industry’s landmark 1998 settlement with 46 states barred the
recovery.  The Oregon Supreme Court decided Dec. 2 that Philip Morris,
a unit of Richmond, Virginia-based Altria, must pay the state 60
percent of a $79.5 million punitive damages award, plus
interest, in a smoking-related wrongful death claim.  A jury in 1999 awarded that amount, in addition to
compensatory damages, to the estate of Jesse Williams, a smoker
who had died of lung cancer. An Oregon law cited in the court’s
ruling requires that 60 percent of punitive damages awards go to
the state.  Philip Morris claimed the state released its claim by
signing the $206 billion multistate settlement agreement
resolving health-care cost-recovery lawsuits against U.S.
cigarette makers.  “We believe that the Oregon Supreme Court misapplied the
law and reached an erroneous result,” said Murray Garnick,
Altria Client Services senior vice president and associate
general counsel. “As the lower court recognized, the state
released its claims to any punitive damages when it signed the
Master Settlement Agreement.”  The case is Williams v. R.J. Reynolds, SC S059014, Oregon
Supreme Court (Salem).  UniCredit Has $331 Million Asset Ruling Overturned  A  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  unit won an appeal overturning a 245
million-euro ($331 million) verdict related to assets of the
former East German Communist Party and the case was returned to
a lower court for a new trial.  The Zurich Court of Cassation on Nov. 30 overturned a lower
Swiss court’s ruling that the bank must pay the amount to the
German government, Vienna-based UniCredit Bank Austria said in a
statement Dec. 2.  The lower Zurich court in 2010 ruled in favor of Germany,
which argued Bank Austria’s former AKB Privatbank Zuerich unit
helped embezzle funds from companies in the former East Germany.
It will now have to reconsider the case.  When the dispute first went to court in 1994, Germany said
the bank helped launder 250 million deutsche marks ($173
million) that vanished from the accounts of two former East
German trading companies after communism fell. Germany said the
funds were East German state assets that AKB helped shift to the
Austria Communist Party in the 1990s after German reunification.
Germany is also seeking interest on the amount dating from 1992.  Germany is being represented by Bundesanstalt fuer
vereinigungsbedingte Sonderaufgaben, the legal  successor  of the
group that was in charge of managing the assets of the former
East Germany. The BvS didn’t reply to an e-mail by Bloomberg
News requesting a comment.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here. For the
latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court Filings  Bayerische Landesbank Suit Against JPMorgan Most Popular  A lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. for fraud by German
lender  Bayerische Landesbank , over losses on about $2.1 billion
in mortgage-backed securities, was the most-read litigation
docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  JPMorgan units concealed the truth about the poor quality
of the loans underlying the securities and knew that credit
ratings misrepresented their risk, BayernLB said in a lawsuit
filed Nov. 21 in New York State Supreme Court.  The lender said it believed the mortgage securities were
safe investments based on representations about the quality of
loans and credit ratings when it invested almost $2.1 billion in
57 offerings from 2005 to 2007, according to the complaint. The
lawsuit names JPMorgan and units of the New York-based bank as
defendants.  The case is Bayerische Landesbank New York Branch v. Bear
Stearns & Co., 653239/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  