-- 
American Airlines Creditors Committee Includes Unions, Bondholders’ Banks

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-12-05T23:53:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/american-airlines-creditors-committee-includes-unions-bondholders-banks.html
American Airlines ’s three largest
unions and banks representing bondholders were named to the
committee of unsecured creditors in the bankruptcy case of
parent company AMR Corp.  Wilmington Trust (WL)  Co., Manufacturers and Traders Trust Co.,
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.,
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Services LLC were
appointed today by the U.S. Trustee’s office, a Justice
Department unit that monitors bankruptcies. Labor groups for
pilots, flight attendants and mechanics and baggage handlers
also are on the panel.  The committee selected Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP as the law firm that will represent it during the
bankruptcy.  The creditors committee represents companies and
individuals owed money by AMR when it sought  bankruptcy
protection  last week. The panel has a voice in any major
decision made by the Fort Worth, Texas-based company outside of
normal business while it is under court protection, including
what it will look like in the future.  “The creditors committee is a key committee to be on,”
said Howie Schack, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots
Association , which represents 8,700 active pilots. “It’s going
to play a vital role in reshaping the airline and will work
directly with American management to come up with a business
plan the employees can be a part of.”  AMR filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29, saying American’s cost
structure wasn’t competitive with other airlines.  Sean Collins , a spokesman for the company, didn’t have an
immediate comment on the makeup of the committee.  ‘Right Call’  “The U.S. bankruptcy trustee made the right call” in
putting the Transport Workers Union on the committee, James C. Little, the union’s international president, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Thirty-thousand TWU members are critical to the
current and future operations of American Airlines and American
Eagle.”  PBGC Director Josh Gotbaum said the agency, which protects
pension benefits, is committed to working with American
Airlines, its workers, retirees and other parties, so the
company can reorganize while preserving its pension plans.
American Airlines employees and retirees could lose at least $1
billion in pension benefits if the airline terminates their
plans, Gotbaum said in a statement today.  In total, the three unions on the panel represent more than
48,800 American Airlines employees, plus workers at commuter
carrier American Eagle.  Boeing Airplanes  AMR only flies Boeing aircraft in its main fleet and has
hundreds of planes on order from the Chicago-based company.  “We do have experience serving on a number of bankruptcy
restructurings done by U.S. airlines that also happen to be
customers,” John Kvasnosky, a spokesman for Boeing Capital
Corp., said in an interview. “That experience will be helpful
to American as it goes through the bankruptcy process.”       The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AMR) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  