-- 
Amish Farms to Hippie Co-Ops Fight FDA’s Inquiry Over Raw Milk

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/amish-farms-to-hippie-co-ops-fight-fda-inquiry.html
One sun-drenched August morning,
armed officers wearing sunglasses and bullet-proof vests
descended on a market in Venice,  California , searching for
illegally sold goods. It marked the end of a year-long
investigation where undercover agents posed as customers.  Their target: raw, unpasteurized milk.  U.S. regulators say it’s a dangerous and unnecessary public
threat,  pointing to  143 cases of contamination linked to still
births, miscarriages and kidney failure since 1987, the latest
involving five California children. Grassroots, back-to-nature
consumers say the product strengthens the immune system by
keeping intact good bacteria that’s killed in pasteurized milk.
The choice should be theirs, the activists say.  “These guns are being drawn on basically aging hippies,
all because of illegal milk,” said Ajna Sharma-Wilson, a Los
Angeles lawyer for the Venice market owner, in an interview.
“This is a waste of taxpayer money.”  The Aug. 3 crackdown on the  Venice  market has become a
cause célèbre for a growing raw-milk movement that touts the
product’s ability to strengthen the immune system and contends
the federal enforcement is overzealous. Proponents are part of a
broader raw-foods movement that touts unprocessed and organic
products as a healthier alternative and advocates direct sales
from local, sustainable farms to consumers.  Sales Banned  Twenty states ban raw milk sales in some form and 30 allow
it, including California. Less than 1 percent of Americans drink
the product, according to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration .
The Weston A. Price Foundation, a non-profit nutrition research
group in Washington that works for universal access to raw milk,
estimates the figure may exceed 9.4 million people, or about 3
percent of the population.  The FDA hasn’t explained its involvement in the August raid
and Siobhan DeLancey, an agency spokeswoman, declined to
comment. The target, Rawesome Foods, provided unpasteurized goat
milk and related products and operated for more than six years
without a required business permit or license, according to the
 Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office .  It’s illegal in California to sell unpasteurized dairy
without applicable licenses and permits, which require
veterinary inspections and sanitation requirements, according to
the attorney’s office.  No additional information is available on the case and the
warrant is sealed, said Sandi Gibbons, a spokeswoman for the
attorney’s office, in an interview.  The FDA banned the interstate sale of raw milk in 1987.
Raw-milk advocates trying to overturn the restriction on
interstate sales have attracted the support of U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas Republican seeking the
Republican presidential nomination, who in May introduced
legislation to allow interstate traffic of unpasteurized milk
and milk products for human consumption.  ‘Second-Guessing’  “These Americans have the right to consume these products
without having the federal government second-guess their
judgment about what products best promote health,” Paul said in
introducing the bill.  Raw-milk advocates rallying against the federal crackdown
staged a protest near the U.S. Capitol during which they milked
a brown-and-white cow named Morgan. A caravan of moms in
minivans drove across state lines with plastic jugs of raw milk
to the FDA’s headquarters in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , where they
drank the unpasteurized dairy product with chocolate chip,
oatmeal and ginger cookies.  DeLancey, the FDA spokeswoman, referred inquiries about the
U.S. investigations and raw milk safety to statements on the
agency’s web site. Research shows no meaningful differences in
raw versus pasteurized milk, according to an FDA consumer fact
sheet, and unpasteurized milk is “unsafe to eat.”  Dairy Industry  Illnesses linked to raw milk may hurt the dairy industry if
consumers fail to realize lack of pasteurization causes the
outbreaks, Chris Galen, spokesman for the National Milk
Producers Federation, said in an interview.  “What’s happening is bad for the image and reputation of
overall. It’s damaging,” said Galen. The Arlington, Virginia-
based federation -- whose members include Land O’Lakes Inc. in
Arden Hills,  Minnesota , and Agri-Mark Inc. in Methuen,
 Massachusetts , and produce the majority of the U.S. milk supply
-- is calling on the FDA not to waver in the face of “pressure
tactics” from raw milk supporters, according to a Nov. 1 press
release.  The U.S.’s 55,000 dairy farms earned $31 billion in 2010
for milk they sold, according to the federation.  Vodka for Kids  Pasteurization, which heats milk to kill pathogens, was
first developed in 1864 by Louis Pasteur and destroys organisms
responsible for diseases such as typhoid fever, tuberculosis,
and diphtheria, according to the FDA. Bacteria in raw milk may
be especially dangerous to pregnant women and children,
according to the agency’s web site.  “We know there is a real risk with raw milk,” David Theno, chief executive officer of Del Mar, California-based Gray
Dog Partners Inc., a  food-safety  consultant. “Is it okay to
feed your kid vodka? It’s less risky than giving them raw
milk.”  California on Nov. 15 issued a statewide recall and
quarantine of raw  milk products  by  Organic Pastures Dairy
Company LLC  in Fresno County due to suspected E. coli
contamination after five children were infected, according to
the state’s Department of Food and Agriculture. All drank raw
milk from the dairy, the department said.  Kaleigh Lutz, a spokeswoman for Organic Pastures, said
tests the company performed on its product showed no
contamination and that there may not be any link.  ‘It Was Hell’  Organic Pastures was connected to an earlier outbreak that
sickened four children, according to a 2006 press release from
the state agency.  “It was hell, and all because he drank some milk,” said
Mary McGonigle-Martin, 52, a high school guidance counselor in
Murrieta, California, whose seven-year-old son, Chris, fell ill
and wound up in a pediatric intensive care unit on a ventilator.
A 2008 lawsuit filed by the family in Fresno County Superior
Court was settled out of court and the child recovered,
McGonigle-Martin said.  Organic Pastures admitted no wrongdoing in the outbreak and
the company’s insurer settled because of concern a trial would
lead to bad publicity, Lutz said. She said the company would
have won its case.  Pasteurized milk is less healthy because it destroys good
bacteria and raw milk builds the immune system, according to a
Nov. 17 press release from the Weston A. Price Foundation. The
elderly, immune-compromised, children, and pregnant women are
the very consumers who most need raw milk, the group said.  No ‘Corpses’  “If raw milk is so dangerous, where are the corpses?”
Deborah Stockton, of Tazewell, Virginia, executive director of
the National Independent Consumers and Farmers Association,
which promotes direct farmer-to-consumer sales, said in an
interview. “They’re going after distributors the way they go
after drug dealers.”  In another action, the FDA is seeking a permanent
injunction against Daniel Allgyer, an Amish farmer, to bar him
from interstate distribution of raw milk, according to an April
19 complaint filed in U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania . In 2010, FDA officials came to his
Rainbow Acres Farm, a dairy operation in Kinzers, Pennsylvania,
to conduct an inspection.  The visit followed a nearly year-long investigation where
FDA investigators using aliases to join an online group where
they placed orders for unpasteurized milk, according to the
complaint. They placed orders on 23 occasions, picked up the
milk at private homes in Maryland, and analyzed some samples in
labs to confirm they weren’t pasteurized.  Hazmat Suits  Allgyer didn’t return a call seeking comment.  “I’m for regulation, but why is the FDA doing this?” said
 Marion Nestle , New York University professor in the Department
of Nutrition, Food Studies and  Public Health , in an interview.
“Here’s the FDA in hazmat suits taking on the little farmer
with 20 cows. This is an Amish guy trying to make a living.”  An earlier enforcement action in California against
Rawesome Food provided fodder for a segment on  Comedy Central ’s
“The Colbert Report”, with the Rawesome market owner saying
“it’s right to get dysentery if I want to.” The August raid
was documented by jeering bystanders in dreadlocks and baseball
caps with smart phones, who posted the  agents’ search  on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube Inc.  Food-safety experts applaud the actions, however. Raw milk
is so dangerous that it should be against the law to purchase it
for consumption by children, said Richard Raymond, who was
undersecretary for food safety at the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  from 2005 through 2008, in an interview.  “To buy this food and feed it to your children?” Raymond
wrote in an Aug. 18 article in  Food Safety News , an online food
safety publication. “Might as well lock them in your car on a
100-degree day while you stop by the casino to try and win the
jackpot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  