-- 
AMR Mutes Takeover Risk With Record $4.1 Billion Cash Entering Bankruptcy

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-12-05T20:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/amr-mutes-takeover-risk-with-record-4-1-billion-bankruptcy-cash.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s $4.1 billion in cash, the
most ever for a U.S. carrier entering bankruptcy, may help the
parent of  American Airlines  preserve its independence.  Filing for Chapter 11 with that much in cash and short-term
investments strengthened the third-largest U.S. airline
company’s control over its fate, unlike peers that restructured
in the last decade, said James M. Higgins, an analyst at New
York-based Ticonderoga Securities LLC.  “Anytime you have your hand out to someone else for
something, you lose some power,” Higgins said in an interview.
“By doing it this way and by doing it now, they are going to
retain more power over the process.”  Companies in Chapter 11 protection usually need so-called
debtor-in-possession financing from sources that can force a
sale or limit how the money is spent. Tapping that funding would
weaken AMR against an acquirer such as  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ,
which tried to buy  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  in bankruptcy in 2006,
said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst in  New York .  Banks representing bondholders and American’s three largest
unions were named today to the committee of unsecured creditors
in AMR’s bankruptcy case. The next bankruptcy hearing is set for
Dec. 13.  Enough Cash  AMR expects to have enough cash to fund operations during
its entire time in bankruptcy, and outside financing is
“neither considered necessary nor anticipated,” according to a
statement after the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company sought court
protection on Nov. 29.  Cash and short-term investments under the Chapter 11 filing
were more than twice the $1.5 billion for Delta and Northwest
Airlines Corp. when they sought court protection in 2005. US
Airways Group had $1.45 billion in 2004, and  United Airlines (UAL) 
parent UAL Corp. had $800 million in 2002.  AMR’s total also was about 17 percent of trailing 12-month
revenue, compared with 10 percent to 13 percent for other U.S.
airlines when they filed bankruptcy, Keay and  Philip Baggaley , a
 Standard & Poor’s  debt analyst in New York, said in interviews.  US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S. airline, has been cited
by analysts as the most likely suitor for AMR, and the Tempe,
Arizona-based company’s shares surged 20 percent in the week
that ended Dec. 2, the biggest such gain since May 28, 2010. A
spokesman, Todd Lehmacher, declined to comment.  “Speculation on any possible mergers under our Chapter 11
reorganization are just that,” said  Sean Collins , an American
spokesman. “We have no comment on such speculation.”  ‘Anything Can Happen’  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton , who was president until
succeeding Gerard Arpey after AMR’s filing, wouldn’t comment
when asked about  US Airways  on a Nov. 29 conference call with
reporters.  “Anything can happen,” Horton said of a possible takeover
attempt. “It’s impossible to speculate. Our objective is to be
laser focused on changes we need to make to make this company
successful for the long term.”  US Airways is the product of a 2005 merger of  America West
Holdings Corp.  and the old US Airways when that carrier was in
Chapter 11. American sat out the industry consolidation that saw
Delta buy Northwest in 2008 once those carriers left bankruptcy,
and United merge with Continental Airlines Inc. in 2010.  Upper Hand  The threat of an attempted takeover would rise if AMR seeks
DIP financing because the lender could “dictate what is
happening,” said Wolfe Trahan’s Keay. He sees even odds on
whether American will need such financing during its time in
court protection.  Jeff Straebler, an independent aviation analyst in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said he “fully expects” US Airways will
try to take over American while it’s in bankruptcy.  “AMR’s management has turned aside such speculation in the
past,” S&P’s Baggaley said in a Dec. 2 report. “If AMR can
control its own fate in this regard, we do not see bankruptcy
changing its view.”  AMR will trim first-half 2012 seating capacity, including a
2 percent reduction in January, Daniel McKenzie, a Rodman &
Renshaw analyst in  Chicago , said yesterday in a report. The
cuts, chiefly in  Dallas , Chicago and  Los Angeles , were loaded
into American’s flight schedule over the weekend, McKenzie said.  Tim Smith, an American spokesman, said the steps were
planned before AMR’s bankruptcy filing.  Cash Sources  The airline’s likeliest sources for more cash in Chapter 11
would be companies with which it already has a relationship,
said Will Randow, an analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in New York.
American used about $1 billion cash in the third quarter and
about $500 million since then, Randow said, making him skeptical
of the airline’s assertions of having sufficient cash.  Citigroup, the credit-card partner for American’s
 AAdvantage loyalty program , would be “highly likely” to help
with financing if AMR asks, Straebler said. New York-based
Citigroup helped American raise $1 billion in 2009 through the
advance purchase of frequent-flier miles.  A Citigroup spokeswoman, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, declined
to comment. Citibank is AMR’s fourth-biggest secured creditor,
owed $890.2 million by the company, according to bankruptcy
documents.  AMR could use assets including flight slots and gates at
certain U.S. airports, spare parts and engines, ground support
equipment and its corporate headquarters as collateral,
Straebler said.  The timing of the filing surprised analysts such as S&P’s
Baggaley, who had said AMR’s cash consumption might force the
company into Chapter 11 in 2012, not this year.  Israel Shaked , a professor at Boston University School of
Management whose Michel-Shaked Group consulting firm advised
Delta during its bankruptcy, said AMR “did the right thing” in
going to court last week.  “Filing was very smart because they still sit on $4
billion in cash,” Shaked said. “Some other airlines waited way
too long.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  