-- 
Amy Winehouse’s Voice Cracks From Beyond Grave on CD: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-12-05T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/amy-winehouse-s-voice-cracks-from-beyond-grave-on-cd-review.html
In 2009,  Amy Winehouse ,
accompanying herself on an acoustic guitar, sat in her attic
and made a rough demo of Leon Russell’s “A Song for You.”  The ballad asks for forgiveness from a lover: “I’ve
acted out my love in stages with 10,000 people watching, but
we’re alone now.” The words proved too much for her. She
started strong and broke down in tears.  The recording might have gone unheard. After the star’s
death, aged 27, in July, fueled by drink problems, it is now
included on her posthumous CD “Lioness: Hidden Treasures.”  Winehouse has followed  Michael Jackson  with huge sales
after death. “Lioness,” like his pre-Christmas “Michael”
from 2010, isn’t a coherent album so much as a 45-minute
ragbag.  The  five-time  Grammy winner had left many recordings.
Some of the best have been picked by producers Salaam Remi and
Mark Ronson, working with Winehouse’s family. There are
unreleased tracks and alternate versions, some as old as 2002.  The two new compositions planned for a third album show
it was nowhere near completion. “Like Smoke” was just a
scat-sung demo, now with a guest vocal from  Nas  and strings.
“Between the Cheats” is bouncy Motown, though it hasn’t the
hit appeal of earlier songs like “Valerie” (here heard in a
softer version).  This album is not another “Back to Black,” though it
gives insight into Winehouse’s progress. The beautifully
enunciated early material up to 2004 becomes ragged slurring,
occasionally working wonderfully, as on the “Body and Soul”
duet with  Tony Bennett  from this year.  Nobody Wanted  With proceeds benefiting the  Amy Winehouse Foundation ,
and the closeness of her death, it seems churlish to be over-
critical. This is an album that nobody wanted. Still, presales
in the U.K. alone show that “Lioness” will be a No. 1 hit.  Winehouse, who had high quality-control standards, would
have been unlikely to issue her version of “The Girl From
Ipanema.” Often, the production is overdone. It would have
been great to hear “A Song for You” in its raw form rather
than crafted into a radio-friendly track. The cracked vocal is
so moving it doesn’t need embellishment.  Winehouse fans may name other songs that could have been
included, such as “Procrastination” and “Monkey Man.” Yet
listen to what we have, and ponder on what might have been.  Rating: ***.  The album is on Island/ Universal priced at $9.99.
Download prices vary across services. Information:
 http://www.amywinehouse.com/ .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  Hong Kong  at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 