-- 
Hang Lung to Spend at Least $3.2 Billion on China Projects in Next 4 Years

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-12-05T05:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/hang-lung-to-spend-at-least-3-2-billion-on-china-projects-in-next-4-years.html
Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  needs to
invest at least HK$25 billion ($3.2 billion) in capital
expenditure and land acquisitions for its China projects over
the next four years, said Chairman Ronnie Chan.  Hong Kong ’s third-biggest developer by value had net cash
of HK$10.5 billion at the end of June after raising about HK$11
billion selling shares in Hong Kong in November last year. It
kept its dividend unchanged after full-year profit fell 59
percent as it held off selling HK$6 billion of completed
residential units in Hong Kong.  The People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  five times
from October 2010 to July and boosted banks’ reserve
requirements nine times, to a record 21.5 percent for the
biggest lenders, before last week cutting the amount of cash
lenders must set aside as reserves for the first time in three
years.  “If you’re in a position where you need to borrow from
Chinese banks now, you’re in big trouble,” Chan said in an
interview at the Greater  China  Conference in Hong Kong today.
“Many people have asked why we’re holding onto so much cash,
but if we didn’t do that, we probably would have to borrow
now.”  Chan said in October the company is “warming up” to more
developments after having already pledged as much as HK$50
billion in mall projects in the country.  The company is scheduled to complete at least one shopping
mall in Chinese cities including Dalian, Wuxi and Shenyang every
year until 2015. The construction of those projects will cost
about HK$20 billion, Chan said.  Hang Lung also will need to pay for two sites in Kunming it
bought in September for 3.5 billion yuan in its first land
purchases in the country since May 2009, Chan said. That project
is expected to be completed in 2016, he said.  The company, which has been focusing on building commercial
properties in China, plans to add residential units at its
projects in Wuxi, Shenyang and Kunming, Chan said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in 東京 at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  