-- 
ANZ Customers Can Proceed With Part of Lawsuit Over Credit Card Charges

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-12-05T02:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/anz-customers-can-proceed-with-fees-lawsuit-judge-rules.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  customers seeking to recoup fees they claim were illegal
can proceed with part of the lawsuit after a judge ruled credit-
card charges for late payments can be challenged in court.  Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon issued the ruling in
 Melbourne  today, dismissing complaints about charges for
insufficient funds in accounts or overdrawn bank accounts,
ruling those didn’t amount to penalties.  ANZ is the first of 12 banks that  IMF Australia Ltd. (IMF) , the
country’s biggest litigation funder, planned to sue in a bid to
recoup as much as A$5 billion ($5.1 billion) that Australian
account holders paid in fees in the past six years, according to
James Middleweek, managing director at IMF’s Financial Redress
Pty unit. Customers holding almost 246,000 accounts have
registered to sue, according to IMF’s website.  “This is the first important ruling in what will
undoubtedly be a long, drawn-out process,” Middleweek said in a
phone interview today.  The credit card late-payment charges make up about 40
percent of the A$50 million in refunds for so-called exception
fees sought by ANZ’s customers, Andrew Watson, a principal at
 Maurice Blackburn  Lawyers, who is representing the plaintiffs,
said in a phone interview.  ANZ, based in Melbourne, said it welcomed the ruling
because it was largely vindicated by it.  “Our consistent position has been that while some of these
fees may have been unpopular, we believe they were lawful,”
Philip Chronican, the bank’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement today.  Late Payments  Chronican said at a news conference in Melbourne that the
bank hasn’t decided whether to appeal the ruling against it on
credit card late payments. He said the fee, which has been
reduced to A$20 from A$35 since the suit was filed, is
reasonable and covers costs including those incurred by hiring
collection agencies. The bank will defend the fee in the second
stage of the trial, he said.  At issue in the decision was whether the bank fees could be
characterized as penalties, in which case they could be
challenged in court as excessive and therefore illegal.  Gordon ruled honor fees, A$29.50 charged when a bank
cleared a check even though there wasn’t enough money in the
account, dishonor fees, A$45 charged when a check bounced, and
credit card fees when customers exceeded their approved limit
couldn’t be characterized as penalties. A A$35 late payment fee
for credit cards could be characterized as a penalty, she said.  Average Claim  The decision will “almost certainly” be appealed, Watson
said. He said the  High Court  of  Australia , the country’s top
court, would probably have to decide whether the concept of
penalties can be expanded to include those charges rejected by
Gordon.  The average claim for each customer involved in the lawsuit
is about A$1,500, ranging from several hundred dollars to more
than A$35,000, Maurice Blackburn said when it filed the case
last year.  The case is: John Andrews v. ANZ Banking Group Ltd.
VID811/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  