-- 
Lap Dances Find Academic Champion as Cities Rein in Strip Clubs

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/lap-dances-find-champion-in-academia-as-cities-try-to-rein-in-strip-clubs.html
     Dec. 5 (Bloomberg)--  Judith Hanna , a 75-year-old
grandmother and anthropology professor, spent an afternoon in
2005 on a beach in Jacksonville,  Florida , photographing women’s
swimsuited backsides.  Hanna, who has spent almost 50 years studying the cultural
expression of dance, called the fieldwork “interesting.” Her
pictures, meant to demonstrate local enthusiasm for exposed
flesh, became evidence in a nightclub’s fight against an
ordinance requiring strippers to better cover their derrieres.
Since 1995, Hanna, a University of  Maryland  researcher, has
helped clubs repel efforts to tax, regulate or close them,
arguing more than 100 times that striptease is just as much an
art as ballet.  Next year, her lap-dances-are-art argument will be part of
an appeal before  New York ’s highest court. A stripper in heels
is like a ballerina en pointe, she says, and her communication
of feeling is no different than that of the  New York City Ballet 
-- and no less protected by the First Amendment.  “Patrons of gentleman’s clubs aren’t just there to look at
nude bodies,” Hanna, who lives in Bethesda, said in a telephone
interview. “They want to read into it. It’s not just the
eroticism, it’s the beauty of the body, and the fantasy they
create.”  Hanna says she has observed at least 1,500 ecdysiastic
performances in her defense of the $12 billion U.S. exotic-dance
industry, which comprises about 4,000 clubs. When a city or
state passes a law to kick the clubs out of town, owners turn to
Hanna. She sends clients an average bill of about $3,000, and
estimated that she has 45 wins to 21 losses.  Voice of the Industry  Hanna “plays a really important role in letting people see
our side,” said Eric Langan, chief executive officer of
Houston-based  Rick’s Cabaret International Inc. (RICK) , which operates
adult websites and clubs in Texas and  Minnesota .  Opponents say her sophistry defends the indefensible.  “You can’t just trump the law by saying a naked dancer’s
erotic message is protected by free speech,” said Scott
Bergthold, a Chattanooga, Tennessee, attorney who helps
municipalities craft and defend adult-business regulations.
“We’re dealing with cases where cities are outlawing touching
between naked dancers and customers that involve prostitution
acts and she’s coming in with these opinions. It’s ridiculous.”  Hanna’s prominence has grown with the spread of stripping,
Bergthold said in a telephone interview.  “The industry has exploded, and they’re now in towns and
cities that 20 years ago didn’t have strip clubs,” he said.  ‘Secondary Effects’  The U.S.  Supreme Court  has allowed crime rates around clubs
to be used as cause for regulation. This year, the Missouri
Supreme Court and a federal appeals court in  Ohio  upheld laws
against touching customers. The Texas Supreme Court  upheld  a $5
per customer tax on nude clubs that serve alcohol. The so-called
secondary effects doctrine, which allows laws restricting
activities regarded as protected expression so long as they are
aimed at deleterious side effects such as crime, was applied in
all three.  At trial, Hanna’s testimony is often accompanied by that of
sociologists who dispute crime data as the industry recasts
itself as classy entertainment.  “Sex, drugs and heavy drinking have been replaced by good-
looking women, $300 chairs and bright lights,” said Langan
whose company has a market capitalization of about $77.6 million
and whose stock has outperformed the Standard and Poor’s 500
Index by almost 1 percentage point this year.  And there is nothing new under the bustier, Hanna said.  “Exotic dance has nudity and is marginalized and
stigmatized for it,” Hanna said. “It’s really old hat. It’s in
musicals, operas, and theater.”  Grace and Violence  The New Testament tells of Salome, who “danced and
pleased” her stepfather Herod, the ruler of Galilee, and then
asked for John the Baptist’s head. Herod sent an executioner.  Vaslav Nijinsky’s “The Rite of Spring” ballet sparked a
riot when its depiction of fertility rituals debuted in Paris in
1913.  “Exotic dance shares with virtually all dance genres the
fact that it is a purposeful, intentionally rhythmical,
culturally patterned, nonverbal, body movement communication in
time and space,” Hanna writes in “Naked Truth: Strip Clubs,
Democracy and a Christian Right,” to be released next year. It
“conveys meaning by the use of space, touch, proximity to an
observer, nudity, stillness and specific body movements.”  Preparing Temptation  Stripping can transcend the carnal, said  Toni Bentley , an
author who danced for choreographer  George Balanchine ’s  New York
City Ballet  before a hip injury ended her career.  “It’s hard to make the argument that just thrusting your
pelvis is art,” Bentley said in a telephone interview. “You
have a much better chance at doing something beautiful with work
and preparation.”  The key to eroticism is careful planning, said Jennifer
McCumber, 28, a retired stripper who runs a website from her
Houston home where she teaches business concepts to dancers.  “To make a lap dance work, I had to combine concepts from
gymnastics, things I learned from pole dancing, belly dancing I
learned in college and even martial arts,” McCumber said in a
telephone interview. “You have to have physical and mental
agility to perform, while also making it seductive and
alluring.”  Choreography is at the heart of the case in  New York , where
a club in Latham, near Albany, is arguing that most of its sales
should be tax-free because of the state’s exemption for entrance
fees to “dramatic or musical art performances.”  ‘Stunningly Sweeping’  Andrew McCullough , a lawyer for Nite Moves, gave the court
videos that dancers use to “adapt new techniques into their
choreography.” And he hired Hanna to “get the message across”
to the Tax Appeals Tribunal, he said.  It didn’t get there.  “To accept Dr. Hanna’s stunningly sweeping interpretation
of what constitutes choreographed performance, all one needs to
do is move in an aesthetically pleasing way to music,” tribunal
Commissioners Carroll Jenkins and Charles Nesbitt wrote in their
April 2010 ruling against the club.  The case is headed to the New York Court of Appeals, which
said in October it will hear arguments next year.  In 2002, Bentley, the former ballet dancer, published
“Sisters of Salome,” a study on early 20th Century strippers.
As research, Bentley did a striptease of her own at a New York
City club.  “There’s no definition to art and it’s eternally
debated,” Bentley said. “Like the Supreme Court with
obscenity, I know it when I see it. And from going to all kinds
of strip clubs, some of it is and some of it is not.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  