-- 
Apple’s Claim of Android Rip-Off Awaits Trade Agency Ruling

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-12-05T21:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/apple-s-claim-of-android-rip-off-awaits-u-s-trade-agency-ruling.html
For two years,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has told
the world that phones running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system are iPhone rip-offs. Now Apple is about to learn whether
a U.S. trade agency thinks its claims have merit.  The International Trade Commission is set to rule Dec. 14
in a patent complaint lodged by Apple against rival smartphone
maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  The decision,  postponed  from the original date
of tomorrow, would mark the first final verdict from any
judicial entity in Apple’s global patent war against HTC and
fellow Android-phone makers  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc.   A ruling for Apple may lead to a ban on U.S. imports of HTC
devices, derailing the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company’s
trajectory from a small contract manufacturer founded in 1997 to
the biggest U.S. smartphone seller in the third quarter. A
victory for HTC may help it secure favorable terms in any
settlement with Apple.  “In the past two years, HTC has emerged essentially from
obscurity by promoting their own brand and high-end phones, and
they’ve largely been able to do this by leveraging Android,”
said Alex Spektor, an analyst with  Strategy Analytics  Inc.  HTC generated about $5 billion in U.S. sales last year,
according to a separate patent complaint it filed at the trade
agency against Cupertino, California-based Apple. That’s more
than half of HTC’s $9.1 billion (NT$275 billion) in global 2010
sales.  HTC Shares Fall  HTC sold 24 percent of the smartphones in the U.S. during
the third quarter, ahead of Samsung’s 21 percent and Apple’s 20
percent, Canalys  reported  Oct. 31. The Android platform accounts
for almost 70 percent of the U.S. smartphone market, the  Palo
Alto , California-based researcher said. There were 120.4 million
smartphones worldwide in the third quarter, a 49 percent jump
from the year-ago period, Canalys said.  Investors, speculating that HTC might lose the case, sent
HTC to a 17-month low ahead of the ruling. HTC declined by its 7
percent daily limit to close at NT$448.50 on the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange , the lowest since July 2010. Apple rose $3.31 to
$393.01 at 4:30 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  HTC’s Android phones, introduced in 2008, infuriated  Steve Jobs , according to Walter Isaacson’s biography of the late Apple
founder. Jobs made it his mission “to destroy Android,” which
he said “ripped off the iPhone, wholesale,” according to the
book.  Apple Claims  Apple contends that HTC’s Android phones infringe four
Apple patents, including one for a system to detect telephone
numbers in e-mails so they can be stored in directories or
called without dialing the numbers. The commission is reviewing
an agency judge’s findings that HTC infringed that patent and
one covering the transmission of multiple types of data, along
with two other Apple patents that the judge said weren’t
infringed.  The case is one of about a dozen before the commission
related to the dispute over Android devices. Microsoft is
fighting with Motorola Mobility and Barnes & Noble Inc., while
Apple has legal disputes with HTC, Samsung and Motorola Mobility
around the world.  A federal judge in  San Francisco  denied Apple’s request to
halt sales of Samsung’s Infuse 4 and Galaxy S 4G phones and its
Galaxy 10.1 tablet while a patent case is pending. The judge
found that Apple was likely to win on some infringement claims,
while Samsung had raised “substantial questions” of invalidity
of two of the four patents in the case. The judge still said
Apple didn’t show it would be irreparably harmed by Samsung
remaining on the market until the July trial.  HTC Setback  Apple also has patent-infringement suits pending against
HTC in district court, though the trade agency tends to move
more quickly.  An Apple victory would mark the second setback for HTC in
two weeks at the agency. On Nov. 21, the commission rejected an
agency judge’s findings that Apple was violating the patent
rights of HTC’s S3 Graphics unit. HTC agreed to buy S3 Graphics
for $300 million in July after the judge said Apple was
infringing two S3 Graphics patents for video compression.  The commission is an independent agency set up to protect
U.S. markets from unfair trade practices. It has the power to
block imports of products found to infringe intellectual
property rights.  HTC has said it has “alternative solutions in place” to
work around the patents if a violation is found.  T-Mobile USA Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. wireless
provider, said in an Oct. 6 filing with the trade agency that it
has much to lose should there be any limit on HTC phones.  ‘Locking In Consumers’  “An ever-increasing majority of T-Mobile’s U.S. customers
prefer the Android platform and would be unable to purchase
adequate substitutes in the near-term if HTC’s Android
smartphones were excluded,” T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , said in the filing.  T-Mobile teamed with Google and HTC to sell the first
Android phone in the U.S. in September 2008, and a majority of
its current  smartphone sales  are devices made by HTC.  Google, which denies copying the iPhone and hasn’t been
named in any of the trade agency complaints, argued in a filing
that Apple is trying to control the U.S. smartphone market
through litigation. HTC’s Android devices “are helping prevent
Apple’s iOS from becoming the sole viable mobile platform and
thus ‘locking in’ consumers and software developers to that
platform,” Google said in the filing.  4G Phones  Apple has argued that it’s not trying to exclude all rival
smartphones, only those using Apple inventions without
permission.  “Apple is an American company that has poured billions of
dollars in research and development and other investments into
the  U.S. economy ,” Apple wrote in an Oct. 17 filing with the
agency. “HTC is a foreign company that is free-riding on
Apple’s research and development expenditures and resulting
patents rather than creating its own innovations.”  There’s no guarantee that the commission will ban the HTC
phones should it find that HTC violated Apple’s patents.  Neither T-Mobile nor Google took a position on the
infringement issue, focusing instead on the possible import ban.
T-Mobile said an exclusion order may undermine efforts to spread
the newest generation of phones, known as 4G, even as the Obama
administration favors expanding wireless high-speed  Internet
service  into rural areas.  The Bellevue, Washington-based company, which doesn’t sell
the iPhone, said it operates “America’s largest 4G network.”  ‘Last Thing’  The trade agency’s staff, which acts as a third party on
behalf of the public in certain cases, has said that an
exclusion order is “unlikely to have any significant impact on
the public interest” and  demand for smartphones  could be met by
other companies, including Apple.  It does recommend a limited exception for 4G phones. HTC
accounts for more than half of all 4G sales in the U.S., so the
company should be allowed to continue to bring in those phones
for six months until additional competitors enter the market,
the staff recommended.  HTC isn’t expected to retain its top spot in smartphone
sales this quarter. On Nov. 23, the company cut its fourth-
quarter revenue forecast, citing the weak global economy and
competition from Apple and Samsung.  Apple has begun selling the iPhone 4, and Samsung’s newest
Galaxy has become its best-selling phone ever, said Spektor of
Strategy Analytics. At the same time,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , one
of HTC’s customers, has begun selling the iPhone. Another loss
at the trade agency would further undermine HTC’s position,
Spektor said.  “The last thing they need is for a non-competitive factor
to come into play,” said Spektor, who is based in Newton,
 Massachusetts . “HTC’s competitors in the Android space would be
happy because the Android slice of the pie is less crowded.”  The case is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  