-- 
Arab League Rebuffs Assad as Clinton Plans Talks With Syria’s Opposition

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-12-06T11:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/arab-league-won-t-lift-sanctions-against-syria-after-proposal-on-observers.html
The  Arab League  said it will maintain
sanctions imposed on Syria, after President Bashar al-Assad’s
government demanded the removal of the punitive measures among
other conditions for admitting monitors.  Separately, the U.S. plans a show of support for Syrians
pressing to end Assad’s rule. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
is scheduled to meet today with seven Syrian opposition figures
in Geneva, according to a U.S. official who was authorized to
speak on condition of anonymity. It will be only the second time
that Clinton has held such talks.  Syria is attempting to bargain with the Arab League, which
imposed sanctions in response to Assad’s violent crackdown
against protesters. The government would agree to let in Arab
League monitors provided the bloc restored Syrian membership and
ended the sanctions in an agreement to be signed in Damascus,
Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said in a letter to the group,
according to the official Syrian Arab News Agency.  That response “will not lead to suspending Arab sanctions
on  Syria ,” Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi said,
according to Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency.  The league on Dec. 3 ordered a freeze on the assets of 19
Syrian officials, a ban on their travel and a reduction in
flights to Syria if the government refuses to admit
international monitors, release political prisoners and end its
crackdown on protests. Half of  air travel  between Syria and Arab
League states will be cut starting Dec. 15, the league said.  Sanction Enforcement  “The ultimate impact will depend on the effectiveness of
enforcing these regulations,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist
at Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank , said in response to e-
mailed questions. “This may be difficult in practice. It
usually is.”  Assad faces growing economic and political pressure to end
a crackdown against unrest that began in mid-March, inspired by
movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and Libya. The
violence risks moving Syria closer to a civil war as military
personnel defect and take up arms against the government, the
 United Nations ’ top human-rights official said last week.  Syrian security forces killed six people today, including a
family of five, Al Arabiya television reported, citing
activists, and Al Jazeera reported 50 killed yesterday. The UN
says more than 4,000 people have been killed since the start of
the protests, while human-rights activists put the figure in
excess of 4,500.  ‘Gross Violations’  The  UN Human Rights Council ’s independent commission of
inquiry last week said its probe found that Syrian military and
security forces had committed “gross violations of human
rights,” adding that it’s “gravely concerned that crimes
against humanity have been committed” throughout the country.  The punitive measures against Syria are the first the Arab
League has imposed on a member state since its formation in
1945. The U.S. and the European Union have added to the
political and economic pressure by imposing their own sanctions,
while the United Nations Security Council wasn’t able to pass
any punitive measures after Russia and  China  objected to passing
a resolution to condemn the violence in October.  Total SA (FP)  said yesterday it will stop all activities
undertaken with Syria’s state-owned General Petroleum Corp. to
comply with European Union sanctions against Assad’s regime.
Three days earlier, Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil
company, said it will cease operations in Syria.  The Syrian  central bank  weakened the currency to 54 per
dollar from 50.765 on Dec. 4, SANA reported. That extends the
currency’s decline this year to more than 23 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The pound has been loosely pegged
to the IMF’s special drawing rights since October 2007.  The Central Bank of Syria has spent about $3 billion
defending the currency and financing trade since the start of
the uprising, Governor Adib Mayaleh said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  