-- 
Arsenic in Rice Poses Health Risks for Pregnant Women, Researchers Find

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-12-05T23:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/arsenic-in-rice-poses-health-risks-for-pregnant-women-researchers-find.html
(Corrects percentage in second paragraph.)  Pregnant women who eat rice regularly
may expose themselves and their fetuses to too much arsenic,
possibly putting them at risk of premature births, researchers
from  Dartmouth College  said.  A test found that pregnant women who ate rice in the two
days before their urine was analyzed had a median level of the
potentially toxic chemical 56 percent higher than those who
didn’t. The study of 229 New Hampshire women was adjusted for
the amount of arsenic in the water supply, according to the
research published today in the Proceedings of the  National
Academy of Sciences .  Arsenic occurs naturally in the environment and is common
in groundwater. While drinking water is tested and there are
guidelines for safe levels of the element -- 10 micrograms per
liter -- no such monitoring or regulation exists when it comes
to rice and other foods, said  Margaret Karagas , senior author
and director of the Children’s Environmental Health and Disease
Prevention Center at Dartmouth in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  “Rice is a nutritious food so we are not making a dietary
recommendation that women avoid it,” Karagas said in a
telephone interview. “What we would like to see is for our food
to be monitored for the presence of arsenic and regulated to
keep it below certain levels.”  Exposure to arsenic has been connected with the development
of cancer and cardiovascular illness and may be related to
premature births, low birth-weights and other adverse pregnancy
outcomes, Karagas said.  “Developing fetuses may be more vulnerable to
environmental agents,” she said.  Well Water  The water in private wells also is a source of higher
concentrations of arsenic, said Karagas, an epidemiologist and
professor at Dartmouth Medical School. She and her team
suggested that people with private wells regularly test the
water for arsenic levels.  The level of arsenic in rice varies based on where the
grain is grown among other factors, Karagas said. For this
reason, the researchers don’t recommend dropping rice from a
pregnant woman’s diet, she said. In general rice is more able
than some other plants to extract arsenic from the environment.  “This is why it is so important to study which species and
growing conditions result in higher levels of arsenic so we can
avoid them,” Karagas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  