-- 
Stocks Climb as Europe Fights Debt Crisis; Euro, Crude Oil Reverse Advance

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-12-05T23:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/asian-stocks-climb-as-euro-oil-rise-on-italy-s-plan-to-solve-debt-crisis.html
Stocks (MXAP)  rose, adding to the best
weekly gain since 2009, as  Italy ’s leader proposed budget cuts
and Germany and  France  pushed for a new treaty to fight the debt
crisis. The euro erased gains as Standard & Poor’s put European
nations on watch for potential downgrades.  The  S&P 500  climbed 1 percent at 4 p.m. in New York,
 trimming a rally (SPX)  of as much as 1.8 percent on news reports
foreshadowing S&P’s action. The euro was down less than 0.1
percent at $1.3389 after increasing 0.7 percent earlier. Oil
reversed a 1.5 percent rally to settle little changed at $100.99
a barrel. Italian, French and Spanish bonds surged; Europe’s
debt markets closed before S&P’s plans were reported.  The  S&P 500 (SPXL2)  extended last week’s 7.4 percent gain as
Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  prepared a 30 billion-euro
($40 billion) plan designed to reduce the euro-region’s second-
biggest debt. France and Germany want a new EU treaty to set out
rules for euro area governments, French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  said after meeting with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
who said the region’s leaders will seek to “win back a bit of
trust” at a summit at the end of this week.  “France and Germany know how serious the problem is,”
 Frederic Dickson , who helps oversee $28 billion as chief market
strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego , Oregon, said
in a telephone interview. “There’s a lot of anticipation that
there will be positive comments coming out of  Europe  this
week.”  Gains Trimmed  Equities and the euro retreated from higher levels after
the  Financial Times  said S&P was going to publish the ratings
report. After U.S. equities markets closed, S&P announced it was
putting 15 euro nations on review for possible downgrade,
including Germany, France, Netherlands, Finland and Luxembourg.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index  posted a sixth consecutive
day of gains, the longest winning streak since October, and the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose for a second day. Italy’s FTSE MIB
Index rallied 2.9 percent as Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA
and Banco Popolare SC climbed more than 10 percent.  Banks led gains in the S&P 500 today, with JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. climbing at least
2.7 percent to pace an advance in 73 of 80 financial stocks in
the S&P 500. The benchmark index for U.S. stocks closed at the
highest level since Nov. 15 and trimmed its year-to-date loss to
less than 0.1 percent.  MetLife Rallies   MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, climbed 3.7
percent after saying earnings will probably climb in 2012 as
Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian reshapes management a
year after the firm’s biggest acquisition.  Equities maintained gains earlier as the Institute for
Supply Management’s non-manufacturing index fell to 52 in
November from 52.9 a month earlier. Fifty is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction and the measure was projected
to rise to 53.9, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The S&P 500 will climb to 1,360 next year as corporate
profits increase and European and U.S. officials make policy
changes, strategist Gina Martin Adams of  Wells Fargo & Co . said.
The level is about 13 times a blend of estimated 2012 and 2013
earnings, Adams said in a note dated today.  ‘Troubled’ Start  “Stocks will start the year troubled by ongoing sovereign
debt struggles in Europe,” New York-based Adams wrote in the
report. “European and U.S. policy makers will likely have to
create just the right mix of ingredients to fill the punchbowl
to the satisfaction of investors.”  Ten-year Treasuries erased earlier losses, with the yield
unchanged at 2.035 percent after climbing eight points earlier.
The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, slipped less than 0.1 percent to 78.561 after losing as
much as 0.6 percent. The U.S. currency weakened against 11 of 16
major peers.  The yield on the 10-year Italian bond slid 73 basis points
to 5.95 percent.  French 10-year bonds rallied and outperformed benchmark
German bunds, narrowing the  difference  in yield, or spread,
between the securities by 20 basis points to 93 points. The
Spanish 10-year yield tumbled 56 basis points to 5.12 percent,
dropping for the sixth consecutive day, the longest run of
declines since August.  Germany  sold 2.675 billion euros of six-month bills to
yield 0.0005 percent, while the Netherlands sold 1.1 billion
euros of 176-day bills and 1 billion euros of 84-day securities.  All Eyes on IMF  Merkel’s government won’t stand in the way of the
Bundesbank helping to fight the debt crisis by channeling loans
through the  International Monetary Fund , a senior Merkel ally
said. Germany is keen for the IMF to adopt a “decisive role”
in combating the crisis alongside the European rescue fund,
Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said today in a telephone
interview.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments declined seven basis points to
320, the lowest since Nov. 3. Contracts on Italy dropped 27 to
431 and  Spain  fell 31 to 351.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit risk pared its decline on
concern that Germany and France may lose their top ratings at
S&P. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased by 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 123.7 basis
points at 3:35 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.
The index had earlier fallen as low as 119.9.  Merkel, Sarkozy  Merkel and Sarkozy said Europe’s two biggest economies were
aligned on backing automatic penalties for countries that
violate deficit limits and locking limits on debt into euro
states’ constitutions. The French leader said they aimed reach
consensus on the changes required by March as the two presented
a common platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of EU leaders in
Brussels.  “If they fail to deliver this Friday, those bond markets
are going to erupt and those sovereign-debt yields in Italy and
Spain and elsewhere in Europe are going to go to new highs,”
Howard Ward, portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye,
New York, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.6 percent, a sixth
straight gain in its longest winning streak since Oct. 28. The
Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.2 percent after a Chinese
 purchasing managers’ index , a gauge of industries such as
construction, retail and property, shrank for the first time
since February. The Micex Index added 0.8 percent in Moscow as
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s hold on parliament weakened.
Benchmark indexes advanced more than 1.7 percent in Poland and
Hungary.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities slipped 0.1 percent
percent, erasing an earlier gain of as much as 1.2 percent.
Nickel, coffee and sugar climbed more than 2.6 percent for the
biggest gains among the 24 commodities in the index, seven of
which rose. Natural gas, wheat and live cattle lead losses with
declines of more than 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  