-- 
Australia, New Zealand Dollars Advance on Optimism Europe Tackling Crisis

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-12-05T18:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/aussie-kiwi-dollars-erase-gains-on-slowdown-signs-before-policy-meeting.html
Australia ’s dollar gained versus most
major peers after France and  Germany  said they want a rewrite of
the European Union’s rules to tighten economic cooperation,
spurring optimism the region is tackling its debt crisis.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced as global stocks and raw-
materials prices rallied even as the country’s Treasury
department lowered its economic growth forecast and a private
report showed a Chinese services index declined. Both currencies
also rose as Italy’s Cabinet approved austerity and growth
measures.  “There’s been positive news flow from  Europe  today,” said
 Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “It’s been positive for the risk
environment.”  The Australian dollar advanced 0.8 percent to $1.0301 at
1:39 p.m. New York time. The currency strengthened 0.6 percent
to 80.12 yen.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.7
percent to 78.26 U.S. cents. The kiwi appreciated 0.4 percent
higher at 60.87 yen.  The Aussie briefly erased gains amid bets the  Reserve Bank 
might cut  interest rates  to spur the economy in the face of a
possible global slowdown triggered by Europe’s debt crisis. The
central bank is scheduled to issue a policy statement at 10:30
p.m. New York time.  Common Platform  The currency strengthened as German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy presented a common
platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of EU leaders in Brussels on the
debt crisis. They backed automatic penalties for deficit
violators and locking limits on debt into euro states’
constitutions.  The MSCI World Index of stocks climbed 1.3 percent, and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials increased 0.4
percent.  New Zealand’s gross domestic product is likely to increase
about 3 percent in the year ending March 31, 2013, the Treasury
Department said in a report on its website today. That compared
with 3.4 percent expansion forecast in the Oct. 25 pre-election
fiscal and economic update.  A purchasing managers’ index for services in  China  fell to
52.5 last month from 54.1 in October, according to a statement
issued by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion. China is Australia’s
largest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
biggest export destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  