-- 
Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Advance as Italy Budget Measures Boost Yield Demand

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-12-05T03:28:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/aussie-kiwi-dollars-advance-as-italy-budget-measures-boost-yield-demand.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose after  Italy ’s Cabinet approved austerity and growth
measures before a summit on  Europe ’s debt crisis, supporting
demand for riskier assets.  New Zealand’s currency was 0.6 percent from a three-week
high against the yen before a report today forecast to show
services industries in the U.S. expanded in November. Gains in
the so-called Aussie may be limited on speculation the  Reserve
Bank of Australia  will cut  interest rates  when it meets tomorrow.  “We’re seeing some improvement in sentiment” on Italy’s
austerity plan, said Emma Lawson, a currency strategist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “We’ll be watching data
and announcements heading into the European meeting. We’re
neutral” on the Aussie and kiwi this week, she said.  Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.1 percent to $1.0228 as of
2:11 p.m. in Sydney from last week in  New York . The currency
fetched 79.74 yen from 79.67 yen on Dec. 2. New Zealand’s
currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 77.81 U.S. cents. The so-
called kiwi dollar traded at 60.67 yen from 60.61 yen on Dec. 2,
when it touched 61.12 yen, the highest since Nov. 14.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced 30 billion
euros ($40 billion) of austerity and growth measures yesterday,
a day earlier than planned, as he seeks to cut the euro-region’s
second-biggest debt and prevent a breakup of the euro. He will
present the package, which includes more than 12 billion euros
in spending cuts, to both houses of parliament today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet before the European Union summit this
week in an attempt to bridge differences on a crisis resolution.  U.S. Data  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  for services
industry in the U.S. rose to 53.8 last month from 52.9 in
October, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the Tempe, Arizona based-group’s report.  “We have seen improvement in U.S. economic data across the
board, so we expect that to continue,” said NAB’s Lawson.
“That should help confidence in the global economy and help”
currencies such as the Aussie and kiwi.  Gains in the Australian dollar were limited after a private
report showed the country’s annual inflation rate fell to a two-
year low in November.  Australia’s Inflation  Consumer prices in Australia rose 2.1 percent last month
from a year earlier, compared with a 2.6 percent annual gain in
October, according to an  index  compiled by TD Securities Inc.
and the Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today.  Australia’s central bank aims to hold annual inflation in a
2 percent to 3 percent range.  “Odds have shortened for” a 25 basis points cut by the
RBA tomorrow,  Besa Deda , chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
in Sydney, wrote in a research note today. “Soft patches in the
domestic economy are yet to make a marked recovery.”  Australia’s benchmark rates will drop to 4 percent next
year, Deda forecast.  A Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps shows an 87
percent chance  Reserve Bank ’s cash rate will be cut from 4.5
percent to 4.25 percent.  Higher rates in Australia and New Zealand, compared with as
low as zero in the U.S. and  Japan , attract investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  New Zealand’s official cash rate is 2.5 percent. The
Reserve Bank of New Zealand holds a policy meeting on Dec. 8.  The nation’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, was unchanged at 2.88 percent.  Australia’s government bonds advanced, with  yields  on the
10-year debt falling two basis points to 3.98 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  