-- 
Australia Company Profits Advance More Forecast on Mining and Construction

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-05T02:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/australia-company-profits-advance-more-forecast-on-mining-and-construction.html
Australian  business profits  advanced
more than economists estimated in the three months through
September, while inventories declined, as high commodity prices
boosted  earnings  in mining.  Gross operating profits gained 4.8 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, when they rose a revised
7.3 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3 percent
increase. Inventories unexpectedly dropped 1.1 percent last
quarter.  Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower
the overnight cash rate target tomorrow for a second straight
meeting, 13 of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted.  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is threatening to slow growth
this quarter in Australia’s terms of trade -- a measure of
export prices relative to the cost of imports -- after they rose
to a record this year.  “Company profits have become very well correlated with the
terms of trade and indeed it was the mining sector that
accounted for most of the profit,” said  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. The “pretty
soft inventory data” suggested firms chose not to meet demand
by increasing production, he said, estimating the draw-down in
stockpiles took one percentage point off third-quarter gross
domestic product growth.  Australian commodity prices were 18.1 percent higher in
November than a year ago, a  Reserve Bank  gauge showed last week.
The central bank says the terms of trade probably peaked last
quarter.  Stronger Dollar  The Australian dollar has gained 3.1 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past 12 months, the third-best performer
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The rise has
hurt the nation’s manufacturers and other non-resource
industries.  The Australian dollar was little changed after the data.
The so-called Aussie traded at $1.0232 as of 1:08 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0244 before the figures were released.  From a year earlier, profits advanced 8.8 percent, today’s
report showed.  Profits at mining companies advanced 5 percent and
construction jumped 21.7 percent in the third quarter, while
financial and insurance services earnings gained 36.1 percent,
according to today’s report. Profits at manufacturers fell 3
percent and earnings declined 2.9 percent at retailers, it
showed.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  Australian job notices were unchanged in November, ending a
four-month skid, as companies delayed personnel decisions during
a bout of global financial turmoil, a survey by  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  showed today.  The RBA on Nov. 1 lowered its benchmark rate from a
developed-world high of 4.75 percent to 4.5 percent to help
boost domestic demand, its first reduction in 31 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  