-- 
Automakers Gain Speed at Year-End as U.S. Shoppers Return: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/automakers-set-for-best-year-since-2008-as-u-s-shoppers-returning-cars.html
The U.S. auto industry is seeing
demand recover faster than anticipated, with carmakers headed
toward their best annual performance in three years at sales of
12.8 million vehicles.  Consumers entered this year’s final month demanding models
ranging from big pickups to luxury sedans to fuel-sipping
hybrids after pushing November’s sales to the fastest monthly
pace since the government’s “cash for clunkers” trade-in
program in August 2009.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC, two years removed from bankruptcy, have been taking share
from disaster-stricken Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co.  U.S. buyers are replacing their cars after delaying new-
vehicle purchases as long as possible, and they are snapping up
F-Series pickups and Prius hybrids as consumer confidence in the
economy jumps. That means the automakers haven’t had to resort
to fire-sale prices to goose demand.  “The industry has managed production levels to where
demand was this year and didn’t get ahead of itself,” said  Jeff Schuster , a Troy, Michigan-based analyst for LMC Automotive.
“With inventory now being replenished, it’s not a situation
where we’re seeing too much production or seeing heavy incentive
use.”  Spending on marketing promotions averaged less than $2,700
a vehicle throughout the industry, down about $74 from a year
ago, according to LMC and J.D. Power & Associates.  Consumer confidence  surged in November by the most in more
than eight years, and the portion of consumers planning to buy a
new vehicle within six months climbed to the highest since April,
data from The Conference Board showed Nov. 29.  Older Cars  The average age of cars and light trucks on the road today
has risen to 10.6 years old, Jenny Lin, Ford’s senior U.S.
economist, said on a Dec. 1 conference call.  “We are going to see more and more of this pent-up demand
realized,” Lin told analysts and reporters.  She cited declining gasoline prices for providing
“relief” to consumers, who responded with purchases of sport-
utility vehicles and pickups. Sales of Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford’s SUVs climbed 29 percent and F-Series trucks increased 24
percent.  GM’s deliveries of Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra
pickups surged 34 percent and 22 percent, respectively, and
Chrysler’s Jeep brand sales soared 50 percent. The average price
for unleaded  gasoline  has dropped 71 cents, or 18 percent, to
$3.28 a gallon on Dec. 3 from its peak this year on May 4,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group.  Broad Demand  Consumer demand was broad-based, as  Toyota (7203)  and Honda
boosted deliveries of smaller vehicles, making up for production
lost after March 11’s tsunami and earthquake in  Japan  and more
recent floods in  Thailand  disrupted their supply chains.  Toyota,  Asia ’s largest automaker, reported a 49 percent
increase in sales of Prius hybrid models, including its new
wagon variant. Deliveries of its redesigned Camry sedan climbed
13 percent to 23,440, securing its position as the top-selling
car line ahead of Nissan Motor Co.’s Altima and the Ford Fusion.
Toyota slashed discounts on cars by 32 percent last month,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Honda, the only automaker among the 10 largest that didn’t
have a companywide U.S. sales increase for November, still
managed to boost deliveries of Civic cars by 3.4 percent. That’s
the first increase since April for the Tokyo-based automaker’s
top-selling model.  Among luxury brands,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s November deliveries
jumped 47 percent, as the brand’s year-to-date sales closed to
within 1,600 of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW line. The two
German brands are vying to replace Toyota’s Lexus, the annual
luxury champ for the last 11 years, which also lost production
to the March disasters.  Industry Pace  Industry sales accelerated to a 13.6 million seasonally
adjusted annualized  rate , according to  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based Autodata. The pace exceeded the 13.4 million
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The recovery is showing a little bit more resiliency than
what people feared,”  Paul Ballew , chief economist for
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., said in a Dec. 1 phone
interview. “Vehicle sales are inching their way back up to 14-,
and then eventually 15- and 16-million units.”  If December matches November’s 14 percent increase in
industrywide deliveries, auto sales will finish the year at 12.8
million cars and light trucks. That would exceed the 12.7
million sales total that was the average estimate of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg in August.  Considering Increases  Jefferies Inc., IHS Automotive and TrueCar.com are now
considering increases to their estimates for 2012 deliveries,
according to analysts at the three firms.  Auto sales may total 13.5 million light vehicles next year,
the average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The industry
delivered 11.6 million cars and light trucks last year, up from
a 27-year low of 10.4 million in 2009.  The seasonally adjusted annualized rate for auto sales
“appears to be building to a 2011 exit run-rate close to 14
million without a full Japanese supply recovery and bad economic
news cycle,” Adam Jonas, a New York-based analyst for Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a Dec. 1 research note. The momentum “bodes
well for 2012,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  