-- 
Banks Can’t Shrink Lending to Meet EU Targets, Enria Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-12-05T15:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/banks-can-t-shrink-balance-sheets-to-meet-eu-targets-enria-says.html
Regulators won’t allow lenders to cut
lending to companies to circumvent tougher European Union
 capital requirements , the head of the region’s banking watchdog
said.  The  European Banking Authority  is seeking to ensure that
lenders bolster their capital by raising fresh reserves, rather
than by threatening the economy by running down loans, the
agency’s Chairman Andrea Enria said in Brussels today.  European policy makers are trying to avoid triggering a
credit crunch and recession with their plans to force banks to
boost capital. One way for banks to increase their  capital
ratios  is for them to shrink their balance sheets by cutting
lending. Banks are likely to reduce their balance sheets by as
much as 2.5 trillion euros ($3.4 trillion) within the next 18
months, Morgan Stanley analysts said in a report last month.  The shrinkage that lenders have already begun is “a serious
threat” to growth in the 27-nation EU, Enria said. The EBA is
insisting that “only the narrowest actions curtailing asset
levels” such as loans would be allowed to count toward lenders’
capital levels, he said.  European leaders are demanding the region’s banks increase
their capital after financial firms agreed to accept losses on
Greek  government bonds . Enria was speaking ahead of the EBA’s
release of updated figures on how much capital lenders should
raise to absorb losses from euro-area bonds.  Sovereign Debt  The EBA estimated in October that the region’s financial
institutions need 106 billion euros to reach a requirement to
hold 9 percent of so-called core Tier 1 capital by mid-2012,
after marking their sovereign debt to market prices.  Capital requirements for banks are set as ratios of their
reserves compared with loans and other assets weighted according
to their riskiness.  EU lenders have been facing a “funding squeeze” since the
summer that “is closely linked to the sovereign debt crisis,”
Enria said. Data from the  European Central Bank  had shown that
funding situation was the “main cause” of a retrenchment in
lending, he said.  Seventy banks (BEBANKS)  were tested in October with data broken down
by country. Spanish banks needed 26.2 billion euros and Italian
banks 14.8 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, taking into
account booking sovereign debt at market prices, the EBA has
said.  Capital Needs  Enria declined to indicate when the updated figures on
banks’ capital needs will be published.  Separately, Enria commented on plans by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief, to propose draft rules to end the
need for taxpayer bailouts of failing banks.  Enria said plans to write down unsecured creditors at
failing banks should exempt debt issued before a cut-off date.  This is needed to prevent the proposals “exacerbating”
difficulties lenders are facing in getting funding, he said.  Enria also said that plans by individual nations to force
banks to accelerate the implementation of bank capital rules
drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  could
“aggravate” funding problems faced by lenders in other
nations, as investment would gravitate to the jurisdictions with
the toughest rules.  Liquidity rules set by Basel will “have to be carefully
reviewed and calibrated,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  