-- 
Barclays to Buy Back $3.9 Billion of Debt to Bolster Capital

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-12-05T18:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/barclays-to-buy-back-3-9b-of-debt.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, offered to buy back as much as 2.5
billion pounds ($3.9 billion) of securities to improve the
quality of the capital it holds.  The lender will offer to buy back the Tier 1 securities for
a discount of as much as 30 percent to face value, London-based
Barclays said in a statement today.  Barclays is buying back the debt because it will count less
towards the highest form of capital when the latest round of
rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  take
effect in 2013. Regulators are pressing banks to boost capital,
or their ability to absorb losses, to shield taxpayers from
the costs of future bailouts.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
BNP Paribas SA have announced similar deals in the past three
weeks.  The “offers will enable the issuer to enhance further the
quality of its capital structure through the reduction of non-
Basel III compliant Tier 1 capital and subsequent generation of
additional core Tier 1 capital,” Barclays said in the
statement.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  urged last week
lenders to step up efforts to bolster their defenses against the
euro area’s debt turmoil, which now looks like a “systemic
crisis.”  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, last week
offered to exchange as much as $7.7 billion of capital notes for
new bonds to boost capital. The British banks follow lenders
including BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s largest bank, and Spain’s
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in exchanging capital securities for debt.  The pool of debt investors can sell back to the bank
includes core Tier-1 notes and reserve capital instruments in
both U.S. dollars and British pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  