-- 
Basel Committee Plans to Discuss Curbs on Bank Borrowing

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-12-05T12:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/basel-committee-plans-to-discuss-curbs-on-bank-borrowing-1-.html
The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  will discuss the leverage ratio, a standard aimed at
curbing excessive borrowing by lenders, when it meets next week,
said Bill Coen, the group’s deputy secretary general.  It will be “one of the weightier items on the agenda,”
Coen told the RiskMinds  conference  in Geneva today. The
surcharge on systemically important financial institutions
“will be another significant issue,” he said.  Global regulators are split over the merits of a leverage
ratio, which acts as a limit on banks’ indebtedness. While the
measure is already applied in the U.S., the European Union
hasn’t included it in proposals to boost the amount of capital
the region’s lenders must hold.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services chief, has said that there is a “lack of
clarity about the effectiveness” of a leverage limit.  The Basel committee presented draft plans for a  leverage
ratio  last year with a view to the standard coming into force in
2018 after further study. The proposed limit would require a
bank to have Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of its
assets.  A spokeswoman for the committee declined to provide further
details on the timing of next week’s meeting, which brings
together bank regulators from 27 countries including the U.S.,
U.K. and  China .  There needs to be greater harmonization of financial
regulations, Jose Maria Roldan, director of banking regulation
at the Bank of  Spain  and a member of the Basel committee, said
in a separate presentation at the conference.  “We are seeing a reduced level of integration in financial
regulation,” he said. “The issue of goldplating,” where
governments add national requirements to standards proposed by
the committee, needs to be look at, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  