-- 
Bayer Withheld Yasmin Data From U.S., Former Agency Chief Tells Court

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/bayer-withheld-yasmin-clot-risk-data-from-u-s-ex-agency-head-tells-court.html
A  Bayer AG  unit withheld from U.S.
regulators findings by company researchers of increased reports
of blood clots in users of its Yasmin birth-control pills, the
former head of the  Food and Drug Administration  said.  David Kessler, the former FDA commissioner, in a document
unsealed yesterday in federal court in Illinois, said Bayer
didn’t include an analysis “that demonstrated an increase in
the U.S. reporting rate” for venous thromboembolism, or clots,
in a 2004 review of Yasmin’s safety provided to the agency.  The report also didn’t include an earlier draft opinion by
company researchers that “spontaneous reporting data do signal
a difference in the VTE rates for Yasmin” compared with other
oral contraceptives, Kessler said, quoting the draft.  “Bayer presented a selective view of the data, and that
presentation obscured the potential risks associated with
Yasmin,” Kessler said. The company also promoted the oral
contraceptive for unapproved uses, particularly for treatment of
 premenstrual syndrome , Kessler said.  Kessler’s report and four other expert opinions were
released yesterday by lawyers representing former users of
Bayer’s Yasmin family of contraceptives. The experts were paid
by the plaintiffs’ lawyers, who submitted the reports to the
FDA, which is considering safety findings on Yasmin and its
sister product Yaz at a hearing Dec. 8.  ‘Matters of Litigation’  Rose Talarico, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Bayer, said the
company doesn’t comment on ongoing lawsuits. “We have nothing
further to add as these are matters of litigation,” she said in
an e-mailed statement. “We expect them to be addressed further
at trial.”  Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
comment on the unsealed documents about the drugmaker’s handling
of the contraceptives.  The FDA didn’t accept the documents for the hearing,
according to an e-mail sent to plaintiffs’ lawyer Ned McWilliams
late yesterday.  “The deadline for all written submissions was on November
23, 2011,” Kalyani Bhatt, of the FDA’s Division of Advisory
Committee and Consultant Management, wrote. “We will not be
able to accept any written submission at this time.”  McWilliams said in an e-mail response to Bhatt, ``I think 
the American public would want to know why the FDA has refused to 
consider important safety information that Bayer did not consent 
to be released to the public or the FDA until after the submission 
deadline.''  ``Why not look at the documents and make your own independent 
objective evaluation?'' McWilliams said.                     Bhatt didn't return a call after regular business hours 
yesterday seeking comment on that e-mail.  10,000 Lawsuits  Bayer faces more than 10,000 lawsuits over injuries
allegedly caused by the contraceptives. Lawyers suing the
drugmaker cited FDA reports of at least 50 deaths tied to the
pills from 2004 to 2008. The first trials are scheduled for next
month in federal court in  Illinois  and state court in
Philadelphia.  Bayer’s contraceptives generated $1.58 billion (1.17
billion euros) in sales last year, making them the company’s
biggest-selling drugs after Betaseron, a multiple sclerosis
medication. The contraceptives, which contain the hormone
drospirenone, have been the focus of regulators who question
their safety. Bayer’s Yasmin was the No. 4 oral contraceptive in
the U.S. this year as of September, with 4.6 percent of the
market, according to data from IMS Health.  In October, the FDA warned that women taking the pills were
74 percent more likely to suffer blood clots than women on other
low-estrogen contraceptives. The FDA examined data on 835,826
women who took pills containing the hormone, including Bayer’s
Yasmin line of birth-control pills, according to the FDA report.
The agency set the Dec. 8 hearing to discuss the findings.  Health Risks  The lawsuits claim Bayer didn’t sufficiently warn patients
of the health risks of the  Yasmin  family of birth-control pills.
They also claim Bayer’s  Berlex Laboratories Inc. , acquired in
the 2006 purchase of Schering AG, marketed the drug for
unapproved uses.  This marketing campaign, according to the documents
unsealed yesterday, included paying $450,000 to Los Angeles
gynecologist  Judith Reichman  to sponsor a tour for a book she
was writing on women’s health issues, among other items, Kessler
said.  Kessler said the Bayer unit withheld information about
Yasmin’s risks of clots before the drug was approved by the FDA
in 2001.  Internal Study  Bayer didn’t report to the FDA details on the risks of
clots from an internal study and two cases of clots in patients
on the pill prior to the drug’s approval by the agency, Kessler
said.  “Had I, or a medical review officer, known these facts
prior to approval, further investigation would be warranted
before a decision on Yasmin’s NDA could be made,” he said,
referring to the company’s new drug application.  “These facts would impact the agency’s risk-benefit
equation about the drug and whether it could be approved,”
Kessler said.  The FDA told Bayer in June 2003 that it was “very
concerned” about the number of adverse events, particularly
deaths, reported in Yasmin users, Kessler said, citing an agency
letter to the company. This included six deaths in the U.S.,
five of which were first reported to the FDA after April 2,
2003, the agency said.  “Because of these recent reports, we believe that a change
in Yasmin labeling and possibly additional actions are now
warranted,” the FDA wrote to Bayer, according to the Kessler
report.  ‘White Paper’  Bayer responded that its data didn’t show a higher risk for
Yasmin. Internally, the company decided to produce a “White
Paper,” to the FDA, which would be “a scientific write-up that
lays out the issues,” according to a Bayer document quoted by
Kessler.  The white paper would compare Yasmin to other oral
contraceptives, or OCs, covering multiple adverse events
including venous thromboembolism (VTE) and pulmonary embolism
(PT).  In an early draft of that report, Bayer employees wrote,
according to Kessler, “Compared to the three other OCs, Yasmin
has a several fold increase in the reporting rates for DVT, PE,
ATE and confirmed VTEs.”  In this draft, the employees added: “When considering only
serious AEs (adverse events), the reporting rate for Yasmin was
10 fold higher than with the other products.” The total rate of
confirmed VTEs per year was three or four times higher than the
other three oral contraceptives reviewed, according to the data
in the draft, Kessler said. The raw numbers were 6.9 per year
for Yasmin and 1.5 for two of the other pills, according to the
draft.  ‘Spontaneous Reporting’  In a later draft, the Bayer employees said that
“spontaneous reporting data do signal a difference in the VTE
rates for Yasmin and other OC users.”  Such data wasn’t the “preferred approach to assess the
safety of a single product,” the researchers wrote. They said
data from a direct comparison, such as two then-ongoing studies
“should provide more insight.”  “The spontaneous reporting do NOT signal a difference in
VTE rates for Yasmin,” another Berlex employee wrote to company
colleagues in commenting on the draft, Kessler said. “Those
comments were not accompanied by any additional data,” Kessler
said.  Media Attention  Kessler agreed that spontaneous reporting of incidents has
limitations, because of the voluntary nature of the reports,
effects of media attention, different times of introduction for
drugs, among other factors. The information still should have
been included, he said.  “Even with its limitations, analysis of spontaneous
reporting data is an important, recognized and vitally used tool
by the FDA and the pharmaceutical industry for detecting safety
signals” Kessler said in his report.  “Bayer’s spontaneous reporting analysis demonstrated a
safety signal about Yasmin and VTE risk,” he said. “Bayer had
a duty to present a full and balanced view of all the data and
analysis concerning Yasmin to the FDA and health-care
professionals and failed to do so.”  Women suing Bayer over its line of birth-control pills
contend the company and its units went to unusual lengths to
market the medication for unapproved uses, according to court
papers.  Marketing Drugs  Bayer’s Berlex unit came up with a plan to hire Judith
Reichman, a Los Angeles-based gynecologist who writes a blog
about women’s health issues, “to engage in off-label
promotion” of the Yasmin line of contraceptives, John Abramson,
a Harvard medical school professor, concluded in his report.  Abramson was hired by plaintiffs’ lawyers to review
materials Bayer turned over about the marketing of the drugs.
His report was also unsealed yesterday by a federal judge in
Illinois who is overseeing a consolidation of Yaz cases.  Berlex officials said in an e-mail they’d agreed to pay
Reichman $450,000 in return for her willingness to “mention
off-label benefits of our products,” Abramson noted. The doctor
was planning an upcoming book on women’s health issues.  The company also planned to purchase 10,000 copies of the
book, which contained “off-label claims” about the Yasmin line
of contraceptives, the doctor noted. The purchase was part of a
“strategy to have the book appear on the New York Times
bestseller list,” Abramson added.  In her 2005 book, “ Slow Your Clock Down ,” Reichman wrote
that Yasmin may help women with PMS-related symptoms such as
“fluid accumulation and bloat,” or with depression.  Publicity  The FDA approved Yasmin only as a contraceptive. The
regulator hasn’t cleared it as a treatment for any form of PMS
or other ailments, according to the agency’s website. Reichman
was unavailable to comment about her work with Bayer because her
husband died, her assistant, Deborah Cannon, said in an e-mail.  Berlex officials understood the value of such publicity,
Abramson noted. For example, Talarico, a then-spokeswoman for
Berlex, flagged a copy of a 2006 story about Yaz in Allure
magazine that touted the benefits of Yaz for treating PMS.  Richard Salem, Berlex’s vice president for communications,
congratulated Talarico for getting the article placed in the
magazine.  “The value of these placements is astronomical,” Salem
said in an e-mail, according to court filings.  Commercial Success  Internal e-mails also show officials of Bayer and its
Berlex unit engaged in an extensive public relations campaign to
market Yaz that was “designed to circumvent FDA restrictions on
marketing” because they saw the limits “as a threat to the
commercial success of Yaz,” Abramson said in his report.  The Kessler and Abramson reports were sent to the FDA by
McWilliams, a lawyer with Levin, Papantonio, Thomas, Mitchell,
Rafferty & Proctor PA in Pensacola,  Florida .  “Although these reports were prepared for litigation, they
contain relevant information obtained from Bayer that has not
been previously provided to the FDA that will assist the
committee and the FDA in its own evaluation of the benefits and
risks of drospirenone-containing oral contraceptives,”
McWilliams wrote to the agency.  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Illinois (East St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 