-- 
BB&T, Equity Residential, Gannett, GSV, MetLife: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-12-05T13:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/bb-t-equity-residential-gannett-gsv-metlife-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parenthesis and prices are as of 8:05 a.m. in New York.  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  : BB&T may rise as the Winston-Salem,
North Carolina-based bank’s asset quality improves and its
earnings increase, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader”
column.  Equity Residential (EQR)  : Equity Residential, the
largest publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, said it will
acquire a 26.5 percent stake in closely held Archstone for $1.33
billion in cash.  Gannett Co. (GCI)   rose 0.8 percent to $12. The owner of
82 newspapers and 23 television stations was raised to “buy”
from “neutral” at Lazard Capital Markets.  GSV Capital Corp.  (GSVC US) climbed 2.4 percent to $14.80.
The U.S. investment Fund, which owns stakes in venture-based
companies such as Zynga Inc. and Facebook Inc., may be
attractive to investors who can tolerate some risk as more
social media, green technology and education companies prepare
to go public, Barron’s reported.  Guess?  (GES US): The clothing retailer may be attractive
after concern over a sales slowdown in Europe and the U.S.
pushed the share price below $30, Barron’s reported in its “The
Trader” column.  Intralinks Holdings Inc. (IL)  : Discovery Group LLC
reported a 5.8 percent stake in the software maker and may seek
talks with management, the board and shareholders.  Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  : The  drug company 
that makes wrinkle treatments and acne medicine forecast 2011
profit of as much as $2.39 a share, compared with the average
analysts’ estimate of $2.35.  MetLife Inc. (MET)   increased 2.6 percent to $32.60. The
largest U.S. life insurer, said 2012 earnings may reach $5.20 a
share, compared with the average analyst estimate of $5.08 a
share, daya compiled by Bloomberg show.  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  : Moody’s Investors Service changed
its outlook for the U.S. office-supplies retailer to stable from
negative, citing expectation that the Naperville, Illinois-based
company’s operating performance is likely to improve.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)   rallied 3.2 percent to $14.80. The
world’s largest office products company may rise to as high as
$22 in the next year if the economy improves and companies spend
more on office supplies, Barron’s reported.  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)   New York’s biggest office
landlord raised its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from
10 cents a share, exceeding the Bloomberg estimate of 10 cents.  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)   surged 52 percent to $39.92.
SAP AG agreed to buy SuccessFactors for $40 a share, or 52
percent more than the closing price on Dec. 2, to extend its
reach in the market for cloud computing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  