-- 
Belgium Gets Six-Party Coalition Government After Record 18-Month Standoff

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-12-05T10:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/belgium-gets-government-ending-540-days-of-breakup-speculation.html
Belgium  will get a full-time
government as soon as today, ending a record 540 days of post-
election brinksmanship between the Dutch-speaking north and
French south that kindled speculation of a national breakup at
the heart of  Europe .  The power struggle between the richer Dutch and
industrially depressed French region was only resolved as the
European economic crisis deepened, leading to a cut in Belgium’s
credit rating, a lurch upward in its borrowing costs and the
demise of its biggest bank,  Dexia SA. (DEXB)   The job of keeping Belgium intact and shaving Europe’s
fifth-highest debt load falls to a six-party coalition headed by
Elio Di Rupo, 60, the first native French speaker to run the
country since the 1970s.  “Our country needs a government, a genuine government, a
government of the center,” Benoit Lutgen, head of the French-
speaking Center Democratic Humanist party, said on Belgian
television yesterday. “Our country has changed and it will
change again.”  The six parties endorsed the governing program over the
weekend. One final marathon bargaining session -- this time over
the cabinet lineup -- went through the night, with no
nominations as of 11 a.m. in Brussels. A deal would be followed,
possibly later today, by the swearing-in by  King Albert II  at
his Brussels castle and a policy presentation by Di Rupo to the
parliament.  ‘Sour Apple’  “The accord gives a necessary, hopeful, just, wise and
prudent response to the challenges of tomorrow,” Wouter Beke,
head of the Dutch-speaking CD&V conservative party, said
yesterday. “We have to bite into the sour apple now and create
a perspective for what will come next.”  The government faces the immediate task of enacting a
pledged 11.3 billion euros ($15 billion) in spending cuts and
tax increases to pare the deficit to 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 as demanded by the European Union.  Belgian  borrowing costs  spiralled higher as the political
inertia combined with the escalation of the European debt
crisis. At their peak on Nov. 25, 10-year bond yields reached
5.86 percent, the highest at the end of a trading day in 11
years, and Belgium’s  extra borrowing rates  over German levels
hit 360 basis points.  Political Deadlock  The  final push  to overcome the political deadlock was
triggered by the Nov. 25 decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to cut
Belgium’s credit rating by one step to AA. The ratings company
blamed the move on the costs of the federal takeover of Dexia,
slowing growth and “the repeated failure of attempts to form a
new government.”  Di Rupo’s success in going the last lap toward a government
has since buoyed Belgian markets. Ten-year bonds now yield 4.50
percent, with the spread over German bonds down to 231 basis
points. Still, the extra yield, a measure of the risk of
financing Belgium’s debt, compares with 79 basis points on
election day, June 13, 2010.  Strains between the  six parties  -- representing the French
and Dutch-speaking wings of the Socialists, Liberals and
Conservatives -- also kept them from clinching further deficit-
reduction measures after 2012.  Ideology was on display at the weekend party congresses. Di
Rupo was greeted with a rendition of L’Internationale, the
global Socialist hymn, when he took the stage. Laurette Onkelinx, a party stalwart set for a cabinet post in the new
government, called for a “resolute defense of our social model
which protects the weakest.”  Eight Attempts  Belgium went through eight attempts to mediate the
political stalemate since the elections turned a separatist
party headed by Bart  De Wever  into the dominant force in the
northern region, Flanders.  A founding member of the EU and host of the bloc’s main
institutions and the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization , Belgium
straddles the divide between Europe’s wealthier, fiscally
restrained north and economically troubled south.  Flanders generates annual  economic production per person  of
31,067 euros, according to 2009 figures. Blighted by industrial
decay, the French-speaking south musters output per person of
22,868 euros.  Flanders  funneled 5.8 billion euros, or 967 euros per
Fleming, to the French region in 2005, the year of a central
bank data-mining exercise too politically sensitive to be
repeated since.  Federal Powers  While not demanding independence outright, De Wever’s N-VA
party platform counted on Belgium, the product of an 1830
revolution against the Netherlands, to gradually “evaporate”
as federal powers were shifted to the regions.  From the start, talks floundered between De Wever and a
French political elite accustomed to “solidarity” from
Flanders, home to Europe’s second-largest port and companies
such as  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer.  During the interregnum, Belgium was run by a caretaker
government headed by  Yves Leterme , a Flemish conservative who
once lampooned the Dutch-language prowess of French Belgians and
confused  France ’s national anthem with his own.  Fixers appointed by King Albert II were variously labelled
“adviser,” “mediator,” “negotiator” and “pre-former.” At
one point, the 77-year-old monarch reached into his
 terminological toolbox  and named a “clarifier.”  Popular protests of the do-nothing politics reflected
Belgium’s taste for irony, with student groups promoting a
“French Fry Revolution” and one clique of men giving up
shaving until a government emerged. The same mindset was behind
a  http://www.belgiq.eu/  website that displays a Google-like
error message “Government Not Found.”  Lucky Winner  Le Soir, the country’s leading French-language newspaper,
staged a raffle to guess when a government would be formed,
offering the lucky winner his or her weight in  waffles , a
favored Belgian nutrient.  The logjam  was only broken when Leterme’s allies in the
CD&V party, dominant in Flanders until the rise of the N-VA,
parted ways with the upstarts and backed Di Rupo’s blueprint for
constitutional reform.  A  first breakthrough  came on Sept. 15 with the redrawing of
the boundaries of a bilingual voting district surrounding
Brussels, which Flemish speakers had claimed was biased in favor
of the French.  The final result was the sixth constitutional overhaul
since 1970, assigning more tax-collecting authority to the
regions and setting a  20-year phase-out  of revenue transfers
from Flanders to the poorer French region.  The brittleness of the political peace was illustrated by a
Dec. 2 La Libre Belgique poll showing that De Wever’s party,
kept out of the new government, would pick up 39.8 percent of
the vote in Flanders, up from 27.8 percent in the 2010
balloting.  The next election is slated for mid-2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  