-- 
Belgium’s 18-Month Political Ordeal Finally Ends

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-12-05T23:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/belgium-s-di-rupo-to-take-office-after-18-month-political-ordeal.html
Belgium ’s first full-time government
in over 18 months will take office today, with Prime Minister
Elio Di Rupo pledging budget cuts to prevent the country from
becoming a casualty of the European debt crisis.  Di Rupo, 60, will become the first native French speaker to
lead trilingual Belgium since the 1970s. The  Finance Ministry 
was put in the hands of Steven Vanackere, the caretaker foreign
minister, who will succeed Didier Reynders.  “The king held an audience this evening at Chateau
Belvedere with Mr. Elio Di Rupo, in charge of forming the
government, and named him prime minister,”  King Albert II  said
in a statement. The king will swear in Di Rupo and his Cabinet
at 3 p.m. in Brussels.  Elections in June 2010 yielded a power struggle between the
richer Dutch and industrially depressed French region, a
stalemate that was only broken when a cut in Belgium’s credit
rating and surging borrowing costs forced the feuding political
elite to compromise.  The six-party government faces the immediate task of
enacting a pledged 11.3 billion euros ($15 billion) in spending
cuts and tax increases to pare the deficit to 2.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012 as demanded by the European
Union.  A Nov. 25 decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Belgium’s
credit rating by one step to AA triggered the final push to
overcome the political inertia. At their peak on that day, 10-
year bond yields reached 5.86 percent, the highest at the end of
a trading day in 11 years, and Belgium’s  extra borrowing rates 
over German levels hit 360 basis points.  Spreads Drop  Ten-year bonds now yield 4.34 percent, with the spread over
German bonds down to 213 basis points. Still, the extra yield, a
measure of the risk of financing Belgium’s debt, compares with
79 basis points on election day, June 13, 2010.  Belgium, the product of an 1830 revolution against Dutch
rule, is split between an economically robust Dutch-speaking
northern region and a French-speaking south blighted by
industrial decay. A small German-speaking region in the east is
the legacy of World War I.  Belgium had gone through eight attempts to mediate the
deadlock since a separatist party headed by Bart De Wever
emerged from the election as the dominant force in the northern
region, Flanders. The politicking pitted De Wever against Di
Rupo, the son of Italian immigrant coal miners known for his
trademark bowties in red Socialist colors.  All-Night Bargaining  It took one final all-night bargaining session for the six
parties -- representing the French and Dutch-speaking wings of
the Socialists, Liberals and Conservatives -- to divvy up the
Cabinet positions.  The new finance minister, Dutch-speaking  Vanackere , 47,
worked as a bank clerk before entering politics. His climb up
the ladder included stints as manager of the Brussels port and
transport authority. In 2009 he became foreign minister in the
caretaker government headed by  Yves Leterme .  Vanackere will swap jobs with  Didier Reynders , a French
speaker who served as finance minister for 12 years. Reynders,
53, will serve as foreign, European affairs and trade minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  