-- 
BNP Paribas Slides From Top of French Equity Rankings With Credit Agricole

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-12-05T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/bnp-credit-agricole-knocked-off-top-french-equity-sales-spots.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
were elbowed out of the top three rankings for French equity
sales for the first time in three years by foreign banks.
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  kept the No. 1 spot because of one deal.  French banks’ share of equity underwriting at home fell to
30 percent this year, the smallest piece of the pie since 2008,
from 49 percent last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BNP Paribas slid to the ninth spot from No. 3 and
Credit Agricole fell to 11th from second.  Deutsche Bank AG ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  shared the No. 2
ranking.  “When volume is low, strong international distribution is
important,” helping explain the gains by the non-French banks,
said Valery Barrier, Deutsche Bank’s Paris-based managing
director for  equity capital markets  in France. “We’re not in a
normal market.”  French companies raised 4.8 billion euros ($6.5 billion)
from the stock markets this year, the smallest amount since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1999. Companies steered
clear of selling equity as  Europe ’s debt crisis prompted a 16
percent drop in France’s benchmark  CAC 40 (CAC)  Index this year.  About 9.5 percent has been erased from the value of world
equity markets this year as European leaders struggled to stop
 Greece ’s sovereign debt losses from spreading throughout the
region. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index is down 12 percent,
the worst performance since 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed.  Shrinking Market  “Unless M&A activity picks up, there will be very few
capital increases,” said Jean-Michel Berling, head of equity
capital markets at  Credit Agricole  CIB in Paris. “Balance
sheets are healthy and cash has piled up. The first half will
likely be difficult.”  French equity sales represented 4 percent of European
volume this year, down from 13 percent in 2009, according to
Paris-based Societe Generale. Excluding so-called self-led
deals, underwriters completed 29 issues, the lowest number since
2008. French equity-linked offerings slid to seven from 12 in
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  “The equity-linked market, which is one of the areas where
we are particularly strong, was very weak mainly because the
straight  bond market  was very dynamic,” Laurent Morel, global
head of equity capital markets at Societe Generale in Paris,
said in an interview.  French companies sold 180 billion euros of debt this year,
the third most since at least 1999, Bloomberg data show.  Canceled IPOs  Two French initial public offerings were canceled this year
as stock prices fell. Lagardere SCA delayed the offering of its
Canal Plus  France  stake in March and Cie. de Saint-Gobain pulled
the $1.1 billion IPO of its packaging unit Verallia in June.  “The biggest issue has been overall uncertainty, fueled by
the sovereign-debt crisis, political movement and changing
signals on the health of the worldwide economy,” said Jerome Renard, managing director and co-head of the European equity
capital markets team at Nomura in London.  Societe Generale completed nine French issues for a total
of 995.9 million euros, increasing its share of the market by 3
percentage points to 21 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Legrand SA, the world’s largest maker of wiring devices
such as plugs and switches, picked Societe Generale last month
to underwrite a 583 million-euro share deal. Legrand’s 1.15
billion-euro share offering was underwritten in March by
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan of  New York  and Tokyo-
based Nomura.  ‘Modest’ Offerings  “If you weren’t on the Legrand block, you were no longer
in the race,” said Berling of Credit Agricole. Thierry Olive,
head of equity capital markets at BNP Paribas, wasn’t available
for comment.  Societe Generale has business coming through in France
“because we also do deals of a modest size that others won’t
do,” Morel said. The smaller offerings included the 56.5
million-euro IPO of Mauna Kea Technologies in July.  It’s too early to predict when the market will pick up,
said Sylvie Sauton, head of equity capital markets for France at
JPMorgan in  London . “For the market to improve in 2012, a lot
of elements must stabilize.”  Credit Agricole will try to recoup lost ground, Berling
said. “If activity resumes next year, we hope to return to our
position among the top three,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  