-- 
Bovespa Rises to Four-Week High on Lower Inflation, Rate Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-12-05T20:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/bovespa-rises-to-four-week-high-on-lower-inflation-rate-outlook.html
The Bovespa stock index advanced to a
four-week high as homebuilders and consumer stocks rose after
economists cut their forecasts on  Brazil ’s  interest-rate  and
inflation for 2012.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes , Brazil’s
biggest homebuilder by revenue, led gains by companies that
depend on domestic demand. The MSCI Brazil/Consumer
Discretionary index was the  best (MXBR)  performer among 10 industry
groups. Port developer  LLX Logistica SA  surged the most since
2009 after saying in a regulatory filing Intermoor do Brasil
Servicos Offshore de Instalacao Ltda will build a unit in the
Superporto do Acu to support the oil and gas industries.  The Bovespa gained 1.8 percent to 58,910.48 at the close of
Sao Paulo trading. Fifty-eight stocks climbed on the gauge while
eight fell. The real strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.7860 per  U.S.
dollar .  Policy makers will reduce the benchmark interest rate to
9.75 percent by the end of next year, compared with a 10 percent
estimate a week earlier, according to the median forecast in a
Dec. 2 central bank survey of about 100 economists published
today. The forecast for 2012 inflation, as measured by the IPCA
index, fell to 5.49 percent from 5.56 percent, the survey
showed.  “The central bank will probably keep cutting rates for a
while, as it’s very clear that economic growth is the main
priority for the government,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a director of
Ativa Corretora brokerage, said in a telephone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro .  Tax Cuts  Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 3.48 percent
next year, up from a previous forecast of 3.46 percent,
according to the survey. Last week, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Brazil is targeting growth of 5 percent next year
as he cut taxes on some food staples, home appliances and
consumer loans. The government also scrapped a tax on
foreigners’ purchases of stocks and corporate bonds tied to
infrastructure projects.  PDG jumped 4.8 percent to 6.73 reais. LLX, the port
developer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , surged 10
percent to 3.61 reais.  Stocks in  Europe  and in the U.S. climbed after Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced 30 billion euros ($40
billion) of austerity and growth measures to lower the nation’s
debt load. The measures will have more of a positive effect in
lowering bond yields than a negative impact on economic growth,
Monti said at a press conference in Rome.  U.S. stocks pared gains after two officials familiar with
 Standard & Poor’s  decision said the rating company will announce
that Germany and  France  may be stripped of their AAA credit
ratings as the debt crisis prompts all 17 euro nations to be put
on review for possible downgrade.  Tim, Banco do Brasil  Tim Participacoes SA , Brazil’s second-largest wireless
carrier, rose 2.7 percent to 8.84 reais after saying in an e-
mailed statement it plans to invest 7.5 billion reais ($4.2
billion) in infrastructure in Brazil from 2011 to 2013 to double
its fiber optic network.  Banco do Brasil SA ,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by assets,
fell 2.9 percent to 24.17 reais, the worst performer on the
Bovespa. Brazil’s government may boost the capital of state
banks by as much as 40 billion reais so they can continue to
offer credit, O Globo reported, citing unidentified officials in
the government’s economic team. Banco do Brasil and Caixa
Economica Federal will need at least 15 billion reais, the Rio
de Janeiro-based newspaper said.  Bull Market  The Bovespa entered a bull market in October after gaining
22 percent from a two-year low on Aug. 8 as Brazil’s interest-
rate cuts and speculation Europe was working toward solving its
debt crisis buoyed demand for equities. The index is still down
15 percent this year on concern flagging global commodity demand
and quickening inflation will hurt corporate earnings growth.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index trades at 10.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the ratio for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders moved 5.94 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average this year of 6.52 billion reais through Dec. 1,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  