-- 
Boyce Beats Black in U.K. $39,000 Turner Contemporary-Art Prize

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-12-06T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/boyce-beats-black-to-win-u-k-s-39-000-turner-prize-for-contemporary-art.html
Martin Boyce last night won the
 Turner Prize , the U.K.’s top contemporary-art award, beating
contenders known for crafting artworks out of plastic sheeting,
lipstick and overhead projectors.  Boyce -- whose sculptural installations use furniture,
lighting and design -- took his award from photographer Mario Testino in a televised ceremony at the  Baltic Centre for
Contemporary Art  in Gateshead, northern  England .  “The Turner Prize has done so much for art,” Boyce told
Channel 4, which broadcast the ceremony live. “It’s brought art
to an audience, and it’s just an honor to be part of that.”  Moments earlier, the unflamboyant winner -- wearing a black
suit and an open-neck white shirt -- stepped up to collect his
25,000 pound ($39,000) prize. At the same time, a burly, bare-
chested man in a pink tutu pushed his way forward and sat next
to the podium before being quickly whisked away by security.  “At a time when education has been through the wringer,”
Boyce said, “I want to acknowledge the value of accessible
education and important teachers.”  Set up in 1984, the Turner Prize has drawn tabloid mockery
over the years for favoring provocative art. Past winners
include  Martin Creed , whose submission for the Turner Prize
exhibition was the light switch in the gallery room;  Damien Hirst , known for his sharks in formaldehyde; and Grayson Perry,
a cross-dressing potter.  Cerebral Winners  As British art has moved away from the sensational, the
prizewinners have been more cerebral, and their work more
intangible. Last year’s winner was Scotland-born  Susan Philipsz ,
who makes sound-based installations where her recorded singing
voice rings out in public places.  This year’s five-person jury, led by Penelope Curtis, Tate
Britain’s director, preferred Boyce to Karla Black, whose floor-
based or hanging sculptures use plastic sheeting and plaster as
well as lipstick, nail polish and eye shadow.  The other two nominees were Hilary Lloyd, who makes video
installations where projectors become part of the art; and
 George Shaw , who paints his childhood surroundings -- the
housing estate and the local pub in Coventry, central England.  Boyce had work in the  Royal Academy  of Arts’ “Modern
British Sculpture” show earlier this year.  As his entry in the Turner Prize nominees’ exhibition, he
drew inspiration from four concrete trees designed for a
modernist garden in 1925. He turned them into motifs for his
practice, and for a new typeface.  Boyce was shortlisted for the prize on the strength of his
solo exhibition at the  Galerie Eva Presenhuber  in Zurich, which
the jury revisited before making up its mind.  The Turner Prize goes to “a British artist under 50 for an
outstanding exhibition or other presentation of their work” in
the 12 months before April 4, 2011. The prize money is 25,000
pounds for the winner and 5,000 pounds each for the runners-up.  Other past winners include  Anish Kapoor ,  Antony Gormley  and
 Mark Wallinger .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 