-- 
BP Says Halliburton Destroyed Evidence in Gulf Spill Case

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-12-05T22:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/bp-says-halliburton-destroyed-test-results-lost-computer.html
BP Plc  accused a unit of Halliburton
Co. of intentionally destroying evidence that could be used to
prove the oilfield services firm shares blame for the blowout
that caused the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  Halliburton Energy Services (HAL)  Inc. destroyed test results
that showed samples of the cement used to seal London-based BP’s
Macondo well, which exploded off the  Louisiana  coast last year,
were unstable, BP said in a filing today in federal court in New
Orleans.  The oilfield services provider also suppressed computer
models that might prove Halliburton was at fault “because it
wanted to eliminate any risk that this evidence would be used
against it at trial,” BP said in the filing.  BP asked the court to find that Halliburton destroyed
evidence on purpose and to compel the company to turn over for
third-party examination the computer used for the modeling.  “Halliburton is reviewing the details of the motion filed
today,’’ Beverly Stafford, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “However, we believe that the conclusion that BP is
asking the court to draw is without merit, and we look forward
to contesting their motion in court.’’  Eleven Dead  BP and Halliburton are suing each other over which
company’s actions and decisions caused the blowout, which killed
11 workers and sparked the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history. The two companies face more than 350 lawsuits by
coastal property owners and businesses claiming billions in
damages from the spill.  Halliburton has raised two primary defenses against
allegations it shares blame for the blowout, BP said in the
filing. First, the contractor maintains its foaming cement
formula was stable and performed as designed, BP said. Second,
Halliburton claims BP chose to use too few “centralizers” to
keep the pipe aligned in the well, which allowed hydrocarbons to
escape through channels that formed in the cement liner, BP
said.  BP said Halliburton witnesses and documents uncovered in
pretrial proceedings undercut both defenses.  Rickey Morgan, a Halliburton employee who conducted post-
incident testing on Macondo cement slurry samples at the
company’s lab in Duncan,  Oklahoma , “testified under oath that
he destroyed test results in order to keep the information from
being ‘misinterpreted’ in ways adverse to Halliburton in
litigation,’’ BP said in today’s filing.  ‘Thin’ Slurry  According to BP, Morgan testified that during tests the
slurry mixture separated, instead of foaming as designed, and
looked “thin’’ to him, an indicator of potential instability.
Morgan said he didn’t take notes of the tests and dumped out his
samples partly because he feared the results could be harmful to
the company in court, BP said.  When a second Halliburton lab replicated Morgan’s tests
with similar results, lab employees also “destroyed records of
the testing as well as the physical cement samples used in the
testing,’’ BP said.  Halliburton’s in-house labs used up all samples of the
slurries and chemical additives actually used in the well, which
prevented third-party labs from conducting precise tests, BP
said.  Even though it couldn’t provide any actual samples, the
contractor has maintained that post-incident tests conducted by
outside labs are unreliable because they use simulated cement
slurries and additives, BP said.  ‘At Best, Lost’  BP also said Halliburton “has, at best, lost’’ computer
data that undermine a claim that fatal channels formed in the
cement because BP didn’t use enough centralizers.  Tommy Roth, vice president in charge of Halliburton’s
cement operations, said in an e-mail three months after the
blowout that a company computer model “demonstrates that there
was no channeling in the Macondo well,’’ according to BP’s
filing.  BP said that it didn’t get a copy of Roth’s message until
July of this year and that it never received copies of the
computer models Roth referenced. Instead, Halliburton told BP
the computer modeling results at issue are “gone,’’ said BP.  BP asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who presides
over the consolidated oil-spill litigation in  New Orleans , to
order Halliburton to give the computer used in the modeling to a
third-party forensic data recovery firm, to see if the missing
evidence can be recovered.  BP also asked Barbier to consider levying sanctions against
Halliburton, such as barring the company from using certain
evidence or defenses at trial or even dismissing its claims
against BP.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 