-- 
Brazil’s Koblitz Planning Renewable Projects in Latin America

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-12-05T18:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/brazil-s-koblitz-planning-renewable-projects-in-latin-america.html
Areva Koblitz , the Brazilian renewable
energy developer that focuses on biomass and hydroelectric
plants, plans projects worth 584 million reais ($327.3 million)
throughout  Latin America  following a decline in local power
prices.  The company is seeking to sign contracts to build
facilities with 200 megawatts of installed capacity by 2016 in
the region, Commercial Director Jose Romero Rego said in an
interview.  Wind farms in  Brazil  are beating other energy technologies
to contracts to sell power in government-organized auctions.  “We’re looking for other opportunities in new markets,”
he said.  Areva Koblitz, which may receive 20 percent of its revenues
from outside Brazil in 2015, may sign a contract to build a 35-
megawatt biomass plant that runs on giant king grass next
quarter in  Honduras , he said in an e-mail yesterday.  Political stability is a concern for the company, which
will focus on Peru, Chile and Uruguay in  South America  and
Honduras, Panama and Guatemala in Central America, he said.  “Honduras will be an experience. We’ll discover how it
will work,” he said.  Brazilian electricity distributors signed contracts to buy
electricity from 78 wind farms at a rate of about 100 reais a
megawatt-hour in the nation’s last two power auctions in August,
national energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica said on
its  website . None went to small hydroelectric plants, and 11
went to biomass plants, EPE said.  Areva Koblitz, a unit of French nuclear company  Areva SA ,
has developed projects with installed capacity of 3,441
megawatts, according to a presentation by the Recife-based
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  