-- 
Chevron Needs to ‘Come Into Line’ With Brazilian Laws, Oil Minister Says

-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-12-05T21:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/brazil-will-see-if-chevron-can-bid-for-new-oil-blocks-lobao.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  needs to “come into
line” with  Brazil ’s laws, and the country is studying if the
 San Ramon , California-based producer will be able to compete for
new exploration licenses after causing an oil spill, the
country’s oil minister said.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil producer after  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , needs to comply with the country’s laws and
coordinate activities with the country’s oil regulator, Minister
Edison Lobao said in an interview in Brasilia today.  Brazil plans to offer exploration areas by the end of 2012
in the so-called pre-salt region in deep waters of the Atlantic
Ocean. Brazil has made the largest oil discoveries in the
Americas in more than three decades in the area, where oil
deposits of up to four miles below the ocean floor are trapped
under a layer of salt.  Chevron “needs to completely come into line with Brazilian
law,” Lobao said. “From time to time there are gaps of
information between them and the agency.”  Chevron has come under increased scrutiny in Brazil after
it leaked 2,400 barrels of oil last month from an oil field in
deep waters of the Campos Basin. Chevron underestimated the
amount of pressure at an oil deposit it was exploring, and crude
leaked from the reservoir for about eight days, George Buck, the
head of Chevron for Brazil, said on Nov. 20.  Investigations  Brazil’s oil regulator, known as ANP, is investigating
Chevron for only providing partial video clips of the Nov. 7  oil
spill  and not reporting the presence of hydrogen sulfide in an
oil well at the Frade project where the spill happened, Magda Chambriard, a director at the agency, said Dec. 1.  The agency ordered Chevron to shut the well with hydrogen
sulfide and is also investigating inconsistencies in Chevron’s
plan to cement and abandon the well that caused the leak, she
said. The agency has prohibited Chevron from drilling any new
wells for at least three months until it finishes probing the
spill, Chambriard said.  “Not even one drop has reached the beach; a reaction of
this magnitudes is really surprising,”  Ali Moshiri , the head of
Chevron’s operations in  Latin America  and  Africa , said in an
interview on Nov. 29.  The well Chevron shut accounts for less than 10 percent of
output at Frade, the company said in a statement Dec. 1. Frade
was Brazil’s eighth largest producing field in September with
80,425 barrels a day of oil and natural gas production,
according to information on the ANP’s website.  Drilling Ban  Output at Frade will decline if the drilling ban lasts
longer than expected and Chevron is unable to drill new wells to
produce oil and inject water, a process that maintains pressure
and output levels at the reservoir, said William Edwards,
president of Houston-based Edwards Energy Consultants. Other  oil
companies  will study the government’s response to the Chevron
spill before investing in oil exploration, he said.  “The way it’s handled causes people to think about if
they’re going to put their money in,” Edwards said in a
telephone interview from Houston. “When you think about the
complexity of what they are doing, to think that anybody can
prevent anything from going wrong is dreaming.”  Chevron halted the source of the leak more than 20 days ago
and only residual droplets are seeping to the surface,  Scott Walker , a Chevron spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The company abides by the government’s decisions and
fully informs its agencies, Walker said.  Chevron has completed the second phase of cementing the
well that caused the spill, and the amount of oil on the surface
of the ocean has been reduced to less than a barrel of oil,
Walker said in an e-mail today.  Chevron rose 1 percent to $102.82 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Mexico City at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net  