-- 
British Woman Cooks Pig’s Head, Burgers in NYC Pub: Interview

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-12-05T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/british-woman-concocts-pig-s-head-lamb-burgers-in-nyc-pub-richard-vines.html
It’s Saturday night at the Spotted
Pig, the U.K.-style pub in  New York ’s West Village. London
chef  Fergus Henderson ’s dishes are making a guest appearance
on the menu as he’s on his annual culinary visit to the city.  Henderson is upstairs, celebrating his “ FergusStock ”
culinary event with  Tom Colicchio  of Craft. Diners face a wait
of several hours for a table. Co-owner Ken Friedman is with
friends in the private third-floor bar, where a growing number
of chefs will drink late into the evening. (This is one of the
 power rooms of New York .)  In the tiny kitchen on the ground floor, a young British
woman, silent and intense, is pushing out dishes such as pig’s
head with beans for two. She is April Bloomfield, 37, who was
cooking at the River Cafe in London when  Jamie Oliver 
recommended her to start the Spotted Pig in 2004.  She is also responsible for the food at the John Dory and
the Breslin, which she co-owns with Friedman and his business
partners. How did she find New York when she arrived in 2003?  “It was all new and refreshing in terms of food,”
Bloomfield says over lunch at the Breslin. “London had been a
bit stagnant. It was nice here because you had neighborhood
restaurants that were a little different from London.  “I was ready for a different experience and I was amazed
by how much good, cheap food there was in New York, like good
Japanese, Chinese, Korean. When I arrived -- I’m not sure if
it’s got anything to do with Sept. 11 -- people were ready for
a more casual environment to eat in, where they could enjoy
themselves and not have to pay too much or dress up.”  Work Ethic  Bloomfield sounds almost girlish when she speaks, yet she
looks tough, almost muscular. She has the kind of great palate
and work ethic that impresses her U.S. counterparts.  The Breslin Bar & Dining Room, like its sister venues,
does not accept reservations, so you may face a long wait to
try Bloomfield’s gutsy dishes, such as Caesar salad with
anchovy croutons or lamb burger with feta, cumin mayo and
triple-cooked chips. Across the lobby of  the Ace Hotel  at the
John Dory she serves Hawaiian blue prawns with coriander
mayonnaise; and chorizo stuffed squid with smoked tomato.  Bloomfield isn’t the only London chef making a splash in
New York.  Paul Liebrandt , 35, who trained under Marco Pierre White, Raymond Blanc and Richard Neat, holds two Michelin
stars at Corton and is working day by day for his third.  “This is my home: I love New York,” Harare-born
Liebrandt says. “If I were living in Brittany, say, I might
be influenced by the landscape and the sea. New York is such a
melting pot and we have access to many cultures and peoples.  Personality  “When people come to a restaurant, what they look for in
the food is personality, integrity and uniqueness. I’m British
and I’d love to do a restaurant in  London , but I still have
things to achieve here and I don’t want to lose that focus.”  (Corton is the restaurant of Drew Nieporent, whose Myriad
Restaurant Group venues include Nobu London, so Liebrandt has
a useful potential ally for any U.K. venture.)  Back at the Breslin, Bloomfield laughs when reminded of
the reputation for toughness she developed when she refused to
allow diners at the Spotted Pig to order her burger without
Roquefort cheese or to have mayonnaise served with it.  “It started from just the smoothness of service because
I didn’t want to get to the point where somebody was asking
for cheese with onion, no lettuce,” she says. “People had a
hard time at first with the no substitutions.  “I’ve since learned my lesson, and if they don’t want
cheese, we won’t do cheese,” she says. “We have a policy now
that we’ll always take away something but we won’t add
something.” How about mayo? “Apparently, Ken’s been known to
sneak in a few jars of mayonnaise without me knowing.”  How does it feel to be a Briton in New York?  “America’s great for opportunity in general,” she says.
“Look at me: I came from  England  and people were friendly and
they were excited that we opened the Pig and they opened their
arms and welcomed us into the neighborhood. I love New York. I
love the weather, I love the food and I love the people.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and
Ireland chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 