-- 
British Airways Bid for BMI to Plug Asia Gaps From Korea to KL

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-12-05T00:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/british-airways-bid-for-bmi-to-plug-asia-gaps-from-korea-to-kl.html
British Airways  will probably target
 Korea ,  Malaysia  and other high-growth Asian markets as it
examines how to make the best use of operating slots at London’s
Heathrow airport on offer with the takeover of BMI.  BA’s parent, International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
last month reached an accord to buy BMI from  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG . IAG allocates one-third the number of seats to Asia that it
does to the U.S., leaving it trailing European rivals in tapping
travel to some of the world’s fastest-growing economies.  British Airways will also have the capacity available to
exploit new inter-continental routes as the London-based company
takes delivery of 12 Airbus SAS  A380 superjumbos  and 24 Boeing
Co. 787 Dreamliners starting in 2013. BMI generally serves less
lucrative, short-haul destinations using smaller planes.  “There isn’t that much that BMI does out of  London  that
IAG doesn’t do already, or would want to do,” said  Chris Logan ,
an analyst at Echelon Research & Advisory in London. “IAG will
cut a lot of BMI’s existing routes and use the slots for long-
haul to Asia and perhaps a few additional U.S. destinations.”  British Airways has had limited scope for growth because of
a lack of operating positions at Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest
airport, which operates at 99 percent of capacity and won’t be
allowed to add a third runway, according to U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron. Buying U.K.-based BMI will add 8.5 percent of
total slots to the 44.5 percent that BA and  Spain ’s Iberia --
with which it merged in January to form IAG -- already control.  “We’re still moving forward” with the acquisition and
currently doing due diligence on BMI, said Laura Goodes, a
spokeswoman for IAG.  Jigsaw Piece  Prime targets for BA are likely to include  Incheon , the
biggest hub in  South Korea , a country the carrier has never
served, and  Kuala Lumpur , which it exited in 2001 to focus
Southeast Asian operations on Bangkok and  Singapore , according
to John Grant, a London-based consultant at UBM Aviation.  “British Airways needs to be back in that part of the
world,” Grant said. “It’s the perfect time because they’ve got
new orders for aircraft coming in. It really is the missing
piece of the jigsaw.”  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, offers 13
weekly flights to Korea and Lufthansa four. The French company
also provides seven services to Kuala Lumpur, operated by the
Dutch KLM unit. Kuala Lumpur will also probably feature high on
BA’s wish list because Malaysian Airline System Bhd. is set to
 join  the Oneworld alliance that IAG leads, Grant said.  Morning Arrivals  British Airways also currently operates only 26 weekly
flights to  China , versus 73 at Air France and 47 at Lufthansa.
Madrid-based Iberia doesn’t operate any Asian flights, its chief
strength being on routes to Latin America.  To maximize the attraction of services to London, British
Airways flights need to leave  Asia  late at night, allowing
passengers to sleep on the plane and head straight into morning
meetings after arriving at Heathrow, UBM Aviation’s Grant said.  Gulf carriers including Dubai-based Emirates, the biggest
airline by international traffic, Qatar Airways Ltd. and Etihad
of  Abu Dhabi  represent a major threat to any expansion in Asia
as they seek to funnel transfer traffic through their hubs on
fast-expanding fleets of widebody planes, Echelon’s Logan said.  “It seems like a good idea to expand to Asia, but delivery
schedules at Middle Eastern carriers are so aggressive that
there’s a risk in the medium term,” he said. “It’s
surprisingly easy for airlines to mess up an attractive market
by all throwing supply at it at the same time.”  Travelers shouldn’t expect new connections immediately as
routes can take as many as two years to set up, Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  