-- 
Brooklyn Dodgers’ Hodges Gets Another Look for Baseball Hall of Fame Vote

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-12-05T05:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/brooklyn-dodgers-hodges-gets-another-look-for-baseball-hall-of-fame-vote.html
Gil Hodges, who helped the Dodgers to
seven National League pennants and managed the  New York Mets  to
their first World Series title in 1969, gets another chance to
reach the baseball Hall of Fame today.  If it were up to Marty Adler, a 74-year-old retired
assistant principal from  Brooklyn , he’d have been in long ago.  “I always think he has a chance,” Adler said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a lot of things going for him.”  Hodges joins Allie Reynolds, Ken Boyer, Jim Kaat, Minnie
Minoso, Tony Oliva, Ron Santo and Luis Tiant as former players
up for consideration for induction in the Cooperstown, New York,
shrine by the 16 members of the Golden Era Committee. Buzzie
Bavasi, the Dodgers’ general manager from 1951-67, and Charlie Finley, who owned the Athletics from 1960-80, are the executives
on the ballot. Nominees must receive 75 percent of the vote to
be inducted.  Hodges, who died in 1972 two days before his 48th birthday,
was an eight-time All-Star first baseman who started with the
 Brooklyn Dodgers  in 1947 and moved with the team to  Los Angeles 
in 1958. He stayed with the Dodgers through 1961 before playing
his final two seasons with the Mets, ending his career with 370
home runs, a .274 batting average and 1,274 runs batted in. He
won three Gold Gloves for his fielding.  His wife, Joan, 85, still lives in Brooklyn, where an
elementary school, a bridge and a street all are named for
Hodges.  “He’s in my hall of fame forever, no matter what,” she
said in a telephone interview.  1969 Miracle Mets  After retiring as a player, he managed the  Washington
Senators  for five seasons, and then in two years transformed  New
York  from a last-place team into the “Miracle Mets” who went
100-62 in 1969 and won the World Series.  Hodges fell short of Hall of Fame induction during his 15
years of post-career eligibility. He’s the only player no longer
included in Baseball Writers’ Association of America voting to
be selected on at least 60 percent of ballots -- he did that
three times, including 63 percent in his final year of
eligibility in 1983 -- and not subsequently get enshrined, Hall
of Fame spokesman Craig Muder said in a telephone interview.  Fans and family have campaigned for decades for the
enshrinement of Hodges. Adler, who founded the Brooklyn Dodgers
Hall of Fame, made up bumper stickers saying: “Cooperstown
Needs Gil Hodges.”  The 16-member Golden Era Committee will announce its vote
today at the Baseball Winter Meetings in  Dallas .  Any candidate selected will be inducted in Cooperstown on
July 22, 2012, along with any more recently retired players
selected in January by the writers’ vote.  Golden Era Committee  The Golden Era Committee, which focuses on the period from
1947 to 1972, is one of three that replaced the Baseball
Veterans panel and will be meeting for the first time. It will
vote once every three years, rotating with two other committees
devoted to specific eras.  Golden Era voters include Hall of Fame members  Hank Aaron ,
Al Kaline, Ralph Kiner, Tommy Lasorda, Juan Marichal, Brooks
Robinson, Don Sutton and Billy Williams, as well as executives
such as Gene Michael of the Yankees.  Hodges was passed over for years by Baseball Veterans
committees. He fell one vote short in 1993.  “He played for the great Dodgers teams of the late 40s and
50s,” Adler said. “He was one of the pillars that surrounded
 Jackie Robinson . And he was probably the best right-handed
fielding first baseman I ever saw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in at baseball’s Winter Meetings in Dallas at  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  