-- 
BTA Said to Weigh Debt Overhaul, Capital Boost From Kazakhstan Government

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-12-06T09:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/bta-said-to-weigh-debt-overhaul-capital-boost-from-kazakhstan.html
BTA Bank (BTAS)  may ask the Kazakh
government to back its second debt restructuring or provide
additional state funds to help avert bankruptcy, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  BTA may seek a capital injection of more than $4 billion,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Lazard Freres & Co., which acted as an
adviser to BTA during its debt reorganization in 2009, assessed
the cost of another restructuring last month, the people said.  Investors may be asked to absorb an estimated loss of about
80 percent on BTA bonds, the people said. The bank is preparing
to submit a bailout plan to a new government that will be formed
following parliamentary elections set for the middle of January,
the people said, adding that BTA is considering either a
restructuring or a capital increase or both.  Kazakh sovereign-wealth fund  Samruk-Kazyna  took over BTA in
February 2009, two months before the nation’s largest lender at
the time defaulted on $12 billion of debt. It won 92 percent
creditor approval for a restructuring plan in May 2010. The
state holds an 81.5 percent stake in BTA.  ‘Bazooka Approach’  “The bazooka approach is long overdue,” Mariya Gancheva,
an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International Plc, said
in a Dec. 2 report. “If nothing is done to alleviate the
burdens of BTA funding, and a more practical business model is
not enacted, the bank will soon run out of liquidity.”  BTA has a $150 million coupon payment due in January,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Berik Otemurat said in a Sept. 1
interview. The people familiar with the situation didn’t say
whether the bank will make the coupon payment.  The Almaty-based lender faced a capital shortage of 162
billion tenge ($1.1 billion) under international accounting
standards as of Nov. 1 after it set aside more money to cover
souring loans, according to a statement e-mailed Nov. 28. The
bank has a total of $5.2 billion of debt, Bloomberg data show.  “Worsening performance appears to have helped promote
discussions between the bank and its major shareholder, which is
positive,” Tolu Alamutu, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  London , wrote in a Dec. 1 note. “We think any
liability management exercise is likely to be coercive in some
way.”  BTA Chief Executive Officer Marat Zairov on Nov. 26
declined to say if the bank plans to restructure debt for a
second time.  ‘Roof is Leaking’  “BTA is similar to a house whose roof is leaking a little
bit, and walls are cracking a little bit and the facade is
crumbling,” Zairov said. “The foundation remains.”  Eric Lalo, a Paris-based representative at Lazard Freres,
didn’t respond to a message left at his office or an e-mail. BTA
didn’t reply to an e-mailed request seeking comment.  Samruk-Kazyna is considering more state aid for the
troubled lender and may buy back its bonds, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Aidan Karibzhanov told reporters on Nov. 30.  The wealth fund has provided $8.35 billion “through
various forms of funding” since February 2009, Gancheva said.
At least $5 billion is needed to “return BTA to a going
concern,” she wrote.  The bank will pick two out of four “scenarios” and
present them to the central bank by year-end, Kazakh central
bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko told reporters in Almaty today.  New Business Plan  “They have to select the two most plausible or most
promising ones,” Marchenko said. “They are preparing a new
business plan now, and when it’s ready it will be possible to
answer” if BTA must undertake a debt restructuring.  BTA had its  credit rating  downgraded one step to CCC from
B-, seven levels below investment grade, at  Fitch Ratings  last
month. The move reflected the rating company’s “view of the
increased probability of BTA’s default in the near to medium
term,” according to a Nov. 14 statement.  Standard & Poor’s  withdrew the bank’s ratings four days
earlier at BTA’s request after revising the outlook to negative
from stable and affirming the long-term credit score at B-, six
levels below investment grade.  The bank’s liabilities may be subject to “potential
haircuts” of as much as 82.9 percent to reach a 15 percent
ratio of equity to assets if “only holders of debt securities
participate,” Merrill Lynch estimates.  ‘Any Outcome’  “At this point we would not rule out any outcome --
including a debt restructuring, some form of a buyback, or even
a split into two entities,” Mikhail Nikitin, an analyst at
Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital , said in a report today. “The
coupon payment on Jan. 1, 2012, is still likely, in our view,
but increasingly depends on how -- and how quickly -- the Kazakh
authorities resolve the matter.”  The yield on BTA’s dollar-denominated notes due in 2018
rose for a third day, growing 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 45.172 percent. That compares to the 8.859
percent, a record low, the bonds were yielding in October 2010.  “We think BTA’s bonds are priced at distressed levels, as
if it has already defaulted,” RenCap’s Nikitin said.  A recapitalization by the state, the most investor-friendly
option, may be costly and therefore isn’t very likely, Dmitry
Poliakov, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp., said by e-mail
yesterday, adding that “any new restructuring would not be
viewed as particularly investor friendly.”  “If restructuring is unavoidable, the negotiations process
should start at the earliest possible stage to ensure an orderly
and transparent process leading to maximum possible
recoveries,” Poliakov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  