-- 
Cameco’s Gitzel Says Investors Underestimate Possible Uranium Shortfall

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-12-05T21:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/cameco-s-gitzel-says-uranium-supply-deficit-may-loom-after-2013.html
Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s largest
uranium producer, said some investors underestimate the
potential for supply shortfalls to spur higher prices for the
nuclear fuel.  Disruptions in mine production, the difficulty faced by
development companies in raising funds for new mining projects,
and the end of a Russian deal to supply uranium from scrapped
atomic warheads may help create a supply deficit, Chief
Executive Officer Tim Gitzel said in an interview.  “People don’t focus so much on the supply side,” he said
Dec. 2 at Bloomberg’s Toronto bureau.  “They take every possible project, think it’s going to
operate to perfection, and add it up and say ‘there’s lots of
supply,’” Gitzel said. “It’s easier said than done.”  Uranium prices have  slumped  23 percent since a magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami struck  Japan  on March 11 caused a partial
meltdown at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant. The crisis at Fukushima led to  Germany ’s
declaration in May that it would close its reactors by 2022.
Cameco, which is based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, in August cut
its full-year global uranium demand estimate to 175 million
pounds (79,400 metric tons) from 180 million pounds.  Investors are too caught up in a “post-Fukushima
attitude,” said Gitzel, 49, who became Cameco’s CEO in July,
replacing Jerry Grandey, 65, who retired.  Expansion Plan  Cameco, which in 2010 produced 22.8 million pounds of U3O8
-- a tradable form of uranium -- still plans to raise annual
output to 40 million pounds by 2018.  Cameco rose 0.3 percent to C$19.43 at the close in Toronto.
It has tumbled 52 percent in 2011, while the S&P/Toronto Stock
Exchange Composite Index has dropped 9.8 percent.  Global mined uranium supply was 53,663 tons in 2010,
according to the  World Nuclear Association . That’s not enough to
cover global demand, and so some utilities also use fuel
recovered from Russian warheads under the  Highly Enriched
Uranium  agreement, which has run since the 1990s.  Gitzel said Russia will withdraw from the HEU accord by the
end of 2013, removing 24 million pounds of supply.  “There’s a lot, and I spoke to some of them this week, who
think the HEU agreement is still going to be around,” Gitzel
said. “We don’t.”  Chinese Reactors  There are 433 operable reactors globally and 62 under
construction around the world, according to the WNA.  China  is
building 26, plans to construct another 51 and has proposed 120
others, the WNA  data  show. Developing nations are adding nuclear
capacity to meet growing electricity demand and to diversify
away from power generated from oil, gas and coal.  A gigawatt of electricity, enough to power about 1 million
U.S. homes, requires 200 tons of uranium a year at full
operating rates, according to the WNA.  “The game’s not played in  Europe  anymore,” said Gitzel,
who ran French nuclear company  Areva SA ’s global mining business
before joining Cameco in 2007. “The game is played in  Asia .
China’s barely blinked post Fukushima.”  Although Germany plans to phase out nuclear power, there
will be a net 93 new reactors by the end of the decade, Gitzel
said. That compares with Cameco’s projection prior to the
Japanese earthquake and tsunami of as many as 104, he said.  Potential Targets  Cameco is assessing potential takeover targets after it was
trumped by  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s C$654 million ($643 million)
takeover bid for Vancouver-based  Hathor Exploration Ltd. (HAT)  Hathor
is the developer of the Roughrider uranium deposit in the
Athabasca basin in Saskatchewan, the center of Cameco’s
operations. Cameco allowed its hostile offer for Hathor to
expire last week.  “We’re always looking, we’re cashed up very nicely, and we
have a solid balance sheet,” Gitzel said. Cameco is willing to
look at potential bid targets beyond its current operations in
 Canada , the U.S., Kazakhstan and  Australia , he said.  “We’ve got the resources and the ability to move
quickly,” Gitzel said.  Gitzel’s predecessor Grandey said in November 2009 that
Cameco has been interested in Australian uranium miner  Paladin
Energy Ltd. (PDN)  and been challenged by its valuation.  ‘Same Concern’  “We have the same concern about valuation,” Gitzel said
in the interview. “We’ve got some other pieces and projects
that we like better.”  Cameco is on schedule to start production at its Cigar Lake
mine in mid-2013. The Saskatchewan mine is scheduled to
eventually produce about 18 million pounds of uranium a year, of
which Cameco’s share will be about 9 million pounds.  Cigar Lake, which is on the site of the world’s richest
undeveloped uranium deposit, was delayed by six years after an
October 2006 underground flood at the mine. The uranium spot
price more than doubled to a record $138 a pound in the eight
months after the accident.  “You want to talk about a catalyst, that was it right
there,” Gitzel said. “That just ran it way up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  