-- 
Cameron Pledges $282 Million to Spur U.K. Medical Innovation

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-05T16:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/cameron-pledges-280-million-for-fund-to-support-u-k-medical-innovation.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged
180 million pounds ($282 million) to help turn the most
promising British medical breakthroughs into commercial
realities.  The Biomedical Catalyst fund aims to bridge “the valley of
death” funding gap that kills off many early-stage innovations,
Cameron said in a speech in  London  today. He also vowed to speed
the arrival of new drugs and technologies in the state-run
 National Health Service , targeting areas where treatments are
urgently needed such as brain and lung cancer.  “I want to see the great discoveries of the next decade
happening in British labs, the new technologies born in British
start-ups and proven in British hospitals,” Cameron said. “The
end-game for the NHS is to be working hand-in-glove with
industry as the fastest adopter of new ideas in the world,
acting as huge magnet to pull new innovations through, right
along the food chain from the labs to the boardrooms to the
hospital bed.”  The catalyst fund seeks to support the development of
medical treatments until investors are willing to back them,
Cameron said. Other measures announced today would allow patient
records and other NHS data to be shared with researchers, a move
critics say may compromise patient confidentiality. The data
would be anonymous and patients would be given the right to opt
out, Cameron said.  ‘Playing a Part’  “The end result would be that every willing patient is a
research patient,” Cameron said. “That every time you use the
NHS you’re playing a part in the fight against disease, at home
and around the world.”  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  announced today it would make 22 clinical
compounds available to academia as part of a collaboration with
the Medical Research Council. Scientists will make research
proposals for the compounds and the council will select the best
proposals for funding worth a total of 10 million pounds.  AstraZeneca will retain the rights to the chemical
composition of the compounds, while any new research will be
owned by the academic institution, the company said today in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  