-- 
Canada Takeovers, Corzine Subpoena, Basel Audits: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-12-05T13:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/canada-takeovers-corzine-subpoena-basel-audits-compliance.html
Canada  is open to changing its law
governing foreign takeovers to provide more “certainty” to
companies considering purchases of Canadian firms,  Industry 
Minister Christian Paradis said.  The federal government reviews foreign acquisitions of
companies with assets valued at more than C$312 million ($306
million) under the  Investment Canada Act , and can reject
transactions that don’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada.  Paradis said Dec. 2 in an interview in New York, where he
met with U.S. company executives and investors, that the
ministry is “always open” to improving the regime.  The remarks came amid calls for changes to Canada’s review
process that would make it more transparent. The government last
year rejected a proposed $40 billion hostile bid for fertilizer
maker  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT)  by Australia-based  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   It was the second time in two years Conservative Prime
Minister Stephen Harper’s government blocked a foreign
acquisition. In 2008, the government rejected a bid by
Minneapolis-based  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  to acquire the
aerospace division of Vancouver-based  MacDonald, Dettwiler &
Associates Ltd. (MDA)  Canada hadn’t previously rejected a foreign
acquisition since the Investment Canada Act took effect in 1985.  Harper told Bloomberg News in a Sept. 21 interview that
Canada will “proceed with caution” as it considers allowing
more foreign takeovers, wanting to ensure they don’t lead to a
loss of head-office jobs or declining industry leadership.  Paradis called the existing system a “solid regime” that
has worked well.  For more, click here.  Special Section: EU Debt Crisis  Merkel Heads to Paris as Leaders Seek Debt-Crisis Strategy  European leaders will take another run at fixing the debt
crisis this week after the failure of their fourth rescue
blueprint sparked intensified concern the 17-nation euro area
was on the brink of unraveling.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy held talks in Paris today. With a European Union
summit in Brussels looming Dec. 9, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  arrives in Frankfurt tomorrow to prod political
leaders and the European Central Bank holds a policy meeting
Dec. 8.  Safeguarding banks, limiting the damage to Italy and Spain
and finding additional rescue funds may hinge on the response to
Franco-German demands for closer economic integration and
tougher policing of fiscal rules. Markets climbed last week as
investors looked toward the latest plan to rescue the euro,
betting that a new regime of budget rules at the summit may
clear the way for more intervention from the ECB.  The German and French leaders differ on matters such as the
role of the ECB and sanctions for euro-area states that violate
deficit rules. The two nations are leading the push for closer
economic ties among euro nations and locking in tougher
enforcement of budget rules to counter the debt crisis.  For more, click here and click here.  Separately, Merkel’s government won’t stand in the way of
the Bundesbank helping to fight the debt crisis by means of
loans channeled through the  International Monetary Fund , a
senior Merkel ally said.  Germany is keen for the IMF to adopt a “decisive role” in
combating the crisis alongside the European rescue fund, Michael
Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union, said today in a telephone interview.  The Bundesbank may be prepared to make loans to the IMF to
combat the crisis, Die Welt newspaper reported today, citing a
November letter from the central bank’s president, Jens
Weidmann, to German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen .
Article 123 of European rules regulating the single currency
bans central banks from directly funneling cash to states to
plug deficits, Die Welt said.  For more, click here.  Separately, Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti announced 30
billion euros ($40 billion) of austerity and growth measures as
he seeks to cut the euro-region’s second-biggest debt and
prevent a breakup of the euro.  Monti’s Cabinet in Rome passed the measures a day earlier
than planned as the new prime minister rushed to reassure
investors he is serious about taming a debt of almost 1.9
trillion euros. The premier will present the package, which
includes more than 12 billion euros in spending cuts, to both
houses of parliament today.  Papaconstantinou Says Greece, EU Underestimated Crisis  George Papaconstantinou ,  Greek finance  minister from 2009
until June this year, discusses the response by European Union
leaders to the sovereign crisis.  Papaconstantinou, now energy minister, spoke with
Bloomberg’s Francine Lacqua in  London  on Dec. 2.  For the video, click here.  Fico Says Euro Members Should Listen to Merkel Plan  Slovak opposition leader  Robert Fico , who brought the
country to the euro region in 2009, talks about the outlook for
the currency bloc and German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s call for
members to have closer fiscal policies.  Fico, a former prime minister who is vying to return to the
job in three months, spoke with Bloomberg’s Radoslav Tomek and
James M. Gomez on Dec. 2 in Bratislava.  For the audio, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Commission Seeks to Lift Barriers to Venture-Capital Funds  The  European Commission  said it will propose measures on
Dec. 7 to make it easier for venture capital funds to invest
outside their home country.  “Diverging rules and a heavy administrative burden have
prevented them from seeking investments beyond their national
borders and kept them quite small compared to the U.S.,” the
regulator said. “The Commission’s proposal seeks to change
this.”  Separately, the Commission said it will on Dec. 20 adopt
part of a package of new rules for state aid to so-called
services of general economic interest.  Basel Seeks Views on Banks’ Internal Audits After Crisis  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on Dec. 2 issued
a consultative paper on the internal audit function in banks.  “The guidance reflects developments in supervisory and
banking practices and incorporates lessons drawn from the
financial crisis,” the committee  said  on its website.  The proposal is based on principles “that cover
supervisory expectations related to the internal audit
function” and the “supervisory assessment of that function,”
according to the statement on the website.  Comments on the proposal should be submitted before March 2
as directed on the  website .  Austria Rejects Euro Bonds Now, Won’t End Crisis, Fekter Says  Austria rejects the introduction of joint euro-region
bonds,  Finance Minister  Maria Fekter said, saying the instrument
would not solve the debt crisis and would push up interest
payments.  While Fekter said she doesn’t rule out euro bonds
completely, she said at a podium discussion in Hamburg that it’s
a “question of when” they may be appropriate.  Compliance Action  Corzine Subpoenaed by House Panel for MF Global Hearing  The U.S. House Agriculture Committee voted to subpoena Jon
S. Corzine, former chairman and chief executive officer of MF
Global Holdings Ltd., for a Dec. 8 hearing on the collapse of
the New York-based brokerage.  House lawmakers on the panel voted by voice without
opposition on Dec. 2 in Washington to issue the subpoena. MF
Global filed for bankruptcy protection on Oct. 31, and the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Justice Department are investigating as much as
$1.2 billion in missing customer funds.  Steven Goldberg, a New York-based spokesman for Corzine,
declined to comment.  Corzine joined MF Global in March 2010 with a plan to
remake the company into an investment bank in the image of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , where he had been co-chairman before
entering politics. He repeatedly ratcheted up a wager on the
debt of countries including Italy and Spain.  The House agriculture panel is the first of three
congressional committees seeking Corzine’s testimony at hearings
called to review the broker’s bankruptcy.  For more, click here.  Separately, Highridge Futures Fund LP, a customer of the  MF
Global Inc.  brokerage, said its $50 million account with the
defunct firm is “missing.”  Trustee James Giddens has “failed and refused” to provide
any information about the whereabouts of the account, the fund
said in a filing Dec. 2 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.
It asked the judge handling the liquidation case to order
Giddens to locate and transfer the account, containing mostly
cash and also unsettled commodity positions.  Highridge described itself as a registered commodity pool
incorporated in Delaware, with a general partner that is an
Illinois company.  Giddens has transferred about 38,000 commodity accounts to
other firms, and said he plans to sell 330 securities accounts.
Highridge said its fund wasn’t among those transferred.  Kent Jarrell , a Giddens spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately comment on the filing.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Tocqueville Finance, Fund Manager Fined for Price Manipulation  Tocqueville Finance SA, a Paris-based portfolio management
company, and one of its executives were fined by France’s
financial markets regulator for manipulating share prices.  Tocqueville and Marc Tournier, a fund manager, bought
shares in June 2009 to drive up the price, the Autorite des
Marches Financiers said Dec. 2 in an e-mailed statement, without
identifying the shares.  Tocqueville was fined 150,000 euros ($201,000) and Tournier
250,000 euros. Both disputed the accusations at an October
hearing. The company “will take the time to reflect on the
decision and think about a potential appeal,” a spokeswoman,
who declined to be identified, said Dec. 2.  Calls to Tournier were referred to the Tocqueville
spokeswoman.  U.K. Privacy Agency to Ask Phone Operators Over Carrier IQ Use  The U.K.’s data-protection watchdog will join other
European regulators in checking with mobile-phone operators
whether they are using Carrier IQ software in a usage-tracking
application on handsets.  “We will be contacting mobile-phone operators to establish
if the Carrier IQ or similar software is on U.K. customers’
handsets and, if so, what steps are being taken to ensure there
are no privacy implications,” Kirsty McCaskill, a spokeswoman
for the U.K.  Information Commissioner ’s Office, said in an e-
mailed statement Dec. 2.  HSBC Must Pay About $62 Million Over Improper Sales to Elderly  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  was fined a record amount by the U.K.
finance regulator for advising elderly people to buy products to
fund their nursing-home care costs that matured after some of
the customers were expected to be dead.  With the fine and customer-compensation penalty, the U.K.-
based bank must pay about 39.8 million pounds ($62.2 million),
the  Financial Services Authority  said in a statement today. The
10.5 million-pound fine is the regulator’s largest-ever retail
penalty and the bank estimated it would have to pay about 29.3
million pounds to compensate customers, the FSA said.  The HSBC unit made “unsuitable sales” to about 87 percent
of its customers for these types of investments during a five-
year period until 2010, the regulator said.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer Brian Robertson said in a
statement he is “profoundly sorry” that the unit “failed to
give suitable financial advice to some of their customers.”  The bank reported the advice to the FSA and closed the unit
to new business on July 1, Robertson said.  HSBC received the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount on the
fine for settling early in the probe.  Courts  CFTC Position Limits Challenged in Court by Wall Street Groups  Two Wall Street groups sued to overturn a U.S.  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  rule that limits commodity
speculation, one of the financial industry’s highest-profile
efforts to weaken last year’s Dodd-Frank law.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
lawsuits in two federal courts in Washington Dec. 2, arguing
that the CFTC used a flawed analysis of Dodd-Frank when it
decided to impose the restrictions. The associations also said
the CFTC failed to properly weigh the rule’s costs and benefits.  The position-limits rule, which would cap the number of
derivatives contracts a single firm can hold in commodities
markets, was one of the most contentious provisions to arise
from the 2010 regulatory overhaul. The CFTC approved it in a 3-2
party-line vote Oct. 18.  Commodity speculation has been the focus of numerous
congressional hearings since 2008. The groups filed cases in
both U.S. District Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington. Only one is expected to go forward.  The lower court case, 1:11-cv-02146, is International Swaps
and Derivatives Association v. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The appeals court case, 11-01491, is International
Swaps and Derivatives Association v. CFTC, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Merkel Says Crisis Is Like ‘Marathon,’ Urges Use of EFSF  German Chancellor Angela Merkel likened solving Europe’s
debt crisis to a marathon, shunning investor calls for quick
action while pushing for stricter budget enforcement and
overhauling the region’s governance.  Addressing lawmakers in Berlin Dec. 2 before a Dec. 9
summit of European leaders, Merkel rejected joint euro-area
bonds or trying to make the European Central Bank the lender of
last resort as quick fixes. The ECB’s role is different from
that of the  Federal Reserve  or the Bank of England, she said.  Merkel also said euro region governments “should do with
the EFSF what’s possible” and not talk down the capacity of the
European Financial Stability Facility to help solve the
sovereign debt crisis. She made her comments in a speech to the
lower house of parliament.  The EFSF is Europe’s future permanent rescue facility.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter addressed the role
of the EFSF at a podium discussion on Dec. 2 in Hamburg. France
and Germany are at loggerheads over the role of private
investors in the EFSF, she said.  “France strictly rules out private investors playing a
role, while Germany is digging in its heels for such a role to
be played,” Fekter said.  Comings and Goings  JPMorgan Follows UBS Cutting Carbon Jobs as Permits Plunge  Investment banks are cutting traders and analysts in
climate-related businesses as a slump in shares and carbon
emission permits coincides with a deadlock in international
climate talks.  Odin Knudsen,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s managing director for
environmental markets, left his post in New York by mutual
accord after his team was shrunk, while UBS Securities LLC fired
Vice Chairman Jon Anda and his Climate Policy Group co-workers,
Anda and Knudsen said in interviews.  Ben Lynch left his London job as a renewables equity
analyst for  Commerzbank AG , and his workload has been taken on
by his former colleague on the renewables team, said Claire
Tappenden, a company spokeswoman. The departures have been
taking place since September.  The biggest banks, trying to recover from trading losses
and a clampdown on investing their own money, are clipping
resources from emissions-related businesses as United Nations
talks have failed for years to extend Kyoto Protocol greenhouse-
gas curbs beyond their expiration in 2012. The International
Emissions Trading Association, the main carbon-market trade
group, has seen its membership slide about 6 percent this year.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 