-- 
Canada Dollar Pares Advance as S&P Places 15 Euro Nations on Credit Review

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-12-05T22:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/canada-s-dollar-advances-as-european-optimism-encourages-demand-for-risk.html
Canada ’s dollar pared gains versus
its U.S. counterpart as  Standard & Poor’s  said it put 15 euro
zone countries on watch for a possible credit-rating downgrade,
citing a tightening of credit conditions.  The Canadian currency strengthened earlier as investors
sought riskier assets amid bets European leaders would make
progress finding a solution to the region’s debt crisis. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
pushed for a rewrite of the European Union’s governing treaties
to tighten economic cooperation. The  Bank of Canada  likely keep
interest rates unchanged tomorrow, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “It’s going to be a disappointing day for the Canada bulls
going into the Bank of Canada tomorrow,” said  Steve Butler ,
managing director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit. “All these rumors about
S&P have taken a big shine off the markets this afternoon.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0165 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier it gained
as much as 0.7 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 98.39 U.S.
cents. Canada’s dollar strengthened 2.7 percent last week, the
most since the five days ended Oct. 14.  The Canadian dollar gained 0.2 percent versus the euro to
C$1.3623.  The S&P 500 Index ended the day up 1 percent after climbing
earlier as much as 1.8 percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, erased earlier gains and traded at $100.62 a
barrel in  New York , down 0.5 percent.  ‘Broader Risk Sentiment’  “Canada’s dollar is trading with broader risk sentiment
rather than domestic factors,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  Germany, France, Netherlands, Austria, Finland and
Luxembourg, the euro area’s six AAA rated countries, are among
the nations placed on “creditwatch negative,” pending the result
of a summit of EU leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark 10-year security down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.09 percent. The price of the 3.25 percent
note due in June 2021 increased 25 cents to C$109.98.  The loonie rose earlier versus the greenback as Sarkozy
told reporters in Paris today after meeting with Merkel that
 Europe ’s two biggest countries agreed to back automatic
penalties for deficit violators, a European monetary fund and
monthly summit meetings. Merkel, speaking in Berlin last week,
likened solving Europe’s debt crisis to a marathon, shunning
investor calls for quick action while pushing for stricter
budget enforcement and overhauling the region’s governance.  Geithner in Germany  The EU summit is scheduled to take place in Brussels Dec.
9, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrives in Frankfurt
tomorrow to prod political leaders, and the  European Central
Bank  has a policy announcement Dec. 8.  Canada’s dollar is turning into a haven for foreign-
exchange investors shunning European turmoil and seeking the
safety of the U.S. without the budget deficits or political
gridlock.  The currency, which underperformed nine major peers in
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes in the first eight months
of the year, has rebounded, topping all except the U.S. dollar
and yen since. As the U.S. struggles with a $1.3 trillion budget
shortfall, AAA rated Canada may use rising commodity revenue and
spending cuts to balance the budget within five years.  Increase Next Year  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will be the only
central-bank leader in the Group of 10 countries to raise
 interest rates  next year, according to forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg News. Inflation has  exceeded  the bank’s 2 percent
target for 11 months as the economy grows at double the pace of
the Group of Seven nations. Canada’s six largest banks say the
loonie will gain versus the dollar even as the  U.S. economy 
strengthens.  Carney will raise the Bank of Canada’s  policy rate  by 25
basis points in the fourth quarter next year to 1.25 percent,
according to the weighted average of 21 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg News. He’ll keep it at 1 percent tomorrow, another
Bloomberg survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  