-- 
Carmakers’ $7 Billion Platinum Bill Shrinking Glut: Commodities

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-12-06T16:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/carmakers-7-billion-platinum-purchases-shrink-supply-glut-commodities.html
Carmakers will use a record $7
billion of platinum in catalytic converters next year,
diminishing a glut just as mine production declines for the
first time since 2008.  About 3.82 million ounces will go into auto catalysts, 17
percent more than this year and the most since 2007, Morgan
Stanley estimates. Supply will exceed demand by 81,000 ounces,
down from 295,000 ounces, as output contracts 1 percent,
according to  Barclays Capital . Prices that fell 15 percent this
year will average $1,845 an ounce in the fourth quarter of 2012,
23 percent more than now, the median of 12 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  While there is mounting concern about global economic
growth, automakers will sell a record 79.5 million cars and
light commercial vehicles in 2012, according to LMC Automotive
Ltd., a research company in Oxford,  England . The 6.5 percent
increase will be led by gains in developing economies. Demand
for platinum is also coming from investors, and holdings in
exchange-traded products are within 13 percent of a record, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The price is very low and very near production costs,”
said  Thorsten Proettel , the analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany , who was the most accurate
price forecaster tracked by Bloomberg over the past two years.
“We won’t have a  global recession  next year.  Emerging markets 
will still prosper.”  Declining Supply  Platinum fell this year to $1,503.25 an ounce at 4 p.m. in
 London  today, declining in the first three quarters. The last
time that happened, in 2001, prices rallied more than 10 percent
in the final three months. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge of
24 commodities advanced 3.6 percent, led by gasoil, gold and
cattle. The MSCI  All-Country World Index  of equities dropped 8.2
percent this year, while Treasuries returned 8.9 percent, a Bank
of America Corp. index shows.  Supply will decline next year in both  South Africa  and
 Russia , which together account for 88 percent of the global
total, Barclays estimates. Mining expenses rose 30 percent last
year in South Africa and 13 percent in Russia, according to UBS
AG.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest producer,
said in July it expected costs to reach 12,600 rand ($1,567) an
ounce this year, 7.4 percent more than in 2010.  Digging Deeper  Mining companies are paying more for wages and energy, at a
time when they are digging ever deeper to maintain production.
With shafts extending down as much as 1.4 miles, temperatures at
the rock face of  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) ’s Zondereinde mine in
South Africa can reach as high as 162 degrees Fahrenheit. It
uses as many as seven refrigeration units to pump chilled air
into the mine, according to data on the company’s website.  The decline in production will be partly covered by a 0.3
percent increase in recycled metal, leaving  supply  0.7 percent
lower than this year, Barclays predicts. Demand will expand 1.9
percent, the bank estimates. Platinum is also used by the glass,
chemicals and electronics industries.  Anglo American Platinum, based in Johannesburg, will report
a 44 percent gain in net income in 2012, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.,
the second-biggest producer, will earn 28 percent more in its
next fiscal year, the estimates show.  The projected jump in demand may be curbed by slowing
growth. While the  International Monetary Fund  expects the global
economy to expand 4 percent next year, unchanged from 2011, it
forecast a slowdown in  Europe  and  China . Europe will account for
29 percent of consumption this year and China 26 percent,
according to  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) , which makes one in three of
the world’s auto catalysts.  Lonmin’s Outlook  Prices will probably be little changed in the next 12
months before rebounding “quite sharply” as early as the end
of 2012,  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer said in
an interview Nov. 14. The London-based company is the world’s
third-biggest producer.  Platinum demand  fell 15 percent in 2009, the most in almost
three decades, as the global economy contracted 0.7 percent and
use by automakers declined 40 percent, London-based Johnson
Matthey estimates.  Cars use the metal in canisters, which have honeycomb-like
surfaces that convert emissions into less harmful substances.
The devices contain about 4 grams (0.13 troy ounces) of
platinum, palladium or rhodium, according to the company. At
Morgan Stanley’s anticipated average price of $1,829 an ounce
next year, auto catalysts will use metal valued at $6.99
billion.  Vehicle Sales  Global sales of light vehicles fell about 3 percent in
2009, led by Europe and  North America , according to LMC
Automotive. China, now the world’s largest car market, avoided
the slump, with sales increasing 48 percent.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
the biggest overseas automaker in the country, anticipates a 10
percent gain in nationwide sales next year,  Kevin Wale ,
president of its China unit, said in an interview last month.  Four of the six largest automakers in the U.S. beat
analysts’ expectations in November, boosting industry sales to a
13.6 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the most in
more than two years,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata
Corp. reported Dec. 1. Palladium, extracted with platinum and
also used in catalytic converters, jumped 13 percent last week,
the most among 80 commodity contracts tracked by Bloomberg.  Investors held 40.33 metric tons of platinum in exchange-
traded products yesterday, about 7 percent more than at the
start of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s a
bigger increase than in similar investment products backed by
silver or palladium.  Gold’s Premium  Gold cost 13.3 percent more than platinum today. That’s the
most since 1987, based on closing prices, and compares with an
average discount of 28 percent over the past five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. When the price of the two metals
converged in 2008, platinum more than doubled in the following
16 months, outpacing gold’s 38 percent advance.  Even after this year’s decline, platinum is on track for a
record annual average, boosting mining profits. Anglo American
Platinum will report net income of 9.3 billion rand in 2012,
compared with 6.45 billion rand this year, the mean of four
analyst estimates show. Shares of the company declined 21
percent this year.  Impala, based in Johannesburg, will make 8.79 billion rand
in the 12 months ending in June 2013, compared with 6.86 billion
this fiscal year, according to the mean of five estimates. The
shares  dropped 26 percent (IMP)  in 2011.  “Platinum’s supply outlook remains constrained,” said
Anne-Laure Tremblay, the analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London
rated as the second-best precious-metals price forecaster
tracked by Bloomberg over the past eight quarters. “Auto
catalyst and industrial demand could rebound in the second half
of 2012, when we expect economic growth to recover.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  