-- 
Cathay Pacific Expects ‘Busy’ Christmas Travel, Weak Cargo

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-12-05T11:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/cathay-pacific-expects-busy-christmas-travel-weak-cargo-1-.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
largest international carrier, expects a “very busy” Christmas
travel season that will help offset a continued cargo slowdown.  “The Christmas season is looking quite ok,” Chief
Executive Officer John Slosar said today in a Bloomberg TV
interview in Hong Kong. “All flights are very busy.”  The carrier, based in Hong Kong, boosted passenger numbers
3.8 percent from a year earlier in October, as economic growth
in  China  and the rest of Asia spurs demand for business and
leisure travel. That helped the carrier withstand an 18 percent
plunge in cargo tonnage caused by U.S. and European retailers
ordering fewer goods ahead of the holidays shopping season.  “Somebody canceled Christmas as really the cargo volume
hasn’t been there,” Slosar said. Demand will continue to be
“soft” into the first few months of next year, he said.  Freight volumes surged in 2010 as U.S. and European
retailers rushed to rebuild inventories following the end of the
global recession.  The carrier, which gets about a third of sales from cargo,
will boost freight capacity as much as 20 percent next year as
it adds new Boeing Co. 747-8 freighters following production
delays. Passenger capacity will increase 13 percent, the airline
told analysts last month.  Cathay gained 0.6 percent to HK$13.64 at the close in  Hong
Kong  trading. The stock has lost 36 percent this year, compared
with a 17 percent decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The carrier also last week agreed to give Hong Kong-based
staff a 5 percent pay increase next year, along with a one-month
bonus. The Cathay Pacific Airways Flight Attendants Union, which
represents more than 5,800 cabin crew, accepted the offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  