-- 
CFTC Completes Client-Funds Rule After MF Global Collapse

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-12-05T17:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/cftc-may-vote-on-client-protection-rule-after-mf-global-collapse.html
U.S. derivatives regulators approved
restrictions on how brokers can invest customer funds, acting on
a delayed rule after as much as $1.2 billion went missing before
 MF Global Holdings Ltd.  sought  bankruptcy protection .  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  voted 5-0 today to
limit how brokers invest clients’ margin in  money market funds ,
and ban investments in foreign sovereign debt and in-house
transactions such as repurchase agreements.  CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , one of three Democrats on
the five-member panel, pushed for completion of the measure,
which he dubbed the “MF rule.” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said
the regulation is “critical for the safeguarding of customer
money” by preventing in-house repurchase transactions.  “I believe there is an inherent conflict of interest
between parts of a firm doing these transactions,” Gensler said
at the CFTC meeting in Washington.  The rule approved today will overturn a policy, instituted
in 2005, that let brokers invest client funds in in-house
transactions. It will ban such trades by brokers, who earn
interest income by investing funds from segregated accounts,
while allowing third-party deals, according to a CFTC summary.  Brokers will also be permitted to invest client funds in
U.S. Treasuries, municipal debt, money-market funds and debt of
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  as long as the two housing finance
companies are under the conservatorship of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , according to the summary.  180 Days  The rule will take effect 60 days after its publication in
the Federal Register. Brokers will then be required to comply
within 180 days.  “This rule is necessary to restore confidence,” said Mark Wetjen, a Democrat participating in his first rulemaking meeting
as a CFTC commissioner.  Gensler delayed the rule in July after being lobbied by
brokers and their executives including Jon S. Corzine, the
former New Jersey Governor then serving as MF Global’s chairman
and chief executive officer. The rule would govern brokers
including Newedge USA LLC and the futures brokerage subsidiaries
of banks such as  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   MF Global, the first Wall Street firm to fail since the
Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law last year, filed for
bankruptcy protection on Oct. 31 after making wrong-way bets on
European sovereign debt. Corzine resigned on Nov. 4.  Missing Funds  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of
MF Global’s brokerage subsidiary, estimated a $1.2 billion-
shortfall in client funds. It isn’t known whether the missing
funds are related to practices prohibited by the rule.  The CFTC,  Securities and Exchange Commission  and U.S.
 Justice Department  are investigating the missing client funds.  The House Agriculture Committee voted last week to issue a
subpoena to compel Corzine to testify at a Dec. 8 hearing.  “The events that have unfolded since Oct. 31 are
unprecedented and have resulted in the loss of property of many
of our constituents and a loss of confidence in the  futures
markets ,” Representative Frank D. Lucas, the Oklahoma
Republican who leads the Agriculture Committee, said last week.  The  Senate Agriculture Committee  and House Financial
Services Oversight and Investigations subcommittee separately
announced plans to consider subpoenas this week for Corzine, a
Democrat who served in the Senate before running for governor.  In a separate vote today, the CFTC moved unanimously to
complete rules governing foreign boards of trade. The measure
would set up a registration system for the trading venues when
they provide direct access to U.S.-based traders.  Commissioners also voted 4-1 to seek public comment on a
proposal for how exchanges and so-called swap execution
facilities decide to make swaps available for trade. Under the
proposal, the trading platforms must consider a series of
factors, including volume, the number and type of market
participants and whether there are ready and willing buyers and
sellers. The platforms then must submit their determination to
the CFTC for approval or other self-certification procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  