-- 
Chesapeake Sells $750 Million in Shares of Utica Subsidiary

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-12-05T21:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/chesapeake-sells-750-million-in-shares-of-utica-subsidiary.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which agreed
last month to sell part of its Utica Shale holdings, sold to a
group of private investors $750 million worth of preferred
shares in a subsidiary created to help fund development of the
oil and natural-gas field.  The shares in CHK Utica LLC were sold to Magnetar Capital,
Blackstone Group’s GSO Capital Partners LP, and an investment
vehicle managed by EIG Global Energy Partners LP that comprises
certain EIG employees and limited partners, according to a
statement today. Chesapeake said on Nov. 3 it had sold $500
million in preferred shares in the subsidiary, which holds about
700,000 acres in the shale formation, to private-equity firm EIG
Global Energy.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , owns drilling rights
for a total of about 1.5 million net acres in the Utica, which
stretches from Ohio to  Canada . The formation may hold as much as
5.5 billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion cubic feet of gas
in Ohio, according to the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.  Preferred shareholders in CHK Utica will receive a 7
percent annual distribution and a 3 percent overriding royalty
interest in the first 1,500 wells that Chesapeake drills on the
subsidiary’s leases. Chesapeake has the option to repurchase the
shares until 2018.  Chesapeake also announced on Nov. 3 it signed a letter of
intent to sell 25 percent of 650,000 acres in the field it co-
owns with Houston-based Enervest Ltd. The buyer, an unnamed
international energy company, will pay Chesapeake $640 million
in cash and about $1.5 billion in future drilling costs.  Switching to Oil  Investors are watching Chesapeake’s Utica investments
closely because they are crucial to the company’s plans to
switch its production from gas to oil and liquids, said Michael Bodino, head of energy research at Global Hunter Securities LLC
in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  “To get the market more comfortable with the Utica,
they’re going to have to put out more well results,” said
Bodino, who rates Chesapeake’s shares a “buy” and owns none.  Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said at a
Jefferies & Co. conference Nov. 30 he expects the joint venture
to close and the buyer’s name to be disclosed by the end of the
year.  McClendon declined to rule out Total SA as the unidentified
partner at the conference. Reliance Industries Ltd. of  India 
isn’t the partner, he said.  Chesapeake fell 1.1 percent to $25.15 at the close of
trading in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  