-- 
Chile’s Economy Grew Slower-Than-Forecast 3.4% in October

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-12-05T13:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/chile-s-economy-grew-slower-than-forecast-3-4-in-october-2-.html
Chile ’s  economy  grew 3.4 percent in
October from a year earlier, less than analysts had forecast and
the weakest expansion since the aftermath of a devastating
earthquake in February 2010, the central bank said.  The median forecast of nine economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg  was for the economy to expand 4.2 percent in October.
The economy shrank 0.6 percent from the previous month on a
seasonally adjusted basis, the bank said on its website today.  The report adds to evidence that  Europe ’s debt crisis is
beginning to damp growth in Chile, with industrial production
falling in October for the first time since April 2010, the
National Statistics Institute said on Nov. 29. Still, with
unemployment declining in the same month, the central bank may
wait for more evidence of a slowdown before changing policy.  “We have little in common with views of a sharp
deceleration and significant external impact on the local
economy so far,” Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones, said in a report today. The bank “will
hold the monetary policy rate at the current level until it
thinks it necessary to stimulate investment and consumption.”  Chile’s central bank has kept its key rate unchanged at
5.25 percent for the past five months, while  Brazil , which has
been harder hit by the global slowdown, has reduced borrowing
costs in each of the past three meetings.  Three-month interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’
views of average borrowing costs, fell two basis points to 4.96
percent at 9:19 a.m. Santiago time. The swap rate indicates
policy makers will cut borrowing costs within three months.  Slowing Down  A deceleration in mining output and a decline in industrial
production partially offset gains in  retail sales  in October,
the central bank said in today’s report. Industrial output
shrank 0.8 percent in October as retail sales expanded 8.6
percent after growing 9.6 percent in September, the statistics
institute said last month.  “Today’s data confirm two effects we’re seeing on the
economy: the impact of slower growth in developed economies and
the convergence of internal demand,” Matias  Madrid , chief
economist at Banco Penta in Santiago, said by phone. “The
central bank will reduce rates by a quarter-point this month
with its mind on the impact of the external crisis.”  Chile’s economy will expand about 6.5 percent this year,
before decelerating to 5 percent growth in 2012, according to
government forecasts made in October. President Sebastian Pinera
said last month the economy may grow as little as 6 percent this
year and 4 percent in 2012 as a European recession weakens
demand for Chilean exports.  “The Chilean economy sooner or later will be affected by
the external situation,” central bank President Jose De Gregorio said last week in Santiago. “No matter what scenario
we face, Chile’s economy -- and monetary policy in particular --
has the tools, the flexibility and the willingness needed to
reduce the costs of a deteriorated external environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 