-- 
Child Abuse May Alter Structure of the Brain, Research Shows

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-12-05T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/child-abuse-may-alter-structure-of-the-brain-research-shows.html
Teenagers who were abused as young
children show changes in their brains that put them at risk for
behavioral problems in adulthood, according to research from
 Yale University .  Brain scans of adolescents who suffered physical abuse and
neglect showed differences in the part that controls executive
function -- mental processes such as planning, organizing and
focusing on details -- according to a study in the  Archives of
Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine . Changes were also seen in
brain areas that regulate emotions and impulses, the study said.  About 3.7 million U.S. children are assessed for  child
abuse or neglect  each year, but the number may be higher as many
cases don’t come to the attention of professionals, the authors
said. The research, which evaluated teenagers who hadn’t been
diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder, suggests abuse or neglect
victims be monitored to reduce the risk of disorders like
depression and addiction, researchers said.  “What these findings show is that experiences that people
have early in life can really subsequently and fundamentally
alter the way their brain develops,” said  Philip Fisher , who
wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal. “These kids, in
spite of the fact that they didn’t have actual disorders, have
the potential to be very vulnerable for problems over the course
of their development.”  Human brains continue to develop through early adulthood,
particularly the area that regulates emotions and  executive
function , said Fisher, a professor of psychiatry at the
University of  Oregon  and a senior scientist at the Oregon Social
Learning Center in Eugene, in a Dec. 2 telephone interview.  Gender Differences  The study included 42 kids ages 12 to 17 who didn’t have a
psychiatric diagnosis. The researchers used questionnaires to
determine if the children suffered from physical abuse, physical
neglect, emotional abuse, emotional neglect and sexual abuse.
They then took images of their brains using MRI.  Scans showed that girls were more likely to have
differences in brain areas related to emotional processing,
making them more vulnerable to mood disorders like depression,
while boys had changes to areas for impulse control, which could
make them more vulnerable to drug and alcohol addictions, said
study author  Hilary Blumberg , an associate professor of
psychiatry and diagnostic radiology in the Child Study Center at
Yale School of Medicine in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  Neglected Children  Brain alterations occurred in both adolescents who suffered
abuse as well as neglect, the research found. The study didn’t
show distinct patterns in the brains of children who were
 sexually abused , although Blumberg said that may be because the
number of children who were sexually abused was small.  “It was very important to see the findings with regard to
neglect,” Blumberg said in a Dec. 2 interview. “That was an
area that had been little studied.”  Researchers are continuing to follow these teens to see if
they develop behavior problems like depression or substance
abuse and to understand why some may develop issues while others
don’t, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  