-- 
China Climate Plan Makes ‘Excited Buzz’ at Durban as U.S. Lags: UN Envoy

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-05T14:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/china-climate-plan-makes-excited-buzz-at-durban-as-u-s-lags-un-envoy.html
China  has triggered an “excited
buzz” at a global warming conference in  South Africa  by setting
out the conditions under which it might limit its pollution, the
United Nations diplomat leading the talks said.  Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of the UN
Framework on Climate Change, said China is making and
implementing laws to reduce fossil fuel fumes. Envoys from
Beijing today detailed conditions under which it would sign up
to a legally binding goal for reducing emissions.  The comments indicate optimism among negotiators
coordinating the talks in Durban, South Africa, that envoys may
be able to bridge an impasse on when developing nations start
curbing  greenhouse gases . China wants new emissions cuts for
industrial countries under the  Kyoto Protocol  in exchange for
accepting a target. The European Union is demanding all nations
work towards a deal as a prerequisite for its undertaking a
second commitment under the protocol.  “If China moves, we’ll be able to see the signing of the
Kyoto Protocol, we’ll be able to get the rest of the world
committed to a road map which gets us to a single legally
binding overarching agreement, so China’s position is absolutely
critical,” U.K. Secretary of State for Energy and Climate
change said today in an interview in Durban.  China’s Xie Zhenhua told reporters today that the nation
has five conditions that must be met before it accepts legally-
binding targets. They include a new round of Kyoto targets for
industrialized countries, and advances on climate aid and low-
carbon technology-sharing.  Cards on the Table  “China is beginning to answer the question of how do we
sign up to the second commitment period,” South African Foreign
Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who is presiding the talks for
the host nation, told reporters. “It is laying its cards on the
table. Other negotiators will be laying the cards on the table
and work then gets escalated. And that is what makes us hopeful
we are moving in the right direction.”  Todd Stern, the U.S. lead envoy on  climate change , told
reporters that all countries must be involved in a global deal
that applies the “same legal force” to each country with “no
trap doors” and “no conditionality.” He said he plans to
discuss the Chinese remarks with Xie tomorrow.  “China has not been willing to do the kind of legally
binding agreement that I’m talking about” in the past, Stern
said, adding that he hasn’t spoken to Xie yet in Durban. “In
order for there to be a legally binding agreement that makes
sense, all the major players are going to have to be in.”  Slim Hopes  The comments from the U.S. and China, who between them
account for more than 40 percent of global emissions, show
there’s still a gap to close, according to Elliot Diringer,
executive vice president at the Center for Energy and Climate
Solutions in Arlington, Virginia.  “Between the U.S. position and the China position there
are slim hopes we could actually get to agreement on launching
an immediate process toward a legally binding outcome,”
Diringer said. “What might be a possible common ground, we
hope, is that parties at least agree to the objective of binding
outcomes.”  The U.S. never ratified the Kyoto Protocol limiting
pollution in industrial nations, and President Barack Obama’s
carbon cap-and-trade plan failed to pass congress.  J.M. Mauskar, the Indian government official leading his
nation’s delegation at United Nations climate talks, yesterday
rejected the EU plan of a road map leading to a new climate deal
as a “quid-pro-quo.”  “ India  has really taken over from China as the key block
in the process,” Mark Lynas, climate change adviser to
Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed said today in an interview
in Durban. “India and the U.S. seem to have formed an alliance
of inaction. They’re both happy to filibuster the process for
another 10 years.”  Lynas said deals in Durban could be reached on issues that
“matter in the real world,” including technology, adaptation,
finance, forests. “Unfortunately it looks like being held
hostage to Kyoto.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Durban, South Africa at  kchipman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 