-- 
China State Construction Plans $2B U.S. Push

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-12-06T10:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/china-state-construction-plans-u-s-takeover-in-2-billion-push.html
China State Construction Engineering
Corp. (601668) , the nation’s biggest builder by market value, intends to
buy a U.S. construction company next year as it begins investing
as much as $2 billion in the world’s largest economy.  The builder has shortlisted two potential takeover targets,
including one with annual sales of about $1 billion, Vice
President Chen Guocai said yesterday at a conference in Hong
Kong. He declined to elaborate on the companies or on how much
the builder may spend on its first U.S. acquisition.  China State, which renovated the  Alexander Hamilton Bridge 
in  New York , also plans private-public partnerships in the U.S.
over the next five years to help pare its reliance on domestic
and emerging markets. The company wants to boost the proportion
of overseas sales earned in the U.S. to 15 percent from 5
percent within five years, he said.  “We need to balance our overseas business,” he said. The
so-called Arab Spring movements could disrupt sales in  Africa 
and the  Middle East , where the company has been “very
successful,” he said.  The Beijing-based company, which is the parent of Hong
Kong-listed developer China  Overseas Land & Investment Ltd (688) , will
also seek to team up with a U.S. company on real-estate projects
in the country, Chen said. He didn’t elaborate.  The builder closed down 1.9 percent to 3.06 yuan in
Shanghai trading today. It’s declined 11 percent this year,
compared with a 17 percent drop in the city’s benchmark Shanghai
Stock Exchange Composite Index.  China State generated sales of 370.4 billion yuan last year,
according to a company statement. About 15 percent of its
current revenue came from overseas, Chen said.  The company boosted net profit 60 percent in the third
quarter to 3.1 billion yuan, according to a statement to the
Shanghai stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  