-- 
Chinese General Heads to India After Dalai Lama Spat Underlines Tensions

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-12-06T06:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/chinese-general-heads-to-india-for-talks-after-border-setback.html
India  and China, which have fought a
war over their disputed border and compete for resources to feed
Asia’s two fastest growing economies, will hold their highest
level military talks in almost two years.  General Ma Xiaotian, the deputy chief of the People’s
Liberation Army General Staff, will lead a delegation to New
Delhi for meetings Dec. 9 with Indian Defense Secretary
Shashikant Sharma and ministry officials. The previous round of
defense dialogue was held in Beijing in January 2010.  The nuclear-armed neighbors, home to more than a third of
the world’s people, claim territory held by the other and
clashed during a brief border conflict in 1962. India has
replaced  China  as the world’s top weapons importer, according to
a study by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute,
as it aims to modernize its armed forces and defend against
security threats from  Pakistan  and China.  Ma’s visit indicates that China and India have for now
“resolved a degree of their tit-for-tat diplomacy,” said Lora
Saalman, a Beijing-based analyst at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center
for Global Policy. “It does not signal that the overall
tensions underpinning such disputes have been resolved.”  Military relations between the world’s two most populous
nations were suspended in August 2010 after China issued a visa
to an Indian army officer in charge of forces in Kashmir without
stamping his passport, an act seen as questioning India’s rule
over the disputed Himalayan territory. China has a close
alliance with Pakistan, which has waged two wars with India over
Kashmir.  Dalai Lama  Protest  Border talks scheduled for Nov. 28-29 were scrapped after
China objected to a Buddhist meeting in New Delhi at which the
Dalai Lama was set to speak, the  Press Trust of India  reported.
The government in Beijing refused to go ahead with the dialogue
even after India said President Pratibha Patil and Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  would not attend the Dalai Lama session,
the Times of India newspaper  reported  Nov. 27.  The Dalai Lama has lived in India since fleeing in 1959
after China’s military takeover of Tibet. China accuses him and
the government-in-exile that is also based in the north Indian
town of Dharamshala, of secretly seeking independence for his
homeland. The Dalai Lama says he wants autonomy for  Tibet , not
separation.  India’s foreign ministry said in a statement Nov. 25 it was
looking forward to rescheduling the boundary talks “in the near
future and the two sides remain in touch to find convenient
dates.”  Arms Transfers  India and China, which went to war five decades ago over
part of their 3,500-kilometer (2,175-mile) boundary, have tried
to prevent their disagreements from affecting economic ties.
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  traveled to India with 300 business
executives in December last year. During that trip the countries
vowed to raise trade by two-thirds to $100 billion in five years
and reduce India’s trade deficit by promoting its exports to
China.  The defense delegations will this week discuss “regional
and global security issues,” review attempts to address the
border issue and finalize military exchanges for next year,
according to a statement from India’s defense ministry. Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei confirmed Chinese participation at a
regular briefing in Beijing yesterday.  India received 9 percent of international arms transfers by
volume during 2006-10, Sipri said in a March report. India has
tripled its military budget in the past decade to $32 billion
this year compared with a near-quadrupling of spending by its
neighbor and rival China in the same period. China said it
planned to spend $91.5 billion on defense this year.  Obama’s  Asia  Pivot  President  Barack Obama  has begun shifting the focus of  U.S.
foreign policy  onto Asia, last month signing an agreement to
deploy Marines in  Australia  in a move aimed at blunting China’s
regional influence. The U.S. will hold a trilateral dialogue
with India and  Japan  in  Washington  on Dec. 19, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner told reporters at a daily briefing
yesterday.  India accuses China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers
(14,670 square miles) of territory in  Jammu and Kashmir  to the
west, while the government in Beijing lays claim to 90,000
square kilometers of land in Arunachal Pradesh, a state in
India’s east. The two sides have been unable to resolve their
disputes after more than a dozen rounds of discussions since
2005.  Mineral Competition  India and China are competing around the world to secure
oil, gas and metals. India and  Vietnam  signed an agreement Oct.
12 to expand joint oil and gas exploration in the  South China
Sea , waters where Chinese claims over resources have led to
clashes in recent months. India’s Foreign Ministry Sept. 1
denied a report that said a Chinese warship confronted an Indian
navy vessel after it left Vietnamese waters in late July.  “Though there are irritants like the border, a trade
imbalance and now the South China Sea, both countries want to
push forward dialogue,” said R.N. Das, an analyst at the New
Delhi-based Institute for Defence Studies & Analyses.  Army ties resumed when Indian officers traveled to Beijing
in June. A People’s Liberation Army delegation came to India
Nov. 4-9, India’s defense ministry said in its statement. A
further round of military exchanges will take place before the
end of this month, it said.  “India’s relations with Vietnam and Myanmar and its
refusal to intervene in matters concerning the Dalai Lama that
are purely of a religious nature” signal it is becoming more
assertive,  Bahukutumbi Raman , an analyst at the  Chennai Centre
for China Studies , said in comments posted on his  blog .  Both India and China are investing in ports, railways and
oil and gas pipelines in Myanmar, formerly known as  Burma , that
give them access to natural resources and trade routes in the
Indian Ocean region.  “India has in recent months started slowly asserting its
own interests and concerns without surrendering totally to those
of China,” Raman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  