-- 
China’s Stocks Decline, Extending Fourth Weekly Loss, on Property Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-05T07:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/china-s-stocks-decline-extending-fourth-weekly-loss-on-property-concerns.html
China’s stocks (SHCOMP)  fell, sending the
benchmark index to a six-week low, after non-manufacturing
industries contracted as the government’s curbs on property and
lending damped demand.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585) , China’s biggest maker of the
building material, and Hebei Iron & Steel Co. dropped at least 2
percent after a purchasing managers’ index shrank for the first
time since February.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and China Merchants
Property Development Co. retreated among property companies
after the central bank said developers are facing tighter credit
conditions.  “The economy is on a downtrend and the question is how
slow growth will be next year with the weakness in the property
market and exports,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The slower
economic growth becomes, the earlier we’ll see the government
relax monetary policy.”  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SZ399006)  sank 27.44 points, or 1.2
percent, to 2,333.23 at the close, the lowest level since Oct.
21 and extending four straight weeks of losses. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  fell 1.4 percent to 2,521.39. The ChiNext index of start-
up companies tumbled 4.4 percent to its lowest close since Oct.
24. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 0.8 percent in
 New York  on Dec. 2.  The Shanghai Composite slid 0.8 percent last week as
manufacturing contracted for the first time since February 2009
in November. The gauge is valued at 11.1 times estimated
earnings, compared with a six-year average of 18.3 times,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  PMI Gauge  The index has tumbled 17 percent this year, extending last
year’s 14 percent loss, after the central bank raised  interest
rates  and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to curb inflation.  A  purchasing managers’ index  for November fell to 49.7 from
57.7 the previous month, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a Dec. 3 statement. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. The gauge covers industries including
construction, retail, and property.  “Investment in infrastructure and real estate is playing a
smaller role in driving the economy,” Cai Jin, vice chairman of
the logistics federation, said in the statement. A separate PMI
service index fell to 52.5 from 54.1 in October, according to a
statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  An index of materials producers in the CSI 300 slipped 2.3
percent. Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, dropped 2.4
percent to 16.45 yuan.  Huaxin Cement Co. (600801) , an affiliate of Holcim
Ltd., lost 5.8 percent to 14.39 yuan, the most in three months.
Hebei Steel, the listed unit of the country’s biggest
steelmaker, retreated 2 percent to 3.43 yuan. Angang Steel Co.
slid 1.2 percent to 4.77 yuan.  Profit Plunge  Profit margins from product sales at 77 large and medium-
sized Chinese iron and steel companies was 0.47 percent in
October, the Economic Information Daily reported, citing Luo Bingsheng, a deputy party secretary of the China Iron and Steel
Association. Total profit dropped 82.6 percent in October
compared with a month earlier, Luo said.  “The turning point of property prices is emerging,” the
People’s Bank of China said in a Dec. 2 statement after the
market closed. It noted that property investment growth has
eased from a “high level” and that developers are facing
tighter credit conditions. Banks and property developers could
cope with a 20 percent to 30 percent decline in  home prices ,
according to the statement.  Developers Retreat  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell
1.2 percent to 7.29 yuan.  Merchants Property (000024)  lost 1 percent to
16.71 yuan.  China may extend restrictions on purchasing properties in
selected cities when the orders expire around the end of the
year, Cb.com.cn, the website of the China Business Journal,
reported over the weekend, citing an unidentified official at
the Ministry of Housing and Rural Development.  It may take between three and six months for new lending
and monetary supply to increase after last week’s reduction in
reserve requirement ratio, Hou Zhenhai, an analyst at China
International Capital Corp, wrote in a note dated yesterday.
Stocks may rebound in spring next year on a rebound in new loans
and M2, according to the report.  The economic slowdown could lead to social unrest and the
country’s provincial officials need to find ways to prepare for
the negative effects of the market economy, the Financial Times
reported today, citing Zhou Yongkang, a member of the Communist
Party of  China ’s Politburo.  A  gauge  tracking Shenzhen-listed small and medium-size
companies slid 3.4 percent to a level not seen since July 2010.  Fine Tuning  China’s central bank reduced lenders’ reserve requirements
on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has
pledged to “fine-tune” economic policies to sustain growth
amid a deepening debt crisis in  Europe  that threatens to trigger
a global recession.  China’s central bank will periodically loosen monetary
policy while maintaining a prudent stance, the People’s Daily
cited  Ba Shusong , a researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, as saying.  Government debt, which may have risen to 20 trillion yuan
($3.14 trillion) by the end of 2010, or about 50 percent of its
gross domestic product, is becoming a major constraint on its
economic growth, research firm Beijing Fost Economic Consulting
Company Ltd. said in a report dated Dec. 3.  European leaders will meet this week to seek to resolve the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. Two people familiar with the
negotiations said a proposal to channel European Central Bank
loans through the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver as
much as 200 billion euros ($268 billion) to fight the crisis.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  