-- 
Clearwire Tumbles on Plan to Raise $350 Million in Stock Sale

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o m   G i l e s
-- 
2011-12-08T14:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/clearwire-says-it-plans-to-raise-300-million-in-equity-offering.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless broadband provider, tumbled after saying it will raise
$350 million in an equity offering to help cover costs and
improve its mobile network.  The company will sell 175 million Class A shares at $2
apiece in an offering expected to close on Dec. 13, an increase
from earlier plans to raise $300 million, Bellevue, Washington-
based Clearwire said yesterday in a statement.  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , which owns a majority of the economic interest in
Clearwire, also will buy about 172 million shares of the
company’s Class B shares in a separate transaction.  Clearwire dropped 6.6 percent to $2.13 at 9:38 a.m. New
York time, after falling as much as 10 percent. The stock had
slid 56 percent this year before today.  Clearwire will use the money to build out a higher-speed
Long-Term Evolution, or LTE, wireless network and pay other
operating expenses. The financings may dilute the value of
Clearwire’s existing stock, depending on the price of the
offerings, John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS AG, said this week.  At $2 a share, the offering “would dilute existing
shareholders by about 33 percent based on Clearwire’s 915
million shares outstanding,” Hodulik said in a research note.  Clearwire last week said it’s extending a network-sharing
deal with Sprint valued at as much as $1.6 billion over the next
four years.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint buys wholesale
wireless capacity from Clearwire and then resells the service to
its own customers.  The equity offerings and the deal last week, which came
after a standoff over how the two companies would work together
when their current network agreement expires at the end of 2012,
gives Clearwire more stable finances,  Jonathan Chaplin , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said this week.  Clearwire also said yesterday that it’s granting
underwriters a 30-day option to purchase as much as an
additional $52.5 million of Class A common shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 