-- 
Cnooc Pushes Stocks in U.S. to Two-Week High: China Overnight

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-05T22:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/cnooc-pushes-stocks-in-u-s-to-two-week-high-china-overnight.html
U.S.-listed Chinese stocks rose to a
two-week high, led by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and Aluminum Corp. of  China 
Ltd., as European leaders acted to contain the region’s debt
crisis and investors bet China’s move last week to ease monetary
policy will spur growth.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  climbed 0.9 percent to
101.2, the highest close since Nov. 16.  Cnooc, (CEO)  the nation’s
largest offshore oil producer, jumped 3.2 percent to $198.90.
 Aluminum Corp. of China , the nation’s biggest producer of the
metal, gained 3.8 percent to $12.25.  Stocks rallied worldwide after Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  proposed budget cuts and Germany and France pushed for a
new European Union treaty to fight the debt crisis before an EU
summit on Dec. 9. China’s central bank on Nov. 30 reduced the
amount of cash that banks must set aside as reserves for the
first time since 2008 to revive growth.  “With the growth outlook stabilizing and improving, it’s
time to switch out of defensive sectors into cyclical sectors,”
such as industrial and materials stocks, Steven Sun, head of
China equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television.  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 0.9 percent,
extending an 8.4 percent rally last week. Stocks pared some
gains later yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  said Germany and
France may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings as the debt
crisis prompts the ratings company to put 15 euro nations on
review for possible downgrade. The  Shanghai  Composite  Index (HSCEI)  fell
1.2 percent to 2,333.229 while the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index rallied 0.6 percent after a 10 percent rise last week.  Yanzhou Coal Mining  Basic materials stocks were the biggest gainers on the
Bloomberg index.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , China’s fourth-biggest
producer of the fuel, rose 3.4 percent to $24.40. The company’s
board approved a proposal to sell as much as 15 billion  yuan 
($2.36 billion) of bonds to boost operating capital and improve
its debt structure, it said Dec. 2.  The gain in Aluminum Corp. of China helped trim its losses
this year to 46 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said that
aluminum prices don’t have “significant room” for further
decline because Chinese producers may cut output and close
factories after a 14 percent price slump this year. Goldman
estimated Chinese consumption of the metal will rise 12 percent
next year.  Reserve Requirements  China’s central bank reduced reserve requirements for major
lenders by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 21
percent last week ahead of a report that showed manufacturing
contracted for the first time in almost three years. China’s
 non-manufacturing industries  shrank in November for the first
time since February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on Dec. 3.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Oct. 29 pledged to “fine-tune”
economic policies to sustain growth amid a deepening debt crisis
in  Europe  that threatens to trigger a global recession.  Perfect World Co., (PWRD)  an online game developer, led gains
among Chinese Internet companies, rising 8.6 percent to $11.90.
The company, whose shares lost 54 percent this year to Dec. 2,
reported third-quarter earnings last month that missed analysts’
forecasts amid rising costs.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , owner of the
country’s fifth-most visited website, rose 3.2 percent and  Baidu
Inc., (BIDU)  the owner of China’s most popular online search engine,
advanced 0.4 percent to $134.63.  Fushi Copperweld  Fushi Copperweld Inc., a maker of copper-clad aluminum and
steel wire, dropped 6.8 percent, the most in two months, to
$6.95. An offer by Li Fu, the company’s chairman and co-chief
executive officer, and Abax Global Capital Ltd. to acquire all
existing shares at $9.25 apiece was terminated after a special
committee of the company’s board failed to confirm the
acceptance by the Dec. 2 deadline. The company said in a
statement that it will provide additional information for Fu and
AGC to evaluate.  The  ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.3 percent to $36.87.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is trading at 11 times
estimated earnings, compared with 14.4 for Indian stocks, 10.6
for Brazilian shares and 5.3 for Russian equities.  The Chinese yuan fell 0.1 percent to close at 6.3641 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It earlier dropped as much as 0.11 percent to
6.3666 after the People’s Bank of China lowered the daily
 reference rate  by 0.06 percent to 6.3349. The currency is
allowed to fluctuate as much as 0.5 percent on either side of
the fixing.  The government is scheduled to report November inflation
rate and production figures this week. Consumer prices probably
increased 4.5 percent last month from a year ago, compared with
5.5 percent in October, according to the median estimate of 33
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation reached a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  