-- 
Commerzbank Offers to Buy Back $800 Million of Hybrid Capital Instruments

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-12-05T10:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/commerzbank-offers-to-buy-back-800-million-of-hybrid-capital-instruments.html
Commerzbank AG ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest lender, offered to repurchase 600 million euros ($806
million) of hybrid instruments as it boosts capital to meet new
requirements for banks in Europe.  Offers will be accepted on a pro-rata basis should they
exceed that amount, according to the Frankfurt-based bank. The
cash offer covering about 2.23 billion euros of hybrid debt
securities starts today and is due to end on Dec. 13, it said.  Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , 48,
who spent the last three years trying to free the bank from
government aid needed to survive the credit crunch, may need to
raise 2.94 billion euros to meet new European Banking Authority
requirements. While the hybrid buyback will strengthen the core
Tier 1 ratio, the bank will need to raise further funds as the
offer will also cut overall capital, analysts said.  “This is just a very first step that is expected to be
followed by a capital increase,” said Matthias Duerr, an
analyst with  DZ Bank  who recommends buying the shares. “We
expect that the bank will announce a capital increase of at
least 600 million euros in the next weeks.”  Commerzbank fell as much as 8.2 percent in Frankfurt
trading and was 7.1 percent lower at 1.39 euros at 11:24 a.m.,
giving the company a market value of 7.12 billion euros.  ‘Another Step’  “The transaction marks another step in optimizing
Commerzbank’s capital structure in light of the transition to
the new regulatory requirements of Basel III,” the bank said in
a statement. “Execution of the transaction will have a one-off
positive effect on the consolidated results pursuant to IFRS and
will result in an increase of Core Tier 1 capital.”  Commerzbank offered to repurchase five different securities
at prices ranging from 52.5 percent to 40 percent of their
nominal value. Hybrid capital combines aspects of debt and
equity and allows borrowers to cancel interest and principal
payments without triggering a default.  As  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis erodes confidence in the
financial system, regulators are pushing the region’s biggest
banks to increase their capital buffers faster than the Basel
III rules require. Commerzbank may have to raise as much as 5
billion euros in a worst-case scenario, people familiar with the
situation said last month.  Capital Increase  “This tender is just a small step to finally close
Commerzbank’s capital gap,” said  Olaf Kayser , an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who recommends buying the shares.
“They will need a number of other measures including a
reduction of risk weighted assets, but the final step will most
likely be a capital increase to bring their capital to the
required level.”  Joint dealer managers for the offer are Commerzbank, Credit
Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Commerzbank, in which Germany has a  stake  of 25 percent
plus one share, carried out a capital increase of 11 billion
euros this year. The lender last week appointed Daimler AG
executive Stephan Engels as chief financial officer to replace
 Eric Strutz , who previously announced plans to leave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  