-- 
Commercial Metals Rejects Icahn’s $1.7B Bid

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-12-05T15:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/commercial-metals-rejects-icahn-s-1-73b-bid.html
Commercial Metals Co. (CMC)  rejected an
unsolicited takeover bid from billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ,
saying the offer that values the steelmaker at $1.73 billion is
too low.  The bid “is an opportunistic attempt, at a time when we
are at a low point in the economic and industry cycle, to
transfer the future value of CMC from its stockholders to Carl
Icahn,” Anthony Massaro, a Commercial Metals director, said
today in a statement. The Irving, Texas-based company was
responding after Icahn’s company said it would “take matters
into our own hands” on Dec. 2 should CMC not respond by today.  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , which owns a 10 percent stake in CMC,
offered $15 apiece for the rest of the shares without any
financing or due diligence conditions, Icahn said in a Nov. 28
letter to Commercial Metals directors. The takeover proposal is
31 percent more than the stock’s closing price on Nov. 25, the
last trading day before the bid was announced.  In a letter to Icahn distributed with CMC’s statement, the
company said the offer was a “significant discount” to
Commercial Metals’ 52-week high of $18.09. The company also said
that Chief Executive Officer Joe Alvarado and Chief Financial
Officer Barbara Smith both joined the company this year and have
since “taken important steps to strengthen CMC’s operations.”  Cost-Cutting Plans  CMC said it plans to close or sell a mill in  Croatia , shut
rebar-fabrication plants and reduce its global workforce.  Commercial Metals collects scrap that it melts to make
products such as steel rebar used in construction. The company,
which also distributes steel, has operations in the U.S., Poland
and Croatia. Icahn said he would sell “non-core” assets,
appoint new management and combine Commercial Metals with his
existing metals-recycling assets.  Icahn plans to nominate three board members at CMC’s next
annual shareholder meeting on Feb. 3, challenging Alvarado’s
position on the board. Icahn, 75, who often buys distressed
companies, started his metals business through the acquisition
of Philip Services Corp., a bankrupt Canadian scrap metals and
industrial services company, in 2004.  Commercial Metals said on Nov. 28, and reiterated today,
that Icahn’s initial letter proposing the takeover didn’t
“constitute a formal offer” and shareholders don’t need to
take any action.  ‘Formal’ Offer  Icahn had responded on Nov. 28 in a second statement that
his bid is "in all respects and without any doubt, a formal all-
cash offer to acquire the company."  Commercial Metals rose 1.2 percent to $14.16 at 9:59 a.m.
in  New York . The shares have gained 24 percent since Icahn’s bid
was announced.  Icahn Capital LP, the financier’s hedge fund, disclosed in
July that it paid almost $101 million to acquire a 10 percent
stake comprised of shares and options in Commercial Metals.  The value of the CMC deal is calculated based on the 115.5
million shares that are outstanding according to Bloomberg data.  Commercial Metals is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and law firm Sidley Austin LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  