-- 
Congo Republic Says Thousands Flee Kinshasa Fearing Vote Unrest

-- B y   R o b e r t   M b a k o u o
-- 
2011-12-05T10:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/congo-republic-says-thousands-flee-kinshasa-fearing-vote-unrest.html
Thousands of residents of the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo have begun arriving in neighboring
countries including Congo Republic fearing violence when
election results are announced tomorrow, the police said.  About 3,000 people have traveled to the Congo Republic
capital, Brazzaville, since Dec. 2, the country’s police force
said in a statement today. Brazzaville and Kinshasa, the capital
of the Democratic Republic of Congo, are situated on opposite
sides of the Congo River.  “These people say they fear violence because of the tense
climate in the country and specifically in the capital Kinshasa,
ahead of the election verdict,” it said. The number of people
making the trip was “unusual,” it said.  Democratic Republic of Congo President  Joseph Kabila  leads
his nearest rival,  Etienne Tshisekedi , with more than half of
election stations reporting, the electoral commission said
yesterday. Kabila has 4.9 million votes to Tshisekedi’s 3.4
million as 53 percent of the sites reported results, the
authority said.  Violence has marred the elections, with at least 18
civilians killed and 100 wounded from Nov. 26 to Nov. 28,
according to Human Rights Watch. Most of the dead were shot by
the Republican Guard, Kabila’s security force, the New York-
based group said.  The African Union, European Union and  United Nations  have
called for calm when results are announced. Any candidate
planning to contest the outcome should do so “exclusively
through the legal channels provided for this purpose,”  Jean Ping , the president of the AU Commission, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Tshisekedi and his party rejected the preliminary results
in a joint statement with other main opposition parties
yesterday. The groups complained the figures were announced
without information identifying the polling stations the results
represent, making them impossible to verify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Mbakouo in Brazzaville via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 