-- 
Credit Suisse to Split European Private Bank Into Two Units

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-12-05T15:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/credit-suisse-to-split-european-private-banking-into-2-units.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s
second-biggest bank, plans to split its European wealth-
management business into two units to focus on diverging trends
in emerging and mature markets.  Starting Jan. 1, one unit will focus on western  Europe  and
the other on eastern Europe, the Middle East and  Africa , Hans- Ulrich Meister, chief executive officer of private banking, said
today in a memo, the contents of which were confirmed by  Marc Dosch , a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse.  “We are increasingly focusing our investments and resource
allocations on fast-growing markets, most notably in our
emerging markets business,” Meister said.  Meister, who took over as head of private banking in
August, aims to boost pretax earnings at the division by 800
million Swiss francs ($872 million) by 2014 as profitability
falls amid structural changes in the  wealth-management  industry,
including new agreements Switzerland is making with countries
fighting tax evasion. Tax accords with Germany and the U.K. may
result in Swiss private banks losing about 47 billion francs of
assets and 1.1 billion francs in annual revenue, Booz & Co. said
in a study last week.  “We have clearly made substantial progress in focusing and
aligning our western European businesses to successfully tackle
the persistent challenges presented by the new reality of wealth
management,” Meister said. “The relevant complexities have
recently accelerated, requiring even more focus on these mature
markets in order to maximize our ability to profitably grow
these important businesses.”  New Appointments  Romeo Lacher, who was head of private banking operations
since 2004, will take charge of the western European business,
the memo said. Alois Baettig, who led the European wealth-
management business since 2006, will be responsible for eastern
Europe,  Middle East  and Africa, it said.  Credit Suisse is cutting 550 jobs and integrating its
Clariden Leu private banking unit into the rest of wealth
management to reduce costs by about 200 million francs. It also
plans to expand the business with ultra-high-net-worth
individuals and with clients who book assets in their countries
of residence.  Credit Suisse’s annualized gross margin in wealth
management, or the amount of revenue earned on assets under
management, fell to 114 basis points in the third quarter from
131 basis points in 2009. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percentage point.  The bank in September agreed to pay 150 million euros ($202
million) to settle proceedings in  Germany  against employees
investigated for allegedly helping German clients evade taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  