-- 
European Retreat Squeezes Asia Trade Finance as ADB Sees Loan Demand Climb

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-12-06T07:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/credit-squeeze-hits-asia-trade-finance-as-adb-loan-demand-soars.html
The  Asian Development Bank  is
preparing for a surge in demand for its trade financing, with a
pull-back in lending by European banks risking a greater credit
squeeze for some Asian nations than seen in 2008.  “The trade-finance program is filling persistent market
gaps, but it will become even more important,” Steve Beck, who
heads the Manila-based ADB’s unit that provides credit and
guarantees for imports and exports, said in an interview. “With
some major European banks retrenching from the trade-finance
business, we see that the gaps are increasing,” he said,
without naming the lenders.  Beck sees growth in his $3 billion operation accelerating
from a pace already in excess of 25 percent this year, with a
credit crunch having the biggest impact on poorer  emerging
markets  including Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Vietnam. At stake is
averting a 2008-style collapse in trade that impairs growth in
the continent that led the world out of the global recession.  European banks are rushing to raise their capital ratios as
the euro-region’s debt crisis continues unabated. The lenders
are likely to de-leverage by 1.5 trillion euros ($2 trillion) to
2.5 trillion euros, Morgan Stanley estimated last month. Among
the non-core assets at risk is trade finance in Asia, where
nations outside Japan exported $4.1 trillion last year.  “European banks that had exposure in Asia have had to
repatriate some of the money from Asia, and that’s why you see
volatility” in the region’s exchange rates, said Iwan Azis, who
heads the ADB’s Office of Regional Integration.  Signs of Stress  Currencies from the Philippine peso to Indonesian rupiah
and Indian rupee tumbled in September, when European debt woes
deteriorated as  Greece  teetered toward a potential disorderly
default. During the week of Sept. 19, Asian currencies tumbled
the most since the region’s financial crisis in 1998.  Beck said another sign of distress is a jump in the number
of companies refusing to do business without trade finance,
where banks insure that exporters will get paid for their
products.  “There are a lot of people in the industry who are
predicting that it’s going to be worse than 2008,” he said,
referring to import-export financing.  “Demand for our products is already affected,” said
Thomas Patrick, director of finance at Duferco SA, which is
based in Lugano, Switzerland and estimates that it’s the world’s
largest steel trader. “We have a healthy order book but it is
at reduced levels.”  Customers Squeezed  European banks with Asian operations are scaling back,
causing medium-sized companies that purchase Duferco products to
find less readily available credit lines or payment guarantees,
Patrick said.  “A lot of companies particularly in distribution and
trading are holding low stock levels -- to make sure to avoid
having exposure if there is a major crisis,” he said. “We all
had a very difficult experience in 2008 and we don’t want it
repeated.”  A European retreat offers opportunities for lenders from
Asia and other regions, including the U.S., said Richard Jerram,
chief economist at Bank of  Singapore  Ltd.  “They will be interested in filling the gap,”
particularly if borrowers are prepared to pay higher  interest
rates  on loans, according to Jerram. “But life’s never perfect
in the sense that you can always find a substitute. There’s
going to be some stress.”  Banks That Benefit  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  -- U.K.-based
banks with large Asian operations -- may be among the “key
beneficiaries,” Barclays Capital regional bank analysts led by
Thomas Quarmby in  Hong Kong  wrote in a Nov. 29 note to clients.  Among others expected to benefit are  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306)  of Japan,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Singapore’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and Taiwan’s
Mega Financial Holding Co., Barclays Capital analysts said.  “There are more companies coming to us,” said Mark Evans,
ANZ Bank’s Sydney-based global head of trade and supply chain.
“The numbers of customers and transactions have increased
significantly. I am optimistic we will continue to see
opportunities coming our way as a consequence of what’s going on
in  Europe .”  ANZ Bank’s trade finance revenue from  Asia  rose 58 percent
in the financial year through September from the same period a
year ago, Evans said.  Cost of Borrowing  Even with others stepping in, the price of the financing
will likely increase as European lenders downsize.  “The  cost of borrowing  will go up -- there’s no doubt
about it,” said Azis, who previously taught at Cornell
University and testified to U.S. lawmakers during the Asian
financial crisis.  A more broad-based exit by Europe’s banks, should the
sovereign-debt crisis worsen, could pose a deeper economic
threat, because of an influx of capital into Asia since the
2008-2009 global recession spurred by its faster growth rates,
according to the  World Bank .  Trade data already point to a darkening picture for Asian
exports, hit by diminishing European demand as the euro-region
veers toward a recession. That’s particularly troubling for
countries from  Thailand  to South Korea, where shipments make up
the equivalent of half or more of gross domestic product.
Exports out of both  China  and South Korea increased at the
slowest pace since 2009 in October, while  Japan ’s slid the most
since May.  Threats Deepen  Asian economies are facing “much greater downside risks”
now because of the possibility of a recession in the U.S. and
Europe and the threat of destabilizing capital flows, the ADB
said in a report today. Emerging East Asian economies may grow
7.2 percent next year after expanding 7.5 percent in 2011, less
than the lender’s September forecast, according to the report.  Credit outstanding from European lenders to developing East
Asia was $427 billion, or the equivalent of 6 percent of GDP, in
June 2011, according to the World Bank. Almost 70 percent of all
loans from banks that report to the Bank for International
Settlements was of shorter maturities, exposing Asia to
“sudden-withdrawal” risk, the World Bank said in a Nov. 22
report.  Malaysia  at Risk  Potentially among the most vulnerable is Malaysia, where
loans from European banks amount to more than 25 percent of the
nation’s GDP, World Bank data show. Other middle-income
countries such as  Indonesia , Thailand, the Philippines and
 Vietnam  have exposures of between 7 percent and 11 percent of
GDP to European lenders. In China, such funding totaled $268
billion, or 5 percent of GDP.  Asian nations have fiscal scope to respond to a global
slowdown, with government borrowing levels lower than other
regions, the World Bank said in its report.  Even so, that ability of policy makers to respond hasn’t
defused concern about the outlook for exports.  “2012 will be very difficult for us, it won’t be easy to
get financing,” Sofjan Wanandi, chairman of the Employers
Association of Indonesia, said in an interview. “Until the end
of this year, everything will still be doing well, as all our
contracts are through month-end, but we’re really concerned
about next year,” he said, referring to averages for members of
the group -- Indonesia’s most representative business lobby,
incorporating industries from mining to retail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  