-- 
Oil Snaps Two-Day Gain as S&P Threatens Europe Debt Downgrades

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-12-06T08:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/crude-oil-declines-first-day-in-three-on-possible-s-p-credit-downgrades.html
Oil dropped from the highest in
almost three weeks in  New York  as investors speculated that fuel
demand will falter amid signs Europe is struggling to tame its
sovereign debt crisis.  West Texas Intermediate futures slid as much as 0.6
percent, snapping two days of gains, after  Standard & Poor’s 
said it may strip Germany and  France  of AAA credit ratings as it
put 15 euro nations on review for downgrades. U.S. gasoline and
distillate stockpiles rose last week while crude supplies
shrank, according to a Bloomberg News survey. London-traded
Brent oil may average from $90 to $100 a barrel next year, BP
Plc’s chief executive officer said today.  “The market is anticipating the implications to global
growth from Europe,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty. in Sydney, who
forecasts WTI’s discount to Brent will shrink to parity in the
absence of “supply-rattling,” events.  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 61 cents to
$100.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $100.66 at 3:40 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract gained 3 cents to $100.99, the
highest settlement since Nov. 16. Futures are up 10 percent this
year after rising 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped 40 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$109.41 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at an
$8.77 premium to New York-traded West Texas grade, compared with
$8.82 yesterday and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14. Brent last
closed at a discount to WTI in August 2010.  Negative Outlook  Brent will trade between $90 and $100 a barrel for the next
few years as Libyan crude production resumes, David Morrison,
chairman of Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said in an interview in  Seoul 
today. BP sees prices averaging in the same range next year,
Chief Executive  Robert Dudley  told reporters in Doha, Qatar,
today.  The euro area’s six AAA-rated countries are among nations
to be placed on a negative outlook and their credit ratings may
be cut depending on the result of a summit of European Union
leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said yesterday.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of global oil
demand last year, according to BP Plc’s annual Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S., the world’s biggest oil user,
consumed 19.1 million barrels a day, or 21 percent of the total.  U.S. Inventories  U.S.  gasoline  inventories probably climbed 1 million
barrels in the week ended Dec. 2 and supplies of  distillates ,
which include heating oil and diesel, increased 1.1 million
barrels, based on the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report tomorrow.
 Crude  stockpiles likely fell 1 million barrels as refineries
ended seasonal maintenance and boosted run rates, the survey
shows.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  in
 Washington  will release its own supply data today.  Libya  will pump about 1 million barrels a day of crude by
the end of the year, according to Abdalla El-Badri, secretary-
general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Libya, which has Africa’s largest proven oil reserves, will
restore output to pre-conflict levels by the second half of next
year, El-Badri said yesterday in Doha.  Libyan Output      Libya’s production rose to 840,000 barrels a day at the end
of last month, state-run National Oil Corp. said Nov. 30. Output
was about 1.6 million barrels a day in January before the revolt
against the former regime of  Muammar Qaddafi . OPEC’s 12 members
are scheduled to meet Dec. 14 in Vienna to discuss output.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 14,833 contracts in the week ended Nov. 29,
according to data from ICE Futures  Europe . Speculative bets that
prices will rise, in futures and options combined, outnumbered
so-called short positions by 72,356 lots, the exchange said
yesterday in its weekly Commitment of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  