-- 
Cuomo Calls for Higher Tax Rates on Wealthiest

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-12-05T21:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/cuomo-calls-for-income-tax-overhaul-raising-burden-on-top-new-york-earners.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  called
for an income-tax overhaul that would place a higher burden on
top earners as the third-most-populous U.S. state faces a $3.5
billion  budget deficit .  The 53-year-old Democrat unveiled the proposal in an op-ed
article he e-mailed today to media outlets, following a similar
release yesterday. He didn’t include specific rates in the plan,
which described the  tax code  as unfair and questioned why those
who earn $20,000 a year pay the same rate as those who make $20
million.  “New York has left the middle class with an undue burden
which also hinders economic recovery,” Cuomo said in the
article. “Fairness dictates that the more you make the more you
pay and the higher your income the higher your rate.”  Last week, Cuomo said state revenue is “collapsing” amid
shrinking Wall Street bonuses and job cuts in the finance
industry, which accounted for more than 20 percent of wages paid
by state businesses in 2010.  New York  has projected a $350
million deficit this year and $3.5 billion in the next fiscal
year, which begins April 1.  Cuomo’s plan would create multiple brackets with rates
increasing on a graduated basis and indexed to inflation, he
wrote. Brackets would be added for middle- and high-income
earners, and rates would span several percentage points from
high to low. Currently, an individual earning more than $20,000
is taxed at 6.85 percent. The state’s lowest rate is 4 percent.
A temporary 8.97 percent surcharge for those who earn at least
$200,000 will expire Dec. 31.  ‘Governor 1 Percent’  Cuomo supports letting the so-called millionaire’s tax
lapse, which prompted the Occupy Wall Street protest movement to
label him “Governor 1 Percent.” The moniker is a reference to
economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s research that found 1 percent of the
population controls 40 percent of the wealth.  The tax plan Cuomo outlined today could become a key
component of a special session agenda if lawmakers and the
governor can agree on the details. Senate Republicans, who hold
a majority, were told to return to Albany for a conference
meeting on Dec. 7,  Scott Reif , a spokesman for Majority Leader
 Dean Skelos , said in an e-mail yesterday. The majority-holding
Assembly Democrats were told to come to Albany for a meeting
tomorrow, Michael Whyland, a spokesman for Speaker Sheldon Silver, said Dec. 2.  Legalized Gambling  In the op-ed sent to media yesterday, Cuomo said he wants
to overhaul the state’s tax system, use public-private
partnerships to fix infrastructure and legalize gambling to
stimulate the economy.  Cuomo said last month he had discussed with labor unions
the possibility of using their private pension funds to invest
in infrastructure projects such as building a new Tappen Zee
Bridge. The bridge, which spans the  Hudson River  and connects
the lower Hudson Valley region with New York City, could cost as
much as $6 billion to replace, Cuomo said.  Legalizing gambling would help “recapture revenue that is
currently being lost to other states,” Cuomo wrote yesterday.
Indian casinos already operate within New York’s borders and
slot machines are allowed at the state’s race tracks.  Neighboring  New Jersey  already has casinos in  Atlantic
City . Last month, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick signed
into law a bill that allows three full-scale casinos to open in
the state.  Senate Republicans  Cuomo first raised the possibility of changing the tax code
during two radio interviews last week.  When Senate Republicans meet Dec. 7 they will discuss a
“number of issues, including our commitment to cutting taxes,”
said Reif, the Skelos spokesman, in an e-mail yesterday. They
have a one-vote majority in the Senate.  Senator John Bonacic, a Republican representing much of the
Catskill region, introduced a bill in March that would raise
taxes on those who earn $1 million or more and dedicate the
revenue to education and relief for local governments. Bonacic
still supports that move, said Jillian Deuel, a spokeswoman.  New York City  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said raising taxes
isn’t the right way forward, adding that he hadn’t seen the
governor’s proposal. The city’s economy generates about 53
percent of New York state  tax revenue , including more than 60
percent of income-tax collections, according to the city’s
Office of Management and Budget.  “Fundamentally you cannot tax your way out of problems,”
Bloomberg said at a news conference in midtown  Manhattan  today.
“You’ve got to get your expenses under control and build the
economic base so that if you have tax revenue increases they
should come from an expanded economy as opposed to expanded tax
rates.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  