-- 
Danish Deleveraging Sends Business to Nykredit

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-12-06T08:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/danish-deleveraging-channels-business-to-nykredit.html
Nykredit Bank A/S is gaining
customers as its Danish rivals show their clients the door in a
deleveraging frenzy that’s accelerated since the Nordic
country’s funding crisis started in February.  The banking unit of Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer
of mortgage-backed covered bonds, is increasing its client base
every month as rivals including FIH Erhvervsbank A/S call in
loans, Managing Director Georg Andersen said.  “We are not really hit that hard by the current
situation,” Andersen said in an interview in his Copenhagen
office. “We get quite a few new clients both in Denmark and
internationally.”  Danish banks are still reeling from the fallout of a
funding crisis triggered by senior creditor losses after the
February failure of Amagerbanken A/S. Lenders also need to repay
state-backed loans by a 2013 deadline after the government
signaled it’s unlikely to respond to pleas to extend the
support. FIH, which owes the state about $7 billion, more than
any other bank, cut loans to clients by 19 percent in the first
nine months as part of a retrenchment strategy, it said Nov. 9.  Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon said last month that
 Denmark ’s banks have received the state support they need and
told the industry to focus on consolidation. The government in
September passed its fourth bank rescue bill since 2008,
designed to encourage healthy banks to take over troubled peers.  Growing Without Buying  Closely held Nykredit Bank, Denmark’s fourth largest, wants
to increase its retail and commercial lending business, Andersen
said. The bank may not need to resort to acquisitions thanks to
the influx of customers triggered by the crisis, he said.  “We want to get new clients in gradually, on markets
making, on asset management, on the private side and on the
corporate side,” Andersen said. “We’re in a quite healthy
situation. We are not forced to reduce balances. We are not
forced to move aggressively. Basically, we stand.”  The lender is also expanding its brokerage business and
this month opened an office in  Stockholm  to trade Swedish
government and mortgage-backed bonds as investors fleeing the
turmoil roiling the euro area seek refuge in Scandinavia, he
said.  “What we do in  Sweden  is part of the drive to grow the
bank,” Andersen said. Denmark, Norway and Sweden are
functioning as havens, so “we see quite some inflow to these
countries of liquidity from international investors who would
maybe under other circumstances put this money in the more core
euro countries.”  Bond Issuance  Nykredit wants the banking business to serve as an outlet
for its issuance of  mortgage-backed covered bonds  as part of a
drive to have international investors make up about a quarter of
the total, compared with about 17 percent today, he said.  “We want to move further out to  Asia  and even  South
America ,” Andersen said. “When you move so far off the Nordic
shores, these investors tend to look for one-stop shopping in
fixed income.”  Nykredit Bank’s net income for the first nine months jumped
165 percent to 557 million kroner ($101 million), after income
from corporate and retail banking climbed and impairment losses
dwindled to a fifth of the previous year’s level, the bank said
Nov. 10. Still, the bank cut its full-year forecast for profit
before losses and tax, citing lower-than-expected loan growth.  Lender Cuts  Elsewhere in Denmark’s banking industry, lenders are
cutting jobs to stay profitable. Dansk Bank A/S, the country’s
largest, reported its first loss in more than two years on Nov.
1, and said it will cut 2,000 jobs.  Jyske Bank A/S , Denmark’s
second-biggest listed lender, is closing branches and raising
 interest rates  as third-quarter profit slumped 47 percent.  Sydbank A/S , the country’s No. 3 listed bank, in October
shelved plans to issue senior debt indefinitely and is cutting
89 jobs. The lender is also restricting hours for cashier
services at most branches, and raising interest rates on
floating-rate loans by as much as 0.50 percentage point.  The number of bankruptcies jumped to the highest this year
in November, surging 11 percent from October to 507, Statistics
Danmark said today. The figures are adjusted for seasonal
swings.  “As feared it seems that the economic downturn in Denmark
is leaving its mark on the development in bankruptcies,” said
Jes Asmussen, chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Copenhagen, in a note. “The number of bankruptcies is at a
disturbingly high level.”  Negative Outlook  The outlook for Denmark’s banking system remains negative,
Moody’s Investors Service said Nov. 2. The ratings company cited
depressed profits, weakened asset quality and the 2012 and 2013
deadlines the industry faces to repay 150 billion kroner in
state-guaranteed debt against the backdrop of a credit crunch.  About one third of Denmark’s roughly 120 banks hold the
government-backed debt, the state wind-up agency, the Financial
Stability Company,  said  Nov. 25.  The Copenhagen OMX financials  index (CS40)  has fallen 29 percent
this year, compared with an 18 percent drop in the Swedish bank
 shares (SX40PI)  and a 29 percent  decline (BEBANKS)  in the 46-member Bloomberg
European banks index.  It costs 66 percent more to insure against a default at
Danske Bank than it does to guard against a  credit event  at
Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest
lender, credit default swaps show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 