-- 
Japan Defense Minister Cuts Pay Amid Pressure to Quit From Noda’s Cabinet

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-12-05T03:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/deputy-s-gaffe-threatens-japanese-defense-minister-s-job-undermines-noda.html
Japan’s defense minister said he’ll
cut his salary to take responsibility for a deputy’s comments,
as growing pressure for him to quit undercuts Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s efforts to sustain a post-quake recovery.  “I will do my utmost to fulfill my responsibilities in
this position, knowing that it will be difficult to restore
trust,” Yasuo Ichikawa told a parliamentary committee today.
Noda, Japan’s sixth leader in five years, told the committee he
wants the defense minister to remain.  There’s a “high probability” the Diet will censure
Ichikawa, Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker Ichita Yamamoto said
on Fuji TV yesterday. Opposition calls for the resignation have
swelled since the defense ministry’s Satoshi Tanaka compared a
planned U.S. base relocation to rape.  Ichikawa’s departure would be the second from the Cabinet
since Noda took office in September, highlighting a political
landscape plagued with verbal gaffes that have led to frequent
ministerial changes. A protracted fight over Ichikawa’s
responsibility threatens to delay compilation of a fourth
reconstruction budget and plans for next year’s outlays.  “It’s better for Ichikawa to resign as soon as possible
instead of waiting,” Yosuke Takagi, deputy leader of Komeito,
another opposition party, said on the same program yesterday.
The LDP and Komeito plan to submit a censure motion on Dec. 9,
Japanese newspapers reported.  Noda’s approval rating fell to 38 percent from 42 percent a
month ago, according to a Mainichi newspaper poll published
today. About 54 percent oppose his proposal to gradually double
the 5 percent sales tax by the middle of the decade to help pay
for social welfare costs, while 45 percent approve. The paper
surveyed 1,012 people Dec. 3-4 and gave no margin of error.  Assault History  Tanaka, head of the Okinawa Defense Bureau, compared the
planned relocation of the U.S. Futenma Marine Air Base to rape
in comments to reporters on Nov. 28 and was subsequently fired.
Local residents want the facility moved off the island, in part
because of incidents that include the 1995 sexual assault of a
schoolgirl by three American soldiers.  Yoshio Hachiro stepped down after nine days as Noda’s trade
minister after calling areas near the crippled Fukushima nuclear
plant “towns of death.” After visiting the site he also rubbed
his sleeve against a reporter saying, “Do you want some
radiation?” media including the Nikkei newspaper reported.  Noda’s predecessor,  Naoto Kan , was criticized for
appointing Ryu Matsumoto to head reconstruction efforts from the
March earthquake and tsunami after the minister was forced to
quit over his public chastising of the governor of a devastated
prefecture who arrived late to a meeting.  Under Fire  Ichikawa also came under fire last week for saying he
“doesn’t know the details” of the 1995 incident.  “Prime Minister Noda is saying that Ichikawa is the right
person in the right job, but if he quits after this, I’d like to
use the budget committee to rigorously examine Noda’s
responsibility” for appointing Ichikawa in the first place, the
LDP’s Yamamoto said on yesterday’s broadcast.  While  Japan ’s  gross domestic product  grew at a 6 percent
pace in the three months ended September, a post-quake rebound
is losing steam as the European debt crisis saps demand for
Japanese goods and the yen near a record high erodes exporters’
profits.  That means reconstruction demand at home remains the one
bright spot for the world’s third-largest economy. Noda
instructed his ministers Dec. 1 to compile a fourth extra budget
for rebuilding, which Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  says will be at
least 2 trillion yen ($26 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  