-- 
Deutsche Bank Is Sued for Billions Over Vik Fund Foreign-Exchange Losses

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-12-05T17:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/deutsche-bank-is-sued-for-billions-over-vik-fund-foreign-exchange-losses.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  faces a claim that
may be worth billions of dollars in a lawsuit with investment
fund Sebastian Holdings Inc. over failed foreign exchange
transactions.  Sebastian said in court papers in London that  Germany ’s
largest bank allowed a trader to breach currency-trading limits
between 2006 and 2008. Sebastian, owned and run by Norwegian
investor Alexander Vik, said it suffered losses and missed out
on profits worth about $2.5 billion when it had to meet margin
calls and close out positions because of the dispute.  “This is about a margin call that was missed and remains
unpaid,” Deutsche Bank said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
defend vigorously against the other party’s claims which are
without merit and date to 2008.”  Deutsche Bank is pursuing Sebastian in the U.K. courts for
$245 million in unpaid margin calls from the period. Sebastian
has filed a “substantial” counterclaim valued at several
billion dollars, its lawyer, Tim Lord, said at a pre-trial
hearing in  London  on Nov. 21.  “The bank is marshalling armies of lawyers to sue
Sebastian Holdings,” Lord said at the November hearing.  The dispute relates to “exotic derivatives” and the
breakdown of prime brokerage services provided by Deutsche Bank,
Lord said in November. Sebastian was seeking additional
documents from Deutsche Bank’s Swiss unit ahead of a trial in
London.  ‘Plain Vanilla’  The unauthorized trades were carried out by Klaus Said,
whom Vik authorized to work on behalf of Sebastian, the fund’s
lawyers said in London filings. He was only permitted to deal in
“plain vanilla” currency, within a strict limit of $35
million. Deutsche Bank was aware of these limits and shouldn’t
have allowed Said to trade in derivatives, Sebastian says.  Said declined to comment when reached by phone at his home
in  Connecticut .  Sebastian, based in the Turks and Caicos, is also suing
Deutsche Bank for $750 million in  New York , alleging breach of
fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment and negligent
misrepresentation, according to court documents in the case.  As well as losses of $750 million from the foreign exchange
trades, Sebastian estimates in the U.K. counterclaim that it has
missed out on profits of about $700 million from having to close
currency, gold and futures positions as well as losing a $1
billion capital fund it held with the bank.  Vik “trusted and relied upon” his private bankers at
Deutsche Bank for management of Sebastian’s finances, according
to the claim.  London Counterclaim  Sebastian’s London counterclaim was filed in March. The
German lender filed its lawsuit in January 2009. Jonathan Leslie, Sebastian’s attorney, didn’t respond to calls and e-
mails requesting comment.  Deutsche Bank claims Sebastian didn’t meet a margin call of
about $125 million in October 2008, according to arguments filed
in London. When Sebastian withdrew almost $300 million from the
bank, Deutsche Bank treated the situation as a default and
terminated its agreement with the fund, the bank said.  Sebastian in 2006 attempted to break up French media
company Vivendi SA. In an interview at the time, Vik said that
he operated his fund from  Monaco , dividing his time between the
principality and a mansion in Greenwich, Connecticut. He is
chairman and chief executive officer of Cayman Islands-based
Xcelera, according to the technology investment firm’s  website .  Vik didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mail to Xcelera
requesting comment.  The case is: Deutsche Bank AG v. Sebastian Holdings Inc,
09-83,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial
Court  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  