-- 
Dudley Should Resign as NY Fed Leader: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-12-05T00:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/dudley-should-quit-as-new-york-fed-president-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
(Corrects description of a Fed advisory panel’s discussions
in the seventh paragraph and updates Dudley’s status in a new
18th paragraph.)  A major financial crisis is brewing,
brought on by a toxic combination of failing European sovereign
governments and highly leveraged international banks, which
could be affected by a breakup of the euro area.  In the weeks and months ahead, a major U.S. financial
institution may face serious trouble, and government officials
will have to decide whether that trouble is just a temporary
lack of liquidity -- or a far more serious question of solvency.  In the original lender-of-last-resort formulation, more
than 100 years ago, Walter Bagehot famously  advised : “Lend
freely at a high rate, on good collateral” when financial
institutions hold valuable assets that cannot readily be
converted into cash in the market. This doctrine has morphed in
recent years, so that modern central banks think liquidity
trouble requires them to provide essentially unlimited funding
at a low rate, even if the collateral is dubious, as was done in
2008.  Central banks  acted similarly last week by lowering the
 interest rate  at which they will swap other currencies for
dollars, the effect of which will make dollars available to
European banks struggling with high levels of sovereign debt but
without access to the Fed.  Insolvency, by contrast, means that a financial institution
should be closed down because its assets are worth less than its
debts (that is, shareholder capital isn’t enough to absorb the
losses that the institution faces).  Liquidity versus insolvency is often a difficult judgment
call, requiring rapid decision-making under great pressure and
with limited information. Everyone likes a bailout -- and that’s
what “lend freely at a low rate, on dubious collateral” has
become. Smaller financial players aren’t likely to get the
benefit of the doubt, but global megabanks are frequently
pressing for special favors. The point of becoming “too big to
fail,” after all, is to get protection from the central bank
and other officials when downside risks materialize.  The Wall Street Journal  reported  last week that William C. Dudley, the president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ,
met in September with financial executives, who pressed for
coordinated efforts by central banks to help alleviate  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Last week, the Fed and five other central banks
announced the availability of low-cost swap lines for financial
companies, a form of coordinated action though not one the panel
specifically suggested. There is nothing wrong with this kind of
meeting, or with Fed officials like Dudley contacting financial
players to learn more about market conditions.  Dudley, in fact, has done the public a service by creating
an Investor Advisory Committee on Financial Markets, most of
whose members do not work at “too big to fail” banks. Of the
advisers’ institutions  listed  on the  New York  Fed’s website, I
would regard only Credit Suisse Group as such a bank.  This brings at least some transparency to the Fed’s
private-sector interactions. Still, many people think the Fed
has traditionally tilted toward Wall Street banks. In the New
York Fed’s 2007 annual report, for example, its directors
included  Jamie Dimon , the chairman and chief executive officer
of JPMorgan Chase, and Richard Fuld, the chairman and CEO of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Sandy Weill, the former chairman
and CEO of Citigroup, was on the board from 2001 to 2006. Most
board members, I should note, during the 2000s were not from
“too big to fail” contenders.  The Fed has become increasingly sensitive to this issue, in
part because of what happened with Bear Stearns, which JPMorgan
ended up buying with some downside protection from the Fed. As
for Lehman, the Fed and many other officials were slow to
understand the dimensions of the financial system’s problems
after the near-collapse of Bear Stearns. Then there’s Citigroup
Inc., which under Weill’s successors received extraordinary
support from the Fed and Treasury.  Perhaps the problem here is simply one of “optics” -- the
governance of the New York Fed doesn’t look good from the
outside. And the issue is not that Dudley has done anything
wrong; to be clear, I am making no such accusation.  The legitimacy of top financial officials has increasingly
come into question over the last three years. A recent  article 
in Bloomberg Markets magazine quotes an unnamed  fund manager 
alleging that Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  provided  hedge
funds  with material, nonpublic information in July 2008, by
describing in a private meeting how the U.S. could put  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  into conservatorship, which it did seven
weeks later.  Bagehot’s “Lombard Street” was published in Britain in
1873, when the electoral franchise was still quite limited.
Legitimacy of the lender-of-last-resort concept was not a major
issue for him. But there is something inherently undemocratic
about deciding behind closed doors who gets a generous bailout -
- and who doesn’t.  This is why central banking is controversial in the U.S.,
and has been since the early 19th century. Presidents  Thomas Jefferson  and  Andrew Jackson  objected to the earliest form of
central banking, which consisted of a powerful private bank with
central-bank-type features.  The New York Fed has long had three kinds of directors:
Class A represent banks that belong to the Federal Reserve
system (and typically will be chief executive officers of such
institutions); Classes B and C are supposed to be people who do
not work at banks overseen by the Fed and represent agriculture,
commerce, industry, services, labor and consumers. All three
classes of directors once chose the New York Fed president,
giving some the perception that the bank CEOs had too much say
in the selection process.  The Dodd-Frank reform legislation recognized the
sensitivity of this perceived conflict and mandated that only
Class B and C directors could participate in choosing the
regional Fed presidents.  The governance change was meant to strengthen the
legitimacy of the New York Fed president. But Dudley, a former
Goldman Sachs chief U.S. economist, was appointed by the board
of the New York Fed under the  rules  in existence in January
2009, so the Class A directors presumably were very much
involved.  Dudley was reappointed by Class B and C directors in
December 2010; the New York Fed and the main Fed websites don’t
mention this, nor does Dudley’s official biography. But my point
remains: He was originally chosen by a board operating under
pre-Dodd-Frank rules.  The Fed should attempt to address its perceived legitimacy
problems, ahead of the impending crisis. Dudley should resign
and make way for someone appointed under the new rules.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 