-- 
Eagle Bulk Shipping Said to Discuss Restructuring Options With Jefferies

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-12-05T21:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/eagle-bulk-said-to-discuss-restructuring-options.html
Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. (EGLE) , the world’s
second-largest  owner  of supramax dry-bulk ships, is discussing
restructuring options with  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , said three
people briefed on the talks.  Eagle Bulk is examining whether to raise new financing or
overhaul borrowings, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as talks are private. The company has $1.13 billion
of long-term debt under its $1.2 billion revolving  credit line 
that matures July 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fleet operator’s market value has shrunk by more than
$2 billion from a May 2008 high as shippers struggle with
slumping freight rates. Single-voyage rents for dry-bulk ships
have plummeted in 2011 to the lowest in at least five years as
the supply of vessels exceeds demand.  Eagle Bulk shares fell 0.9 percent to $1.17 at 4 p.m. New
York time, giving the company a market capitalization of about
$73 million. The company first sold shares in an initial public
offering in June 2005.  Oaktree Capital Management  LP, the lender that agreed last
month to make a $175 million investment in bankrupt  General
Maritime Corp. (GMR) , is the largest shareholder of Eagle Bulk,
Bloomberg data show.  Analysts on average predict Eagle Bulk will post its first
annual loss this year, following back-to-back years of declining
profit, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company amended terms in September on an agreement scheduled to
expire in April, gaining more time to meet the liquidity
requirements laid out in its credit pact.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  