-- 
Heating Oil Little Changed on Europe Debt Plans, Credit Outlook

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-12-05T20:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/heating-oil-little-changed-on-europe-debt-plans-credit-outlook.html
Heating oil was little changed after
Italian Prime Minster  Mario Monti  proposed budget cuts and on a
report that Standard & Poor’s will put France and Germany on
“creditwatch negative.”  Futures rose earlier to a two-week high as Monti presented
a 30 billion-euro ($40 billion) plan to policy makers in Rome.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  pushed for a rewrite of the European Union’s governing
rules to tighten economic cooperation. The Financial Times
reported the credit ratings company would release a statement
later today.  “I think the market might be a little skeptical that can
get done,” said  Phil Flynn , a senior market analyst at PFGBest
in Chicago. The Standard & Poor’s downgrade report “is going to
put downward pressure on the prices,” he said.  Heating oil for January delivery gained 0.24 cent to settle
at $2.9924 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract rose to $3.0807, the highest intraday price since Nov.
18, before retreating.  Oil products rose on “optimism that the Europeans will
announce some deal later this week and also the Italians
introducing an austerity plan,” Andy Lipow, president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said.  The euro was little changed at 1.3397, after rising as much
as 0.7 percent to $1.3487. Germany is keen for the  International
Monetary Fund  to adopt a “decisive role” in combating the
crisis alongside the European rescue fund, Michael Meister, the
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said today in a telephone interview.  Inventories May Rise  An Energy Department report Dec. 7 may show that
inventories of heating oil and diesel rose 1.1 million barrels
last week, according to the median of nine analyst estimates in
a survey by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline for January delivery slipped 0.25 cent to $2.6137
a gallon on the exchange.  Gasoline stockpiles probably rose 1 million barrels,
according to the survey  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.1
cent to $3.276 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It’s
the fifth straight drop and the lowest price since Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 