-- 
Lebanon’s Banks’ Outlook Lowered to ‘Negative’ at Moody’s

-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-12-05T15:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/lebanon-s-banks-outlook-lowered-to-negative-at-moody-s-1-.html
The outlook for Lebanon’s banking
system was cut to “negative” from “stable” at Moody’s
Investors Service on slower economic growth and political
instability, particularly in  Syria .  Lebanese banks have assets and loans linked to countries in
the region experiencing political unrest as well as slowing
growth, such as Egypt and Jordan, it said. The Arab nation’s
economy has also slowed after a “sharp” deceleration in gross
domestic product in the first half, it said.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts 1.5 percent
growth in Lebanon this year, the slowest since 2006. The
country’s public debt reached about $52.6 billion last year, the
equivalent of 137 percent of GDP. The uprising in Syria against
the rule of President Bashar al-Assad, which began more than six
months ago, is hurting tourism in Lebanon.  The credit risk of Lebanese banks, which are closely linked
to Lebanon’s sovereign debt, will continue to be tied to the
Lebanese government which is rated as “stable,” Moody’s said.
The banks’ profitability is also undermined because “subdued
business activity” will probably cause a slowdown in credit
growth and fee-generating income, it said.  Some of the risks will be mitigated by the banks’
“resilient depositor base”, Moody’s said. “The sector retains
a relatively stable funding structure driven by customer
deposits, which account for approximately 90 percent of total
liabilities,” it said. Deposits mainly come from Lebanese
expatriates who accounted for 22 percent of GDP at the end of
last year, it said.  The stability of Lebanon’s pound, pegged at about 1,500 to
the dollar since 1993, coupled with  interest rates  that were as
high as 8 percent in 2008, have attracted a steady flow of funds
into the country, Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh said in an
interview on Oct. 5. Bank deposits grew 10 percent last year to
$110 billion, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  