-- 
ECB Can Do More to Supply Lenders With Funds Amid Shortages, Nowotny Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-12-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ecb-can-do-more-to-supply-banks-with-liquidity-nowotny-says.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said the ECB is observing liquidity
shortages in the banking sector and can do more to supply funds.  “We can do a lot with regard to liquidity and in future we
may take additional measures,” Nowotny said during a speech in
Vienna yesterday. He declined to expand on which measures the
ECB may take in future, saying he is observing the central
bank’s “purdah” period ahead of a Dec. 8 rate-setting meeting.  The U.S. Federal Reserve and five other central banks
including the ECB last week cut the cost of emergency dollar
funding as tensions resurfaced in European money markets.
Earlier this year, the Frankfurt-based ECB reintroduced a one-
year refinancing tender to aid banks struggling for longer term
cash amid a worsening of the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The greatest challenge we face now is to prevent that
this crisis of public finances doesn’t lead to another markets
crisis, and we end up in a downward spiral,” Nowotny said.  Nowotny said the euro area economy would experience “de
facto stagnation” in 2012.  ‘Immediate Problems’  Commenting on moves announced yesterday by French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to back
automatic penalties for deficit violators and locking limits on
debt into constitutions, Nowotny said it may not do enough to
mitigate the euro area’s short-term issues.  “I believe it is an important and correct element, however
I have to say quite openly I fear it won’t be sufficient to
solve the immediate problems,” Nowotny said. “That all takes
time, and in the meantime large countries like  Italy  have a
massive refinancing need in the first quarter of next year.”  Nowotny added he sees it as important that  Germany ’s
central bank, the Bundesbank, isn’t isolated on the ECB’s
governing council. Germany has voted against moves this year
including stepping up the ECB’s program of buying sovereign
debt.  “I see a tendency that the biggest economy in  Europe ,
Germany, may increasingly have problems trusting the ECB. It
makes sense to make policy that doesn’t isolate the biggest
economy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  