-- 
Ecolab, CIBC Sell Bonds in U.S. as Sales Rise to Four-Week High

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-12-05T22:53:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ecolab-cibc-sell-corporate-bonds-in-u-s-as-sales-rise-to-four-week-high.html
Ecolab Inc. (ECL)  and  Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce  led at least $11.2 billion of corporate bond
offerings in the U.S., the most in four weeks, as confidence
grew that  Europe ’s debt crisis may be contained.  Ecolab, the largest maker of cleaning chemicals for hotels
and restaurants, sold $3.75 billion of notes in a four-part
offering, according to Bloomberg data. Toronto-based CIBC issued
$2 billion of three-year, 1.5 percent covered bonds in the
largest offering of the debt since Oct. 28, Bloomberg data show.  Wells Fargo & Co ., Duke Energy Corp. and Ford Motor Credit
Co. also tapped the corporate bond market as French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushed for a
rewrite of the European Union’s governing rules to bolster
economic cooperation while Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
prepared a 30 billion-euro ($40 billion) plan to reduce the
region’s second-biggest debt.  “We had gotten some potentially positive news coming out
of Italy and that’s provided a big boost,” Timothy Cox,
managing director of debt capital markets at Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Getting a
couple of days of better sentiment under our belts helped.”  A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit risk declined for a sixth
straight day after falling last week by the most since March
2009. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
decreased by 2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 123.4 basis
points at 5:05 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.
The measure pared its decline after dropping as much as 5.7
basis points, after  Standard & Poor’s  said it would review all
17 euro nations for possible downgrades.  Ecolab Offering  Sales climbed to the most since companies offered $15.8
billion on Nov. 7, Bloomberg data show.  Ecolab, based in St. Paul, Minnesota, issued $500 million
of 2.375 percent, three-year notes that yield 200 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $1.25 billion of 3
percent, five-year debt that pays a spread of 210 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. It also sold $1.25 billion of 4.35 percent,
10-year debentures that pay a 230 basis-point spread and $750
million of 5.5 percent, 30-year bonds that yield 255 basis
points more than the benchmark.  CIBC’s three-year covered bonds pay 68 basis points more
than the benchmark mid-swap rate, Bloomberg data show. It was
the largest offering of the debt since Bank of  Nova Scotia 
issued $2 billion of covered bonds on Oct. 28.  Noble Energy Inc., Tencent Holdings Ltd. and Senior Housing
Properties Trust were also among borrowers issuing corporate
bonds in the U.S. today, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 