-- 
Hedegaard Says EU Needs More Detail From China on Climate Pact

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-05T19:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/hedegaard-says-eu-needs-more-detail-from-china-on-climate-pact.html
European Union Climate Commissioner
 Connie Hedegaard  said she needs more information about China’s
plan to limit greenhouse gas emissions, the first sign of
discord at United Nations climate talks.  China this week said it’s willing to make a post-2020
legally binding commitment to reducing fossil fuel emissions
under certain conditions, including the extension of pollution
limits for developed countries under the  Kyoto Protocol .  Envoys from 190 nations at United Nations climate talks in
South Africa this week are debating ways keep up the fight
against global warming after Kyoto’s limits on fossil fuel
emissions expire next year. Hedegaard’s comment suggests China
hasn’t yet satisfied EU conditions for extending the pact, one
of the most contentious items under discussion.  “I still believe that  China  holds one of the central keys
to unlock the situation,” she said in an e-mailed statement
after the meeting. “The EU is willing to take a second Kyoto
period, but the central issue remains how China will follow us
and when. Here, more clarifications and further dialogue is
needed.”  In a post on her Twitter account this evening, Hedegaard
said, “sometimes messages are more progressive at public press
conferences than in negotiation rooms.”  The EU says it will sign up for more emissions limits under
Kyoto only if all nations agree to a “road map” fixing the
date for the next legally binding climate treaty. China, which
had no requirements under Kyoto, this week discussed making a
commitment in exchange for mandatory cuts from industrial
countries under Kyoto beyond 2012.  The talks are scheduled to conclude on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  