-- 
Hospitals Tumble on Medicare Order for Heart Procedure Audit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-12-05T17:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/medicare-pre-payment-plan-limited-to-florida-group-says-1-.html
A program to pre-approve Medicare
hospital payments for pacemakers and joint replacements is
limited to  Florida , a U.S. doctor’s group said.  Hospital and medical device stocks tumbled on Dec. 2 after
a report said  Medicare , the U.S. health plan for the elderly and
disabled, won’t pay for a range of heart and orthopedic
procedures in 11 states until contractors confirm the care was
appropriate. Shares rebounded today, led by  HCA Holdings Inc. ,
the largest U.S. hospital operator.  An expanded version of Florida’s program is unlikely to
take effect this year, wrote Bruce Nudell, an analyst at Credit
Suisse in  New York , in a note to investors. “Any broad attempt
at Medicare rationing, ‘pulling the plug on grandma,’ in an
election year is likely to be suppressed by politicians, who
didn’t appear involved in the decision,” he said.  Regional Medicare contractors are being told to avoid
inappropriate payments, a shift from past practice of trying to
recoup funds after questions arise about claims that have
already been paid, said Rebecca Kelly, senior director of
regulatory affairs at the  American College of Cardiology  in
 Washington .  “It really relates to a big initiative to reduce error
rates in the claims that they pay,” Kelly said in a telephone
interview. “We could see similar kinds of things or variations
on this theme in other states,” she said.  HCA, based in Nashville,  Tennessee , rose 6 percent to
$23.79, while Franklin, Tennessee-based  Community Health Systems
Inc. (CYH) , the second-largest U.S. hospital chain, rose 4.1 percent
to $19.54 at 12:16 p.m. in New York trading. Minneapolis-based
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the nation’s biggest seller of heart rhythm
devices, rose 4.6 percent to $36.20.  Medicare Error Rate  Medicare asked contractors in all 50 states who pay for the
program to find ways to decrease an 8.6 percent error rate in
payouts, which may include pre-approving some claims, said a
government official familiar with the issue.  As a result, Florida’s contractor decided to put 15 medical
treatments on its pre-approval list, including patients getting
pacemakers, defibrillators and stents for heart illnesses, said
Jerold Saef, reimbursement chair for the College’s Florida
chapter, in a Nov. 21 letter. Joint replacement and spinal
fusion surgery also will be verified before hospitals are paid.  Separately, Medicaid, the federal-state health program for
the poor, has asked a different group of contractors --
companies charged with auditing providers to identify
problematic claims -- to consider whether pre-audits done in 11
states would help reduce the error rate. The agency hasn’t yet
provided information on which hospital services or what
percentage of them would undergo pre-payment audits.  Mixed Proposals  The person familiar with the two plans said analyst reports
on Dec. 2 appeared to mix the two proposals, setting off the
share reductions.  Brian Cook, a Medicare spokesman, didn’t respond to phone
calls and e-mails seeking comment.  The procedures targeted in Florida’s program account for
about $14 billion of Medicare’s spending on individual services,
There’s no evidence Florida’s approach will spread to the
programs being enacted in the other 10 states, which account for
47 percent of the  U.S. population , Nudell said.  If the Florida program was expanded nationwide, the $14
billion would be reduced by 3 percent to 4 percent, meeting
Medicare’s goal of cutting overpayment in half, Nudell wrote.
The overall effect would be a 1 percent reduction in revenue for
device makers across all markets, he said.  “Powerful interest groups - hospitals, physicians,
seniors, manufacturers - will bring immense political pressure
to bear on CMS to check this postulated administrative
strategy,” Nudell wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 