-- 
Medtronic Defibrillator Studies Need Discussion, FDA Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-05T21:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/medtronic-defibrillator-studies-need-discussion-fda-says.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s request to expand
the use of defibrillators that synchronize the right and left
chambers of the heart may need more discussion, a  Food and Drug
Administration  staff  report  said today.  The FDA is concerned the studies used results from a subset
of patients after the evaluation on the defibrillators was
complete, the report said. An advisory panel is set to meet Dec.
7 on Minneapolis-based Medtronic’s application that the
defibrillators be cleared for a milder form of heart failure
than the condition the devices are approved to treat.  The defibrillators from Medtronic are approved for patients
with moderate and severe heart failure who are fatigued or
experience palpitations from below-normal amounts of physical
activity or who can’t carry out tasks without discomfort. Some
physicians already use the devices on lower-risk patients, so
the market probably won’t grow significantly if expanded use is
approved, said Joshua Jennings, a senior research analyst with
Cowen & Co. in  New York .  “I don’t expect it to be any type of windfall for
Medtronic,” Jennings said in a telephone interview.  The classifications of heart failure were developed by the
 New York Heart Association .  Meet Criteria  Medtronic retrospectively selected a patient population for
the supporting evidence, and the FDA said not all of the
patients meet the criteria for the device’s proposed use. The
results Medtronic will present on Dec. 7 are to supplement the
original study the FDA and the company agreed on after the
defibrillators failed to reduce the proportion of patients whose
condition worsened in the original evaluation.  Medtronic rose 4 percent to $35.98 at 4 p.m. New York time.  The FDA approved expanding the use of  Boston Scientific
Corp. (BSX) ’s cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators in
 September 2010  for patients with mild heart failure, even when
they have no outward symptoms. Physicians view the devices from
Medtronic and Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific as
similar, Jennings said.  A  trial  by Medtronic, the world’s largest maker of heart
rhythm devices, showed cardiac resynchronization therapy is
beneficial in patients with mild heart failure, the company said
in an August 2009 statement. The study on 610 patients
originally showed no statistical benefit after 12 months. A
follow-up after 24 months on 262 patients in  Europe  showed the
therapy reduced the need for hospitalization and shrank heart
size, helping the heart pump more efficiently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 