-- 
EEB Sinks as Mayor-Elect Plans Merger of Bogota Companies

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-12-05T21:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/eeb-sinks-as-mayor-elect-plans-merger-of-bogota-public-companies.html
Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA (EEB) ,
 Colombia ’s second-biggest electricity distributor, sank the most
in two years after Bogota’s mayor-elect Gustavo Petro said he
plans a merger with other public companies and questioned the
company’s investments in  Peru .  Shares of EEB, as the city-controlled company is known,
fell 7.5 percent to 1,165 pesos at 4 p.m. Bogota time, the
biggest plunge since November 2009.  Petro, a former member of the M-19 Marxist guerrilla
movement and ex-senator who won with 32 percent support in an
Oct. 31 vote, told El Tiempo newspaper that he plans to merge
EEB with the city-controlled companies Empresa de Acueducto de
Bogota SA and Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Bogota SA.  “The mayor-elect’s main objective is to reduce costs for
public services, which could be negative for the companies,”
said Juan David Ballen, an analyst at Alianza Valores SA. He
added that the mayor may seek to use EEB profits to subsidize
the rate reductions he promised while campaigning.  Petro said he plans to use a “surplus” of funds from EEB
to help cover the “deficits” of the city’s water and sewage
company and reduce rates for water service, El Tiempo reported.  EEB plans to use 772 billion pesos ($410 million) raised in
a share sale that ended Oct. 27 to help fund an expansion of
existing operations in Peru and  Guatemala , Monica De Greiff, the
company’s president, told reporters on Oct. 7. EEB assets in
Peru include natural gas distribution concessions in  Lima  and
other regions.  Petro said that the company should use that money to
improve Bogota’s water and sewage service.  The mayor-elect, who is scheduled to take office next
month, said he also maintains his “total” opposition to the
sale of the city’s 87 percent stake in  Empresa de
Telecomunicaciones de Bogota SA. (ETB)   ETB, as the city-run phone company serving Colombia’s
capital is known, fell 5.3 percent to 444 pesos, a six-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  