-- 
Egypt Islamists Vie for Votes as First Round of Parliament Elections Ends

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-12-06T14:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/egypt-holds-first-phase-election-run-offs-that-may-seal-islamists-gains.html
Egyptian voters complete run-offs
today for the first round of an election that has Islamist
groups vying to control the first parliament since the toppling
of  Hosni Mubarak .  Partial results from the vote in Cairo, Alexandria and
seven other provinces showed strong support for Salafi
Islamists, whose newly formed Nour party secured the second-
largest share with 24 percent of ballots after the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice party, which led with 37
percent. The secular Egyptian Bloc came third with about 13
percent of votes.  Egypt’s first elections since the ouster of Mubarak in
February consist of two further rounds covering the country’s
remaining 18 governorates. Islamist groups have already won
elections this year in Morocco and  Tunisia , where the wave of
uprisings began a year ago. Due to a complex electoral system in
which voters cast ballots for party lists as well as individual
candidates, the makeup of the Egyptian assembly won’t be clear
until final results are announced in January.  The Freedom and Justice Party “seems to have emerged as
the middle ground in Egyptian politics, with hard-line Islamists
to the right and hard-line pro-democracy groups to the left,”
Raza Agha, senior economist for the  Middle East  and North Africa
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed
note. “What makes their position even more delicate is that
they have had no governing experience, and even less experience
in running any coalitions.”  Interim Cabinet  Prime Minister-designate Kamal el-Ganzouri said he has
finished forming a new interim Cabinet that will be announced
tomorrow, state television reported. Many protesters reject his
appointment by the military council and say they want a new
government with more powers.  El-Ganzouri said the ruling military council will announce
“within hours” a law giving the prime minister the powers of
the president “except in the areas of the judiciary and the
armed forces,” Egypt’s state  news agency  reported today.  Tensions between the two main Islamist groups emerged
yesterday when Freedom and Justice supporters in Fayoum province
filed complaints against Nour for “campaigning violations,”
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. In the southern
governorate of Assiut, a “verbal fight” over campaign
territory broke out between the supporters of the Brotherhood’s
party and another Islamist group, Hussein Ragheb, an official
with Freedom and Justice, said by telephone.  Divided by Religion  Many polling stations today had few voters compared with
the crowds that lined up during the initial vote.  For Mona Mohram, a 60-year-old voting in central Cairo
today, the presence of a secularist bloc in parliament will be
an important counterbalance to the Islamist groups. “We need to
balance out the results,” she said. “I am a lawyer and I have
studied Islamic Shariah. The question is how you interpret
religion, we will not put up with extremist interpretations. I
want democracy and rotation of power. This is why we went to
Tahrir in the first place,” she said, referring to the plaza in
Cairo that has been the center of anti-government protests.  Ahmed Mahmoud, 54, said he voted for the Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party because “they are responsible people
who have offered a lot of services to Egyptians even when the
government was fighting them.” The Salafis are “still in
kindergarten when it comes to politics,” he said, adding that
they’re bound to gain more experience now that they’re
contesting elections.  Tahrir Legacy  “We will defend our country,” said Mahmoud. “To whoever
doesn’t realize the interests of our country and work to restore
security and create jobs for the youth, I say: Tahrir Square is
still there.”  Voting for the second round, which covers Giza, Suez,
Ismailia and six other governorates, begins today for Egyptians
living abroad, Mena said. Local voters in those provinces go to
the polls on Dec. 14. The third round begins on Jan. 3 and final
results are due 10 days later.  Founded in  Egypt  in 1928, the Brotherhood is a broad-based
movement operating in several Middle Eastern countries that runs
teaching, medical and social programs as well as promoting
Islamic values. Its party in Egypt promoted a pro-business
stance ahead of elections, saying it would create jobs by
directing investment toward industries, agriculture and
information technology.  “Salafi” is a loose term applied to those who follow a
strict interpretation of Islam, often opposing modern
developments and emulating what they consider to be the
practices of the earliest generations of Muslims.  Emerging Force  “There should have been no surprise” about the level of
support for Nour, Yousry Hammad, a spokesman for the party, said
by telephone yesterday. “Before, only a few players were in the
limelight and the rest were marginalized, but we represent a big
sector of Egyptians. Elections just showed our real presence.”  The election has failed to end protests against the ruling
military council, with hundreds camping overnight in Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square  after more than two weeks of rallies. Protesters
accuse the generals of stifling freedoms while failing to
restore security or revive a struggling economy.  Egypt’s gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in the
fiscal year through June, the slowest in at least a decade.
While the  benchmark stock index  rallied more than 8 percent last
week, boosted by the high voter turnout and lack of violence,
it’s still down 44 percent this year. The index dropped 0.8
percent to 3986.37 at 11:09 a.m. in Cairo today.  The  Finance Ministry  missed targets in two debt auctions
this week as borrowing costs rose. Yesterday it raised 2.8
billion pounds ($466 million), compared with a goal of 5 billion
pounds, in sales of three- and five-year bonds. The shorter
notes were sold to yield 15.75 percent, up 29 basis points from
a week earlier. The previous day, the ministry fell more than 10
percent short of its target in a sale of nine-month bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  