-- 
Lehman Said to Seek Financing for Archstone Counterbid

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-12-05T17:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/lehman-estate-said-to-seek-financing-for-counterbid-for-archstone-stake.html
The estate of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  is trying to raise money for a possible counterbid
to Equity Residential’s deal for a 26.5 percent stake in U.S.
apartment owner Archstone, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation.  Lehman, which owns 47 percent of Archstone, is in
discussions with investors including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  to arrange financing, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the negotiations are
private. Equity Residential said Dec. 2 that it agreed to pay
$1.33 billion to buy the interest from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , which together hold 53 percent of Archstone.  The agreement with Equity Residential, the Chicago-based
landlord controlled by billionaire  Sam Zell , sets up a fight for
control of Archstone, which owned all or part of 434 apartment
complexes in the U.S. and  Europe  as of June 30. The deal is
contingent on Lehman declining to exercise a right of first
offer on the bid. The firm, in bankruptcy since 2008, has 10
days to give notice of a matching offer, two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  “The Equity Residential bid may simply represent an
opening salvo in what could be a long bidding process --
potentially continuing until the middle of 2012,” Andrew McCulloch, senior analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc. in
Newport Beach,  California , wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Financing Commitment  Equity Residential has obtained a commitment from  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Senior Funding to provide a $1 billion bridge loan, the
company said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing
dated Dec. 2. The company expects to fund the transaction with
cash and an existing $1.25 billion credit facility, it said.  Equity Residential is entitled to receive a breakup fee of
as much as $80 million if its deal doesn’t go through, according
to the SEC filing.  McCulloch said Lehman has about 60 days for a bid. The
extra time after the 10-day period is allotted to transfer
funds, said the people familiar with the process, who asked not
to be named because terms of the agreement aren’t public.  If Lehman matches the agreement,  Equity Residential (EQR)  then
has a 30-day option to purchase the other 26.5 percent owned by
Bank of America and Barclays, according to McCulloch. The
lenders are forbidden to discuss the sale of this second piece
with any other parties until Lehman’s initial rights period is
up and Equity Residential’s 30-day right has expired, he said.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment, as did Peter Rose, a spokesman for New York-based
Blackstone; Andrew Willis, a spokesman for Toronto-based
Brookfield; and Peter Jakel, a spokesman for Archstone.  Worth More  Lehman’s effort was reported yesterday by the Financial
Times. The estate of the bankrupt securities firm estimates that
Archstone’s equity value is $1 billion more than the $5 billion
implied by Equity Residential’s bid, the newspaper said.  Equity Residential, the largest publicly traded U.S.
apartment landlord, is seeking to gain a piece of a major rival
as rental demand climbs. If successful, the real estate
investment trust may be in a position to influence Archstone’s
final ownership.  Determining Outcome  “The Archstone and Equity Residential portfolios are
highly complementary,” David Neithercut, Equity Residential’s
president and chief executive officer, said in the statement
announcing the deal. “Since we believe that none of the current
owners of Archstone is likely to be a long-term owner, acquiring
this position allows us a role in determining, and perhaps even
expediting, the ultimate outcome regarding Archstone.”  Equity Residential would like to own the entire company,
Zell, the REIT’s chairman, said in an interview with the Wall
Street Journal last week.  Bank of America, Barclays and Lehman couldn’t agree on a
complete sale of Archstone because Lehman preferred to hold the
assets until a public offering, two people with knowledge of the
situation said in October. The firm acquired Englewood,
Colorado-based Archstone with Tishman Speyer Properties LP for
about $22 billion in 2007. The debt taken on in the purchase
contributed to Lehman’s collapse in 2008 as credit markets froze
and property values tumbled.  Apartment owners are benefiting from increased demand for
home rentals as  foreclosures  mount and lenders tighten standards
for mortgages. U.S. vacancies fell to a five-year low in the
third quarter, enabling landlords to boost lease rates,
according to property-research company  Reis Inc. (REIS)   Equity Residential owns or has investments in 417
properties in 15 states and the District of Columbia. The REIT
is targeting Boston,  New York ,  Washington , south Florida,
southern California,  San Francisco  and Seattle for acquisitions
and development, according to its most recent quarterly report.
Archstone operates in all of those areas as well as Germany.  Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC served as Equity Residential’s
financial adviser and  Hogan Lovells  as legal adviser, according
to the SEC filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  