-- 
Eight Ferraris Crash at ‘Gathering of Narcissists’

-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n
-- 
2011-12-05T06:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/eight-ferraris-crash-at-gathering-of-narcissists-.html
Eight  Ferraris  and a Lamborghini were
part of a 14-car crash in  Japan  yesterday that wrecked more than
$1 million of vehicles.  “The accident occurred when the driver of a red Ferrari
was switching from the right lane to the left and skidded,”
said Mitsuyoshi Isejima, executive officer for Yamaguchi
Prefecture’s Expressway Traffic Police unit. “It was a
gathering of narcissists.” The drivers were aged between 37 and
60 years old, he said.  The accident, at 10:16 a.m. on the rain-soaked Chugoku
Expressway in Yamaguchi Prefecture at the western tip of Japan’s
main island of Honshu, also involved three  Mercedes Benz (DAI) 
vehicles and two  Toyotas , police said. The convoy was heading
from Kyushu to Hiroshima when the accident occurred. No
fatalities were reported and 10 people sustained bruising and
minor injuries.  The person suspected of causing the accident, a 60-year-old
self-employed man from Fukuoka prefecture, may face up to three
months in jail or a fine of as much as 100,000 yen ($1,280),
said Isejima. The accident included a Ferrari F-360 that costs
more than 18 million yen. It took longer than six hours to clear
the highway of wreckage, Isejima said.  TV footage showed a Ferrari that had plowed into the outer
guard rail, while another one had its engine bonnet almost
ripped off.  Ferrari SpA, a unit of  Fiat SpA (F) , sold 493 cars in Japan
last year, down from 548 in 2009, according to the website of
the Japan Automobile Importers Association. All eight Ferraris
involved in the accident were registered in Kyushu, police said.
Miki Kataoka, a spokeswoman for Ferrari in Japan, declined to
comment on the crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  