-- 
Telecom Italia Sees Lack of Tech Savvy Hampering Cloud Computing Growth

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-12-06T09:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/telecom-italia-sees-lack-of-tech-savvy-hampering-italy-s-growth-in-cloud.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s home country
risks falling behind in the $68.3 billion market for computer-
cloud services that allow clients to cut costs because of
Italy’s information technology “illiteracy.”  “It usually takes more time for a new technology to be
accepted in Italy,” Simone Battiferri, who’s responsible at the
country’s biggest phone company for cloud technology, said in an
interview. “The level of IT literacy in the country is among
the lowest in  Europe .”  Battiferri predicts Telecom Italia’s sales from cloud
computing, which lets clients rent software delivered over the
Web rather than install it on their own machines, will grow by a
double-digit percentage next year.  Italy, pushing through austerity and growth measures to
trim the euro-region’s second-biggest debt, ranked 51st in the
 World Economic Forum ’s 2011 ranking of countries’ ability to use
and benefit from new technologies. The adoption of remote
computing services via the Web reduces the need to maintain
hardware and can cut companies’ information technology costs by
as much as 60 percent, Battiferri said.  Telecom Italia, based in Milan, and other former phone
monopolies in Europe, such as  Germany ’s Deutsche Telekom AG, are
trying to expand services such as cloud offerings to make up for
declining revenue from traditional voice services.  Global Market  As researcher Gartner Inc. estimates the global market for
cloud services will surge to $148.8 billion in 2014 from $68.3
billion in 2010, Italy risks falling behind in an industry that
is one of the fastest-growing technology segments.  “Many reports indicate that  Italy  is the laggard among the
G8 countries for IT literacy,” said Saverio Papagno, an analyst
at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg. “The elements contributing
to this delay include the low penetration of fixed-line
broadband and the scarce adoption of IT services by the public
administration. Telecom operators can help reverse this trend,
making broadband accessible to as many users as possible.”  SAP AG , the largest maker of business-management software,
last week agreed to buy SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion in
cash, six weeks after archrival Oracle agreed to buy another
cloud competitor, RightNow Technologies Inc., for $1.5 billion.  Apple Inc. , aiming to capitalize on a shift away from
personal computers, this year introduced the iCloud service that
stores music and other files online and keeps devices
synchronized wirelessly.  Radical Change  Large companies have been especially slow to adopt new
technologies, Battiferri said.  “Small and medium-sized companies have been taking up the
service more rapidly as it’s easier for them to move to the
cloud than bigger corporations,” said Battiferri, who also
heads Telecom Italia’s top-client division. At some companies, a
lack of IT expertise has “slowed the adoption of these new
services,” he said.  Telecom Italia started its cloud-computing service, called
 Nuvola Italiana , in September 2010. Chief Executive Officer
Franco Bernabe said at the time the company had to “change its
skin in a radical way” and sell integrated services and not
just connectivity.  ‘Wait and See’  Telecom Italia on Nov. 11 said domestic sales fell 6.2
percent to 14.1 billion euros in the first nine months, hurt by
a 9.2 percent decline in wireless revenue. At the same time, the
company reported a 33 percent increase in third-quarter profit
on growth in  Latin America .  The company’s shares rose 0.6 percent to 87 euro cents as
of 10:05 a.m. in Milan trading. The stock has declined 10
percent this year, valuing the company at 16.1 billion euros.  The Italian operator has about 1,500 cloud customers,
Battiferri said, declining to say how much revenue it receives
from them. Sales from this service are included under
information and communication technology, which rose 8.5 percent
to 585 million euros in the first nine months of this year.  The value of the cloud-computing and infrastructure market
is expected to reach about 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in
Italy at the end of 2014, Battiferri said.  “In the current macroeconomic environment companies will
increasingly seek to cut costs and this could help boost cloud
services but at the moment a wait-and-see approach is
prevailing,” Battiferri said.  Cloud Certificate  Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is working on a 30
billion-euro package of austerity and growth measures to prevent
Italy from sparking the euro’s breakup. Monti, sworn in on Nov.
16 after  Silvio Berlusconi  resigned, is under pressure to move
quickly as a selloff of the country’s bonds sent borrowing costs
surging last month past the 7 percent threshold that led  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek aid.  Battiferri said concerns about the security of cloud
systems shouldn’t deter companies from adopting the technology.
“Our cloud platform is completely safe and we’re compliant with
the stringent Italian regulation on privacy,” he said, adding
that all the company’s data centers are in Italy.  In May, SAP’s head of global solutions, Sanjay Poonen, said
an outage on Amazon.com Inc.’s cloud-computing services this
year, and a controversy around Google Inc.’s delays in providing
e-mail services to 30,000 city employees in  Los Angeles  could
make it harder for the  software industry  to convince clients to
use cloud computing.  Deutsche Telekom’s T-Systems information technology unit
said this year it is pushing regulators to introduce a
certificate for German or European cloud operators to help
companies guard data from the U.S. government.  Globalization, mobility, the “exponential” volume
increase of data and the need to be flexible and faster will
drive cloud computing adoption, said Piero Masera, managing
director for Italy at consulting firm  AlixPartners LLP . While
there are concerns about security, regulation and reliability,
“cloud computing is a trend that cannot be stopped,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  