-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for a Sixth Day as Italy Plans Budget Cuts

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-05T22:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/emerging-market-stocks-drop-first-time-in-a-week-on-china-growth-concerns.html
Developing-nation stocks gained,
sending the benchmark index higher for a sixth day, as Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s proposal to cut the nation’s debt
increased investor appetite for riskier emerging-market assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.6 percent to 966.35
at the close in  New York , extending a 9.5 percent rally last
week. Brazil’s Bovespa Index gained 1.8 percent to the highest
level in almost a month. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined
1.2 percent after a report that China’s non-manufacturing
industries contracted last month.  Developing-market shares rose as much as 0.7 percent before
dropping on news that Standard & Poor’s was poised to put
European nations on watch for potential downgrades. S&P made the
official announcement after the close of New York trading.  Monti lobbied  Italy ’s parliament to support a 30 billion-
euro ($40 billion) package of austerity and growth measures
to help reduce the euro area’s second-biggest debt and prevent a
breakup of the currency union. German Chancellor Angela Merkel
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy pushed for a rewrite of the
European Union’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation
in a demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis.  “Italy backed relatively swiftly the new government to put
in an austerity measure and demonstrate moving forward in terms
of meeting requirements put in place by the European Union,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.  MSCI’s emerging-market index has dropped 16 percent this
year as concerns over the European debt crisis and U.S. economic
growth prompted fund managers to seek less risky investments.  Bovespa (IBOV) , LLX  The Bovespa stock index extended its first weekly gain in
five after economists cut their forecasts of Brazilian  interest
rates  and inflation for 2012. Port developer  LLX Logistica SA 
led gains, soaring 10 percent, after saying it signed a leasing
contract with Intermoor do Brasil Servicos Offshore de
Instalacao Ltda. that will generate annual revenue of about 3.6
million reais ($2 million).  Chinese non-manufacturing industries, including retail,
construction and property, contracted for the first time since
February, according to a November purchasing managers’ index.
Developers and producers of construction materials led Chinese
stock declines after the central bank said developers are facing
tighter credit conditions.  The PMI data is “a concern for the market because  China 
clearly is a major demand source for commodity products in the
world,” Joseph Tan, Singapore-based chief economist for Asia at
Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-banking division, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  Most emerging-market currencies rose against the dollar
today, with the Hungarian forint rising 1.2 percent and the
Mexican peso advancing 0.7 percent. The  Indian rupee  fell 0.4
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 404, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  