-- 
End of Easy Mideast Oil Means Work for Exxon, BP: Energy Markets

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a ,   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-12-06T10:39:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/end-of-easy-mideast-oil-means-work-for-exxon-bp-energy-markets.html
The  Middle East  will need more help
from international investors to keep the title of world’s
biggest oil and gas producer because its remaining deposits are
harder to get at.  Technology is the “key to prolonging the life span of the
reservoirs, and we’ve been doing this with our partners for a
long time,” Mohamed Al-Hamli, oil minister of the  United Arab
Emirates , said yesterday at the World Petroleum Congress in
Doha, Qatar. “We are forced to go down the road of enhanced oil
recovery and using more advanced technology.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other
international oil producers will combine with state-owned
companies to spend $40 billion in 2013 on developing resources
in the Middle East, up 18 percent on last year’s tally,
according to  Wood Mackenzie  Ltd. Fields that require technology,
such as steaming to extract heavy oil in  Kuwait  or stripping
sulfur out of Abu Dhabi’s natural gas, will attract much of that
spending.  Demand for energy will grow faster in the Middle East over
the next two decades than any region other than  Asia , according
to the  International Energy Agency . Rising consumption of crude
oil and natural gas at home will put pressure on Saudi Arabia,
the U.A.E. and other governments to keep production high enough
to maintain export revenue that finances government spending.  ‘Easier Oil’  Middle East countries “have definitely produced most of
their cheaper and easier oil,” Iain Brown, the head of regional
research at Wood Mackenzie, said in a telephone interview.
“These are projects where national  oil companies  have greater
need for support from international oil companies, because the
international oil companies have had more experience of these
challenging conditions.”  The increasing expense of drilling oil has helped Brent
crude futures, the benchmark price for about two-thirds of the
world’s oil, rise fivefold over the last decade. Brent oil for
January traded as high as $109.94 a barrel today on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London .  Executives from international and national oil companies
are meeting with state officials during the four-day World
Petroleum Congress this week in Qatar. The chief executive
officers of  BP Plc (BP/) , Shell, Exxon and ConocoPhillips spoke today.
BP’s  Robert Dudley  said the  energy industry  needs to add the
equivalent of a large, Saudi Arabia-size producer each year to
offset the decline in output capacity at existing  oil fields .  Technology Transfers  “A large driver in access to new reserves throughout the
region will be Middle East states’ need for technology
transfers,” said  Samuel Ciszuk , a consultant for KBC Asset
Management U.K. “Private investment at a time when several of
the countries experience sharply rising demand from their own
populations for higher social spending is also an important
factor.”  So-called enhanced-oil-recovery techniques to get oil from
geologically challenging reservoirs and maintain production at
mature fields will be a focus of international oil company
investment.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  plans to use steam underground to heat heavy
crude in the area straddling Kuwait and Saudi Arabia’s border
and make it liquid enough to pump. The project would be the
largest so-called steam-flood development in the world when it
is fully deployed in 2017, according to the U.S. company.  Mature Fields  Exxon and  Total SA (FP)  are also vying to access heavy crude
deposits in mature oil fields in Kuwait, where lighter oil has
already been pumped.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  is producing
heavy oil using enhanced recovery methods in Bahrain.  “The days of easy oil are over,” the U.A.E’s al-Hamli
told reporters yesterday. “In order to maximize the potential,
we have to have enhanced oil recovery.”  Another focus for investment will be natural gas, which is
gaining prominence in the region as a fuel for export and
domestic power generation. The IEA’s World Energy Outlook
projects that gas output from the region will grow by an average
2.5 percent a year until 2035, faster than crude oil production
growth of 1.7 percent a year.  Occidental together with state-run Abu Dhabi National Oil
Co. is investing $10 billion to bring on stream the Shah gas
field by neutralizing deadly hydrogen sulfide, which is also
known as sour gas.  The Shah geology is similar to that of Kidan, a deposit
Shell is exploring together with Saudi Arabian Oil Co., also
known as  Saudi Aramco , in the kingdom’s desert area known as the
Empty Quarter. In Iraq, Shell and partners agreed last month to
invest $17 billion to capture natural gas from its oil fields
and reduce burn-off.  Gas-To-Liquids  Qatar became the world’s largest liquefied natural gas
producer with a series of joint ventures with Exxon and other
international oil companies. Shell’s $18.5 billion Pearl gas-to-
liquids plant, which will use gas to produce 140,000 barrels a
day of liquid fuel, will be fully operational next year.  Companies will also focus on tapping unconventional gas
fields. In Oman, BP expects to spend at least $15 billion to
develop so-called tight gas, locked in a hard-to-break rock that
restricts the fuel’s flow.  Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest crude exporter, is
looking for a foreign partner to develop shale. Unconventional
gas resources will help  Saudi Arabia  meet rising domestic energy
demand, Khalid Al-Falih, the company’s chief executive officer,
said today in Doha.  “Unconventional gas will help these countries get the gas
they need badly, reduce the use of oil in the power sector, and
reduce the threat of reducing oil exports in the future,” to
meet energy needs, said Anas Alhajji, chief economist for
Irving, Texas-based NGP Energy Capital Management LLC, which
manages $10 billion in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Doha at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in Doha at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Doha at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  