-- 
Henry Schein Seeks Dental Partners to Gain Share of Rapid Growth in China

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 
2011-12-05T17:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/henry-schein-seeks-dental-partners-to-gain-share-of-rapid-growth-in-china.html
Henry Schein Inc., the biggest
distributor of dental products to office-based dentists in  North
America , is seeking partners in China to tap “rapid” growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy, said Chief Executive Officer
Stanley M. Bergman.  The company, which sells dental products such as mouth
guards and wires used to straighten teeth to dentists, will hire
more workers as it looks to become the “one-stop shop” for
dentists in China, Bergman said.  “It’s only a matter of time before the demand for dental
grows to the same level of demand for a Mercedes Benz,” Bergman
said in a phone interview. “At some point, China will obviously
be the largest provider of dental services in the world.”  The dental market is now valued at from $400 million to
$600 million, and will double within five years, said Bergman,
who is also the Melville, New York-based company’s chairman.
“I’d be happy to have 8 to 12 percent of that and grow along
with it.” China still has a low number of dentists per citizen
as compared with more-developed regional neighbors.  “China’s development has changed, and will continue to
change its oral health environment,” said Colman McGrath,
professor in dental public health at the  University of Hong
Kong . “People are more aware of the importance of oral health
and are more willing to spend time and money on fixing their
teeth.”  Q&M Dental  Q&M Dental Group (QNM)  is among companies expanding its private
dental practice in China. Armed with $15 million from the  World
Bank , Q&M plans to open as many as 25 clinics in  Shanghai  by
2016, said Valliappan Subramaniam, the Singapore-based dental
services provider’s group operations director.  “The market is tremendous,” Subramaniam said. The ratio
of dentists to patients is 1 to 10,000 in China, while it’s 1 to
3,500 in  Singapore  and 1 to 1,200 in  Japan , he said. Only 8
percent of the Chinese population visit the dentist annually,
compared with 45 percent of people in Singapore.  The premium segment of the consumer oral care market is
also expanding, said Ted Hurley, director for fast moving
consumer goods clients at market information provider  Nielsen 
Greater China. Whitening toothpaste is now both the largest and
fastest growing segment within the toothpaste category, with 26
percent of the estimated $12.8 billion Yuan ($2 billion)
toothpaste market.  “It’s a very good indicator of Chinese consumers and where
beauty and grooming habits are going,” Hurley said. “Chinese
consumers see the value in spending money on premium
toothpaste.”  Local Partner  Henry Schein derived $4.7 billion, or 63.5 percent of its
2010 revenue, from the  U.S. market (HSIC) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. While the company has focused on developed markets
it decided to set up in China last year after it found Hong
Kong-based ABC Group to become a local partner, Bergman said.  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , which like Henry Schein is also a
Fortune 500 company in health-care sales, bought the drug
distribution business of Zuellig Pharma, Yong Yu, for $470
million in November last year.  The makers of clear braces Invisalign,  Align Technology
Inc. (ALGN) , sees China as an “important new market” and the
company’s “biggest opportunity” outside of  Europe , according
to its 2010  annual report . China has an increasing awareness of
dental health and its impact on personal appearance, the  San
Jose , California-based company said, with more than 50,000
general dentists and almost 500,000 orthodontic case starts a
year.  Henry Schein is also looking to increase its workforce of
about 65 employees in  China . “I would be surprised if the
current number of employees doesn’t double or triple in the next
18 months,” Bergman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  