-- 
Tepco Says More Radioactive Water Leaks at Fukushima Plant

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-12-05T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/tepco-reports-more-radioactive-water-leaks.html
As much as 45,000 liters (11,870
gallons) of highly radioactive water leaked from  Japan ’s
crippled Fukushima nuclear station at the weekend and some may
have reached the sea,  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  said.  The leakage shows the company known as Tepco is still
struggling to control the disaster nine months after an
earthquake and tsunami wrecked the plant. The water contained
1.8 millisieverts per hour of gamma radiation and 110
millisieverts of beta radiation, Tepco said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “The source of the beta radiation in the water is likely
to include strontium 90, which if absorbed in the body through
eating tainted seaweed or fish, accumulates in bone and can
cause cancer,” said Tetsuo Ito, the head of Kinki University’s
Atomic Energy Research Institute.  Since the March 11 disaster, the utility has reported
several leaks of radiated water into the sea, though its
estimates of their size have been disputed. In October, a French
nuclear research institute said the Fukushima plant was
responsible for the biggest discharge of radioactive material
into the ocean in history.  The water leaked from a desalination unit and through a
cracked concrete wall into a gutter that drains into the  Pacific
Ocean , spokeswoman Chie Hosoda said by phone. Radiated water has
now been pumped out of the building where it was leaking from.  Environmental Checks  As much as 300 liters leaked through the crack, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at the utility, told reporters in
 Tokyo  today. The utility is still checking how much contaminated
water has reached the sea and the effects on the environment,
Matsumoto said.  Tepco said the leaked water contained 16,000 becquerels and
29,000 becquerels per liter of radioactive cesium 134 and 137
respectively. Those levels exceed government safety limits by
267 and 322 times, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The water may have contained one million times as much
radioactive strontium as the government limit, the Asahi
newspaper reported today. Matsumoto said Tepco may take three
weeks to analyze the strontium level in the water.  The study by the French government-funded Institute for
Radiological Protection and Nuclear Safety said radioactive
cesium that flowed into the sea from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant was 20 times the amount estimated by Tepco.  Prolonged exposure to high levels of radiation can cause
leukemia and other forms of cancer, according to the  World
Nuclear Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  