-- 
Merkel Seeks EU Revamp With Sarkozy as S&P Puts 15 Euro Nations on Review

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-12-06T09:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/merkel-sarkozy-unite-on-eu-rewrite-as-week-of-truth-begins.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy strengthened their push for new
rules to tighten euro-area economic cooperation as  Standard &
Poor’s  said it may downgrade credit ratings across the region.  Hours after meeting in Paris yesterday, the leaders of
 Europe ’s two biggest economies responded that they “took note”
of the move by S&P, while both countries “reinforce their
conviction” that common proposals for closer fiscal union in
the European Union will lead the way out of the crisis.  “The actions of the last three years have shown that the
euro zone governments are not prepared to act collectively in a
way that convinces markets,” said Paul Donovan, deputy head of
global economics at UBS AG in  London . The S&P move “may perhaps
heighten the desirability of coming out with a compelling
solution for the French and the Germans.”  Germany and France risk losing their AAA credit ratings in
a review of 15 euro nations for possible downgrade, S&P said. At
an earlier meeting in Paris, Merkel and Sarkozy said both
countries were aligned on backing automatic penalties for
deficit violators and locking limits on debt into euro states’
constitutions. Investors say such moves might pave the way for
the  European Central Bank  to do more to fight the debt crisis.  ECB Focus  The question is whether the Franco-German push toward
integration is enough to prompt ECB President Mario Draghi to
step up the central bank’s response, said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group in Brussels.  While the leaders’ announcement is “a good start to the
week of truth,” Merkel and Sarkozy still “need to put money
where their mouth is and bring everyone else on board,” Brzeski
said by phone. “From a financial market perspective, it’s about
them doing enough to deliver Draghi’s fiscal compact.”  The euro fell 0.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar , trading
at $1.3343 at 9:15 a.m. Frankfurt time -- down from an intraday
high of $1.3487 yesterday as the S&P’s warning doused optimism
over joint action by euro leaders. S&P put European nations
including the six AAA-rated countries on watch for potential
downgrades pending the outcome of a Dec. 9 summit of EU leaders.  ‘Excessive’  Luxembourg  Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said the warning by
the rating company was like a “knockout blow” to governments
that are undertaking measures to scale back deficits.  “I have to wonder that this news reaches us out of the
clear blue sky at the time of the European summit -- this can’t
be a coincidence,” Juncker said in an interview today on German
radio broadcaster Deutschlandfunk.  The S&P move was “excessive,” saidVincent Truglia,
managing director at New York-based Granite Springs Asset
Management LLP and a former head of the sovereign risk unit at
Moody’s Investors Service, a rival rating company.  “Countries like  Germany , Luxembourg,  Netherlands , Finland
are AAA, and Austria is a pretty strong AAA,” he said.  S&P said that ratings could be cut by one level for
Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Netherlands and Luxembourg,
and by up to two notches for the other governments.  The other countries warned are Estonia, France, Ireland,
Italy, Malta, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and  Spain , according
to S&P. The company said it maintained the negative outlook for
Cyprus, and  Greece  wasn’t put on “creditwatch.”  ‘United’ Resolve  With the fate of the currency shared by the 17 euro states
at risk, Merkel and Sarkozy are stressing their common platform
going into the summit that aims to end the crisis that’s now in
its third year. After Merkel compared the mission to a
“marathon” last week, Sarkozy said yesterday that euro leaders
would go on a “forced march” to win back confidence.  Among the measures announced were plans to fast-track the
euro’s permanent rescue fund to 2012, one year earlier than
envisaged. Germany and  France  will also seek to ensure that
decisions by the fund, the European Stability Mechanism, can be
made by a “qualified majority” rather than a unanimous vote by
the participating governments. Sarkozy said they aimed to reach
consensus on treaty change with other euro leaders by March.  “We don’t have time -- we are conscious of the gravity of
the situation,” Sarkozy said after meeting with Merkel over
lunch at the Elysee palace. “We want to go as fast as possible
based on this agreement between France and Germany, which is
open to others.”  Response  Safeguarding banks, limiting the damage to Italy and Spain
and finding additional rescue funds may hinge on the response to
Franco-German demands for closer economic integration and
tougher policing of fiscal rules.  Draghi signaled last week that should a “new fiscal
compact” emerge among the euro nations, “other elements might
follow.” Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to comment on
Draghi’s comments, stressing the ECB’s independence.  “It’s a step in the right direction for the ECB but we’ll
want to know how the automatic sanctions are triggered,” said
 Klaus Baader , co-chief economist at Societe Generale SA. “When
France and Germany have joint press conferences and say we agree
on everything you have to take that with a pinch of salt.”  With the EU summit looming, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrives in  Frankfurt  to meet with Draghi and Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann before heading to Berlin for talks with
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . The ECB holds a
policy meeting on Dec. 8.  ‘Bit of Trust’  European leaders will seek to “win back a bit of trust”
at the summit after “our reliability has suffered,” Merkel
said in Paris. “We are steadfastly determined to make the
decision at the council now.”  Merkel and Sarkozy yesterday repeated their rejection of
jointly sold euro bonds in solving the crisis, while seeking to
calm concerns of euro-area member states that the  European Court 
of Justice would be able to veto national budgets as part of
their proposal for centralized deficit supervision.  With euro bonds ruled out, “the onus is still on the ECB
to print money to make huge loans or bond purchases and draw a
line under the crisis,” said  Jennifer McKeown , senior European
economist at  Capital Economics  in London.  The move by S&P adds impetus to that, said Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London.  “Anything which impacts the perceived creditworthiness of
the main guarantors of euro zone debt is bad news for planned
steps towards a fiscal union,” he said in an e-mail. “All this
puts more pressure on the ECB to hold the fort.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  