-- 
Ternium Shareholders Seen Losing Two Decades in Brazilian Steel: Real M&A

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-12-05T16:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ternium-shareholders-seen-losing-two-decades-in-brazilian-steel-real-m-a.html
Owning steel in Brazil has never been
so expensive.  The Techint Group, through its Ternium SA and  Tenaris (TS)  SA
units, last week agreed to pay 5.03 billion reais ($2.7 billion)
for a 27.7 percent voting stake in  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA (USIM3) , Brazil’s second-largest producer of the metal. The
offer of 36 reais a share was 58 percent more than Usiminas’
average price in the previous 20 days, the biggest premium for a
steel deal in  Latin America  and the second-highest ever
globally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ternium, the second-largest steelmaker in Latin America,
and Tenaris, the world’s biggest maker of seamless pipes, are
spending a record premium to thwart a takeover attempt by  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA . While the deal gives Techint a foothold
in  Brazil  for flat steel used in cars and appliances, it is
paying almost six times the average price that steelmakers
command versus their sales as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
slowing Chinese demand drive down global prices for the metal.  “The logic is difficult to understand,” Eric Conrads, who
manages $1.2 billion in Latin American stocks at ING Groep NV in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “They became stubborn
about Brazil. When you see where you are on the global scenario,
it’s not like you are in the best moment to start making
acquisitions. You really have to take a 20-year look to see the
synergies and they don’t even specify what synergies.”  Common shares of Usiminas climbed 4.3 percent to 19.28
reais as of 2:40 p.m. in Sao Paulo. American depositary receipts
for  Ternium (TX)  rose 5.3 percent in New York, while those of Tenaris
gained 2.5 percent.  ‘Strategic Opportunity’  The press office at  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based Usiminas
didn’t address a request for comment on the price that Techint
paid for its stake.  Gustavo Pernalete, a spokesman at Ternium in San Nicolas,
 Argentina , declined to comment on its purchase of Usiminas
stock. Stefania Argento, a Milan-based spokeswoman for Tenaris,
said in an e-mail joining the controlling Usiminas group is a
“strategic opportunity” for its unit  Confab Industrial SA , the
Sao Caetano do Sul, Brazil-based maker of steel tubing. Usiminas
is Confab’s main supplier of steel, she said.  Techint is controlled by the Rocca family through
Luxembourg-based San Faustin SA. Techint was founded by Italian
engineer Agostino Rocca in the 1940s and began operating in
Argentina a few years later, when Rocca emigrated to the South
American country, according to the company’s website.  Acquisition Detail  Techint will buy 139.7 million ordinary shares of Usiminas
from Camargo Correa SA, Grupo Votorantim and Usiminas’ workers
pension, Ternium said in a Nov. 27 statement. Techint will own
27.7 percent of Usiminas’  voting shares  and join a controlling
group that includes  Nippon Steel Corp.  and the employees’
pension fund. The group will have 63.9 percent of  voting rights .  ADRs for Ternium, which is buying most of the stock, slid
17 percent after the announcement.  At 36 reais a share, the price that Techint agreed to pay
is the highest premium for any billion-dollar steel deal, apart
from the 87 percent premium that Rotterdam-based Mittal Steel
Co. offered in its $36 billion takeover of Luxembourg-based
Arcelor SA in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The agreement with Techint also values Usiminas at 2.9
times its  per-share revenue  in the past 12 months, almost twice
as high as any other steel producer in the world and more than
the industry average of 0.5 times sales, the data show.  Analysts estimate that  net income  at Usiminas will plunge
92 percent this year as raw material costs increased and demand
for flat steel weakened.  Relative Value  While earnings are anticipated to rebound in the next three
years,  Usiminas’  profit in 2014 will still be less than the 1.57
billion reais it earned last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In 2005, net income reached a record 3.9 billion reais.  Net income  at  Porto Alegre , Brazil-based  Gerdau SA , the
nation’s biggest steel producer, will decline 13 percent in
2011, while earnings at  CSN , as Sao Paulo-based Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional is known, will increase by 18 percent, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It seems like they paid a premium, which may be
exaggerated, to be able to be in the Brazilian market,” Eduardo Favrin, who oversees about $3.2 billion as head of equities at
HSBC Global Asset Management’s Brazil unit in  Sao Paulo , said in
a telephone interview. “It seems to have been quite above the
reasonable price. There are other companies with better
fundamentals than Usiminas.”  Steel Demand  Ternium said the premium it offered was important to beat
competing bids, which included one from  CSN , Brazil’s third-
biggest steelmaker. CSN had been buying shares of Usiminas in
the open market since at least January, when the company said it
may boost holdings to a level that could change Usiminas’
management or control structure.  CSN said it held 20.14 percent of Usiminas preferred stock
and 11.66 percent of common shares as of Nov. 18.  Techint is buying a stake in Usiminas as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis spreads from  Greece  to Portugal and  Italy , slowing a
worldwide economic recovery and dampening steel demand.  Global economic growth will slow to 4 percent this year
from 5.1 percent in 2010, according to a forecast from the
 International Monetary Fund .  China , the world’s largest user of
steel, grew  9.1 percent  last quarter, the slowest pace since
2009, the nation’s statistics bureau said.  Since reaching a two-year high in February, hot-rolled
steel coil, a benchmark for steel products, has fallen 15
percent in China to  4,227 yuan  ($665) per metric ton, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deal Rationale  In Brazil, steel consumption fell in October for the eighth
consecutive month, according to a Nov. 23 report by Jonathan Brandt, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Demand for steel in Brazil has weakened as a central bank
survey last month showed that its economy will expand by 3.1
percent this year, less than half the 7.5 percent rate in 2010.  “Brazil used to be a good place to make steel, now it’s
not as interesting,” Greg Lesko, managing director of Deltec
Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone interview from  New
York . Therefore, “why would somebody come in with a premium bid
for a steel company?” he said.  Christian Reos , an analyst at Buenos Aires-based brokerage
firm Allaria Ledesma & Cia. Soc. de Bolsa, says the Usiminas
investment should lower costs at Ternium and Tenaris and give
them increased bargaining power for raw-material purchases.  The purchase also gives the companies greater access to
Latin America’s largest steel market, he said.  Tagging Along  Brazil overtook the U.K. to become the world’s sixth-
biggest economy this year and will surpass  France  by 2015, a
forecast from Washington-based IMF showed. Construction projects
for the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Summer Olympics may also drive
demand for locally produced steel.  “Ternium had been looking to enter the Brazilian market
for a long time, and this was its opportunity,” Reos said in a
telephone interview. “There were various groups interested in
Usiminas and that really means you have to pay a premium.
Ternium not only achieves entry into Brazil via the biggest flat
steel producer, but it also prevents other Latin American
competitors from growing.”  The cost of Techint’s investment in Usiminas may balloon if
it is forced to pay minority shareholders that have so-called
tag-along rights. Under Brazilian securities rules, owners of
voting stock are entitled to receive at least 80 percent of the
price paid to controlling stakeholders if the company is bought.  While Usiminas Chief Executive Officer Wilson Brumer said
on Nov. 28 that the rule doesn’t apply because the Techint
transaction doesn’t change the composition of the controlling
group, Caixa de Previdencia dos Funcionarios do Banco do Brasil,
Brazil’s largest pension fund, said in a Dec. 1 statement that
it is analyzing the deal.  “It does seem to me they are paying way too much,” Deltec
Asset’s Lesko said. “There aren’t any obvious synergies. Brazil
is a place you would want to have exposure, so I understand
that, but why overpay, I don’t know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 