-- 
Ernst & Young Sued for $900 Million by Liquidators of Madoff Feeder Fund

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-05T21:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ernst-young-sued-by-m-invest-for-900-million-over-five-years-of-audits.html
Ernst & Young LLP was accused of
negligence, malpractice and breach of contract in a lawsuit
filed by the liquidators of M-Invest Ltd., a so-called feeder
fund for  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt investment firm.  The suit seeks $900 million in damages from the New York-
based accounting firm over audits of M-Invest’s annual financial
statements from 2003 to 2007, according to papers filed
yesterday in  New York  State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The two-
page filing by the fund, now in voluntary liquidation, provides
no details of the allegations against Ernst & Young.  Union Bancaire Privee, a private Swiss bank that set up M-
Invest, a Cayman Islands corporation, to invest money with
Madoff, agreed to pay as much as $500 million in December 2010
to settle claims by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm.  The agreement ended claims against Union Bancaire, which
was accused of accused of profiting from Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .
Union Bancaire and M-Invest didn’t admit any liability,
according to the agreement.  “The suit has no merit and we will defend ourselves,”
Ernst & Young said in a statement. Eric Seiler, an attorney
representing M-Invest, didn’t return a phone message seeking
comment on the suit.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina  after admitting to directing the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history. The Securities Investor
Protection Corp. has said that investors in so-called feeder
funds aren’t customers of Madoff’s firm and can’t make claims on
the estate of the bankrupt brokerage.  The case is M-Invest Ltd. v. Ernst & Young LLP,
653353/2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 