-- 
Esprit CFO Resigns Amid Rebuilding Efforts

-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-05T16:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/esprit-cfo-quits-as-clothing-retailer-rebuilds-brand-amid-earnings-slump.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  Chief Financial
Officer Chew Fook Aun quit for personal reasons as the largest
Hong Kong-listed apparel company seeks to revive earnings after
profit plunged 98 percent last fiscal year.  Chew’s resignation will take effect by June 1 as he is
“unable to spend the required time in Europe,” Esprit said in
a statement yesterday. The Hong Kong-based company, which on
Sept. 15 said its brand had “lost its soul,” faces declining
sales on the continent, where it made 79 percent of revenue in
the 12 months through June.  Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis has said he
plans to turn the retailer around by improving fashion designs
to revive earnings in  Europe  while doubling  China  sales in four
years. Esprit is looking in and out of the company for Chew’s
replacement, Van der Vis said on a conference call yesterday.  “It’s going to raise a lot of questions as to why a member
of the senior management resigns so suddenly,” Francis Lun,
managing director at Lyncean Holdings Ltd. said. “It’s going to
be a blow to investor confidence, especially as the company is
undergoing some strategic changes and re-branding.”  Esprit rose the most in almost two months on Hong Kong’s
stock exchange yesterday, after saying it would would a hold
conference call at 5 p.m. local time. It climbed 8.7 percent,
the biggest gain since Oct. 13, to HK$11.98 at the 4 p.m. close
of trading, making it the biggest gainer on the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Transformation Plan  The stock has plunged 91 percent from its highest close of
HK$127.744 on Oct. 30, 2007 as rivals including Hennes & Mauritz
AB and Inditex SA’s Zara lured customers away. It has slumped
more than 34 percent since Sept. 15, when it reported full-year
earnings.  The casual clothing chain has begun “grouping various
strategic functions in its business headquarters in Ratingen,
 Germany ,” the company said in the statement. “This would also
require the group chief financial officer to travel
extensively to Europe to supervise the implementation of the
transformation plan.”  It has no plans to move its financial headquarters out of
Hong Kong, Van der Vis said on the conference call.  Same-store sales in Europe fell 9.2 percent in local
currency terms in the three months through September. Esprit on
Oct. 31 said it faced ’’an increasingly challenging business
environment’’ in its biggest market.  Closing Stores  Chew was appointed chief financial officer in February
2009. He held the same position at The Link Management Ltd.,
manager of the Link Real Estate Investment Trust. He was also
CFO at Kerry Properties Ltd. from 1996 to 2004.  Chew, who boosted his stake in Esprit last month by buying
100,000 shares, will pursue a career “outside the company,”
according to the statement.  The company posted a 98 percent drop in net income last
fiscal year because of the cost of closing stores in Europe and
selling its U.S. and Canada operations. Sales in the year
through June increased less than 1 percent after declining in
the previous two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer that started in California more than 40 years
ago hired the brand director of Hennes & Mauritz in 2010 to
rejuvenate its fashions, which Van der Vis said in September
“became too safe and boring.”  Esprit hired Holly Li, Adidas AG’s general manager for
north China, to be its CEO in the country starting Feb. 1, it
 said  last month.  Gisele Bundchen   Van der Vis plans HK$7 billion in  capital spending  over
four years, mostly to expand or refurbish stores. A further
HK$11.5 billion will be allocated to operational spending, of
which HK$6.8 billion is for branding, Van der Vis said in
September at his earnings presentation, made in front of a
backdrop featuring supermodel Gisele Bundchen.  A marketing campaign has already increased “consumer
consideration” in both Germany and China, according to an
investor presentation last month. Esprit made 42 percent of last
fiscal year’s HK$33.8 billion sales in Germany, with 7.9 percent
coming from China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Esprit, with a market value of about $2 billion as of
yesterday, traded at 46 cents per dollar of revenue, the second
lowest of clothing companies valued at more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The only company that
ranked lower, at 43 cents, was  Aoyama Trading Co. , a Japanese
menswear chain that has reported five consecutive years of
declining profit, the data show.  H&M traded at 3.25 times its sales yesterday, while Inditex
was at 3.02.  Esprit is “on track” with its plan to close 80 stores
worldwide, including 24 in Germany, according to the investor
presentation.  It had more than 1,100 directly managed retail stores, of
which 300 were in China, as of June. Esprit also had more than
11,700 wholesale outlets, which include franchises and shops in
stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  