-- 
Estonia’s Elering, Muuga Port Operator to Study New LNG Terminal

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-12-05T12:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/estonia-s-elering-muuga-port-operator-to-study-new-lng-terminal.html
AS Elering,  Estonia ’s power grid
operator, and AS Tallinna Sadam, the country’s biggest port
owner, agreed to start preliminary studies for building a
liquefied natural gas terminal at Muuga port near Tallinn.  The two companies will conduct environmental and
feasibility studies for a facility serving the Baltic region,
state-owned Elering said in an e-mailed statement in Tallinn
today. They will also study possible financing for the project
with European Union aid or funds from third parties.  Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania  last month asked the European
Commission to help decide if a regional LNG terminal is needed
and where to build it after they failed to agree on a common
location. A study by a unit of Poeyry Oyj, a Finnish engineering
company commissioned by the Estonian government, concluded that
Estonia would be the best location for the three countries,
Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said on Nov. 10.  “Based on stricter environmental requirements of the
European Union and the  International Maritime Organization  in
the shipping sector from 2015, we expect demand for LNG to
emerge in shipping,” Erik Ringmaa, the commercial head of
Tallinna Sadam, said in the statement. “To keep our positions,
we understandably will have to create the options for LNG
bunkering.”  By merging the terminal and LNG bunkering projects, the
port expects to achieve significant synergies, the company said.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas export monopoly, is the sole
supplier of natural gas to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.  The three countries have uneasy political relations with
their larger neighbor and are seeking EU support for an LNG
terminal in the region, citing supply risks and higher gas
prices than in western  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  