-- 
MetLife Says 2012 Earnings to Climb on Sales Outside the U.S.; Shares Jump

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-05T14:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/metlife-2012-earnings-may-climb-as-high-as-5-20-a-share-after-acquisition.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said earnings will probably climb in 2012 as Chief
Executive Officer Steven Kandarian reshapes management a year
after the firm’s biggest acquisition. The stock gained as much
as 4.5 percent in  New York  trading.  Next year’s operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, will be $4.80 to $5.20 a share, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. That compares with
the average $5.08 estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Kandarian, 59, is making management changes after taking
over in May for Robert Henrikson, who acquired American Life
Insurance Co. last year for about $16 billion. Kandarian named
former Chief Financial Officer William Wheeler last month as
head of a new Americas division and announced the departure of
William Mullaney, previously the president of U.S. operations.
The new CEO said he was seeking a leader for the Asia division.  “The structure makes sense, and I think that clearly this
was the ultimate decision between Bill Mullaney and Bill
Wheeler,” said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. who rates the insurer “strong buy.” Mullaney
was “the odd man out.”  Brazil ,  Russia   Premiums, fees and other revenue will increase by about 5
percent next year to a range of $47.3 billion to $48.6 billion
on growth outside the U.S., the insurer said today. Revenue is
projected to climb about 20 percent a year through 2015 in
Brazil, Russia,  India  and  China , Kandarian said on a conference
call today.  Operating earnings will be $5.1 billion to $5.6 billion in
2012, compared with $5.2 billion to $5.3 billion this year, the
company said.  The insurer advanced 3.3 percent to $32.80 at 9:45 a.m. in
New York. MetLife had fallen 29 percent this year through Dec.
2, compared with the 16 percent slump in the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index. (KIX)   Fourth-quarter 2011 profit will probably be $1.16 to $1.26
a share, MetLife said, missing the average $1.28 estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Our industry faced several challenges during 2011 - a
volatile macro-economic environment, several natural disasters
and an uncertain regulatory environment,” Kandarian said in the
statement today.  Capital Plan  MetLife plans to submit a fresh capital plan to the  Federal
Reserve  next month after the regulator rejected the company’s
proposal to raise its dividend and resume share buybacks,
Kandarian said today. He expects to hear from the Fed by the end
of the first quarter.  MetLife is subject to Fed oversight because of its size and
its ownership of banking operations, which Kandarian has
announced plans to sell. Wheeler declined to answer a question
on the call about prospects for divesting the business. The 2012
forecast assumes no share buybacks, MetLife said in a
presentation on its website today.  The insurer, which had  investments  of about $500 billion at
the end of September, is making more from bond coupons and
dividends this year after the portfolio grew with the Alico
purchase. Net investment income rose 15 percent to $14.7 billion
in the first nine months of the year.  MetLife is seeking to reduce risk on the retirement
products it sells as lower  interest rates  pressure the insurer’s
investment yields, Kandarian said on Oct. 28. The company will
lower the returns it promises customers who buy variable
annuities, Kandarian said.  The insurer’s sales of variable annuities in the third
quarter surged 84 percent to about $8.6 billion. When stock
markets fall, variable-annuity sellers often are required to
shoulder a portion of the losses for their customers. MetLife
 led sales  of the equity-based retirement products in the U.S. in
the nine months ended Sept. 30, according to data from trade
group Limra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 