-- 
EU Summit No Spark for Rally on Lack of Growth, Prudential Says

-- B y   D e b o r a h   L   H y d e
-- 
2011-12-05T14:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/eu-summit-no-spark-for-rally-on-lack-of-growth-prudential-says.html
European leaders meeting this week
are unlikely to revive market confidence because any measures
announced won’t spur economic growth, the head of  Prudential
Plc (PRU) ’s Portfolio Management Group said.  “I doubt there is going to be a solution that causes
markets to rally big time,” John Betteridge, who helps oversee
138 billion pounds ($215 billion) of assets as director of
investments in  London , said in an interview Dec. 2. Markets will
be highly volatile “for some considerable time,” he said.  European officials led by German Chancellor Angela Merkel
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will attempt to hammer out
a rescue plan this week that may forge closer economic ties
while mandating penalties for countries that breach budget
rules. Stocks rose, extending the biggest weekly advance since
March 2009, and European government bond risk dropped to the
lowest levels in a month.  The market is being driven by news flow which “makes it
difficult to call,” Betteridge said. “Valuations have gone
completely out of the window, are not important at all in
determining what market behavior is.”  Investors withdrew $1.7 billion from global stock funds in
the week to Nov. 30, the fourth consecutive week of outflows,
Citigroup Inc. said on Friday. Prudential, which runs the U.K.’s
largest with-profits fund, closed its long position in global
equities in July and began to buy shares again in October.  The inability of Sarkozy and Merkel to lead  Europe  out of
the crisis has drawn rebukes from U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi . The leaders of Europe’s two biggest
economies are meeting in Paris today.  Less Confident  Betteridge said he’s less confident the euro can survive
the current crisis after Merkel and Sarkozy said on Nov. 2 they
had discussed a Greek exit from the currency union. The single
currency has fallen 2.2% against the dollar since then.  “That was an extraordinary admission. To say that in an
open forum was bizarre,” Betteridge said. The break-up of the
euro-zone would be the worst possible outcome from the current
crisis as it would lead to “a significant hit to growth in the
euro-zone for countries that stay as well as those that leave,”
Betteridge said.  The majority of chief economists at the world’s leading
international banks think a breakup of the euro is possible,
Financial Times Deutschland reported yesterday.  A breakup would be accompanied by social unrest and would
cause “significant damage” to the rest of the world economy,
Betteridge said. Markets “will have lost patience” unless
politicians come up with a solution that restores confidence in
the next 12 months.  Recycle Funds  Euro-area finance ministers gave approval for work on a
plan to recycle national central bank funds through the
 International Monetary Fund  at a meeting last week, two people
familiar with the negotiations said on Dec. 2.  Italy and Spain need to refinance more than 420 billion
euros of bonds that come due next year, Bloomberg data shows.
Lombard Street Research Ltd.’s Jamie Dannhauser estimates euro
area banks have 600 billion euros of term debt due to mature in
2012, 35 percent higher than their gross issuance in 2011.  Peripheral countries and peripheral banking systems have to
raise money in 2012 and that won’t happen “if there is as much
uncertainty as there is now,” Betteridge said.  Italy auctioned securities at an average yield of 7.56
percent on Nov. 29, up from 6.06 percent at the last sale in
October while  Spain  paid 5.544 percent, the most in at least 6
years, to borrow for five years on Dec. 1.  Europe and the markets will be in a better place in a
year’s time, “it might have got worse in the meantime,”
Betteridge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deborah Hyde in London at 
 dhyde10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  