-- 
Eurozone Sovereign Ratings on S&P CreditWatch Negative: Text

-- B y  
-- 
2011-12-05T22:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/eurozone-sovereign-ratings-on-s-p-creditwatch-negative-text.html
The following is a text of  Standard &
Poor’s  statement on euro-area sovereigns:  FRANKFURT (Standard & Poor’s) Dec. 5, 2011--Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services today placed its long-term sovereign ratings on
15 members of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU or
eurozone) on CreditWatch with negative implications.  We have also maintained the CreditWatch negative status of our
long-term rating on Cyprus and placed its short-term ratings on
CreditWatch with negative implications. The ratings on Greece
have not been placed on CreditWatch. The ratings on the eurozone
sovereigns are listed below.  Today’s CreditWatch placements are prompted by our belief that
systemic stresses in the eurozone have risen in recent weeks to
the extent that they now put downward pressure on the credit
standing of the eurozone as a whole.  We believe that these systemic stresses stem from five
interrelated factors:  (1) Tightening credit conditions across the eurozone;  (2) Markedly higher risk premiums on a growing number of
eurozone sovereigns, including some that are currently rated
’AAA’;  (3) Continuing disagreements among European policy makers on how
to tackle the immediate market confidence crisis and, longer
term, how to ensure greater economic, financial, and fiscal
convergence among eurozone members;  (4) High levels of government and household indebtedness across
a large area of the eurozone; and  (5) The rising risk of economic recession in the eurozone as a
whole in 2012. Currently, we expect output to decline next year
in countries such as Spain, Portugal and  Greece , but we now
assign a 40% probability of a fall in output for the eurozone as
a whole.  Our CreditWatch review of eurozone sovereign ratings will focus
on three of the five key factors that form the core of our
sovereign ratings methodology: the “political,” “external,” and
“monetary” scores we assign to the governments in the eurozone
(see “Sovereign Government Rating Methodology And Assumptions”,
published June 30, 2011). Our analysis of “political dynamics”
will focus on both country-specific and eurozone-wide issues
that appear to us to be limiting the effectiveness of efforts to
resolve the market confidence crisis. Our analysis of “external
liquidity” will focus on the borrowing requirements of both
eurozone governments and banks. Our analysis of “monetary
flexibility” will focus on ECB policy settings to address the
economic and financial stresses the countries in the eurozone
are increasingly facing.  We expect to conclude our review of eurozone sovereign ratings
as soon as possible following the EU summit scheduled for Dec. 8
and 9, 2011. Depending on the score changes, if any, that our
rating committees agree are appropriate for each sovereign, we
believe that ratings could be lowered by up to one notch for
 Austria ,  Belgium ,  Finland ,  Germany ,  Netherlands , and Luxembourg,
and by up to two notches for the other governments.  Our ratings on Greece (Hellenic Republic; CC/Negative/C) are not
affected by today’s actions, as a ‘CC’ rating under our rating
definitions connotes our belief that there is a relatively high
near-term probability of default.  We are publishing separate media releases with the rationale for
each rating action on the 16 CreditWatch actions. We are also
publishing the following article: “Credit FAQ: Factors Behind
Our Placement of Eurozone Governments on CreditWatch”.  Following today’s CreditWatch listings, Standard & Poor’s will
issue separate media releases concerning affected ratings on the
funds, government-related entities, financial institutions,
insurance companies, public finance, and structured finance
sectors in due course.  
RELATED CRITERIA AND RESEARCH  -- Credit FAQ: Factors Behind Our Placement Of Eurozone
Governments On CreditWatch, Dec. 5, 2011  -- European Economic Outlook: Back in Recession, Dec. 1,
2011  -- Why Trade Imbalances For Creditors As Well As Debtors In
The Eurozone Are Weighing On Growth, Dec. 1, 2011  -- Standard & Poor’s RPM Measures The Eurozone’s Great
Rebalancing Act, Nov. 21, 2011  -- Who Will Solve the Debt Crisis?, Nov. 10, 2011  -- Sovereign Government Rating Methodology And Assumptions,
June 30, 2011  -- Use Of CreditWatch And Outlooks, Sept. 14, 2009  The ratings on  France , Germany, The Netherlands,  Italy , and
Belgium are unsolicited.  #<659699.3550614.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 