-- 
Euro Weakens After S&P Says it Puts 15 Euro-Zone Nations on Credit Review

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-12-05T22:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/euro-erases-gain-against-dollar-on-reports-of-s-p-moves-on-credit-ratimgs.html
The euro fell against the majority of
its major counterparts as  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 euro-zone
nations on watch for a credit downgrade.  The 17-nation currency traded little changed against the
dollar as the ratings company said  Germany  and France and may be
stripped of their AAA credit ratings. The 17-nation currency
rose earlier after the two countries said they want a rewrite of
the European Union’s governing treaties to tighten economic
cooperation in the region. The pound snapped a two-day decline
and  Mexico ’s peso was the best performer against the dollar.  “For a euro as a whole, this from S&P is not a positive,”
said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “There needs to be a Europe-wide
announcement about the treaty, more than just  France  and Germany
before it can really euro positive.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3401 at 5 p.m. New York
time after gaining as much as 0.7 percent. The shared currency
was 0.2 percent weaker against the yen at 104.27 yen. The dollar
weakened 0.2 percent to 77.82 yen.  Brazil ’s real gained for a seventh day, the longest rally
since April 2010, after Brazil suspended a levy on foreign stock
purchases as part of 2.8 billion reais ($1.6 billion) in tax
cuts last week intended to safeguard Latin America’s biggest
economy from the spreading European debt crisis.  The currency advanced 0.3 percent to 1.7860 per dollar.  Canada  Strength  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will be the only
central bank leader in the Group of 10 countries to raise
 interest rates  next year, according to forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg News. Inflation has  exceeded  the bank’s 2 percent
target for 11 months as the economy grows at double the pace of
the Group of Seven nations.  Canada’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to C$1.0171 per  U.S.
dollar . The currency is turning into a haven for foreign-
exchange investors shunning European turmoil and seeking the
safety of the U.S. without the budget deficits or political
gridlock.  Mexico’s peso was the best performer against the dollar
after the nation’s central bank started to auction $400 million
of reserves last week. The move was to provide liquidity and
arrest a slide in the currency, that’s made it the worst
performer in  Latin America  this year, according to an e-mailed
statement from the nation’s Currency Exchange Commission on Nov.
29.  The peso rose 0.8 percent to 13.5291 per dollar.  The pound strengthened against the dollar rising 0.3
percent to $1.5648.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 52.1 from 51.3 in October, according
to Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply . In the U.S. the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing  index  unexpectedly fell to 52 last month from
52.9 in October, the Tempe, Arizona based-group said today.  Negative Watch  Germany, France, Netherlands, Austria, Finland and
Luxembourg, the euro area’s six AAA rated countries, are among
the nations being placed on “CreditWatch negative,” pending
the result of a summit of European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P
said.  The downgrade warnings come as German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy push for a rewrite
of the EU’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation in a
demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis. With the fate
of the currency shared by the 17 euro countries at risk, Merkel
and Sarkozy presented a common platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of
EU leaders in Brussels that aims to halt the crisis now in its
third year.  “There’s cognitive disconnect between what they know they
need to and what they want to do,” said Boris Schlossberg,
director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in  New
York . “This all speaks to the ultimate truth that the European
policy makers are unwilling to recognize; that the only way to
solve this crisis is federal euro-bonds.”  Italian bonds began a bullish trend after yields dropped
below a key technical level in a move that is poised to spur the
euro higher against the dollar, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Italy’s Bonds  Yields on 10-year bonds closed below 6.27 percent today,
completing a month-long double top, said  MacNeil Curry , head of
rates and currencies technical strategy at the Bank of America
Corp. unit in New York, in a research note today. The yields
failed to rise above 7.47 percent and 7.36 percent in November
and may drop to 5.25 percent, which may push the euro higher to
$1.3678, according to Curry.  At its meeting on Dec. 8, the ECB will cut its benchmark
interest rate to 1 percent from 1.25 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  The yen fell 1.1 percent last week against nine developed
nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The dollar declined 1.2 percent.  The Japanese currency may weaken toward 79.36 versus the
dollar should it remain above support levels indicated by
ichimoku cloud analysis, Commerzbank AG said.  “The market remains underpinned by cloud support at 76.76
and 76.47,”  Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and
currency technical analysis at Commerzbank in  London , wrote in
an e-mailed report today. “We look for these supports to hold
the downside and while above here, the market will remain well-
placed for a retest of the four-year downtrend at 79.36.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  