-- 
Euro-Region Retail Sales Increased More Than Forecast in October

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-05T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/euro-region-retail-sales-increased-more-than-forecast-in-october.html
European  retail sales  rose more than
economists forecast in October, as gains in France and  Germany 
helped offset declining spending in Spain and Portugal.  Sales rose 0.4 percent from September, when they slipped
0.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.1
percent, the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  Sales  decreased 0.4 percent from a year earlier.  European households may cut spending as governments step up
austerity measures to contain the region’s fiscal crisis just as
companies start to eliminate jobs. Euro-region  unemployment  rose
to the highest in more than a decade in October and  consumer
confidence  dropped to a two-year low last month.  The  European Central Bank  will probably lower its benchmark
 interest rate  by another 25 basis points to 1 percent when
policy makers meet on Dec. 8, according to a Bloomberg survey of
57 economists. The central bank last month unexpectedly trimmed
borrowing costs and forecast a “mild recession.”  “The strong likelihood of euro-zone contraction in the
fourth quarter and darkened outlook fully warrant lower interest
rates,” said  Howard Archer , chief euro-region economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . “Interest rates could well come down
to 0.5 percent in the early months of 2012.”  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, retail sales rose 0.7
percent from September, when they advanced 0.3 percent, today’s
report showed. French sales increased 0.8 percent and  Belgium 
reported a gain of 0.4 percent. In Spain and Portugal, sales
fell 0.8 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively.  The statistics office didn’t provide monthly data for
Italy, Greece and the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  