-- 
European Banks Shares Rise After Italy Proposes Budget Cuts

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-12-05T15:52:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/european-banks-shares-advance-after-italy-proposes-budget-cuts.html
European bank shares rose after
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  proposed budget cuts and
government leaders met to discuss stricter deficit rules, easing
concern the euro area’s debt crisis will worsen.  Italy’s biggest banks climbed more than 4 percent, among
the biggest gainers in the 46-company  Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index , which advanced 2.5 percent as of 3:10
p.m. in London.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  soared as much as 16.5 percent.  Monti presented a 30 billion-euro ($40 billion) package of
austerity and growth measures in Rome today to reduce the
European Union’s second-biggest debt. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  met with French President Nicolas Sarkozy today to
develop a plan for stricter enforcement of deficit rules, which
they will discuss at a summit on Dec. 9.  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  signaled last week that the central bank
could do more if governments pushed for fiscal union.  “The markets’ reaction of the last days comes from an
increased belief policy makers want to continue with the euro
project, even if that requires an enhanced role from the
European Central Bank,” said Ronald Doeswijk, chief strategist
at Robeco Group in Rotterdam, which manages about 152 billion
euros. “News like Italy’s deficit-reduction proposals further
boosts relief.”  Italian Banks  Unicredit Spa , Italy’s biggest lender, rose 4.4 percent to
82.8 euro cents while rival  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  gained 4.5
percent to 1.36 euros.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) ,
Italy’s third-biggest bank, surged 10 percent to 30.4 cents, the
biggest intraday gain since May 2010.  Italian borrowing costs dropped to a one-month low after
Monti’s proposals for budget cuts. The yield on the 10-year
Italian bond slid to 5.96 percent as of 3:07 p.m. in  London .  The French and German governments want to have a new treaty
agreed among all euro-area countries by March, Sarkozy said
after a meeting today with Germany’s Merkel.  “We want to go on a forced march to win back the
confidence of financial markets,” Sarkozy said at a press
conference with Merkel in Paris. “We don’t have time. We are
conscience of the gravity of the situation. We want to go as
fast as possible based on this agreement between France and
Germany, that is open to others.”  KBC, Belgium’s largest bank and insurer by market value,
was the index’s biggest gainer, rising 13.9 percent to 11.40
euros. Belgium is set to get a full-time government as soon as
today, ending a record 540 days of post-election brinkmanship
between the Dutch-speaking north and French south that kindled
speculation of a national breakup at the heart of  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  