-- 
Euro Services and Manufacturing Shrink

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-05T12:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/euro-region-services-manufacturing-shrink-more-than-estimated.html
European services and manufacturing
output contracted more than initially estimated in November,
adding to signs of a deepening economic slump.  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 47 from 46.5 in October,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s below an
initial estimate of 47.2 on Nov. 23 and the third monthly
reading below 50, indicating contraction.  Europe ’s economy is edging toward a recession as
governments toughen budget cuts to contain the debt crisis just
as global export demand falters. A Chinese services index
dropped last month, adding to signs of slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea skin
creams, said on Nov. 30 it plans to cut as many as 1,000 jobs.  The surveys “make grim reading and fuel concern that the
euro zone is set for clear contraction in the fourth quarter and
is sliding back into recession,” said  Howard Archer , chief
euro-region economist at IHS Global Insight in London. He
forecasts the economy will shrink about 0.7 percent in 2012.  The euro traded at $1.3434 at 1:05 p.m. in  Frankfurt , up
0.3 percent on the day. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index increased as
much as 1.5 percent.  European Slowdown  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  dropped to 46.4 in
November from 47.1 in the previous month. A measure of services
rose to 47.5 from 46.4 in October, Markit said. That’s the third
straight month of contraction. A gauge of new orders fell, with
Italy and  Spain  showing the sharpest declines, Markit said.  The euro-region economy is showing signs of slowing after
expanding just  0.2 percent  in the third quarter. European
economic confidence dropped more than economists forecast in
November to the lowest in two years and German investors also
grew more pessimistic. Euro-region unemployment unexpectedly
increased in October to the highest in more than a decade.  Beiersdorf said last month that it is seeking to lower
expenses by 90 million euros ($121 million) annually by 2014.
 Deutsche Bank AG ,  Germany ’s largest bank, has said it will cut
500 jobs.  Companies may struggle to shore up their sales growth as
global economies weaken. China’s official manufacturing PMI
released last week fell to 49 in November from 50.4 in the
previous month, the first contraction since February 2009. U.K.
manufacturing output also shrank last month.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy,  service
industries  probably grew in November at the fastest pace in six
months. The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing industries, which account for about 90 percent of
the economy, probably rose to 53.8 last month from 52.9,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The Tempe, Arizona-based group
will release its report at 10 a.m. local time.  Euro-region gross domestic product probably fell 0.6
percent in the current quarter, said  Chris Williamson , chief
economist at Markit.  “The major  euro-zone  countries are all now contracting and
face the risk of recession,” Williamson said in an e-mailed
note. “Germany is currently seeing only a very modest downturn,
but that looks set to worsen in coming months as its
manufacturing sector -- the engine room of the region’s recovery
-- is reporting a steep low of new orders.”  European leaders are seeking ways to restore investor
confidence and prevent a state default as the crisis spreads
from periphery nations to larger member states. A collapse of
the euro would wipe 12 percent off the region’s gross domestic
product in the following two years, ING Bank NV estimates.  ‘Numerous Fronts’  Italian bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield down by the
most in almost four months, after Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
announced 30 billion euros of austerity and growth measures to
lower the nation’s debt load. Spanish 10-year bonds climbed for
a sixth day before German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy meet to discuss the region’s deficit
rules ahead of a Dec. 9 summit.  To bolster the economy, the  European Central Bank  will
probably lower its benchmark  interest rate  by another 25 basis
points to 1 percent when policy makers meet on Dec. 8, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 57 economists. The ECB last month
unexpectedly trimmed borrowing costs and forecast a “mild
recession.”  “Europe is working on numerous fronts in an attempt to
regain the trust of markets,”  Simon Smith , chief economist at
foreign-exchange broker FXPro Group Ltd. in  London , said in an
e-mailed note. “Overall, there is a great weight of expectation
on the outcome of this week’s meetings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  