-- 
Yen Strengthens After S&P Warns on European Ratings; Swiss Franc Weakens

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-12-06T11:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/euro-halts-two-day-decline-against-yen-before-debt-summit-ecb-s-meeting.html
The yen rose versus most of its major
counterparts after  Standard & Poor’s  said it may cut the credit
ratings of Germany, France and 13 other members of the euro,
spurring demand for the relative safety of Japan’s currency.  The euro pared losses as a report showed German factory
orders surged the most in 19 months in October. The  Swiss franc 
declined after a government report showed consumer prices
declined in November. Australia’s dollar fell after the central
bank reduced  interest rates  for a second month.  “We’re looking for further yen gains if the situation in
Europe deteriorates,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The yen
strengthened after the S&P announcement, which has upped the
ante on the European policy makers to come up with a more
effective response in the near-term.”  The yen gained 0.4 percent to 79.58 per Australian dollar
at 6:45 a.m. in  New York  after rising as much as 1.2 percent.
 Japan ’s currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 104.19 per euro, and
rose 0.1 percent to 77.74 per dollar. The euro was little
changed at $1.3402.  The euro area’s six AAA rated countries are among those
placed on a negative outlook, and their ratings may be cut
depending on the result of a summit of European leaders on Dec.
9, S&P said yesterday in a statement. The company said ratings
may be cut by one level for Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany,
the Netherlands and Luxembourg, and by up to two notches for the
other governments.  Merkel, Sarkozy  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy responded in a joint statement yesterday, saying
they “took note” of S&P’s move. A closer fiscal union in the
EU will “strengthen coordination of budget and economic
policy,” and promote stability and growth, the statement said.  The euro trimmed losses after  Germany ’s Economy Ministry
said factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
jumped 5.2 percent from September, when they dropped 4.6
percent. On the year, orders rose 5.4 percent.  ‘‘Interestingly the reaction in the euro has been muted”
to S&P’s announcement,  Steve Barrow , head of research for Group-
of-10 nations at Standard Bank Plc in London, wrote in a note to
clients. “This might reflect market confidence that there won’t
be a downgrade but, perhaps more likely, reflects the fact that
many traders and investors want to stay away from the market at
this very tricky time of the year.’’  The  European Central Bank  will cut its  benchmark interest
rate  to 1 percent from 1.25 percent at a policy meeting on Dec.
8, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Franc Falls  The franc declined against 13 of its 16 major counterparts
after the  Federal Statistics Office  said consumer prices
decreased 0.5 percent from a year earlier, the biggest drop
since October 2009.  The Swiss government said last week it is willing to
“examine the feasibility of supporting measures” to aid the
central bank in its defense of a 1.20 ceiling versus the euro.  “Falling prices in Switzerland, together with the real
threat of recession next year, must trigger some further bold
action from the SNB,” said Michael Derks, a market strategist
at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in  London . “The overvalued
 exchange rate  is doing enormous damage to the economy. They need
to be bold once more.”  The franc depreciated 0.3 percent to 92.30 centimes per
dollar, and weakened 0.3 percent to 1.2372 per euro.  Aussie Weakens  Australia’s currency dropped for the third time in four
days versus the greenback after the  Reserve Bank  cut its key
cash rate target by a quarter percentage-point to 4.25 percent.  The decision completed the first back-to-back easing since
February 2009. Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
said in a statement that “financing conditions have become much
more difficult, especially in Europe.”  “We’re still of the view that the RBA has scope to
potentially ease towards 3.75 percent by the end of 2012,” said
 Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Hong Kong. “The RBA continues to watch data, the global-
growth backdrop and global headwinds emanating from the European
debt crisis.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0238.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  