-- 
Europe Must Move Quickly to Head Off Bank Losses, Weinberg Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-12-05T19:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/europe-must-move-fast-to-steady-banking-system-weinberg-says-tom-keene.html
European policy makers must quickly
take more coordinated fiscal and monetary action to head off
major losses by banks amid the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
according to  Carl Weinberg  of High Frequency Economics.  Officials “have to find a way to stabilize the banking
system fast,” Weinberg said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene.
“It’s the only way out of this.”  Leaders in  Europe  should move quickly to head off bank
losses and to stimulate economic growth, said Weinberg, founder
and chief economist of Valhalla, New York-based High Frequency.  They should set up a program similar to the U.S. Treasury
Department’s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, which
provided capital to shore up banks during the U.S. financial
crisis, he said. They also should immediately adopt a monetary
policy that “prints as much money as it can,” he said.  “The end of the year is coming quickly, and when banks
close their books they will have to confess up to the losses
they’ve had on their bunds,” or German  government bonds ,
Weinberg said. “Those losses are going to be big. Balance
sheets are going to be impaired.”  The call today by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy for a rewrite of the European
Union’s governing treaties to tighten economic cooperation will
not be enough to curtail the crisis, Weinberg said.  Merkel and Sarkozy, after a meeting in Paris, presented a
common platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of EU leaders in Brussels
that aims to halt the crisis now in its third year.  Germany ’s  benchmark 10-year  security fell today, pushing
its yield up seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.20 percent. German government debt lost 0.4 percent in
November and 0.8 percent in October, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  