-- 
Ex-NYSE Euronext Chief Wins Reversal of $11 Million Verdict

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-12-06T00:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ex-nyse-euronext-president-putnam-wins-reversal-of-11-million-verdict.html
Former  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  President Gerald D. Putnam won reversal of an $11 million jury verdict in a
lawsuit accusing him and two other people of cheating a former
business partner of money from the development of the electronic
stock exchange Archipelago Holdings LLC.  An Illinois appellate panel on Dec. 2 threw out the jury’s
2009 award, ruling that Lewis Borsellino, a former business
partner and commodities trader, previously agreed to release the
defendants from liability in exchange for $250,000.  In 1998, Borsellino’s company sued companies controlled by
Putnam and Stuart and MarrGwen Townsend, with whom he had formed
Chicago Trading & Arbitrage LLC. After the case settled, he sued
again, claiming he had been misled about whether CTA money was
used to create Archipelago. Archipelago merged in 2006 with the
New York Stock Exchange creating NYSE Group Inc., now part of
New York-based NYSE Euronext.  “Borsellino not only retained payment under the release,
but also does not seek to rescind the release,” Illinois
Appellate Court Judge Robert E. Gordon wrote. “The release
barred Borsellino’s claim and we must reverse the judgment of
the trial court.”  Borsellino’s attorney,  Jon Loevy  of Chicago, said in a
voice-mail message that the appellate ruling was a mistake of
law that he expects will be rectified by the Illinois Supreme
Court.  ‘Jury’s Finding’  “Nothing in the court’s opinion disturbed the jury’s
finding that the defendants committed fraud,” Loevy said.  A lawyer for Putnam and the Townsends, Michael Pollard,
said by e-mail that he was confident the intermediate-level
appellate court ruling will withstand any further review.  “The court’s decision vindicates our clients after a
decade of litigation and reverses the outcome of a trial that
should have never taken place,” Pollard said.  The case is Borsellino v. Putnam, 2011 IL App 102242,
Illinois Appellate Court, First District, Sixth Division
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 