-- 
Texas Water Trial Pits Chemical Companies, Cities Against Cranes

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/texas-water-trial-pits-chemical-companies-cities-against-whooping-cranes.html
Texas water regulators, petrochemical
plants and lawyers for the last wild flock of whooping cranes
are facing off today in a Texas courtroom over who has first
rights to  dwindling water  from a drought-starved river.  The heart of the case is a river system stretching from
near  San Antonio , the ninth-fastest growing U.S. city, to a
marshy bay favored by both petrochemical plants and waterfowl.  Environmentalists sued water regulators on claims they let
industrial facilities, farms and cities suck the river so dry
that not enough fresh water reaches the coastline. Their suit
seeks a court-ordered plan to rebalance upstream and downstream
usage regardless of pre-existing water contracts.  “If the whooping cranes win, it will cut the water supply
by 50 percent’’ to industrial facilities and cities in this
particular watershed, said William West, general manager of the
 Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority , which sells water rights along
much of the channel. A study by the authority estimates the
economic impact of such a reduction would top $6.7 billion over
the next 50 years.  “With this lawsuit, some want the opportunity to go back
and rewrite water permits people have built on and depended on
all these years,’’ said Jerry James, environmental services
director for Victoria,  Texas , near the mouth of the Guadalupe.  Environmentalists’ demand for upstream users to sacrifice
some of their water for those downstream amounts to an
unconstitutional taking of private property without
compensation, lawyers for Texas water regulators said in court
filings.  1913 Code  Under the 1913 Texas Water Code, permits are granted on a
first-come basis. The rights are perpetual, and the user with
the most-senior water permit gets to take his entire allotment
before more-junior permit holders get a drop.  Just upstream from the  Aransas National Wildlife Refuge ,
the endangered whooping cranes’ winter home, five petrochemical
plants are almost completely dependent on river water and face
possible production cutbacks or closure if their rights are
curtailed, lawyers for the Texas Chemical Council said in court
papers. They warned that hundreds of jobs could be lost and
billions of dollars in infrastructure idled with an adverse
decision.  “It is impossible to operate an industrial facility without
a specific, reliable water supply,’’ the chemical council’s
lawyers told the judge last year. If the environmentalists
succeed, “water rights and water supply regimes now in effect
could be thrown into chaos.’’  Chemical Council  The Texas Chemical Council intervened in the lawsuit on
behalf of more than 60 Texas chemical producers, including one
the river’s largest water users,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Seadrift
plant, which was denied permission to join the litigation by
itself.  The chemical council claimed in court filings that if U.S.
District Judge Janis Graham Jack of Corpus Christi, Texas, who
presides over this case, reshuffles water rights along the
Guadalupe, water rights along other Texas rivers could also be
challenged.  The Texas coastline from the cranes’ refuge eastward to the
Louisiana border features the world’s largest concentration of
petrochemical plants and refineries, almost of all of which rely
on river water.  Texas agricultural interests tried unsuccessfully to
intervene in the case, citing similar concerns about protecting
agrarian river usage. In the case of some farms and ranches,
these water rights date back to the settling of Texas in the
1840s.  Serious Drought  The last time Texas suffered a serious drought, in 2009,
23 cranes, or 8.5 percent of the  Aransas flock , died from
factors attributed to lack of fresh water in the marsh,
according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.  Texas is currently suffering an even more severe drought,
and wildlife managers are scrambling to create artificial ponds
and feeding stations as the five-foot-tall cranes arrive at the
refuge, located about 175 miles southwest of Houston.  “We’re not trying to give the cranes the most-senior water
rights on the river,’’ Jim Blackburn, the lead environmental
attorney in the case, said in an interview. “We just want to
get them some water, because basically now they are at zero.’’  Permits held by cities and towns that rely on the Guadalupe
and Blanco rivers for water supplies and hydroelectric power
further complicate the calculus. More than a dozen communities
and utilities filed papers expressing their concerns after Jack
denied them permission to intervene.  Water Regulators  While industrial facilities, farmers and inland cities side
with the state water regulators targeted in the lawsuit, coastal
towns, seafood producers and tourism businesses have banded
together on the side of the cranes.  These coastal interests claim their livelihoods also depend
on enough fresh water reaching the coast to ensure healthy
estuaries, which serve as nurseries for many types of fish,
shrimp and waterfowl. When salinity levels rise too high in the
marshes and bays, reproduction and survival rates plummet for
many species, according to expert reports filed with the court.  After Jack blocked coastal interests from intervening in
the case, many joined the  Aransas Project , the environmental
coalition that filed the challenge.  “Estuaries are the most productive zones on the planet
-- the cradle of life -- and I think our cradle is being
robbed,’’ said  Charles Smith , a county commissioner in Aransas
County, which backs the cranes in the litigation.
“Environmental issues are economic issues to our county.’’  Jack began hearing testimony today without a jury in
federal court in  Corpus Christi . Lawyers in the case estimate
the bench trial could last two to three weeks.  The case is The Aransas Project v Bryan Shaw, 2:10-cv-0075,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Corpus
Christi).  To contact the reporter on the story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 