-- 
Mexico Peso Gains on Speculation Europe to Solve Debt Crisis

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-12-05T23:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/mexico-peso-advances-on-european-optimism-bond-yields-decline.html
Mexico ’s peso touched a three-week
high on speculation European leaders are moving closer to
resolving the region’s debt crisis and after policy makers in
the Latin American country left borrowing costs unchanged.  The peso advanced 0.8 percent to 13.5291 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 13.6363 on Dec. 2. The currency earlier rose to 13.4474,
the strongest level since Nov. 14. The peso has lost 8.8 percent
this year, the second worst performance among major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  met French President
Nicolas Sarkozy to advance a plan for stricter enforcement of
the region’s deficit rules and Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti proposed budget cuts. Mexico’s policy makers kept the
benchmark interest rate at 4.5 percent on Dec. 2 after growth in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy accelerated and the
government announced measures to support the peso.  “There’s favorable news out of Europe, the big worry a few
days ago was Italy and it’s announcing a significant fiscal
adjustment program,”  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Banco
Santander SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.
“The decision to not change  interest rates  along with the
announcement from the currency-exchange commission on the
domestic side and the news on the international front is making
it so that the peso is under less pressure.”  Mexico’s currency-exchange commission said Nov. 29 the
central bank will auction $400 million of its reserves daily at
a peso  exchange rate  at least 2 percent weaker than the previous
day’s level to arrest a slide in the currency.  Mexico’s central bank said it didn’t sell dollars or
receive offers in the three auctions it held today.  Economic Growth  The Mexican economy grew 4.5 percent in the third quarter,
up from 3.2 percent in the previous three months. Mexico
economists raised their forecasts for growth this year in a
monthly Bank of Mexico survey to 3.87 percent on Dec. 1 from
3.72 percent in the previous survey.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 declined five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
6.55 percent. The price of the security rose 0.48 centavo to
130.18 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  