-- 
Mexico’s Calderon Says Organized Crime Gangs Threaten Democracy

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-12-05T06:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/mexico-s-calderon-says-organized-crime-gangs-threaten-democracy.html
Mexico ’s President Felipe Calderon
said organized crime gangs threaten democracy and pose his
biggest challenge in returning security to the country.  “Those who say that it would’ve been better not to
confront the criminals are roundly mistaken,” he said
yesterday at a speech in Mexico City marking his fifth year in
office. “If we hadn’t done this, the criminals would have
advanced on our societies and institutions.”  Calderon said that no political party should be silent in
what he called a worrying development of organized crime groups
intervening in elections. “Crime, as I’ve said, is now also
constituting an open threat to democracy,” he said.  The Attorney General’s Office is investigating alleged
criminal intervention in the Nov. 13 elections in the western
state of Michoacan. Calderon’s sister, Luisa Maria Calderon,
lost the governorship by a narrow margin to Fausto Vallejo, the
contender for the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , known as
PRI.  The outcome of the election was affected by messages
printed in newspapers threatening voters and by threats received
by some candidates, German Tena, head of the  National Action
Party , or PAN, in Michoacan state, said in a Nov. 14 interview.  Calderon, speaking at the Campo Marte complex, defended the
use of the Army as the best option to fighting organized crime
and said he would combat drug trafficking groups until his last
day in office. During his administration, 21 of the 37 most-
wanted drug lords have been captured or killed, he said.  Unified Police Force  The president urged Congress to pass reforms to strengthen
security forces, such as a bill that would create one unified
police force for each Mexican state and do away with numerous
municipal police departments. That law “would permit us to
reduce police forces from more than 2,000 to 32, and make them
more trustworthy, strong and effective,” Calderon said.  About 43,000 people have died in drug-related violence
since Calderon began his offensive against drug cartels when
he took office Dec. 1, 2006, according to an Oct. 4 report by
the  Drug Enforcement Administration . The most recent evidence
includes the discovery of  26 dead  in Guadalajara in abandoned
trucks last month and an arson attack on a casino that killed 52
people in Monterrey in August.  Calderon’s  PAN  is facing a strong opponent in next July’s
presidential race. The PRI, which ruled Mexico for over seven
decades until Vicente Fox took the presidency in 2000, is ahead
in most public opinion polls.  Growing Economy  Calderon said that while facing the worst crisis in recent
history, Mexico has maintained a stable economy and has grown
more competitive globally. The country created 815,000 jobs so
far this year, Calderon added.  The president said that structural reforms his party has
been pushing, such as a bill that would make it easier to hire
and fire employees, is essential. It is “unpardonable” that
Mexico is denied these economic reforms that are so necessary to
increase employment in Mexico, Calderon said.  Mexico’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged Dec. 2 at 4.50 percent for a 23rd straight meeting
after economic growth picked up and a weaker peso threatened to
spur inflation, offsetting concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
damp a global expansion.  Policy makers, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, reiterated
that the central bank is open to cut rates if global easing
continues.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy grew 4.5
percent in the third quarter, up from 3.2 percent in the
previous three months, even as growth in the U.S., its largest
trading partner, remained sluggish.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  