-- 
Experimental Vaccine Against Ebola Fever Protects Mice From Deadly Virus

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-12-05T21:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/experimental-vaccine-against-ebola-fever-protects-mice-from-deadly-virus.html
An experimental vaccine grown in
tobacco plants against deadly Ebola hemorrhagic fever protected
more than 80 percent of mice given a lethal dose of the virus,
and may protect humans as well, researchers said.  The vaccine, unlike previous experimental vaccines, is also
stable enough to stockpile in case of bioterrorism, according to
the study in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences.  The next step is to test it in nonhuman primates.  Ebola, first identified in 1976 in  Sudan  and Zaire, which
is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, is among the most
lethal diseases known to humans, according to the  World Health
Organization . Some species of the virus cause deaths in as much
as 90 percent of all people who are clinically ill. Once a human
is infected, there is no cure.  “If Ebola is ever deliberately introduced as a
bioterrorism agent, we would pull this out and begin using it,”
said Charles Arntzen, a vaccine specialist at  Arizona State
University  in Tempe,  Arizona , and an author of the study, in a
telephone interview.  The vaccine was created using a tobacco plant, by
introducing a protein from the outside of the virus into the
plant. The resulting product is an “immune complex,” a
combination of the virus protein and an antibody, designed to
spur the body’s defenses against the infection. Traditional
vaccines are made from weakened or inactivated viruses.  Researchers gave the mice the vaccine along with a chemical
to prompt the immune system to create more antibodies to the
virus, Arntzen said.  Earlier Efforts  Previous efforts at Ebola vaccines introduced the protein
from the surface of the virus to other viruses,  Arntzen  said.
Unfortunately, those vaccines decomposed over time, losing their
effectiveness and making them unsuitable candidates for
stockpiling.  Should the vaccine work and be approved for human use, it
probably will also be used in  Africa , around Ebola outbreaks,
according to Arntzen.  The incubation period for Ebola is 2 to 21 days, according
to the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Then, a
patient has a fever, headache, rash, muscle aches, sore throat
and weakness. That’s followed by diarrhea, vomiting, and stomach
pain. Some patients have red eyes and bleed through the skin.  No case of Ebola in humans has ever been reported in the
U.S., although people have been infected in the  Democratic
Republic  of the Congo, Gabon, Sudan, the  Ivory Coast ,  Uganda ,
and the Republic of the Congo.  After vaccinating the mice four times in 56 days, the
animals were sent to the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute,
where they kept for two weeks before being given a dose of Ebola
that is usually lethal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  