-- 
Express Scripts, Medco Tout Cost Savings Before U.S. Senate Merger Hearing

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/express-scripts-medco-tout-cost-savings-before-u-s-senate-merger-hearing.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  and  Medco Health
Solutions Inc. (MHS)  save tens of billions of dollars in annual drug
costs, according to a report released before today’s  U.S. Senate 
hearing on the companies’ planned $29.1 billion merger.  While the company-funded study touts the advantages of the
proposed deal, three Republican senators raised concerns the
merger may reduce competition as opponents and supporters
increased their debate about the transaction.  Express Scripts, of  St. Louis , agreed in July to acquire
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco. The deal requires
approval from the  Federal Trade Commission . The pharmacy-benefit
managers save health-plan sponsors and consumers as much as $87
billion in annual prescription-drug costs, according to a
Compass Lexecon study released yesterday and funded by the
companies.  “This study shows the economic benefits created by PBMs
today, the role that PBMs should play in constraining rising
health-care costs in the future and the role the merger of
 Express Scripts  and Medco can play in accelerating those
savings,” Jonathan Orszag, the study’s lead author, said in a
 statement  that accompanied the report. Orszag, senior managing
director at Washington-based Compass, served as an economic
policy adviser to former president  Bill Clinton .  The company-sponsored report “overlooks the considerations
that should be driving the conversation” about the proposed
merger, said  David Balto , a Washington-based antitrust attorney
representing consumer groups, business organizations and
specialty pharmacies who oppose the deal.  ‘Old Data’  “The report relies almost exclusively on old data and old
government reports, including reports from 2002 and 2003,”
Balto said yesterday in an e-mail. “The entire landscape of the
PBM industry has changed dramatically since these reports were
released.”  Pharmacy-benefits managers act as middlemen for drugmakers,
pharmacies and health-plan sponsors, negotiating prices and
managing the use of drugs by patients. Their profits are tied to
cutting their clients’ drug costs.  Antitrust regulators should conduct a “thorough and
complete investigation” in deciding whether to clear the
purchase, Republican Senators  Saxby Chambliss  and Johnny Isakson, both of Georgia, and Jerry Moran of Kansas said Dec. 2
in a  letter  to FTC Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz. The Senate
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee is scheduled to discuss the
proposed deal at a hearing today.  Controlling the Market  The combined company may control 60 percent of the mail-
order prescription market and 50 percent of the market for
specialty drugs that treat complex illnesses, the lawmakers
said. The Dec. 2 letter was released yesterday by the National
Community Pharmacists Association, a trade group that opposes
the merger. Chambliss, Isakson and Moran are among 27 lawmakers
who have raised concerns about the deal, the group said.  “This merger would reduce patient choice and access to
pharmacy services and ultimately result in higher prescription
drug costs,” Douglas Hoey, chief executive officer of
Alexandria, Virginia-based NCPA, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The Medco purchase has drawn support from seven members of
the Congressional Black Caucus who told the FTC last week that
the combined company may boost competition, drive down health-
care costs and improve access to critical drug therapies.  “It is our understanding that businesses would have plenty
of competitive choices post-merger, and the combined Express
Scripts-Medco will be fully subject to competitive pressures
that will help ensure value-based pricing and service,” the
seven House Democrats, led by Representative Edolphus Towns of
 New York , said in a Nov. 30 letter to Leibowitz.  Anti-tax activists  Grover Norquist , president of Americans
for  Tax Reform , and Duane Parde, president of the National
Taxpayers Union, also backed the merger in letters sent last
week to Senator Herb Kohl, the Wisconsin Democrat who heads the
Judiciary panel’s antitrust subcommittee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 