-- 
MF Global Holdings Should Give Priority to Brokerage Claims, Funds Say

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-05T18:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/mf-global-holdings-should-give-priority-to-brokerage-claims-funds-say.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. should give
priority to brokerage claims, funds including Sapere Wealth
Management LLC told a federal judge today in court papers.  They requested the court rearrange MF Global’s bankruptcy
so that commodity customers of its brokerage get priority for
their claims.  Changing the parent’s bankruptcy to benefit customers of
the MF Global Inc. brokerage would affect the judge’s decisions
on the parent’s use of cash, Sapere said. The parent currently
has permission to use the cash until Dec. 9, when the judge is
due to revisit the matter.  The company needs the money to pay employees and cover real
estate and technology costs, according to court papers.
Projected cash outflows for the company and affiliates are $11.8
million through Jan. 6 and would leave a balance available for
use of $3 million on that day, according to filings.  James Giddens, the trustee liquidating the brokerage, has
transferred about 38,000 commodity accounts to other firms, and
said he plans to sell 330 securities accounts. Three transfers
of collateral made and pending will give commodity customers
about $4 billion of their assets, according to court filings.  The shortfall in the MF Global brokerage’s U.S. segregated
customer accounts may exceed $1.2 billion, more than double what
was previously expected, Giddens has said. That would mean
customer accounts are missing about 22 percent of their total of
$5.4 billion.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  