-- 
FAA Chief Randy Babbitt Put on Leave After Dec. 3 Arrest for Drunk Driving

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-12-05T22:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/faa-chief-randy-babbitt-put-on-leave-after-dec-3-arrest-for-drunk-driving.html
Federal Aviation Administrator  Randy Babbitt  has taken a leave of absence and his employment status
is under review after he was charged with driving while
intoxicated Dec. 3, the U.S. Department of Transportation said.  Babbitt, 65, was arrested in a Washington suburb after
being spotted driving on the wrong side of the road, police in
Fairfax, Virginia, said in a statement.  Transportation Department officials and President  Barack Obama  learned of Babbitt’s arrest today, according to the
department’s statement and  Jay Carney , the White House press
secretary. Carney, at his daily briefing with reporters,
declined to say whether Obama would seek Babbitt’s resignation.  “I’m just devastated,” Representative  John Mica , the
Florida Republican who’s chairman of the House transportation
committee, said in a telephone interview. “I’ve worked with
him. He’s one of the best people the administration has had. He
has to be held responsible but by the same token, he’s a
valuable and competent administrator.”  The leave “couldn’t come at a worse time” with the House
and Senate trying to agree on long-term legislation to fund the
FAA, Mica said.  Deputy Administrator Michael Huerta, who has been in his
role since June 2010, will serve as acting FAA leader, the
Transportation Department said.  Alcohol Infractions  The arrest occurred on a four-lane street less than 10
miles from Babbitt’s home in Reston,  Virginia , the police
statement said.  Police “determined that he was under the influence of
alcohol,” the statement said. It did not say what Babbitt’s
blood-alcohol content was. Babbitt was alone at the time of the
arrest and “cooperated fully” with police, it said.  As FAA administrator, Babbitt is in charge of recommending
disciplinary action against air-traffic controllers accused of
abusing alcohol or drugs.  Controllers who have a blood-alcohol content above 0.04
percent, or half the legal limit for driving in most states,
when tested at work face termination, according to a table of
FAA penalties.  A Bloomberg review earlier this year found that the agency
didn’t carry out proposed terminations of controllers in two-
thirds of cases since October 2009 involving drug or alcohol
violations. Most employees were allowed to seek rehabilitation
if there were no additional violations, or they accepted a
lesser penalty, according to FAA data.  Licensed airline pilots must notify the FAA within 60 days
if they are convicted of a drunk-driving offense, according to
the agency’s website. Babbitt has a current airline transport
pilot’s license, according to the FAA’s pilot database.  Sleeping Controllers  Babbitt’s tenure has been marked by smoother labor
relations with air-traffic controllers and proposals to improve
safety that have been opposed by the  airline industry .  Earlier this year, nine air-traffic controllers were
reported to have fallen asleep or been unresponsive to radio
calls in a series of incidents at FAA facilities.  Babbitt and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood last year
proposed that airline pilot shifts be restricted to prevent
fatigue. The regulation has been opposed by airlines, which say
it isn’t needed and will be too expensive.  Babbitt was a pilot at the now-defunct Eastern Airlines
Inc., where he flew for 25 years, according to his FAA
biography. He became president of the Air Line Pilots
Association union, the largest pilot union in the U.S.  He was nominated by Obama for a five-year term as FAA
administrator and sworn in on June 1, 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  