-- 
Fed’s Evans Says ‘Imperative’ for Policy Makers to Escape Liquidity Trap

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-12-05T18:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/fed-s-evans-says-imperative-for-policy-makers-to-escape-liquidity-trap.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said further monetary stimulus is needed
now to help the U.S. economy escape from a “liquidity trap.”  “There is simply too much at stake for us to be
excessively complacent while the economy is in such dire
shape,” Evans said in prepared remarks for a speech today in
Muncie,  Indiana . “It is imperative to undertake action now.”  Evans, 53, voted against the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s November decision to maintain its level of stimulus,
casting the U.S. central bank’s first dissent in favor of
further easing since December 2007. His vote contrasted with
those by three of his colleagues, Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher ,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis, who dissented against further
easing in August and September.  Evans renewed his calls for the Fed to pledge to hold
interest rates exceptionally low until unemployment comes down,
so long as inflation in the medium term does not breach 3
percent. Evans said that such a policy represents a “middle
ground” between economists who believe extraordinary actions
are needed to escape a liquidity trap and those who believe that
structural changes to the economy will cause monetary policy to
increase inflation.  ‘Right Fundamentals’  “Monetary policy can only do so much,” Evans said in
response to audience questions, citing conditions in the
mortgage market that are preventing many homeowners from
refinancing their mortgages. “I think it’s important for all
public policies to be focused on what can help provide the
right fundamentals for the economy,” Evans said.  Fed policy makers “have been disappointed so many times in
putting a more optimistic forecast forward,” he said in the
question-and-answer session. “I’ve come to the opinion that the
financial crisis has imparted way more headwinds for our entire
economy.”  “Suppose the structural impediments scenario turns out to
be correct,” Evans said earlier in his speech. “In this case,
inflation will rise more quickly and without any improvements to
the real side of the economy. In such an adverse situation, the
inflation safeguard triggers an exit from the now-evident
excessive policy accommodation before inflation expectations
become unhinged.”  By unwinding stimulus at 3 percent inflation, policy makers
would “know that we had made our best effort,” Evans said at
the Ball State University Center for Business and Economic
Research “Annual Outlook Luncheon.”  Consistent Proposal  Evans said that his proposal is “consistent” with the
most recent research, “which shows that improved economic
performance during a liquidity trap requires the central bank,
if necessary, to allow inflation to run higher than its target
for some time over the medium term.”  In a liquidity trap, additions to the  money supply  fail to
stimulate the economy. By raising inflation, the Fed can further
lower real  interest rates  and discourage excess saving.  Fed policy makers are considering changing the way they
communicate their policy goals and economic forecasts to the
public. Fed vice chairman Janet Yellen said in an Oct. 21 speech
that Evans’ proposal is “potentially promising.”  Moderate Inflation  Evans said that inflation is “likely to remain moderate
over the foreseeable future.” Forecasts released after the
Fed’s Nov. 1-2 policy meeting show that policy makers expect
inflation to settle between 1.5 percent and 2 percent in coming
years. “My own assessment is that inflation will be at the
lower end of these ranges,” he said.  The Department of Labor reported Dec. 2 that the economy
added 120,000 jobs in November and the  unemployment rate  dropped
to 8.6 percent from 9 percent in October, in part because people
dropped out of the  labor force .  “Without new developments or changes in policy, I don’t
believe the  U.S. economy  is poised to achieve escape velocity
anytime soon,” said Evans, who represents a five-state district
with some of the highest U.S. jobless rates.  Michigan  had 10.6 percent unemployment in October and
Illinois had 10.1 percent. Nevada had the highest unemployment
that month at 13.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Muncie, Indiana at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  