-- 
Fed’s Stress Tests Won’t Fix a Flawed Financial System: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-05T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/federal-reserve-s-stress-tests-won-t-fix-a-flawed-financial-system-view.html
Regulators are making a valiant
effort to ensure that big U.S. banks can survive the kind of
shock the deepening European sovereign-debt crisis could
deliver. If only the same were true for the broader U.S.
financial system.  In a bid to restore crumbling confidence in the banking
sector, and in compliance with the new Dodd-Frank financial
legislation, the  Federal Reserve  is building an improved version
of one of its most effective tools: stress tests designed to
assess banks’ ability to withstand a market rout and a punishing
recession.  Such tests played a crucial role in ending the market panic
of 2009 -- an impressive feat given how lenient they actually
proved to be. Back then, the  tests ’ worst-case scenario foresaw
an average U.S. unemployment rate of 8.9 percent for 2009,
falling short of the actual 9.3 percent. Nonetheless, the added
clarity on the state of the financial system -- together with
government capital injections -- helped bank stocks rebound more
than 80 percent in the six months after the tests were announced
in late February.  This time around, the Fed is subjecting the 31 largest U.S.
banks to a much more daunting hypothetical future. Its stress
 scenario  includes a 52 percent drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , a 21 percent decline in  house prices , an  unemployment
rate  of 13 percent and a contraction of more than 5 percent in
the  U.S. economy  -- all consistent with the kind of disaster a
disorderly sovereign default or a major bank failure in Europe
could deliver. If banks fail the test, the Fed can require them
to withhold dividends, end stock buybacks or take other measures
to raise their capital levels.  Consternation  The severity of the tests will undoubtedly create some
consternation. JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  has already complained about the Fed’s meddling.
That’s fine. If bank executives aren’t doing the tests on their
own, they should be. And if stockholders haven’t put in enough
money to absorb potential losses, they shouldn’t be taking money
out through dividends and share buybacks.  The bank tests’ credibility contrasts sharply with the lack
of progress in other areas where financial reform is needed.
Consider money-market mutual funds, which  hold  some $2.6
trillion in U.S. savings and may be the country’s greatest point
of vulnerability to  Europe . Research by  Fitch Ratings  suggests
the funds have more than a third of that money invested in the
debt of European companies. As a result, a major European
financial firm’s bankruptcy could cause funds to break their
promise to return at least a dollar for each dollar invested.
Even one such incident could trigger mass withdrawals, crippling
the short-term lending markets on which U.S. companies depend to
pay their workers and buy supplies.  The Dodd-Frank law, in its efforts to end taxpayer-funded
bailouts, has actually made the U.S. more vulnerable to such a
money-market disaster. Under the legislation, the  U.S. Treasury 
can no longer guarantee money-market investments the way it did
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 --
a move that stopped a run on the funds. The Securities and
Exchange Commission has rightly suggested solving the problem by
setting capital standards for the funds, or by requiring them to
adopt a floating share price, but it hasn’t yet issued a formal
proposal.  Bloomberg View columnist  Jonathan Weil  points out another
big flaw: Dodd-Frank prevents the government from guaranteeing,
as it did with the 2009 Troubled Asset Relief Program, that weak
banks will get the capital they need. At the same time,
regulators have yet to reach agreement with their foreign
counterparts on how to take over and dismantle a large bank with
international operations. As a result, if such an institution
fails the stress tests and proves unable to raise its own
capital, the repercussions could be much worse than they were
when Lehman went down.  Even with the best of stress tests, the country’s financial
system remains riddled with weaknesses more than three years
after its near-collapse. Unless the obvious flaws are fixed, no
legislation can credibly claim to protect taxpayers, and risking
their money in government bailouts will remain the only way to
avert a more painful and expensive outcome.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 