-- 
FHA Unlikely to Follow Fannie Mae Offering Refinancing Aid, Barclays Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-12-05T18:09:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/fha-unlikely-to-follow-fannie-mae-on-refinancing-assistance-barclays-says.html
The  Federal Housing Administration  is
unlikely to change its stance of forcing homeowners with older
mortgages to pay larger insurance premiums in refinancings as
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  loosen their rules to help borrowers
lower their payments, according to Barclays Capital.  The FHA, which backs about a third of new U.S. mortgages,
boosted its annual premiums in two steps starting in October
2010 as it seeks to avoid tapping taxpayers for support. For
borrowers with as little as 3.5 percent in down payments or home
equity, the cost rose to 1.15 percent from 0.55 percent.  While a “grandfathering” of the previous premiums for
borrowers paying them would be analogous to the U.S. trying to
stoke refinancing among loans guaranteed by government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the move would cost the FHA about 3
cents in revenue for each $1 refinanced, Derek Chen, a  Barclays
Capital  analyst, wrote in a report dated Dec. 2.  “It is not clear that these losses would be offset” by a
reduction in the agency’s excepted default costs, Chen, a New
York-based mortgage-bond analyst, wrote in the report. Unlike
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac borrowers, homeowners with FHA loans
also are viewed as not suffering from a lack of “credit
availability” because they can often  refinance  without
appraisals or new underwriting, he added.  Boost Refinancings  The report underscores how the FHA, whose financial
strength is being scrutinized after a drop in its reserves, has
failed to join in a U.S. government push to boost refinancings
as the  Federal Reserve  helps to hold  home-loan rates  at about
record lows. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac began detailing planned
adjustments to their Home Affordable Refinance Program in
October, following President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to “help
more people refinance” in a speech to Congress a month earlier.  Officials are “studying” the potential effects on
borrowers and the FHA’s insurance fund from any decision to
maintain the agency’s premiums in a refinancing, Brian Sullivan,
a spokesman for the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
which oversees the FHA, said in an e-mail.  In an October interview, Robert C. Ryan, a senior adviser
to HUD’s head, said that many borrowers with the agency’s
insurance can save money even with the higher costs because of
how much loan rates have fallen.  The average rate on a new 30-year FHA loan fell last week
to 4.18 percent, or 0.01 percentage point from a record low set
three weeks earlier, after reaching as high as 5.88 percent in
April 2010, according to Mortgage Bankers Association data. The
agency, whose insurance mainly helps protect investors in Ginnie
Mae mortgage bonds, also charges consumers 1 percent upfront.  Standards ‘Too Loose’  Chen assigned a “low probability” to changes to the FHA
premium policy, which would hurt mortgage-bond investors by
increasing prepayments. The agency is similarly unlikely to
reverse recent rules that make it harder for borrowers to
qualify when adding closing costs to balances, and require
lenders to prove new loans help consumers, he said.  The FHA has lagged behind Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in
tightening credit after the housing slump, so “the general
impression is that current pricing and underwriting standards
are still too loose, rather than too tight,” he said.  More than 2 million FHA loans were used to buy homes in the
two years before the annual premium increases, according to data
in the agency’s  annual report  to Congress. It seems wrong to not
help those homeowners, who tried to participate in a real estate
recovery and will cost taxpayers if they default, said Michael Moskowitz, president of New York-based lender Equity Now Inc.  Borrowers Pay Premiums  “Those people are already an FHA risk already, all you’re
doing is reducing it going forward,” he said in a telephone
interview.  The FHA’s insurance fund is fed from premiums paid by
borrowers. Last month, an independent actuarial analysis
concluded that the net worth of the fund stood a 50 percent
chance of falling to zero or near zero, which could force it to
seek taxpayer support for the first time.  The agency’s capital ratio, a measure of the FHA’s Mutual
Mortgage Insurance fund’s ability to withstand losses, fell to
0.24 percent from 0.5 percent a year earlier and 3 percent in
2008. The FHA has failed to meet the legal minimum 2 percent
ratio for three straight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  