-- 
Finland’s Economic Growth Tops Euro Peers

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-12-05T08:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/finland-s-economic-growth-tops-euro-peers.html
Finland ’s economy grew faster last
quarter than the average for the 17-nation single currency bloc,
which may face a recession as the sovereign-debt crisis deepens.  Finland’s third-quarter  gross domestic product  adjusted for
seasonal variations grew 0.9 percent from the three months
through June, compared with a revised 0.1 percent growth in the
second quarter, Helsinki-based  Statistics Finland  said on its
website today. In the year, GDP adjusted for working days
increased 2.7 percent.  Finland’s economy is expanding at about four times the pace
of the average in the euro area, which grew 0.2 percent in the
three months through September as the debt crisis erodes demand,
according to preliminary data by the European statistics office
on Nov. 15.  The euro area faces a recession that will reach all parts
of the bloc if policy makers fail to hammer out a response to
the crisis this week, European Commissioner for Economic and
Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said in an interview on Finland’s YLE
TV1 last night.  Germany ’s GDP grew 0.5 percent last quarter from the prior
period as the  Europe ’s largest economy shows signs of being
sucked into the region’s crisis. Finland has continued to grow
faster than the rest of the euro region as consumers continued
spending.  Private Consumption  “What surprised me this year is how strongly our private
consumption has grown,” Pasi Kuoppamaeki, chief economist at
Sampo Bank, a unit of  Danske Bank A/S , said in a phone interview
today. “Our domestic markets are robust compared to the euro
area average.”  Finland’s economy expanded at the fastest pace since the
end of last year, growing at triple the pace indicated by
preliminary data. Statistics Finland said Nov. 15 seasonally
adjusted GDP rose 0.3 percent in the third quarter from the
prior three months and 2.7 percent from a year earlier, adjusted
for the number of working days.  Finland’s  unemployment rate  fell to 7 percent in October
from 7.4 percent a year ago. Joblessness was 9.8 percent in May,
the month when the unadjusted rate tends to peak.  Consumer
confidence  was at 1.5 last month, near the lowest since early
2009.  “Employment has held up even as consumer confidence has
waned,” Kuoppamaeki said. “That’s boosting domestic demand.”  Third-quarter growth was driven by 1.1 percent quarterly
growth in private service production and 1.6 percent expansion
in construction, Statistics Finland said. Private consumption
added 0.5 percent from the prior period. Manufacturing fell 0.6
percent in the quarter and electronics shrank 6.9 percent from
the prior period.  Slowing  exports  are probably a sign Finland’s economy is
losing steam, Kuoppamaeki said. The country may even face a
“technical recession” next year, meaning a couple of quarters
of “slight” contraction, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  