-- 
France’s Hollande Woos Germany’s SPD to Rewrite ECB Rulebook

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-12-05T15:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/france-s-hollande-woos-germany-s-spd-to-rewrite-ecb-rulebook.html
The opposition socialist parties of
 France  and Germany should broaden the  European Central Bank ’s
mandate to influence economic policy if they come to power,
Socialist Party presidential candidate  Francois Hollande  said.  France’s Socialists and Germany’s Social Democrats, facing
national elections in 2012 and 2013, should plan ahead to widen
the ECB’s power to fight the debt crisis, Hollande said today in
an address to German “comrades” in Berlin. He is leading polls
before the May election and the SPD is seeking to win the
September 2013 vote.  “I know how much you hold dear the rules on the
independence” of the ECB, Hollande told delegates at the German
socialists’ annual convention. “But equally I want it to take
more notice of the situation in the world of the real economy.”
The ECB must use its powers “fully” to combat the crisis,
“expanding its role as a credit source to tackle speculation
efficiently,” he said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB has prevented the breakup of the
euro,“having been forced to assume a political role in face of
the failure” of euro-region leaders to contain the crisis, the
SPD said in a resolution released at its conference yesterday.
The bank “will continue to have a central responsibility” in
the crisis, the party said.  Hollande would defeat President  Nicolas Sarkozy  58 percent
to 42 percent if the second round of the presidential vote were
held now, according to a BVA poll published on Nov. 22.  The SPD, led by party Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel , trailed
Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union by 25 percent to 35
percent in a Nov. 25 Stern magazine poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  