-- 
Germany Won’t Prevent Bundesbank From Lending Crisis-Fighting Funds to IMF

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-12-05T15:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/germany-won-t-prevent-bundesbank-from-lending-crisis-fighting-funds-to-imf.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government won’t stand in the way of Bundesbank help to fight
the debt crisis by means of loans channeled through the
 International Monetary Fund , a senior Merkel ally said.  Germany  is keen for the IMF to adopt a “decisive role” in
combating the crisis alongside the European rescue fund, Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , said today in a telephone interview.  “If the IMF says it needs more money, then it’s up to the
Bundesbank to decide this in Germany’s case,” he said. “It’s
not for lawmakers nor Frau Merkel’s government to decide or to
interfere.” Lawmakers “would have a problem if political
pressure was openly brought to bear on the bank, not with its
decision.”  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed at a
meeting in Paris today to press fellow leaders at a Dec. 8-9
European Union summit to lock in tighter economic cooperation as
a first step to snuff out the crisis now in its third year.  Euro-area finance ministers gave the go-ahead last week for
work on a proposal to recycle central bank loans through the IMF
that may deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($269 billion) to
fight the crisis, two people familiar with the negotiations
said.  ‘Bigger Role’  “We’d be really pleased to have the IMF take on a bigger
role,” Meister said. “We as Germans have always sought a
decisive role for the IMF in fighting this crisis.”  The Bundesbank may be prepared to make loans to the IMF to
combat the crisis, the Die Welt newspaper reported today, citing
a November letter from the central bank’s president, Jens Weidmann, to German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen .
Article 123 of European rules regulating the single currency
bans central banks from directly funneling cash to states to
plug deficits, Die Welt said.  A spokeswoman for the Bundesbank declined to comment on the
Die Welt report or on Meister’s opinion.  The need for a fresh anti-crisis measures became apparent
as the effort to boost the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility to 1 trillion euros fell short. Central bank
loans may be linked to adoption of tougher budget policing and
tighter economic ties as espoused by Merkel and Sarkozy.  ‘Sensible Combination’  “I believe that with the EFSF we have quite enough --
maybe not as much money as some want, but we do have 250 billion
euros there, we have a lot more flexibility,” Merkel told
reporters in Paris today. “This money should also be used in a
sensible combination with the IMF, if it is needed. So we are
not standing here without any solution.”  Merkel has been at the forefront of efforts to strive for
“fiscal union” through European treaty changes to create
automatic, court-enforced sanctions on euro members that breach
limits of 3 percent of gross domestic product on deficits and 60
percent of GDP on debt.  The chancellor also led the charge for private bondholders
to automatically share in any losses under the permanent rescue
fund from 2013, the European Stability Mechanism. While talks
are ongoing about possible changes to the ESM, there are “very
good reasons” for including clauses that force the private
sector to share in any losses, Merkel said Dec. 2  Meister stepped up German resistance to watering down the
private-sector involvement, saying there is an “urgent need”
to move to a compulsory role from voluntary involvement as with
 Greece .  “We need to give markets very clear information on pricing
in risks when buying new euro region sovereign bonds,” Meister
said. “That’s where collective action clauses come in and with
them clear procedure for investors in case a sovereign state
should face insolvency. This should not be changed, that is our
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  