-- 
Spanish, Italian Bonds Advance on Europe Optimism; German Bunds Decline

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-05T16:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/german-bonds-fall-as-monti-announces-austerity-plans-damping-safety-bid.html
Spanish  bonds  rose, pushing 10-year
yields down to the lowest in seven weeks, on optimism European
leaders are moving closer to agreeing on a plan to contain the
region’s debt crisis.  Italian 10-year yields dropped the most in almost four
months after Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced 30 billion
euros ($40.4 billion) of measures to cut the nation’s debt load.
Belgian and French securities also rallied as  Germany  Chancellor
Angela Merkel and France’s President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pushed for
a rewrite of the European Union’s governing treaties before a
summit of European leaders on Dec. 9. Germany and the
Netherlands auctioned bills at record low yields today. Greek
notes declined.  “The market is betting a lot on a positive outcome at the
end of the week after the leaders’ summit and that’s supporting
peripheral bonds,” said Gianluca Ziglio, a London-based
interest-rate strategist at UBS AG. “The Italian budget
measures seem to go in the right direction, especially in terms
of the size.”  Spain ’s 10-year yield fell 56 basis points, or 0.56
percentage point, to 5.12 percent at 4:29 p.m. London time after
dropping to 5.09 percent, the lowest since Oct. 12. The 5.5
percent bond due in April 2021 climbed 4.04, or 40.40 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 102.72. Two-year rates tumbled 67
basis points to 3.90 percent.  Merkel and Sarkozy are seeking to tighten European
cooperation as a first step to ending the two-year old debt
crisis. Sarkozy told reporters in Paris that the two nations
agreed to back automatic penalties for deficit violators, a
European monetary fund and monthly summit meetings. He said they
aimed to reach consensus by March.  Draghi Signal  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled on Dec. 1 the central
bank may do more to fight the crisis as long as governments push
the euro area toward a fiscal union. Merkel won’t stand in the
way of Bundesbank help to fight the debt crisis with loans
channeled through the  International Monetary Fund , Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , said today.  Italy’s 10-year yield declined 72 basis points to 5.96
percent after dropping as much as 75 basis points, the most
since Aug. 8 when the  European Central Bank  was said to begin
buying the nation’s debt. Two-year yields fell 1.06 percentage
points to 5.51 percent.  Monti Package  Monti’s Cabinet yesterday approved a package of austerity
and growth measures to overhaul the country’s pension system,
crack down on  tax evasion , cut the cost of government and
provide incentives for companies to hire young workers.  “Without this package  Italy  would collapse and would end
up in a situation similar to that of Greece -- a country which
we have a lot of sympathy for, but that we don’t want to
emulate,” Monti said today at a press conference in  Rome .  Spanish and Italian bonds were the most volatile among
euro-area markets today, according to measures of 10-year debt,
two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.  Ten-year Belgian yields dropped 31 basis points to 4.34
percent, and similar-maturity French rates declined 14 basis
points to 3.13 percent.  German  bunds  fell for the first time in four days as stock
gains damped demand for safer assets. The 10-year yield climbed
six basis points to 2.20 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index  of shares advanced 1 percent,
and the euro strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.3461.  ECB Meeting  The ECB will lower  interest rates  by a quarter point to 1
percent at its next policy meeting on Dec. 8, according to 52 of
57 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The central bank
currently offers unlimited funding to euro-area banks against
eligible collateral.  “I expect the ECB to cut by 25 basis points and possibly
add further liquidity supporting measures,” said Niels From,
chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “The extra
liquidity measures would support risky assets and cause
sovereign-credit spreads to tighten.” The measures would
support “the shorter end of the sovereign-credit curves, from
Italy and Spain to Belgium and  France ,” he said.  French two-year rates fell 17 basis points to 1.07 percent,
reducing the  extra yield  investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German notes by 21 basis points to 73 basis points.  German Auction  Germany sold 2.68 billion euros of six-month bills today at
a yield of 0.0005 percent. The Netherlands auctioned 1 billion
euros of three-month securities at a yield of minus 0.004
percent, the first time it has issued the debt with a negative
yield since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 2000. France
also sold bills today.  Greek two-year yields climbed to a record after Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said 100 percent participation is
needed in a voluntary debt-swap agreement to achieve a 100
billion-euro reduction in the country’s debt. Greek banks may
need as much as 40 billion euros in fresh capital, he said.  Forgiving  Greece  a portion of its debt was a “terrible
mistake,” ECB council member Athanasios Orphanides said in
Nicosia, Cyprus. “This is why the yields of European bonds are
so high,” he said.  The Greek two-year yield climbed 3.93 percentage points to
137.78 percent after rising to a record 139.89 percent. The
price fell to less than 25 percent of face value. The rate on
securities due in October 2022 climbed to 32.40 percent, with
the price dropping to 21.99 percent of face value.  Italian bonds have lost 8.3 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German debt advanced 7.4 percent,
the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  