-- 
Gingrich Scolds Pelosi for Suggesting She’d Air Ethics Charges

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/gingrich-says-trump-agrees-to-create-school-apprenticeships-.html
Former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich rebuked House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  for
suggesting she would offer details of a 1990s ethics probe
against him if he becomes the Republican presidential nominee.  Gingrich, who was reprimanded by the House in 1997 after an
ethics investigation, said members of Congress should bring
charges against Pelosi, herself a former speaker, if she follows
through on airing aspects of the probe.  “I want to thank Speaker Pelosi for what I regard as an
early Christmas gift,” said Gingrich, taking questions from
reporters in  New York  after meeting yesterday with real estate
developer  Donald Trump . “It tells you how capriciously
political that committee was that she was on it. It tells you
how tainted the outcome was that she was on it.”  Pelosi, a California Democrat, told the website Talking
Points Memo Dec. 2 that she relished the possibility that
Gingrich, who is rising in the polls, might become the
Republican nominee  “One of these days we’ll have a conversation about  Newt
Gingrich ,” she said. “I know a lot about him. I served on the
investigative committee that investigated him, four of us locked
in a room in an undisclosed location for a year. A thousand
pages of his stuff.”  She declined to say more, adding, “When the time’s
right.”  ‘Public Record’  Her spokesman,  Nadeam Elshami , said yesterday Pelosi “was
clearly referring to the extensive amount of information that is
in the public record, including the comprehensive committee
report with which the public may not be fully aware.”  Pelosi sat on the panel, equally divided between Democrats
and Republicans, that concluded Gingrich used tax-exempt
contributions for political purposes and then misled
congressional investigators about it. The charges stemmed from a
college course Gingrich taught from 1993 to 1995 that was linked
to GOPAC, his political action committee, in violation of
federal laws barring the use of tax-exempt funds for partisan
purposes.  Gingrich, 68, said yesterday he had turned over 1 million
pages of material for the investigation, and that most of the
charges against him were “repudiated as false.” He said that
his “one mistake made was a letter written by a lawyer that I
didn’t read carefully.”  ‘Condemn Her’  “I would hope the House would immediately condemn her if
she uses any material that was gathered while she was on the
Ethics Committee,” he said of Pelosi, 71.  Gingrich served in the House from 1979 to 1999 and was
speaker during his last four years in the chamber. Pelosi took
office in 1987 and was speaker from 2007 to 2011.  The two appeared together on a loveseat at the foot of the
Capitol in a strange-bedfellows 2008 television advertisement
calling for action to address  climate change , an event Gingrich
now calls “the dumbest single thing I’ve done.”  He tried at the time to avoid being paired with Pelosi,
telling former Vice President  Al Gore , who personally invited
him to participate, that appearing with her would be “simply
too problematic” given the “current political environment.”  Gingrich’s comments yesterday came after he met with Trump
and announced that the host of NBC’s reality television show
“The Apprentice,” who earlier this year considered a
presidential run, had agreed to create 10 apprenticeships to
help poor children earn money.  ‘Poorest Children’  “We’re looking to help the poorest children in America,”
Gingrich told reporters at  Manhattan ’s Union League Club after a
fundraiser. Apprenticeships in New York’s poorest schools are a
way to demonstrate the transformative power of holding a job
that pays money, he said.  Last month, he suggested before an audience at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that some poor students
in failing schools could gain work experience as janitors.  “Most of these schools ought to get rid of the unionized
janitors, have one master janitor, and pay local students to
take care of the school,” Gingrich said at Harvard. “The kids
would actually do the work, they would have cash, they would
have pride in the schools.”  Gingrich, during a campaign stop in  Iowa  last week,
reiterated his proposal, which critics have said could violate
child labor laws. “Really poor children in really poor
neighborhoods have no habits of working and have nobody around
them who works,” he said in Iowa.  Summer Reading  Gingrich said yesterday his experience in public housing
developments began several years ago with a program that paid
students $2 for each book they read over summer break.  “You’ll find remarkably few people with work experience”
in public housing projects, he said.  Gingrich holds a lead in polls of the Republican race in
Iowa, where the first votes in the nomination process will be
cast on Jan. 3. He has the support of 25 percent of likely
caucus participants in the  Iowa Poll  released Dec. 3 by the Des
Moines Register newspaper. U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas 
was next, with 18 percent, followed by former  Massachusetts 
Governor Mitt Romney at 16 percent.  Trump, 65, flirted with entering the Republican race and
then announced in May he wouldn’t. He has said he would consider
running for the presidency next year as an independent if he is
dissatisfied with the eventual Republican nominee.  Trump has met previously with some of the party’s other
candidates, including Romney, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and U.S.
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  