-- 
Global Witness Quits Kimberley Process Over Zimbabwean Diamond Shipments

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-12-05T12:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/global-witness-quits-kimberley-process-over-zimbabwe-gem-sales.html
Global Witness , the London-based
advocacy group, said it’s withdrawing from the Kimberley
Process, an organization it helped establish to monitor the sale
of so-called conflict diamonds.  The group is pulling out after the “shocking” decision by
the Kimberley Process last month to authorize exports by two
companies operating in Zimbabwe’s Marange diamond fields.
Members of Zimbabwe’s ruling party may use revenue from the area
to fund the intimidation of voters ahead of elections in the
southern African country, it said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The Kimberley Process’ refusal to confront this reality
is an outrage,” Charmian Gooch, a founding director of Global
Witness, said in the statement. “Consumers should not buy
Marange diamonds, and the industry should not supply them. All
existing contracts in the Marange fields should be canceled and
re-tendered with terms of reference which reflect international
best practice.”  Zimbabwe ’s army seized control of the Marange area in 2008,
killing about 200 miners, according to Global Witness. Smuggling
of Marange diamonds through neighboring  Mozambique  raised
concern with groups in Zimbabwe and the Las Vegas-based Rapaport
Diamond Trading Network, which said Nov. 22 it will expel
members found to have knowingly offered Marange diamonds for
sale on the RapNet Diamond Trading Network, the world’s biggest.  Boycott Meeting  The mobile phone of the current chairman of the Kimberley
Process from  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Mathieu Yamba, was
switched off when Bloomberg News called for comment. The U.S.,
which will chair the group in 2012, said in a  joint statement  on
Nov. 3 with  South Africa , next year’s vice-chair, that civil-
society groups are is an important partner in the Kimberley
Process.  Civil-society groups last month boycotted the annual
plenary meeting of the organization, which was founded in 2003,
in protest of several of its decisions, including those on
Zimbabwe.  Zimbabwe, the seventh-largest diamond producer in 2010,
will probably earn about $334 million from exports of the gems
this year, according to the state-owned Zimbabwe Mining and
Development Corp., its main producer.  Global Witness  said the Kimberley Process also failed to
deal with trade in conflict diamonds from  Ivory Coast  and was
“unwilling” to take action against breaches of the rules by
 Venezuela . It didn’t provide further details.  “Nearly nine years after the  Kimberley Process  was
launched, the sad truth is that most consumers still cannot be
sure where their diamonds come from, nor whether they are
financing armed violence or abusive regimes,” Gooch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  