-- 
Global Carbon Emissions Rose by Record Volume Last Year

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-12-05T18:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/global-carbon-emissions-rose-record-amount-in-2010-study-shows.html
The volume of  greenhouse gases  pumped
into the world’s atmosphere increased by an unprecedented amount
last year, scientists said in research published as countries
meet to discuss how to limit  climate change .  Emissions rose the equivalent of 510 million metric tons of
carbon to 9.14 billion tons in 2010, the most in records dating
to 1959, according to  data  compiled by the Global Carbon
Project, which includes  scientists  from Europe, the U.S. and
 India . That’s a 5.9 percent leap, the largest since 2003, when
they jumped 6 percent, the data show. Last year’s global
emissions were 33.5 billion tons when converted to carbon
dioxide.  Delegates from almost 200 nations started a second week of
meetings in Durban,  South Africa , today to debate ways of
limiting the gases that contribute to global warming. Climate
change is being overshadowed by concern over the European debt
crisis and U.S. economic slump, reducing the chances of an
agreement, according to the Washington-based World Resources
Institute, an environmental lobby group.  “We’re going exactly in the wrong direction for limiting
global warming,” said Corinne Le Quere, co-author of the Global
Carbon Project’s report and a director of the Tyndall Centre for
Climate Change Research at the University of East Anglia,
 England . “Governments need to develop ways to boost the economy
using renewable energy,” she said in a phone interview today.  Emission Levels Rebound  Emissions rebounded from the global financial crisis of
2008 and 2009, when greenhouse gas output temporarily decreased,
according to the study. Heat-trapping gases from the trade of
goods and services produced in emerging economies and consumed
in richer nations increased to the equivalent of 16 percent of
developed-nation emissions in 2010, from 2.5 percent in 1990.  The U.K.’s University of East Anglia was investigated last
year after stolen e-mails showed that researchers exchanged
comments about withholding data from critics seeking to
discredit their work. The university was cleared in April 2010
of malpractice by a panel of six scientists based in the U.K.,
U.S. and  Switzerland .  This year will probably be the 10th warmest on record, and
the hottest featuring the La Nina phenomenon that brings cooler
waters to the surface of the  Pacific Ocean , the  World
Meteorological Organization  said on Nov. 29.  ‘Clear Warming Trend’  “There’s clearly a warming trend. That’s supported by
other indicators such as disappearing Arctic sea ice, melting
glaciers and rising sea levels,” Peter Stott, head of climate
monitoring at the U.K. Met Office, whose own temperature
estimates feed into the WMO data, said on Nov. 29.  Delegates at the Durban talks remain divided over how to
combat growing emissions.  A lack of a global climate agreement may prompt  Europe ,
home of the largest emissions trading market, to restrict
international trade with nations that don’t commit to cutting
greenhouse gas emissions, according to World Growth, a lobby
group for economic development.  “Now it is clear the  Kyoto Protocol  has failed, we should
expect environmental NGOs to demand green trade barriers against
imports from those who would not make the cuts proposed in the
Protocol,” Alan Oxley, World Growth’s chairman, said in a
statement today. “Unilateral trade barriers like this simply
invite retaliation against EU exports and the EU would be the
biggest loser.” Oxley was Australian ambassador for GATT, or
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade between 1985 and 1989.
That’s the predecessor to the  World Trade Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  