-- 
Global Warming Fight Threatened by Debt Crisis

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-05T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/global-warming-fight-threatened-by-debt-crisis-as-kyoto-aim-starts-to-fade.html
Global warming concerns are being
pushed down the political agenda by the European debt crisis and
U.S. economic slump, reducing the chance for an accord limiting
 climate change  this week.  “The threat of worsening economic conditions is the
ghostly figure at the window for everybody,” Edward Cameron of
Washington-based World Resources Institute said in an interview
as delegates gathered for United Nations climate talks in
Durban, South Africa.  Envoys from 194 nations have scaled back ambitions for this
year’s meeting, which concludes Dec. 9. European Union leaders
are set to meet in Brussels that same day to discuss a $270
billion bailout for indebted nations. President  Barack Obama 
meets with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  this week to
discuss “global issues,” according to the White House.  Scientists have increased the urgency of their warnings as
record levels of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere last year
accelerated melting of polar ice caps and raised sea levels.
Developing nations most exposed to climate change are alarmed
rich nations are distracted just as greenhouse-gas limits in the
 Kyoto Protocol  enter their final year.  “The credit crisis in  Europe  shouldn’t be used as an
excuse for reneging on contributions to climate finance,”
Dessima Williams, Grenada’s ambassador to the UN who speaks on
behalf of the 42-member  Alliance of Small Island States , said in
an interview. “Climate change and the financial crisis were
created in the industrialized world.”  Kyoto Debate  Talks in Durban are stuck on the issue of how to extend
Kyoto, which was negotiated in 1997 and remains the only
international treaty setting out how to curb fossil fuel
emissions blamed for global warming.  Kyoto’s rules helped spur carbon trading and created the
Clean Development Mechanism, which was responsible for
generating $26.5 billion of credits and secondary trading of
$68.2 billion, accounting for 18 percent of the carbon market
since 2005, according to data from the  World Bank . Carbon prices
have tumbled in recent weeks partly because of concern the Kyoto
limits on emissions won’t be extended.  “The most direct effect of the crisis is the increased
unwillingness of finance ministers to put their hands in their
pockets,”  Henry Derwent , president of the International
Emissions Trading Association, said in an interview. “And
another effect of a downtown in the economy is that people don’t
want permits to emit.”  China vs U.S.  Developing nations led by China,  India  and  Brazil  say
another round of commitments under Kyoto are essential to keep
the climate talks on track. China and India had no targets under
that treaty and since have become two of the world’s three
biggest polluters. Japan, Canada and  Russia  have ruled out
extending Kyoto. The U.S. never ratified the pact.  The European Union, which has done the most to limit
carbon-dioxide emissions since Kyoto came into force, has said
it won’t extend the pact unless ministers sign up to a “road
map” setting a date for all nations including big developing
ones to take on mandatory targets. That demand was made as
 Italy ,  Greece  and  Spain  introduced austerity programs to curb
government debt.  “We are very, very concerned,” Edna Molewa,  South
Africa ’s lead negotiator, said in an interview. “We don’t
underestimate the fact that the world is in a recession, and
things aren’t not getting easier.”  She warned against putting climate change on the sidelines
to deal only with immediate financial problems.  $100 Billion in Aid  “Crises come and go, but the problem of climate change may
actually exacerbate the problem going forward,” she said. “It
may lead to a further crisis.”  Cameron said in spite of concerns hanging over the talks,
he’s optimistic countries can “find the political will to takes
positive steps in Durban that safeguard the climate, catalyze
green investment and stimulate the world economy.”  The talks hinge on the ability of industrial nations to
channel as much as $100 billion a year in aid to developing
nations for combating climate change.  Last week, the U.S. and  Saudi Arabia  raised concerns about
the Green Climate Fund envoys are working on in Durban,
increasing the risk the measure isn’t finished in time for the
conclusion of these talks. The week before that, a special U.S.
congressional panel failed to agree on how to slash $1.2
trillion from the federal deficit, triggering automatic spending
cuts of the same amount in 2013.  No Guarantee  U.S. lead negotiator Todd Stern said he can’t say for sure
whether the Obama administration will fulfill its promise to
provide $1 billion for forest projects from 2010 through 2012.  “I’m not going to guarantee,” he told reporters at a Nov.
22 briefing in  Washington . “We are working very hard to provide
the maximum amount that we can.”  Jonathan Pershing , who led the U.S. delegation in Durban
last week, declined to comment in public on the impact of the
economy on the talks.  Japan , which as of March had disbursed $9.7 billion of its
$15 billion short-term finance pledge, said it’s moving ahead
with commitments in the wake of this year’s earthquake, tsunami
and subsequent meltdown at the country’s Fukushima nuclear
plant.  Economic concerns “effect Japan too, but we have to
continue our efforts tackling climate change,” envoy Masahiko
Horie said in an interview. “In spite of the great disaster,
unprecedented disaster, we are exercising the utmost efforts
right now for climate change.”  European View  Lead European negotiator Artur Runge-Metzger said financial
fears make it less likely that developed countries will
strengthen emissions-reduction targets anytime soon.  “In terms of upping the ambition, it makes the debate
harder, particularly in those countries where the financial
difficulties are strongest,” he said in an interview. “That’s
a debate we will have to have with the backdrop of the current
crisis.”  Venezuelan negotiator Claudia Salerno says there’s a
palpable change in tone among the Europeans, who traditionally
have been among the most outspoken in calling for stronger
international action on climate change.  “They have a different attitude toward the climate
process,” she said in an interview. “They are more tense here
in Durban. We understand it.”  Even if ministers were able to find a way toward an
agreement in Durban, they might not be able to get leaders to
sign off on the plan at home, said  Alden Meyer , Washington-based
director of policy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. EU
leaders in Brussels will focus on the debt issue at the same
time ministers are wrapping up talks in Durban.  “European leaders are all focused on the crisis,” Meyer
said in an interview. “The question is whether leaders have a
minute to spare at the meeting about the Euro crisis to talk
about the crisis in Durban.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  