-- 
Gold Fields Says Ghana’s Windfall Tax Plans Could Halt $1 Billion Projects

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-12-05T13:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/gold-fields-says-ghana-s-tax-plans-to-alter-damang-correct-.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-biggest
producer of the metal, said Ghana’s plan to raise tariffs on
mines and introduce a windfall tax could force it to halt
expansion projects worth $1 billion in the country.  “The tax situation is a big concern,” Chief Executive
Officer  Nick Holland  said at a presentation in Johannesburg
today. “Frankly, unless we can see some flexibility on tax, I
don’t see the projects built as proposed, if at all,” he said,
referring to plans to expand the Damang and Tarkwa mines.  The West African nation will start charging a 10 percent
windfall tax on mining companies next year and boost their
corporate  tax rate  to 35 percent from 25 percent, Finance
Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  told lawmakers in his annual budget
statement Nov. 16. Companies will be allowed to write down 20
percent of  capital spending  each year for five compared with a
current 80 percent writedown on taxable income in the first year
now.  Ghana is the latest African commodity producer planning to
benefit from higher international prices for its products.
Guinea and  Zimbabwe  have sought greater stakes in mining assets
while Zambia has doubled royalties on minerals. Gold exports
from Ghana in the nine months to September were worth $3.7
billion, according to the central bank, and Duffuor said the
country earned 148.8 million cedis ($91 million) in royalties in
the same period. Gold prices have risen 23 percent in 2011.  Higher Royalties Unsustainable  “If the proposed taxes stand as is, it will make these
projects very difficult,” Holland said. “There needs to be a
better dispensation for us to proceed.” It isn’t sustainable
for Gold Fields to be paying higher royalties than other gold
producers in the country, he said, declining to elaborate on the
changes the company wants.  “There are positive signs that we may get relief on the
windfall tax and capital allowance,” Peet van Schalkwyk,
executive vice-president for the West African region, said in
the presentation.  Gold Fields on April 15 agreed to buy Iamgold Corp.’s
interests in its Tarkwa and Damang mines in  Ghana  for $667
million to increase its output and reserves. The company’s
operations in Ghana comprised 26 percent of Gold Fields’ 900,000
ounces of output in the third quarter through September.  It plans to spend initial capital of as much as $600
million to extend its life of mine at Tarkwa by 2015 and add 1
million ounces of production. The board is expected to approve
the Damang Super-pit project, which aims to double production to
450,000 ounces a year, early in 2012, Van Schalkwyk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  