-- 
Greenpeace Infiltrates French Nuclear Reactor to Highlight Security Lapses

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-05T16:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/greenpeace-activists-break-into-french-nuclear-reactor-seven-arrested.html
Greenpeace activists broke into a
nuclear reactor southeast of Paris to highlight what the
environmental group said was a lack of security at  France ’s
atomic plants.  “This is proof security measures are totally
ineffective,” Greenpeace said today in a statement after nine
members gained access to Electricite de France SA’s Nogent-sur-
Seine plant.  EDF, the operator of France’s 58 reactors, said the
intruders entered the site before dawn after cutting through a
fence that runs around the perimeter.  “There will be lessons learned,” Dominique Miniere, EDF’s
head of French nuclear reactors, told a press conference in
Paris where the company is based. “We are in the process of
improving the detection and protection systems at our sites.
We’ll see if we have to go further.”  Greenpeace and EDF have been in conflict for years over
France’s power production, more than three-quarters of which is
nuclear. Atomic safety has received more scrutiny in the
aftermath of  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic disaster, with opposition
parties in France calling for some reactors to be shut down.  “I am surprised because our plants are well-guarded,”
French Industry Minister Eric Besson said in an interview on
France Info radio in response to the break-in. “This would mean
that there was a malfunctioning and we would have to take
measures so this doesn’t happen again.”  ‘Highly Protected’  The industry and interior ministries will carry out an
“in-depth investigation,”  Besson’s office said later.  None of the campaigners breached a “highly protected
zone” where the nuclear, fuel and control installations are
located, although they did get through the first two lines of
defense, according to Miniere.  France’s nuclear regulator is carrying out safety checks on
EDF’s reactors as well as other atomic installations in France
to determine whether they are safe to operate following the
meltdown at the Japanese reactor. The audits are examining
whether the sites are able to withstand earthquakes, floods and
loss of power and cooling systems.  Their scope should be widened to test for other types of
risks to nuclear plants such as terrorist attacks, plane crashes
and computer bugs, Greenpeace said today.  Two Hours  Seven of the protesters were caught within two hours of
breaking into the plant just after 6 a.m. local time, while the
remaining two eluded capture for another two hours, according to
EDF.  “We sought to apprehend them in a peaceful way after
realizing they were Greenpeace militants,” Miniere said. “If
they were terrorists, we would have stopped them in a very
different way.”  EDF pays heavily-armed French police to protect its 19
nuclear plants including Nogent, he said. Greenpeace militants
have breached nuclear installations at least five times in
recent years, sometimes staying as long as a day to deploy
banners on coolant towers.  They were caught “much faster this time than in the
past,” said Miniere. Detection systems and cameras kept tabs on
the “highly-trained” intruders that French police had trouble
chasing because they were weighed down with heavy equipment
including arms, he said.  Greenpeace banners put up at EDF nuclear sites at Chinon
and Blayais were pulled down, the company said.  “It’s irresponsible to take risks with their lives and the
lives of others,” President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  Today’s intrusion at the Nogent-sur-Seine site follows
surprise safety inspections Nov. 30 by the atomic regulator and
lawmakers at the Blayais and Paluel reactor plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  