-- 
Icahn’s $2 Billion Man Starts Fund as Activists Shun Biotech

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/icahn-s-2-billion-man-denner-starts-own-fund-as-activists-shun-healthcare.html
Alex Denner  knows how to spot
biotechnology companies with promising drugs and make sure
investments pay off.  Working as  Carl Icahn ’s top health-care investing executive
for the past five years, Denner has targeted at least six
drugmakers from ImClone Systems Inc. to  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,
prompting sales of three. He’s generated about $2 billion in
profit for Icahn, said a person familiar with his record who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Now the 42-year-old Denner, who has a Ph.D. in biomedical
engineering, is splitting with Icahn to start his own hedge
fund. As some investors avoid health care, partly because of
regulatory hurdles, Denner’s knowledge of science and business
gives him an advantage as one of the industry’s few activists,
said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care strategist and portfolio
manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York .  “Activist investors steer away because of health-care’s
special characteristics,” he said. “It requires a special
knowledge, which Alex has.”  Denner’s expertise and persuasive management style have
facilitated Icahn’s negotiations with biotechs. The two men
first met a decade ago when both invested in ImClone, at a time
when most people were writing the company off. ImClone’s
founder, Sam Waksal, pleaded guilty in 2002 of  insider trading 
on word that regulatory approval of the company’s main drug
would be delayed. ImClone’s shares plummeted 92 percent from a
high of $73.83 in December 2001 to $6.11 in September 2002.  Value in Erbitux  Yet the experimental cancer medicine, Erbitux, was still a
good drug, according to Denner. He bought ImClone stock and
later teamed with Icahn to win board seats -- Icahn eventually
became chairman -- and they engineered ImClone’s 2008 sale to
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  for $70 a share, or $6.5
billion.  First, though, they turned around ImClone. In 2006, Icahn
named Denner head of an executive committee that ran the
company. Erbitux had won regulatory approval two years before,
and the company reported total revenue of $677.8 million the
year Icahn’s team moved in. Denner focused on making ImClone
more efficient, pushing for faster development of IMC-1121B,
which was being tested in multiple cancers and had similarities
to Genentech’s Avastin, a treatment already on the market.  Faster Process  Normally, the regulatory process involves three phases of
studies before a drug can be submitted for marketing approval,
determining safety, dosage and efficacy. Denner supported an
idea to move 1121B’s testing directly from the first phase to
the third in  breast cancer , arguing that since Avastin already
had been approved, testing could be accelerated.  The company successfully negotiated this strategy with
regulators and, when Lilly announced its acquisition of ImClone,
it cited 1121B as one of the most “promising ImClone pipeline
molecules.”  The drug, also called ramucirumab, is now in Phase 3
testing in breast, colorectal, lung, liver and gastric cancers,
according to Lilly.  Denner identifies companies whose research efforts lack
focus or whose senior executives aren’t effectively growing the
business. After buying a small stake, he typically urges
management to consider his suggestions. If they resist, he seeks
board seats to push for change and sometimes a sale of the
company.  Reliable Advice  “My impression was that Carl Icahn very much depended on
Alex and Alex’s views,” said Genzyme’s former CEO, Henri Termeer, in a telephone interview. Termeer’s company, which
makes medicines for rare diseases, was acquired by Paris-based
 Sanofi (SAN)  for $20.1 billion in February, eight months after it
added Icahn representatives.  If Icahn is the iron fist who expects corporate boards to
yield to him, Denner has been the velvet glove who smooths the
way for investments to pay off over time, according to board
members and executives who’ve dealt with both men. Denner’s
willingness to listen to others has helped him win over
directors after he gains entrée to a board following a hostile
proxy battle.  “My biggest surprise was how personable Alex is, and
funny,” said Lynn Schenk, a board member at Biogen, where the
Icahn team secured three board seats after two separate proxy
fights. “He really listens to his board colleagues and treats
opinions other than his own with respect.”  Biogen Battle  Not that Denner isn’t aggressive. At Biogen’s June 2009
annual shareholder meeting, the company wouldn’t give him the
floor, and called a recess before announcing the results of
Denner’s proxy fight.  “This is not North Korea!” Denner shouted as people filed
out of the room. He and another Icahn-backed nominee, Harvard
University geneticist Richard Mulligan, won seats.  Once on the board, they began to spur change. The company
has since replaced its chief executive officer and refocused the
business on multiple sclerosis and other neurological diseases.
It is shedding assets in other research areas, such as cancer
and cardiovascular disorders, and reducing 13 percent of its
workforce. The stock has more than doubled to $113.24 since June
2009.  Denner hasn’t always been successful. A team he led failed
in August to gain representation on the board of New York-based
 Forest Laboratories (FRX) , maker of the antidepressant Lexapro and
Alzheimer’s disease medicine Namenda.  Critic Fires Back  Frank Perier, the finance chief at Forest Labs, said during
the proxy fight that Denner “has no true hands-on business
experience,” and shouldn’t be telling his company to change its
practices. Denner called Perier’s assertion “factually
incorrect.”  “Does running a major biotech company not count as
business experience?” he said, citing his time at ImClone.  Denner, who grew up near  Boston , was a “geeky kid” who
always wanted to be an investor, he said in an interview. His
mother opened a brokerage account for him when he was 11, and he
traded equities, including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and other names he
recognized -- and got a positive return.  “It was a very small amount of money,” he recalled.  In school, he loved science and math. His father was a
mechanical engineer, the same major Denner chose when he was an
undergraduate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge. In graduate school at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
Connecticut, he initially intended to study the math involved
with the fluid flow of turbulence.  New Challenge  After auditing a few biology classes, he decided to change
directions and analyze the biological signals that provide clues
about cardiac health. It was the early 1990s, a time when the
 Human Genome Project  -- and its hope of unlocking the secrets of
a healthy life -- had just begun.  There was a lot happening in biology then, and “there
still is now,” Denner said. “The basic fundamentals of how
cells work and how DNA works are still being elucidated.”  After getting his Ph.D., Denner became a portfolio manager
at Morgan Stanley and then at hedge fund Viking Global Investors
LP in New York. He joined Icahn’s firm in 2006, when they were
working together at ImClone.  Paying Off  Prior to that, some of Denner’s health-care investments
were in then-tiny companies that were developing drugs few
thought would work. They were Summit, New Jersey-based  Celgene
Corp. (CELG)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , based in  Foster City ,  California 
-- now two of the world’s biggest biotechs.  Denner lives in Greenwich, Connecticut, with his wife,
Jasmina, and their sons, Max, 6, and Lex, 7. Lex is short for
Lysander, the name of the Spartan general who won the final
battle that ended the Peloponnesian War, Denner said. “We chose
it because it’s a cool name,” he explained.  While working with Icahn, Denner would drive into  Manhattan 
to the investor’s offices in the General Motors building across
from the Plaza Hotel. He found a garage a few avenues across
town that allowed him to park his own car, which he said he
preferred to handing the keys over to valet attendants.  That fastidiousness is reflected in everything he does,
from picking stocks to his dining choices. He eats at Nobu, one
of Manhattan’s most upscale sushi restaurants, as many as three
times a week. He likes it because it’s clean, he said. He’s
toured the kitchen, and even checked to make sure the stones for
resting chopsticks are cleaned between patrons. “You could get
hepatitis!” he joked.  For all his success, “Alex is very self-effacing,” said
Waksal, who spent five years in prison after being convicted of
 securities fraud . Waksal said he’s glad Denner recognized
ImClone’s value.  “Alex actually understands the science -- and how to build
that into a business,” Waksal said. “When a company is broken,
he knows what should be done to fix it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  