-- 
Icelandic Bank to Sell Eurobonds for First Time Since 2008 Lender Defaults

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-05T11:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/iceland-bank-to-sell-eurobonds-for-first-time-since-2008-crash.html
Arion Bank hf, the state-created
successor of failed  Kaupthing Bank hf , is planning its first
international bond sale just three years after the island’s
biggest lenders defaulted on $85 billion.  The bank, based in Reykjavik, wants to fund itself via debt
markets outside Iceland’s borders within the next 12 months,
said Hoskuldur H. Olafsson, Arion’s chief executive officer.  “The outlook for tapping into the international debt
markets is positive,” Olafsson said in an interview. “We’ve
focused on maintaining the relationship we have with investors
and on organizing the bank as a credible institution. We’ve made
good progress and we believe that we might take steps in that
direction sooner rather than later.”  Kaupthing, which was Iceland’s biggest bank before it
failed in October 2008, is still trying to repay about $25
billion in creditor claims. The government’s decision three
years ago to take control of  Iceland ’s domestic banking system
and leave international creditors in the lurch protected the
state from obligations that dwarfed the $12 billion economy.  Iceland is now recovering from its 2008 banking meltdown as
the euro area sinks deeper into its debt crisis. It costs less
to insure against an Icelandic default than it does to guard
against a  credit event  in the common currency bloc, credit
default swaps show. That’s encouraging the island’s new banks,
created from the domestic remnants of lenders whose debt burdens
swelled to 10 times the economy at their peak, to explore their
funding options.  Capital Adequacy  “There are a lot of things going well in Iceland,”
Olafsson said. “Things that are more positive than what is
happening in  Europe .”  Arion had a capital adequacy ratio of 21.4 percent at the
end of the first half, Olafsson said. That compares with the
Financial Supervisory Authority’s 16 percent target and a legal
minimum of 8 percent, he said. Arion on Sept. 6 reported a 29
percent increase in first-half profit after tax from the year-
earlier period to 10.2 billion kronur ($86 million).  Arion is 13 percent owned by the Icelandic state and 87
percent held by Kaupthing’s creditors, who are represented by a
state-appointed resolution committee. The bank is in talks with
rating companies to obtain a credit grade “in the near
future,” Olafsson said.  Creditor Claims  A week before Kaupthing was taken over by the state,
Moody’s Investors Service placed its A1 long-term grade on
review for a downgrade, citing “weakened fundamentals within
the Icelandic banking system,” according to a Sept. 30, 2008,
statement. On Oct. 9, 2008, Moody’s cut Kaupthing to Caa1, seven
levels below investment grade.  Kaupthing has accepted 2.93 trillion kronur ($25 billion)
of the 5.6 trillion kronur in claims against it, according to a
creditors’ report released today, which showed figures published
in September haven’t been revised. The bank’s resolution
committee said it has available cash reserves of 319 billion
kronur.  Kaupthing bonds trade at 24 cents on the euro, according to
the latest prices available from brokerage  HF Verdbref .  The state seized Iceland’s erstwhile second-biggest lender
Landsbanki Islands hf on Oct. 7, 2008, a week after it took
control of Glitnir Banki hf, once the island’s third-biggest
bank. The government has since created new units out of the
domestic operations of both lenders to form Landsbankinn and
Islandsbanki.  Ratings Changes  Standard & Poor’s  on Nov. 24 this year raised the outlook
on Iceland’s BBB- sovereign rating to stable from negative,
citing the economy’s growth prospects since emerging from its
2008 crisis. Moody’s in a July 19 credit analysis of Iceland
said the island enjoys a “moderate level of economic strength”
and “high institutional strength.” The Baa3 rating is on
negative outlook due to Iceland’s “high susceptibility to event
risk,” Moody’s said.  Fitch Ratings  ranks Iceland’s debt junk.  Arion has foreign currency debt of about 1.2 billion euros
($1.6 billion), and the lender has no “near-term” refinancing
needs, Olafsson said.  “We have not fully concluded how much debt we intend to
issue in foreign currencies in the near term,” he said. “It’s
important that we take small steps to begin with.”  Iceland’s economy will grow 2.5 percent this year and next,
versus 1.6 percent in the euro area this year and 1.1 percent in
2012, the  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 20. Next year,
Iceland’s current account surplus will widen to 3.2 percent of
the economy and unemployment will be 6 percent, versus 9.9
percent in the euro area, the fund said. CDS on Iceland’s five-
year debt eased 13 percent last week, according to CMA.  IMF Program  The island ended a 33-month IMF program in August after the
Washington-based fund established that all economic “objectives
have been met and the country is on the road to recovery,”
according to an Aug. 26 statement marking the island’s final
review.  Iceland’s government in June received bids for twice the $1
billion in bonds offered at its first such auction since its
2008 bank crisis shut it off from international  capital markets .  Olafsson said Arion’s plans to sell Eurobonds are possible
thanks to the state issue. “It was paramount that the Icelandic
Republic led the way and was successful,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  