-- 
Illumina Rises the Most Since January 2010 on Takeover Talk

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-12-05T21:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/illumina-climbs-on-speculation-gene-analysis-toolmaker-is-takeover-target.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , a maker of tools for
genetic analysis, gained the most in a month after a
StreetInsider.com report raised the possibility the company may
be a takeover target.  Illumina, based in  San Diego , increased 6 percent to $29.44
at the close in New York, the largest single-day jump since Nov.
4. The shares have declined 54 percent this year. The
StreetInsider.com report said the sources of the takeover
speculation were “iffy at best.”  “When stocks are beaten up like Illumina has been, you
often get this chatter,” said Les Funtleyder, a health-care
strategist and portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York. The company owns shares of Illumina. “It seems a bit
unlikely because there’s a lot of uncertainty.”  Companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. have said they want to bolster their genetic
analysis assets, something that Illumina could provide,
Funtleyder said in an interview today.  Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , which partnered with Illumina last
month to work on new genome sequencing devices, wouldn’t be a
likely bidder, Tycho Peterson, an analyst with  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , said today in an interview.  “We met with Siemens last week, our view is that this is
unlikely,” Peterson said. “I don’t think they want to sell
here.”  Laura Trotter, a spokeswoman for Illumina, declined to
comment on the report.  In October, the company announced a $15 million to $17
million restructuring plan because of concerns that government
and academic institutions may reduce research funding, as well
as uncertainty about the global economic environment. Illumina
has made six acquisitions in the past five years, including the
2006 purchase of Solexa for $482 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  