-- 
India BJP Blocks Singh’s Foreign Retail Plan

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-12-05T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/india-bjp-calls-for-meeting-after-blocking-singh-s-wal-mart-plan.html
India ’s main opposition called for an
all-party meeting to end parliamentary gridlock over Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s decision last month to allow  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other foreign companies to own supermarkets.  The  Bharatiya Janata Party ’s spokesman Ravi Shankar Prasad
said yesterday that the government must inform all parties of
its latest position amid claims by Singh’s biggest ally on Dec.
3 that the policy had been suspended. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told reporters separately yesterday in New Delhi that
he will make a statement in parliament when it reconvenes
tomorrow after a two-day break.  The logjam has sparked concern Singh will cave in to the
opposition’s demands and imperil a plan that his government says
will attract foreign investment and check inflation above the
central bank’s comfort zone. The government may delay allowing
overseas companies to control retailers because of opposition
from its allies to the new rules, two finance ministry officials
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  “If that is official, then it is a tactical retreat by the
government,” said G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, managing director of
New Delhi-based Development & Research Services. “It will keep
the implementation on hold and will wait for an opportune moment
to push it forward again.”  Trinamool Congress, an ally in Singh’s coalition government
and which opposes the easing of ownership rules in retail, has
“issues” with and will oppose foreign investment in airlines
and the pension industry as well, spokesman Derek O’Brien said
in an interview on the CNBC-TV18 network yesterday.  Pending Bills  Nine days of protests in parliament over the policy have
forced repeated adjournments in the winter session that started
Nov. 22. About 31 bills are waiting to be passed, including
legislation to create an anti-corruption agency with powers to
prosecute government officials. Last year’s winter sitting was
the least productive in 25 years.  Traders shut their shops across India on Dec. 1 in a
daylong strike, demanding the government scrap a proposal that
they say will force the closure of millions of small businesses.
Foreign investment will create as many as 10 million jobs and
curb inflation, Trade Minister  Anand Sharma , said Nov. 25.  Trinamool, which rules the state of West Bengal, said on
its website Dec. 3 that the government has suspended its
decision until there’s a consensus among all parties, citing a
conversation between its chief Mamata Banerjee and Mukherjee.  The delay in the policy triggered a slump in the shares of
retailers in Mumbai yesterday.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the
country’s largest chain by market value, tumbled 12.9 percent,
the most since May 2002, to 186.35 rupees.  Trent Ltd. (TRENT)  fell 3.3
percent to 962.50 rupees, while  Vishal Retail Ltd. (VISH)  slid 6
percent to 18.90 rupees.  ‘Policy Inertia’  “They are getting hammered as the government is likely to
withdraw or defer the proposal,” said R.K. Gupta, the New
Delhi-based managing director of Taurus Asset Management Ltd.,
which manages $1.1 billion. “This policy inertia may have a
negative impact as foreign investors will lose confidence in the
government.”  In an attempt to kick start an  economy  that expanded at the
slowest pace in two years in the quarter ended Sept. 30, Singh
approved overseas companies including  Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO) 
to own as much as 51 percent of retailers selling more than one
brand, adding riders to benefit the local economy.  Singh, besieged by opposition over his failure to check
inflation and allegations of graft in his administration, is
also trying to fend off criticism that decisions have stalled on
his watch.  Not Unusual  Gross domestic product grew 6.9 percent last quarter, while
benchmark  inflation  stayed above 9 percent all of this year even
after 13 interest-rate  increases  since March 2010. The rupee has
slid 13.1 percent this year, the worst performance in  Asia , as
overseas funds turned net sellers of equities.  With the entry of the foreign chains, India’s retail
industry may gain $8 billion to $10 billion in investment in the
next five to 10 years as local companies try to keep pace,
according to Kishore Biyani, founder and managing director of
Pantaloon.  Moody’s Investors Service said the initiatives are “credit
positive” and will “incentivize foreign investment in India.”  “Such opposition is neither unusual nor unexpected in
Indian politics,” Atsi Sheth, a New York-based sovereign-risk
analyst at Moody’s, said in a statement yesterday. “It appears
that the ruling coalition is firm in its commitment, which bodes
well for its eventual implementation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  