-- 
Indian Retailers Slump on Concern Singh to Suspend FDI Decision

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-12-05T06:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/indian-retailers-slump-on-concern-singh-to-suspend-fdi-decision.html
Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF)  led a
slump in Indian department-store stocks on concern Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  will suspend last month’s decision to
allow foreign companies to take majority stakes in supermarkets.  Singh’s biggest ally Mamata Banerjee, the chief minister of
West Bengal state, told reporters in Kolkata Dec. 3 that the
federal government is in favor of building a consensus among all
parties before implementing the policy. Pantaloon, the country’s
largest chain by market value, dropped 9.6 percent to 193.4
rupees as of 11:28 a.m. in Mumbai, while  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  fell
5.1 percent to 341.75 rupees, touching an almost three-week low.  “They are getting hammered as the government is likely to
withdraw or defer the proposal,” said R.K. Gupta, managing
director of Taurus Asset Management Ltd., which manages $1.1
billion. “This policy inertia may have a negative impact as
foreign investors will lose confidence in the government.”  Singh’s own allies are opposed to opening up the country’s
$396 billion retail market to companies including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA) , saying such a move would ruin
local mom-and-pop stores. Traders shut their shops across India
on Dec. 1 in a daylong strike, demanding the government scrap
its proposal. Foreign investment will create as many as 10
million jobs and curb inflation, Trade Minister  Anand Sharma ,
said Nov. 25.  Not Sudden  Deepak Parekh, chairman of India’s largest mortgage lender
 Housing Development Finance Corp ., and Ashok Ganguly, former
chairman of  Unilever Plc. (UNA) ’s India unit, said in a joint letter
yesterday that the protests are “misconceived” as modernizing
the trade is needed to spur growth.  “Foreign direct investment in retail hasn’t been a sudden
decision taken by the government,” they said in a joint
statement e-mailed yesterday. “On the contrary, the idea has
been toyed with for over 14 years. Modernization of the retail
trade is an essential part of  India ’s growth story.”  Parekh and Ganguly served on a government-appointed panel
that last year produced a report on foreign direct investment.  Sharma, Ambika Soni, the minister of information, Salman Khurshid, the minister of law, and Dinesh Trivedi, the minister
of railways and a member of Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress,
didn’t answer calls from Bloomberg to their office phones
yesterday.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told the Indian Express
newspaper that he will make a statement in Parliament when it
reconvenes on Dec. 7 after a two-day break.  Under Siege  India’s retail industry will gain $8 billion to $10 billion
in investment in the next five to 10 years as competitors abroad
enter and local companies try to keep pace, according to Kishore Biyani, founder and managing director of Pantaloon Retail.  Trent Ltd. (TRENT)  fell 2.1 percent to 973.85 rupees, while  Vishal
Retail Ltd. (VISH)  declined 5.2 percent to 19.05 rupees.  Singh, who is already under siege over a failure to check
inflation and allegations of graft in his administration, is
trying to fend off criticism that decisions have stalled on his
watch.  In an attempt to kick start an  economy  that expanded at the
slowest pace in two years in the quarter ended Sept. 30, he
approved overseas companies to own as much as 51 percent or
retailers selling more than one brand, adding riders to benefit
the local economy.  Gross domestic product grew 6.9 percent last quarter, while
benchmark  inflation  stayed above 9 percent all of this year even
after 13 interest-rate  increases  since March 2010.  Parliament has seen repeated disruption for four sessions.
Last year’s winter sitting was the least productive in 25 years.
The government plans to pass 33 bills, including legislation to
create an anti-corruption agency with powers to prosecute most
government officials, have been sidelined by the protests over
foreign direct investment in retail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  