-- 
India Seeks Crude, Gas From Persian Gulf, Oil Minister Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-12-05T17:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/india-seeks-crude-gas-from-persian-gulf-oil-minister-says.html
India is seeking additional volumes
of oil and natural gas from  Persian Gulf  suppliers, while
sanctions against  Iran  pose “practical difficulties” to
supply, said the country’s oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy.  “Ours is a growing economy,” Reddy told reporters today
at the World Petroleum Congress in Doha, Qatar. “Wherever there
is an opportunity we ask for more supply,” he said, referring
to crude, liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas.  India is boosting energy imports as the country builds
refineries and petrochemical plants to meet domestic and
international fuel demand. The country’s oil refining capacity
may rise to 232 million metric tons in 2012 from 193 million
tons this year, according to the minister.  The nation is in talks with Qatar about buying increased
volumes of LNG, he said. “We are requesting LNG,” he said.
“We need more as a cushion.”  Kuwait is in discussions with  India  to supply about 200,000
barrels a day of additional crude oil under long-term contracts,
Farouk Al-Zanki, chief executive officer of Kuwait Petroleum
Corp. said in Doha today. The state-run  oil company  currently
provides India about 400,000 barrels a day under long-term
agreements, he said. Kuwait is producing 3 million barrels a
day, Al-Zanki said.  Saudi Arabia  will increase shipments to some Indian
refiners next year as they add plants and seek alternative
supplies after a payment dispute with Iran, four people with
direct knowledge of the plans said on Nov. 15.  No Problem For Now  “In respect of supply of oil from Iran I see no problem as
such,” Reddy said. “We have been able to tackle our payment
problem through one bank. Problems will really arise when
international sanctions are formally lodged against oil, but for
now I don’t really see a problem.”  Indian refiners are using Istanbul-based Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS to process payments to Iran, two people with
knowledge of the matter said on Aug. 5.  Financial sanctions against Iran that limit banking
transactions with the Islamic Republic posed “practical
problems” rather than legal ones to Indian buyers, Reddy said.  India may also buy more LPG, a refined product use in
domestic stoves, from the  United Arab Emirates , that country’s
oil minister Mohamed al-Hamli said in Doha today.  “India is one of those countries that are having
consistently higher growth year after year,” al-Hamli said.
“They need energy and we are happy to supply them with LPG,
oil, refined products.”  The government has no plan to raise regulated domestic
prices of refined oil products, Reddy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Doha at  adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 