-- 
Indonesian Bonds Rise on Central Bank Purchases; Rupiah Gains

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-12-05T09:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/indonesian-bonds-rise-on-central-bank-purchases-rupiah-gains.html
Indonesia ’s 10-year  government bonds 
extended last week’s advance on speculation the central bank was
buying the debt to hold down borrowing costs. The rupiah rose.  The yield fell to a three-week low as Perry Warjiyo, the
central bank’s director of economic research and monetary policy,
said Bank Indonesia will weigh the impact of a November
interest-rate cut on capital flows during a monthly policy
meeting being held this week. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey forecast the central bank will keep its benchmark
interest rate at 6 percent on Dec. 8. Policy makers lowered the
reference rate by 75 basis points since the start of October.  “The increasing bond price in the last one week is
supported by  Bank Indonesia  and local banks,” said Handy
Yunianto, a fixed-income analyst at Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta.
“There is very good communication between BI and the government.
We learned a lot from the 2008 crisis.”  The yield on the 8.25 percent notes due July 2021 fell nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.19 percent in
Jakarta, according to closing prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association. That was the lowest level since Nov. 14. The
rate dropped 54 basis points last week.  The rupiah appreciated 0.2 percent to 9,035 per dollar,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we look at it from the point of view of slowing
inflation, of course there’s still room to cut  interest rates 
further,” Warjiyo told reporters in Jakarta today. “But the
problem is that the decision on interest rates isn’t dependent
only on inflation, but also from the point of view of its impact
on capital outflows.”  The monetary authority is committed to buying government
bonds in the secondary market, Warjiyo said on Nov. 29. The
central bank plans to boost “intervention” to support the
rupiah, Governor Darmin Nasution said Nov. 30, a day after the
currency sank to a 17-month low of 9,240 per dollar. Indonesia’s
inflation rate dropped to a 19-month low of 4.15 percent in
November, the government reported Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  