-- 
Insurers Pay $53 Million in Death Benefits After New York Probe

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-05T18:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/insurers-pay-53-million-in-death-benefits-after-new-york-probe.html
Life insurers paid $52.6 million in
death benefits after New York’s banking and insurance regulator
forced the companies to use government data to identify cases
where they hadn’t paid claims.  Almost 8,000 beneficiaries received the money, according to
a statement today from the New York Department of Financial
Services. Claims are being processed on an additional 27,889
polices for which matches were found. About 1 million policies
need further checking as a result of the department’s probe,
according to the statement.  Insurers have faced increased scrutiny from regulators in
 Florida ,  California  and other states over unpaid death benefits.
 MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, took a $117 million
charge in the third quarter related to unpaid death benefits,
while  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  added about $100 million
to reserves in the second quarter after changing its process for
determining when policyholders die.  “Our findings clearly show that matching life insurance
policies against a comprehensive list of recent deaths is
essential to ensure that all beneficiaries receive the benefits
they are owed,” Benjamin Lawsky, superintendent of the
Department of Financial Services, said in the statement.  The regulator said it July it was directing the 172 life
insurers and fraternal benefit societies licensed in the state
to use U.S. Social Security Administration death records or
other data to identify deceased policyholders.  The longest wait for a payment was connected to a
policyholder who died in 1970, according to the statement. The
largest award so far was $673,485. Insurers must provide
interest on delayed payments, the department said. Data were
released today as part of the regulator’s first interim report
on the benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  