-- 
Ireland Renews Austerity Push Amid Euro Worries

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-12-05T07:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ireland-renews-austerity-push-as-savers-question-euro-security.html
As Ireland starts laying out plans
for a fourth year of austerity, concerns that the future of the
euro may be in jeopardy are looming over the budget.  Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin will detail cuts of
about 2.2 billion euros ($2.97 billion) in spending next year in
Dublin today, while Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  will outline
about 1.6 billion euros of tax increases tomorrow.  The government is pursuing more cuts as it tries to
convince investors that measures worth 20 percent of the economy
are enough to win a return to the  debt market  by 2013 as the
euro crisis escalates. In the background, yields on Irish bonds
have risen while savers are seeking safety as the topic of euro
demise hits the mainstream airwaves in Dublin.  “There is a genuine fear about euro breakup and what might
happen,” said Pramit Ghose, head of asset management at Bloxham
Stockbrokers, whose fund holding Finnish and Dutch euro-
denominated bonds has taken in 2.5 million euros in the last two
weeks. “I’ve told clients there is little enough yield, but
they don’t care, they just want safety.”  Irish bonds due in 2020 yielded 9.15 percent on Dec. 2, up
from 8.24 percent a month earlier as they dropped in price.
Comparable Dutch debt maturing in 2021 yielded 2.56 percent, an
increase from 2.26 percent over the same period. The year-on-
year rate of inflation in Ireland was 2.8 percent in October.  Euro, Not Punt  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said European leaders must
make and implement “clear decisions” this week.  “Otherwise, international confidence and investment in
Europe will continue to fall,” he said in a televised speech to
the nation yesterday. He also said the budget would be “tough”
with increases in indirect taxes.  An edition of  Liveline , a radio show from national
broadcaster RTE and among the most popular in the country, last
week was dominated by worried savers asking how to open dollar
accounts to protect their money. The government sought to calm
fears of a return to Ireland’s old currency.  “We don’t have printing presses printing up worthless
punts right now and we don’t intend to have that,” European
Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton told lawmakers on Nov. 29.
“Bottom line is that we cannot allow our currency to fail,
Germany cannot allow for our currency to fail, nor can  France .”  Taking Bets  Dublin-based Bloxham started its fund at the beginning of
November and it now has assets of about 11 million euros, Ghose
said by telephone on Dec. 2. It also holds U.S. Treasuries and
U.K. government bonds, whose yields have fallen to records over
the past month on concern about the euro region.  “This is their running-away money, just in the case the
Irish euro somehow becomes worth less,” Ghose said.  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , the country’s largest bookmaker, has begun
offering odds on euro breakup and has taken about 215 bets,
according to Ken Robertson, a spokesman for the Dublin-based
company. Most punters are backing Ireland to be still using the
euro by 2015 at 1 to 4, though the largest bet is a 100-euro
wager on an unraveling of the euro region, he said.  Trades at Intrade, the Dublin-based firm whose clients try
to predict events, indicate a 59 percent chance that a country
will leave the euro by the end of 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Too Strong’  Germany and France meanwhile are mooting closer economic
and budgetary ties to keep the euro together.  “There can’t be a single currency without economies
heading toward more convergence,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told 5,000 supporters in a speech in Toulon on Dec. 1 in
comments echoed by German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  a day later
in Berlin. “If  living standards , productivity, and
competitiveness gaps widen among  euro-zone  countries, the euro
will sooner rather than later be too strong for some and too
weak for others, and the euro zone will explode,” he said.  The Irish government refuses to countenance any talk of a
breakup, and instead is continuing austerity to prove its
credentials as a euro member. Spending cuts and tax increases
will amount to about 33 billion euros between 2008 and 2015.  Since 2008, the economy has shrunk about 15 percent. Some
448,000 people are now jobless, translating into a 14.5 percent
unemployment rate, up from 4.8 percent in 2007.  Plunging Revenue  With tax revenue plunging and welfare spending surging, the
previous Fianna Fail-led government started making cuts in 2008.
Since then, the take-home pay of a one-income family on the
average industrial wage of 35,000 euros is now 423 euros a month
less, the Irish Tax Institute said in November.  “The capacity for people to bear more pain is running out
as we approach an overall tipping point in terms of the money
that can be taken from them in tax,” said Bernard Doherty,
president of the institute, which represents accountants and
lawyers dealing with taxation.  Families with two average-income earners have seen their
monthly income fall by 613 euros, the institute said. In all,
disposable income has dropped by 10 percent since 2008,
according to the Economic & Social Research Institute, with
another 7 percent to come by 2015.  Sales tax will be raised by two percentage points to 23
percent in 2012, Finance Minister Noonan has said. The
government will increase motor taxes and is considering lifting
tax on dividends and rental income, as it seeks to cut the
fiscal deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015.
The shortfall this year will be about 10 percent.  Yet for now those efforts are being overshadowed by the
unfolding European debt crisis and the potential effects of
economic growth in key markets grinding to a halt. The
neighboring U.K. last week cut its growth forecast for this year
to 0.9 percent and next year to 0.7 percent.  “Ireland is dependent on the rest of the world not
imploding for a recovery,” Brian Devine, an economist at NCB
Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The restoration of confidence in
 Europe  is as important to Ireland as increasing confidence in
our own ability to deliver on stated targets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  