-- 
Ireland Lays Out Plan for Fourth Year of Austerity as Savers Question Euro

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-12-05T16:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/ireland-lays-out-plan-for-fourth-year-of-austerity-as-savers-question-euro.html
Ireland laid out plans to narrow its
 budget deficit  as voters braced for a fourth year of austerity
amid concerns that the future of the euro may be in jeopardy.  Health, education and welfare spending will bear the brunt
of about 2.2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) of cuts, Expenditure
Minister Brendan Howlin said today. Public spending will fall
about 10 percent to just under 52 billion euros between 2011 and
2014, he said. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  is scheduled to
outline about 1.6 billion euros of tax increases tomorrow.  “Twelve months ago we were  Europe ’s problem,” Howlin told
lawmakers in parliament in Dublin. “Now problems in the
European and global economy threaten our recovery.”  The government is pursuing more cuts as it tries to
convince investors that measures worth 20 percent of the economy
are enough to win a return to the  debt market  by 2013 as the
euro crisis escalates. In the background, yields on Irish bonds
have risen while savers are seeking safety as the topic of euro
demise hits the mainstream airwaves in Dublin.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today said they wanted to rewrite the European
Union’s governing treaties to tighten economic cooperation as a
first step to ending the debt crisis.  “There is a genuine fear about euro breakup and what
might happen,” said Pramit Ghose, head of asset management at
Bloxham Stockbrokers, whose fund holding Finnish and Dutch euro-
denominated bonds has taken in 2.5 million euros in the last two
weeks. “I’ve told clients there is little enough yield, but
they don’t care, they just want safety.”  Borrowing Costs  Irish bonds due in 2020 yielded 9.15 percent, up from 8.24
percent a month earlier as they dropped in price. Comparable
Dutch debt maturing in 2021 yielded 2.60 percent, an increase
from 2.26 percent over the same period. The year-on-year rate of
inflation in Ireland was 2.8 percent in October.  Ireland was forced to seek an international bailout last
year, as its banking problems became too big to handle alone and
its fiscal deficit widened. Howlin said the government’s
decisions this week will cut public spending to a limit of 52
billion euros in 2014 from 55.8 billion euros next year.  While weekly social welfare payments won’t change, fuel
allowance will be cut and adjustments to one-parent family
payments will save 20.7 million euros, he said. An increase in
contributions by students toward college fees will save 18.5
million euros. About 6,000 government jobs will go.  Hurting Revival  “The biggest problem with Budget 2012 is that it won’t
work,” said  Jack O’Connor , president of the country’s largest
union, SIPTU. The government can’t take the spending measures
“without further depressing economic activity, no matter what
way it is done,” he said in a statement.  The budget in Ireland is being delivered against the
backdrop of escalating concern about the future of the euro.
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said European leaders must make
and implement “clear decisions” this week.  “Otherwise, international confidence and investment in
Europe will continue to fall,” he said in a televised speech to
the nation before the budget.  An edition of  Liveline , a radio show from national
broadcaster RTE and among the most popular in the country, last
week was dominated by worried savers asking how to open dollar
accounts to protect their money. The government sought to calm
fears of a return to Ireland’s old currency.  “We don’t have printing presses printing up worthless
punts right now and we don’t intend to have that,” European
Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton told lawmakers on Nov. 29.
“Bottom line is that we cannot allow our currency to fail,
Germany cannot allow for our currency to fail, nor can  France .”  Taking Bets  Dublin-based Bloxham started its fund at the beginning of
November and it now has assets of about 11 million euros, Ghose
said by telephone on Dec. 2. It also holds U.S. Treasuries and
U.K. government bonds, whose yields have fallen to records over
the past month on concern about the euro region.  “This is their running-away money, just in the case the
Irish euro somehow becomes worth less,” Ghose said.  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , the country’s largest bookmaker, has begun
offering odds on euro breakup and has taken about 215 bets,
according to Ken Robertson, a spokesman for the Dublin-based
company. Most punters are backing Ireland to be still using the
euro by 2015 at 1 to 4, though the largest bet is a 100-euro
wager on an unraveling of the euro region, he said.  Closer Ties  Germany and France are mooting closer economic and
budgetary ties. Sarkozy said today that, together with Merkel,
he’d back automatic penalties for deficit violators, a European
monetary fund and monthly summit meetings.  The Irish government refuses to countenance any talk of a
breakup, and instead is continuing austerity to prove its
credentials as a euro member. Spending cuts and tax increases
will amount to about 33 billion euros between 2008 and 2015.  Since 2008, the economy has shrunk about 15 percent. Some
448,000 people are now jobless, translating into a 14.5 percent
unemployment rate, up from 4.8 percent in 2007.  With tax revenue plunging and welfare spending surging, the
previous Fianna Fail-led government started making cuts in 2008.
Since then, the take-home pay of a one-income family on the
average industrial wage of 35,000 euros is now 423 euros a month
less, the Irish Tax Institute said in November.  Sales tax will be raised by two percentage points to 23
percent in 2012, Finance Minister Noonan has said. The
government will increase motor taxes and is considering lifting
tax on dividends and rental income, as it seeks to cut the
fiscal deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015.
The shortfall this year will be about 10 percent.  “The capacity for people to bear more pain is running out
as we approach an overall tipping point in terms of the money
that can be taken from them in tax,” said Bernard Doherty,
president of the institute, which represents accountants and
lawyers dealing with taxation.  -- With assistance from Joe Brennan and Finbarr Flynn in Dublin.
Editors: Rodney Jefferson, Fergal O’Brien  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  