-- 
Italian Yield’s Double Top Supports Euro, BofA Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-05T19:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/italian-yield-s-double-top-supports-euro-bofa-says-technical-analysis.html
Italian bonds began a bullish trend
after  yields  dropped below a key technical level in a move that
is poised to spur the euro higher against the dollar, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Yields on 10-year bonds closed below 6.27 percent today,
completing a month-long double top, said  MacNeil Curry , head of
rates and currencies technical strategy at the Bank of America
Corp. unit in New York, in a research note today. The yields
failed to rise above 7.47 percent and 7.36 percent in November
and may drop to 5.25 percent, which may push the euro higher to
$1.3678, according to Curry.  “It should be seen as euro-constructive because it
alleviates one of the big concerns about the significant duress
that  Italy  has been under,” Curry said in an interview. “As
yields start to reverse, it would suggest that their funding
crisis is alleviating for the time being.”  Italy’s 10-year bond  yields  dropped 73 basis points, or
0.73 percentage point, to 5.95 percent today, closing below 6
percent for the first time since Oct. 27. The euro was little
changed at $1.3398 at 2:41 p.m. New York time.  Yields surged above 7 percent on Nov. 9 for the first time
since the euro’s inception as investors were concerned over
European banks’ access to dollar funding and Italy’s ability to
pass austerity measures.  Italy swore in Mario Monti as prime minister on Nov. 16
after Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation. The  Federal Reserve , the
 European Central Bank  and four other central banks moved last
week to make it cheaper to borrow in dollars.  BofA on Euro  Curry said the euro may rise as high as $1.42 even as many
investors remain bearish.  Futures traders  increased euro-short
positions, or bets the currency will drop against the dollar, to
104,302 contracts in the week ended Nov. 29. That’s the most
since June 2010.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. A double top is formed when a
security is unable to rise above a certain level twice in
succession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  