-- 
Italy’s Main Political Parties Hold Fire on Monti’s Emergency Budget Plan

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-06T11:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/italy-s-main-parties-hold-fire-on-monti-s-plan.html
Italy ’s main political parties are
holding their fire on the government’s 30 billion-euro ($40
billion) austerity and growth plan, suggesting they won’t derail
measures Prime Minister  Mario Monti  says are needed to save the
nation and the euro.  Monti appealed to lawmakers for support yesterday when he
presented the plan to Parliament in Rome. Investors gave their
backing, with Italian bonds gaining the most in almost four
months and the yield difference with German bunds falling below
400 basis points for the first time since Oct. 31.  “The situation is extremely serious and the government
must respond with urgency and determination” Monti told the
Chamber of Deputies yesterday. “The measures, at times painful,
that we have put forward contain the seeds that will design the
Italy of our children, a serious Italy, a European Italy.”  Monti, in office less than three weeks, offered a sweeping
budget plan aimed at raising revenue and boosting the country’s
anemic growth to persuade investors Italy can tame the region’s
second-biggest debt and avoid following  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal in seeking a bailout. The premier warned that failure
to pass the plan could lead to Italy’s “collapse” and threaten
the survival of the single currency.  Yields Fall  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond fell eight
basis points to 5.86 percent as of 12:29 p.m. in Rome, after
declining 73 basis points yesterday to 5.95 percent, the lowest
close since Oct. 27. The spread with German bunds narrowed 12
basis points to 362 basis points.  Monti, a university professor and former European Union
commissioner, leads a so-called technical government and has no
political base in Parliament. The main parties offered muted
criticism of parts of his plan, with only the  Northern League ,
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s coalition ally, and
the small Italian Values Party threatening to oppose it.  “Italian politicians are aware that they would earn
international opprobrium if they did not give the Monti plan
some chance to succeed,” said  Stephen Lewis , London-based chief
economist at Monument Securities.  The package is “sufficiently bold” to ensure Italy meets
its balanced budget target in 2013 and will put the nation’s
ratio of debt to gross domestic product, at 120 percent, on “a
downward trajectory very soon,” UniCredit SpA economists Chiara Corsa and Loredana Federico, both based in Milan, wrote in a
note to investors today.  ‘Unfair’ Package  Monti’s Cabinet passed the package by decree on Dec. 4,
meaning the plan takes effect immediately and Parliament has 60
days to approve the package for it to remain in effect. Both
houses of Parliament will vote before the Christmas recess.  About three out of four Italians think Monti’s plan “is
unfair” and “could have been done in a different way,”
according to a poll by IPR Marketing. Still, more than half of
those surveyed said Parliament should approve the package, IPR
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Italians seem to be very rational in this particular
moment,” said Antonio Noto, director of Rome-based IPR. “They
haven’t been dragged to emotional reactions” and “acknowledge
merits and faults of the package, signaling they perceive the
seriousness of the situation and are ready to accept unshared
sacrifices in the hope that Italy will save itself.”  ‘Strange’ Majority  This “government is sustained by a strange parliamentary
majority of political adversaries who will return to being
adversaries in the next election,” said Dario Franceschini,
parliamentary leader of the  Democratic Party . “The reaction of
the spread shows with the arrival of these measures you can once
again believe in the capacity of Italy.”  The Democratic Party, the biggest party in parliament,
would prefer to have a more “gradual” overhaul of the pension
system and more measures to tax wealth, Franceschini said.  Monti’s plan includes elements that both appease and anger
the main parties. The Democratic Party is concerned about a
pension reform that will raise the  retirement age  for many
workers, end cost-of-living adjustments on most pensions and
make payouts based on contributions rather than salary levels at
the time of retirement.  ‘Permanent Reduction’  “These are arguably the most ambitious measures,”
Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at  Societe Generale  in  London ,
wrote in a note today. The pension overhaul means “a permanent
reduction of longer-term liabilities is in sight.”  Italian unions slammed the package. CGIL, Italy’s largest
labor group, called a four-hour strike on Dec. 12 to protest the
measures, which CGIL President Susanna Camusso said were a
“massive blow” to workers. Camusso and leaders of the other
two main unions, UIL and CISL, will meet on Dec. 7 to discuss
the budget plan, Ansa newswire reported.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party opposes the
restoration of a property tax on primary residences, a levy
Berlusconi abolished soon after coming to power in 2008. Still,
Monti refrained from imposing a “ wealth tax ” that had been
opposed by the PDL and dropped plans to raise the income tax
rate on top earners.  The plan also includes corporate tax breaks aimed at
spurring hiring of young people and women and encourages private
financing of infrastructure projects, measures the PDL welcomed.  “On issues like infrastructure and companies, this package
shows continuity with the approach of the Berlusconi government
and thus we see the possibility of a fruitful cooperation,”
said Fabrizio Cicchitto, chief of the PDL’s delegation in the
Chamber, who also criticized the new property tax.  Bailout Threshold  Berlusconi resigned last month after his parliamentary
majority unraveled amid infighting within his coalition about
new austerity measures demanded by the EU as the country’s bond
yields surged past the 7 percent level that led Greece,  Portugal 
and Ireland to seek bailouts. President Giorgio Napolitano opted
to reach outside the political system and asked Monti to carry
out the kind of economic overhaul that previous governments have
been unable to deliver.  “The compact, cross-party block supporting Monti’s
government highlights how the threat of sovereign default can be
a very persuasive force” for politicians,  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in London. “However, we
believe that support is conditional on results and the first
impact on the market on that front has been very positive.”  Monti made a point yesterday of reassuring the parties that
his government will be short-lived and Italy will hold elections
no later than April 2013, when the legislative term ends.  “Some members of Parliament, and I mean big names,
understand these reforms are needed,” said Nicola Borri, an
economics professor at  Rome ’s LUISS University. “They think
that Monti’s going to do the dirty work and then they’ll take
advantage of it or they’ll blame him afterwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  