-- 
Itau Takes Top Brazil Rankings From Citigroup, Rothschild, Credit Suisse

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-12-05T19:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/itau-takes-top-brazil-bank-rankings-from-citigroup-rothschild.html
Banco Itau BBA SA has taken over the
top rankings in Brazil for merger advice, equity underwriting
and initial public offerings, supplanting foreign banks
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Rothschild and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Itau BBA, whose parent is the biggest bank in Latin
America, pushed Rothschild from the No. 1 spot among advisers on
Brazilian mergers and acquisitions with 27 deals totaling $35.4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg through today.
Sao Paulo-based Itau BBA also replaced Citigroup as the top
equity underwriter, and pushed Credit Suisse off the No. 1 spot
among IPO managers.  Foreign firms are facing more competition from local rivals
as they try to hold on to their share of the investment-banking
market in Brazil, where an emerging middle class is propelling
one of the world’s fastest-growing economies. Brazilian banks
such as Itau BBA and Banco BTG Pactual SA boosted their capacity
to finance deals and hired executives with the ability to
provide services once offered only by larger global lenders.  “Our market position is the result of a long and
consistent investment we have been making over the years,”
Jean-Marc Etlin, chief executive officer of Itau BBA Investment
Bank, said in an interview. “Our strategy was essentially
centered on bringing Brazil and now also  Latin America  to global
investors and corporations by building, over the years, a world-
class distribution platform.”  Magazine Luiza  For the first time, Brazilian banks including Itau BBA led
an IPO for a Brazilian company, Magazine Luiza SA, without the
help of an international bank, Etlin said.  “Our revenues will grow this year even in a shrinking-fee-
pool market,” he said.  Itau BBA’s M&A team also participated in the biggest
transaction of the year, Telemar Participacoes SA’s merger, via
a share swap, of two of its units into one entity. The
transaction had a total announced value of $17.3 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  BTG Pactual is the second-biggest equity underwriter this
year in  Brazil , up from seventh in 2010. The company rose to
second in M&A from fourth, and jumped to 11th from 19th in
international bond issuance. BTG’s investment-banking business
expanded to 63 employees from 52, according to Guilherme Paes,
head of the unit.  “We had a lot of bigger transactions last year, but with a
very small fee,” Paes said, adding that this year the bank
doubled its fee revenue compared with 2010.  Revenue Trend  Overall fees for investment banks in Brazil fell this year,
to $782.7 million through November from $1.16 billion in 2010,
according to Dealogic, which took into consideration bonds,
equity, syndicated loans and M&A advisory work.  The volume of announced M&A deals involving Brazilian
companies tumbled to $91.7 billion this year from $161 billion
in 2010, Bloomberg data show. Equity offerings decreased 72
percent amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, to $12.1 billion from $42.5
billion for last year, the data show.  Itau BBA had more investment-banking revenue this year than
Zurich-based Credit Suisse for the first time since the boom in
that industry started in Brazil in 2007, according to Dealogic.
The Brazilian bank was also first in distribution of fixed-
income products in the domestic market, according to Anbima, the
local investment-bank and capital-markets association.  In the international  bond market , Itau BBA ranked fourth,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Quite Active’  “Financial players are keeping the M&A market quite
active,” Paes said.  BTG Pactual is helping STP - Servicos & Tecnologia de
Pagamentos SA, a Brazilian electronic-toll-collection company,
sell a controlling stake, two people familiar with the
negotiations said last month.  “A lot of international banks have invested in Brazil, but
the most important competitors we have are still the usual
suspects,” said Jose Olympio Pereira, co-head of the investment
bank at Credit Suisse, referring to local banks.  Credit Suisse is the third-largest merger adviser in Brazil
this year, and fourth in equity underwriting, with 14 percent of
the market. Last year, the bank was eighth in equity
underwriting, with 7 percent. It fell to second place this year
on IPOs, with an 18 percent market share.  “The IPO market could take a bit of time to open again as
the European crisis is still cloudy and unresolved,” Pereira
said. “We have a lot of liquidity in the U.S. markets, and
Brazil is very well-positioned to go through this process, so
the country continues to be an option for long-term investors.”  Camil Alimentos  Pereira pointed to the purchase of a 31.8 percent stake in
Camil Alimentos SA, a food company in Brazil, by JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda., a private-equity and hedge
fund led by former Brazilian central banker  Arminio Fraga .  “Although the market is rough, we will have profits in
Brazil this year,” Pereira said, without providing a forecast.  Rothschild, which ranked fifth in M&A this year, is
“having a good year” and is “still very well-positioned,”
Luiz Muniz, head of the company’s Brazil business, said in an
interview. The European crisis transformed the M&A market into a
more complicated one, with transactions taking longer to close,
he said, “but our market share with our clients is growing.”  An official at Citigroup, which didn’t underwrite any
Brazilian equity deals in 2011 after taking the top rank in that
business last year, declined to comment on the New York-based
bank’s rankings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  