-- 
Asian Stocks Drop as S&P Puts Euro Nations on Downgrade Watch

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-06T11:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/japan-stock-futures-drop-after-s-p-places-euro-nations-on-downgrade-watch.html
Asian stocks fell, with a benchmark
gauge headed for its first loss in seven days, after  Standard &
Poor’s  said it may cut credit ratings on  Germany ,  France  and 13
other members of the euro amid the worsening debt crisis.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that gets most of its
revenue from  Europe , dropped 11 percent in Hong Kong after its
Chief Financial Officer quit. STX Pan Ocean Co., a South Korean
shipping line, dropped 4.5 percent after a leak was found in a
vessel.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by
market value, slid 2.1 percent in  Tokyo . Meiji Holdings Co.
plunged 9.7 percent after a report that radioactive cesium was
found in some of the Japanese milk maker’s products.  “People want to move away from risk assets,” said Naoteru
Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $20 billion. “The market
is unstable and has been moving up and down like a seesaw.
Investors buy  stocks (MXAPJ)  on good news after a plunge and are selling
unless the news moves in the right direction. The downgrade news
is a bad story in the middle of such movements.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.3 percent to 116.70 as
of 8:25 p.m. in Tokyo, set to end its longest winning streak
since Oct. 13. All 10 industry groups on the measure declined,
with more than six stocks retreating for each that gained.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1.4 percent, while
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 1.2 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index fell 1 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index retreated 1.4 percent. The
nation’s central bank lowered its benchmark interest rate today
for a second straight month as Europe’s fiscal crisis threatens
to slow the nation’s commodity exports.  S&P Futures  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with less than 0.1 percent drop by
the  S&P 500  and a 12 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.7 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  climbed 0.4
percent today after falling as much as 0.8 percent following
S&P’s announcement that it may strip France and Germany of their
AAA credit ratings. The euro area’s six AAA rated countries are
among the nations to be placed on a negative outlook, and their
credit ratings may be cut depending on the result of a summit of
European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said.  The placements are “prompted by our belief that systemic
stresses in the eurozone have risen in recent weeks to the
extent that they now put downward pressure on the credit
standing of the eurozone as a whole,” S&P said in its
statement.  Esprit Tumbles  Esprit sank 11 percent to HK$10.72 in Hong Kong after
saying its Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun quit for
personal reasons, effective on or before June 1, because he is
“unable to spend the required time in Europe.” Barclays
Capital Inc. analyst Vineet Sharma said the resignation at this
critical juncture doesn’t look good, no matter what reasons are
behind it.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an owner of ports in Germany, Italy
and  Spain , slid 1.4 percent to HK$67.55 in Hong Kong.  Toyota
Motor Corp. , the world’s biggest carmaker by market value, fell
2.1 percent to 2,606 yen in Tokyo, the second-biggest drag on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after Samsung Electronics Co.  In the U.S., service industries expanded in November at the
slowest pace since January 2010 as employment cooled, a sign
improvement in the biggest part of the economy will be uneven.
The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing  index 
unexpectedly fell to 52 last month from October, the Arizona
based-group said.  Leaking Ship  Asian economies are facing “much greater downside risks”
now because of the possibility of a recession in the U.S. and
Europe and the threat of destabilizing capital flows, the Asian
Development Bank said.  STX Pan Ocean declined 4.5 percent to 5,980 won in  Seoul 
after saying a fault was found in a $110 million commodity ship
it received from its affiliate, which was leased to iron-ore
miner Vale SA.  Citigroup Inc. cut its estimates for iron ore prices in the
fourth quarter and 2012 by 7 percent to $148 a metric ton amid a
deteriorating macroeconomic environment and slowing steel
production growth in  China .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest global mining company,
retreated 1.5 percent to A$36.71, while Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s third-biggest mining company by sales, sank 2.2 percent
to A$65.55 in Sydney.  Newcrest, Tosoh  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , an Australian gold producer, declined
4 percent to A$33.99 in Sydney after Deutsche Bank AG cut its
rating to “hold” from “buy.”  Tosoh Corp. , a chemical
products maker, slid 4.8 percent to 219 yen in Tokyo after
Mizuho Securities Co. cut its rating on the stock to “neutral”
from “buy.”  Meiji plunged 9.7 percent to 3,020 yen, the biggest drop in
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after Kyodo News reported that
radioactive cesium was found in milk powder made by the company.
Meiji confirmed the report and said the contamination poses no
health risk.  Radiant Opto-Electronics Corp., a maker of liquid crystal
display backlight units, tumbled 7 percent to NT$86.80 in Taipei
after its unconsolidated sales in November fell 19 percent from
a year earlier.  Among stocks that rose,  Olympus Corp. , a scandal-hit
Japanese camera maker, gained 9.1 percent to 1,190 yen in Tokyo
before a press briefing that was made today by an independent
committee investigating the company’s efforts to hide losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  