-- 
U.S. Job Prospects at Three-Year High

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-05T15:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/job-prospects-index-in-u-s-climbs-to-three-year-high-amid-payroll-growth.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. climbed in November to a three-year high, helped by growth
in the world’s largest economy.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index jumped 1.2
percent to 103.7, the highest level since September 2008, from
102.4 the prior month that was more than initially estimated,
figures from the New York-based private research group showed
today. The measure rose 6.4 percent from November 2010.  The report is consistent with Labor Department data last
week that showed payroll growth picked up while the  unemployment
rate  dropped to 8.6 percent. At the same time, the lack of
faster hiring is limiting wage gains and restraining consumers’
ability to boost their spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “The better than expected growth in economic activity in
recent months is likely to lead to some acceleration in job
growth in the beginning of 2012,”  Gad Levanon , director of
macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said today in a
statement.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  Component Improvements  Improvements in seven of the index’s eight components
contributed to the increase in the overall gauge. These included
a drop in the number of consumers saying jobs were hard to get,
fewer first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  and a rising
demand for temporary workers, the Conference Board said.  Payrolls grew by 120,000 workers last month after a gain of
100,000 in October, the Labor Department’s report showed on Dec.
2. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for an increase of 125,000. The jobless rate declined to
8.6 percent, the lowest level since March 2009, from 9 percent,
in part due to the departure of Americans from the  labor force .  November payrolls included a 50,000 gain in retail trade as
companies hired for the  holiday shopping season . The number of
temporary workers rose 22,300.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, increased mostly part-time staff by 4 percent for the
November-December shopping season. See’s Candies Inc., a
chocolate maker owned by Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said it would
add 5,500 mostly temporary workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  