-- 
Jose Reyes Moves to Marlins as Miami Adds Second All-Star Player in Week

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-12-07T17:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/jose-reyes-marlins-agree-to-six-year-contract-espn-reports.html
Jose Reyes  became the second free-
agent All-Star to join the Miami Marlins this week.  The shortstop, who won the National League batting title
last season playing for the  New York Mets , will join a team that
had the lowest payroll twice in the past five seasons.  Reyes said today at a news conference announcing his free-
agent signing during  Major League Baseball ’s Winter Meetings
in  Dallas  that the Mets forced him out of New York.  “They didn’t make me a real offer,” he said. “They
didn’t want me there.”  The Marlins this week also signed relief pitcher Heath Bell, formerly of the  San Diego Padres .  Reyes, 28, hit .337 last season to become the first Mets
player to win the National League batting title. He also had
seven home runs, 44 runs batted in, 101 runs scored and 39
stolen bases.  The Marlins didn’t release contract details.  ESPN reported 
Reyes agreed on a six-year contract worth at least $111 million.  Reyes’s contract would be the biggest in Marlins’ history,
surpassing All-Star Hanley Ramirez’s six-year, $70 million deal,
MLB.com said.  With the addition of Reyes, the Marlins will move Ramirez
to third base from shortstop, the only position he has played
during his seven-year major-league career.  Bell, 34, saved 132 games for the Padres the last three
seasons. He agreed on a three-year contract worth $27 million,
according to MLB.com.  New Image  The signings come as the club revamps its image and moves
into a new 37,000-seat, retractable-roof ballpark. Owner Jeffrey Loria changed the name to the Miami Marlins from the  Florida
Marlins , and hired Ozzie Guillen, who in 2005 led the Chiago
White Sox to their first  World Series  title in 88 years, as
manager. The Marlins have made the playoffs twice since joining
the NL as an expansion team 19 season ago, in 1997 and 2003,
winning the World Series each time.  Reyes, a four time All-Star, had a .292 batting average
with the Mets, with 735 runs scored and 370 stolen bases. He’s
missed 191 games because of injuries the past three years.  The loss of Reyes is the another setback for the Mets, who
have had losing records and declining attendance for the last
three seasons. The Mets, who haven’t made the postseason since
2006, went 77-85 to finish fourth in the five-team National
League East division, 25 games behind the  Philadelphia Phillies .
The Marlins finished last in the NL East at 72-90.  Mets Deal  Reyes declined to negotiate a new deal with the Mets during
the season, saying he didn’t want any distractions. He was in
the option season of a four-year, $23.3 million contract.  Mets General Manager  Sandy Alderson  told reporters at the
Winter Meetings that the Mets never made a formal offer to
Reyes, though he had frequent conversations with his agents.  “You have to draw a line somewhere, and based on our
experience -- not just with Jose, but with multiyear contracts
generally -- we decided that there were some conceptual
limitations to where we would go,” Alderson said. “One of the
reasons we held back so long is because we wanted to see where
the market would take us.”  The Mets may lose as much as $70 million this year and
remain engaged in a court battle with the trustee in charge of
recovering money for investors in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.
The franchise, which has had attendance at $850 million Citi
Field drop 26 percent since 2009, cut 10 percent of its front-
office staff last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in at the baseball meetings in Dallas at  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  