-- 
Kandarian Says ‘Everything on the Table’ as MetLife Seeks to Boost Returns

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-05T17:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/kandarian-says-everything-on-the-table-as-metlife-seeks-to-boost-returns.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steven Kandarian  said the insurer may scale back or exit
businesses as it conducts a review of units to meet targets for
shareholder returns amid near-record low  interest rates .  “Everything is on the table,” Kandarian said today in a
conference call with analysts to discuss 2012 earnings
projections for the largest U.S. life insurer. “There could be
businesses that we dial down. There could be businesses that we
don’t engage in any longer.”  Kandarian, 59, has made deals to sell units including
assets in Panama,  Costa Rica  and  Trinidad and Tobago  since
MetLife’s acquisition of American Life Insurance Co. last year
for about $16 billion, which increased sales outside the U.S.
The insurer is expanding in countries such as  India ,  China ,
 Russia  and  Brazil , where it projects about 20 percent annual
revenue growth through 2015.  Operating return on equity will be between 10.6 percent and
10.8 percent this year, and the upper end of the range for 2012
is 10.6 percent, New York-based MetLife said today in a
 presentation  on its website. The insurer had projected a 12
percent to 14 percent return on equity by 2013 in its investor
presentation last December.  “In this low-interest rate environment, in terms of
opportunities on the investment side, it’s going to be harder to
get to the higher end of the range in the short term,” said
Kandarian. “Today, we’re not there. We know that. But we are
going to look at every lever possible to get the ROE over time
to the level where it needs to be.”  Investment Yields  The insurer has begun a review of its businesses and will
tell investors more about what changes it will make at a
presentation in June, Kandarian said.  Insurers’ investment income has been under pressure as
near-record low  interest rates  reduce coupon payments from
bonds. The average yield on MetLife’s more than $350 billion in
fixed-income holdings sank to 4.8 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from 5.8 percent a year earlier, according to
 data  on the insurer’s website.  Next year’s operating earnings will be $5.1 billion to $5.6
billion, or $4.80 to $5.20 a share, MetLife said today in a
statement. That compares with a forecast of $5.2 billion to $5.3
billion, or $4.83 to $4.93 a share, for this year.  The insurer advanced 4.2 percent to $33.10 at 11:58 a.m. in
New York. The firm has dropped about 26 percent this year.  MetLife plans to submit a fresh capital plan to the  Federal
Reserve  next month after the regulator rejected the company’s
proposal to raise its dividend and resume share buybacks. The
company said expects to hear from the Fed by the end of the
first quarter.  Fed Oversight  The insurer is subject to Fed oversight because of its size
and ownership of banking operations, which Kandarian has
announced plans to sell. William Wheeler, who heads MetLife’s
Americas division, declined to comment on the call about
prospects for divesting the business. The 2012 forecast assumes
no share buybacks, according to today’s presentation.  MetLife plans to reduce sales of variable annuities by
about 35 percent from 2011 levels to between $17.5 billion and
$18.5 billion next year, Wheeler said today on the call. The
insurer said in October that it will lower the returns it
promises customers as it reduces risk from the equity-linked
products. When stock markets fall, variable-annuity sellers
often are required to shoulder a portion of the losses for their
customers.  The insurer’s sales of the retirement products in the third
quarter surged 84 percent to about $8.6 billion, furthering the
company’s lead as the top U.S. provider of the products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  