-- 
Karzai Requests Financial Support for Afghanistan Amid Threat of Terrorism

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-05T18:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/karzai-requests-financial-support-for-afghanistan-amid-threat-of-terrorism.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  called
on the international community to maintain financial and
security support for his government after NATO troops leave in
2014, citing the threat of terrorism.  Speaking in Bonn,  Germany , today at an international
meeting on Afghanistan, Karzai cited achievements in health,
education and infrastructure, including building more roads in
the last decade than in the country’s history.  The Bonn conference drew more than 1,000 participants,
including U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , to discuss
how to help Afghanistan after NATO troops pull out, taking
billions of dollars in aid with them.  Pakistan ’s decision to
boycott the meeting, after a NATO raid left 24 of its soldiers
dead, has underscored the doubts Karzai and his country face.  “Our shared goal of a stable, self-reliant and democratic
 Afghanistan  is still far from being achieved,” Karzai said in
opening remarks. “The challenges that remain are significant
and have the potential to derail our progress and reverse our
achievements.”  Clinton urged Afghanistan’s neighbors to reduce trade
barriers and follow through on commitments, warning that the
region has “much to lose if the country again becomes a source
of terrorism and instability.” That is why, the top U.S.
diplomat added, “we, of course, would have benefited from
Pakistan’s contribution to this conference.”  U.S. Funding Resumes  She announced that in the wake of Afghan financial changes,
the U.S. will resume payments to the Afghanistan Reconstruction
Fund. They had been suspended due to the Kabul Bank scandal, in
which bank officials lost billions through illegal loans. The
U.S. committed $700 million this year, according to the State
Department.  The Afghan government envisions that the nation will need
international economic aid until 2025 and help paying for its
security forces until 2030 to avoid having progress “come
undone,” according to its Economic Transition Strategy report,
a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “This conference has established a blueprint for the
international community’s long term engagement with Afghanistan
beyond 2014,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an
e-mailed statement. He said that Karzai will visit the U.K.
immediately after the Bonn conference to sign a “long-term
partnership” agreement.  Economic Support  “We have committed ourselves to provide economic support
to Afghanistan for the decade after 2014, until Afghanistan
becomes economically self-sustainable,” Hague said. “Alongside
this, the Afghan Government has committed itself to
reinvigorating the progress on key development priorities,
including governance, anti-corruption and rule of law.”  “We have also agreed to produce a clear plan for the
future funding for the Afghan National Security Forces in
advance of the NATO Chicago summit next May,” he said.  Clinton said it was especially significant that an Afghan
Loya Jirga, a council of advisers recently convened by Karzai,
decided to continue with the reconciliation process. The
gathering was criticized as being weighted with Karzai loyalists
and therefore not broadly representative.  “Ultimately, the decision about peace and reconciliation
is up to the Afghan people,” Clinton said when asked how she
reconciled an emphasis on human rights and the U.S. policy of
supporting reconciliation with the Taliban.  ‘Very Firm Guidelines’  The Taliban must renounce violence, abandon their alliance
with al-Qaeda, obey the laws and constitution of Afghanistan,
including guarantees of the rights of women and ethnic
minorities, Clinton said. “We have a set of very firm
guidelines,” she said.  Karzai said the Afghan “political process will continue to
be inclusive,” as he works to bring representatives of the
Taliban into the government on the condition that that they
renounce violence, adhere to the Afghan constitution and meet
other requirements.  “The Afghan people want us to continue the  peace
process ,” Karzai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  