-- 
Killing Rebels Alone Won’t Stop India’s Violent Uprisings: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-05T00:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/killing-rebels-alone-won-t-finish-india-s-violent-maoist-uprisings-view.html
India  is nearing a crisis among those
who think  economic progress  is leaving them behind. An obvious
sign is the soaring popularity of the anti-corruption agitator
 Anna Hazare . A more subtle one can be seen in the killing of
Maoist insurgent leader Kishenji by government troops on Nov.
24.  The government and news media heralded the death of the
rebel leader as the decisive blow to a 45-year conflict that has
cost 10,000 lives. Yet the so-called Naxalite rebellion now
spreads across a “Red Corridor” in India’s east and south and
affects a third of the country’s administrative districts.  Until the underlying causes of the revolt are addressed,
the Maoists will continue to benefit from local support as a
lesser  evil  in comparison to government and business interests.
It is no coincidence that the highest levels of violence occur
in areas with heavy mining of  iron ore , coal, bauxite and
manganese, such as the state of  Chhattisgarh , where  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,
 Asia ’s third-largest iron-ore producer, is building a $3.6
billion steel factory.  Although India has laws to protect the rights of local
populations and the environment of mineral-rich areas, the
Environment and Forests Ministry rarely stands up to the
influential Power Ministry. In a typical move, the environment
ministry approved this summer the felling of more than 1 million
trees to allow mining of 500 million metric tons of coal in an
elephant preserve in Chhattisgarh.  Those Left Behind  The ones left out, of course, are the local tribes and
rural poor who have been given little share of India’s growing
economic pie. This neglect strengthens the popular backing for
the brutal Maoists, who not only battle security officials but
also blow up trains, bridges and other public facilities with no
thought to civilian casualties.  Given the depravities of the Naxalites (some of whom,
ironically, have gotten rich extorting the mining companies),
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s stepped-up counterinsurgency is
necessary. But it shouldn’t be carried out with the aid of
untrained, underpaid militias such as the Salwa Judum in
Chhattisgarh, which is accused of murder, rape and looting and
has been declared unconstitutional by the  Supreme Court .  A long-term solution requires balancing the need for raw
materials with the social and environmental degradation inherent
in their removal, and allowing more of the resulting riches to
enhance the lives of local residents, many of whom still live
without electricity, roads, schools and adequate medical care.  The Red Corridor contains most of India’s poorest areas,
but its problems are hardly unique: A growing proportion of
people across the country are outwardly frustrated with
widespread corruption and what they see as winner-take-most
capitalism. Unless all benefit from the economic rise, the
Kishenjis of the future will continue to find followers.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 