-- 
Kraft Invests in India Chocolate in Push for 30% Sales Gain

-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-05T04:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/kraft-invests-in-india-chocolate-for-growth.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the world’s second-
largest food company, has boosted spending in India by more than
half, targeting annual sales growth of 30 percent for chocolate,
a market it expects to resist any consumption slump.  The nation’s biggest chocolate maker has increased its
annual investment in advertising, capital expenditure, sales and
marketing by more than 70 percent since acquiring Cadbury Plc
last year, said Anand Kripalu, Kraft president,  South Asia  and
Indo-China.  The foodmaker has invested more to fend off rivals
including  Nestle SA  in India, where the Cadbury unit controls 70
percent of the chocolate market, and as the Northfield, Illinois
company boosts its reliance on growth in  developing countries .
Kraft revenue from  emerging markets  has almost quadrupled since
2004, propelling sales at the international business past  North
America ’s last year for the first time.  “There are some categories in the world that people
consume in good times and bad times, and chocolate is one of
them,” Kripalu said in an interview in  Hong Kong  on Nov. 30. He
declined to say how much Kraft was investing in India or to say
what the company’s profit margins are.  India’s economy  grew 6.9 percent last quarter, the slowest
pace in more than two years, after the central bank raised
 interest rates  by a record to try to tame inflation.  Tang and Oreos  The maker of Lu cookies and Philadelphia cream cheese is
betting on its chocolate business, Oreo cookies and Tang
powdered drink to propel growth in the world’s second most
populous country after paying about 13.6 billion pounds ($21
billion at the time) for U.K.-based Cadbury last year.  “Cadbury’s distribution and marketing in  India  are top
notch,” said Abneesh Roy, an analyst at Edelweiss Financial
Services in Mumbai. “Food is doing well in India. Nestle,
Cadbury should do well.” Cadbury would need to introduce new
chocolate products to keep meeting a 30 percent sales growth
target, he said.  Kraft started selling Oreos, a chocolate sandwich cookie,
in India last year as it expands into the growing market for
cookies, also called biscuits, a $3 billion business that is
growing as much as 20 percent per annum, Kripalu said.  “If we can get a substantial percentage of that market it
would be very good,” Kripalu said. “We’d like to make up for
the lost time.”  Rising sugar prices and declines in the rupee against the
dollar may hurt the earnings at the company, which makes the
Oreo cookies and chocolates it sells in India locally.  Sugar has jumped 19 percent in the past six months based on
futures traded on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange
Ltd. in Mumbai. Sugar for December delivery fell 0.5 percent to
2,978 rupees per 100 kilograms (220 pounds) on Dec. 3. It will
begin trading again at 10 a.m. today, Mumbai time.  ‘Commodity Headwinds’  “In addition to commodity headwinds, there is also the
added cost of the depreciating rupee which will make imports
more costly,” Kripalu said.  The  Indian rupee  has depreciated 13 percent against the
dollar this year,  Asia ’s worst performance, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kraft may raise prices as a last resort, Kripalu said.  “Affordability is the key driver of our business” in
India, he said. “Chocolate gives consumers a small moment of
joy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  