-- 
New Jersey Democrats Raised, Spent Twice as Much as Republicans on Races

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-05T18:35:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/n-j-democrats-spent-twice-as-much-as-republicans-on-election-report-says.html
New Jersey  Democrats raised and spent
more than twice as much as Republicans for last month’s
legislative elections, even with Governor  Chris Christie 
attracting record out-of-state donations for his party.  Democratic candidates collected $31.8 million, 70 percent
of the total, and spent $27.8 million, according to a report
today from the  Election Law Enforcement Commission . Republicans
raised $13.3 million and spent $10.5 million.  Christie, 49, who took office last year as the first
Republican elected New Jersey governor since 1997, traveled
across the U.S. attracting money for home-state candidates ahead
of this year’s election. Democrats kept their 24-16 edge in the
Senate and added one Assembly seat for a 48-32 majority.  “It emphasizes, given his stature, how much of a hole
Republicans are in,” said  Peter Woolley , director of the
 PublicMind  poll at Fairleigh Dickinson University. “It’s like
having a basketball team with one 7-foot center and everybody
else is 5 feet -- unless you give him the ball, you’re not going
to score.”  Christie, who faces re-election in 2013, made a September
fundraising swing through western states that generated more
than $620,000 from non-New Jersey sources, out of almost $1.5
million raised by the state  Republican Party  from July 1 to
Sept. 30, according to an election filing.  Party Fundraising  The New Jersey Republican State Committee this year
collected $3.2 million through Sept. 30, while the Democratic
State Committee raised $889,450, according to a summary of
campaign-finance reports from the election commission. In
individual fundraising, though, Democrats outpaced Republicans.  In two Senate districts where Christie campaigned and
raised money, Republicans were unable to oust incumbent
Democrats. Those races were among the most expensive in state
history, according to the election commission report.  Near  Atlantic City , Democrat James Whalen survived a
challenge from Assemblyman James Polistina in a race that cost
$5.2 million and is the third-most expensive, Jeff Brindle,
executive director of the commission, said in a statement. In
Bergen County, Republicans failed to oust Senator Robert Gordon
in a $4.6 million race that is the fifth-priciest.  Overall fundraising by legislative candidates was $45.2
million, down 10 percent from 2007, the last year in which all
120 legislative seats were up for re-election, Brindle said.
Total spending was $38.4 million, down 12 percent.  ‘Partial Picture’  New Jersey’s largest teachers’ union posted record spending
of $566,000 on legislative races in the quarter ended Sept. 30,
reports released in October show, as it criticized Christie’s
changes to public-employee benefits and proposals to overhaul
education policies.  Patrick Murray , director of polling at  Monmouth University 
in  West Long Branch , said he had expected to see the gap between
the parties narrow as Democrat  Jon Corzine , Christie’s
predecessor in the Capitol, directed less of his personal wealth
to politics and as Christie rose in prominence.  The latest report is a “partial picture” that doesn’t
detail how much of the money raised by Christie was saved to
finance his re-election bid, Murray said.  “It seems to be the same old story,” he said. “Talk of
the Democratic fundraising machine’s demise wasn’t true.”  Rick Gorka , a spokesman for the Republican State Committee,
said his party flipped control of freeholder boards in
Cumberland and Salem counties during the election and won
mayoral and council seats across the state. Republicans hold 51
percent of the state’s freeholder seats, the county-level
governing bodies, up from 40 percent in 2007, Gorka said.  “New Jersey Republicans and Governor Christie raised
unprecedented money for candidates across New Jersey,” Gorka
said in an interview. “Republicans continued to make electoral
gains despite being outspent by Democrats and their public
employee allies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 matannen@bloomberg.net . 