-- 
N.Z.’s Key Reaches Agreements With Allies

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-12-05T02:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/n-z-s-key-reaches-agreements-with-allies.html
New Zealand ’s re-elected Prime
Minister John Key reached governing arrangements with the ACT
and United Future parties, giving him allies to support a
planned asset sales program over the next three years.  Key agreed to give both parties ministerial positions and
will support some of their policies in exchange for backing of
laws required to enforce his  National Party ’s plans, according
to e-mailed statements after the accords were signed in
Wellington today. Key remains in talks with the Maori party to
also back his government.  Under New Zealand’s proportional voting system, Key needed
support from allies in parliament even after his National party
won 48 percent of the vote in the Nov. 26 election, its best
performance in 60 years. ACT and United Future, who backed Key
in his first term, had signaled they would vote for the plan to
sell as much as 49 percent in four state-owned energy companies
to help eliminate a  budget deficit .  The agreement with United Future “gives the new National-
led government confidence and supply support throughout this
term,” Key said in a statement.  United Future leader Peter Dunne will be appointed Minister
of Revenue outside of Key’s cabinet, the statement said. He was
also revenue minister in the 2008-11 government.  Banks Comeback  ACT’s sole member of parliament John Banks will be
appointed Minister for Regulatory Reform, as well as for  Small
Business , Key said in a second statement. Both posts will also
be outside the cabinet. Banks was a former National minister in
the 1990-99 government holding police and tourism portfolios
before retiring. He had two terms as mayor of Auckland City, the
nation’s largest, before losing in the 2010 election.  The ACT agreement “has a strong focus on the economy,
including a concentration on fiscal discipline, and reducing the
costs to business,” Key said.  Under the deal, limits are to be imposed on  government
spending . Within the next two years, new laws will require that
core operating expenses will grow no faster than the annual
increase in the rate of  population growth  multiplied by the
inflation rate, according to the agreement.  National won 60 seats in the 121-seat parliament and with
United Future’s and ACT’s vote will be able to pass laws. Key is
also negotiating with the Maori party, which has three seats and
also provided support in his first term in exchange for two
ministerial positions and government support for some of its
policies. The Maori party is opposed to the asset sales plan.  The supply and confidence accords allow allies to vote
against the government on matters of disagreement. Key doesn’t
need the Maori votes to pass the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  