-- 
NAMA’s First Vendor-Financed Sale Attracts Prudential, Atlas

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-12-05T07:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/nama-s-first-vendor-financed-sale-attracts-prudential-atlas.html
The first property sale by Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency that it’s helping finance has
attracted bids from six companies including Atlas Capital Group
LLC and Prudential Plc, a person familiar with the matter said.  One Warrington Place, an office block in central Dublin,
may sell for more than 25 million euros ($34 million), said the
person, who declined to be identified because the information is
private. NAMA will provide as much as 70 percent of so-called
vendor debt finance to help sell the property.  NAMA was set up to purge Ireland’s banks of 74.2 billion
euros of risky commercial real-estate loans, for which it paid
31.7 billion euros. While the agency prefers to help finance
purchases when they involve Irish properties, it is also
considering using vendor finance to back sales of loans, Chief
Executive Officer Brendan McDonagh said in an October interview.
Most of NAMA’s disposals next year may be loans, he said.  The value of Irish investment property fell 4.6 percent in
the three months to the end of September, CBRE Group Inc. said
on Oct. 31. Investment properties have seen a decline of almost
65 percent from the peak, it said.  At least five bids for Warrington Place were for more than
25 million euros, three people familiar with the matter said,
declining to be identified because the information hasn’t been
released publicly.  One Warrington Place was expected to sell for 28 million
euros when it was put on the market, according to The Irish
Times. NAMA’s McDonagh said in October that the property
attracted 30 expressions of interest.  NAMA spokesman David Clerkin, Atlas director Taylor
McWilliams and Paul Griffin, a spokesman for Prupim,
Prudential’s real estate asset manager, all declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 