-- 
Neptune Orient Declines to Comment on Hapag-Lloyd Stake Discussions Report

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-12-05T02:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/neptune-orient-declines-to-comment-on-hapag-lloyd-stake-discussions-report.html
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest container line, declined to comment on a Die Welt
report that it’s in talks to buy  TUI AG (TUI1) ’s shares in shipping
company Hapag-Lloyd AG.  The container line doesn’t comment on market speculation,
it said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News today. The
Singapore-based company also halted its shares on the city-
state’s stock exchange pending an announcement.  Neptune Orient has held discussions with TUI on buying its
38 percent stake in Hapag-Lloyd and more talks are planned for
next month, Die Welt reported Dec. 3, without saying where it
got the information. TUI, based in Hannover,  Germany , has
previously said it plans to offload the holdings to focus on its
main  travel businesses .  “It has been widely known since 2008 that we are looking
to sell our shares, and we are evaluating all options,” TUI
spokesman Mario Koepers told Bloomberg on Dec. 3.  Neptune Orient , part-owned by Singapore’s sovereign wealth
fund Temasek Holding Pte., closed at S$1.09 in Singapore on Dec.
2. The stock has plunged 50 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 30 companies in the benchmark  Straits
Times Index. (FSSTI)   The Singapore shipping line bid for a controlling stake in
Hapag-Lloyd in 2008, which was eventually bought by Hamburg-
based investment group Albert Ballin GmbH. TUI has an option to
compel Ballin to buy its remaining shares in the shipping line
next month. The company plans to exercise this Jan. 2, Chief
Financial Officer Horst Baier said Nov. 17.  Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA CGM SA, the world’s
second and third-largest container carriers, last week announced
plans to cooperate as lines try to pare overcapacity and revive
slumping freight rates that have caused industrywide losses.
Neptune Orient has been unprofitable in each of the last three
quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  