-- 
New Jersey Assembly Seeks to Pass Emergency Aid Bill for Distressed Cities

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-05T21:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/new-jersey-assembly-seeks-to-pass-emergency-aid-bill-for-distressed-cities.html
New Jersey  Assembly lawmakers plan to
pass a bill today that would restore $139 million of
transitional aid for 11 cities in fiscal distress, including six
with barely enough cash to last the month.  The Democratic-sponsored legislation would be posted as an
emergency measure on the Assembly floor, bypassing the usual
committee hearings. The move needs support from three-quarters
of the chamber’s 80 members, according to legislative rules.  Democrats control the Assembly 47-33. Republicans will
agree to grant an emergency hearing on the bill,  Alex DeCroce ,
the chamber’s Republican leader, said in a Statehouse interview.  “It’s something we’re all comfortable with,” said
DeCroce, who is from Parsippany. “It’s long overdue.”  Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, had
reduced transitional aid to $10 million in the $29.7 billion
budget he signed in June. He then agreed to increase the amount
to $139 million in a supplemental spending bill as long as his
administration got more power over it.  The Democrats’ bill adds $1.5 million for the cost of
oversight,  Tom Hester , a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, an East Orange Democrat, said by e-mail. Christie’s
measure took that cost out of the total pool for the cities.
 Michael Drewniak , a spokesman, declined to say immediately
whether the governor would support the $1.5 million increase.  ‘Reasonable Compromise’  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West
Deptford, said he expects his house to give final approval to
the transitional aid measure by Dec. 15. “I think this is a
very reasonable compromise,” he said during a brief interview.  Six of the 11 cities waiting for their share of the aid
operate on a calendar-year basis, giving them less than a month
to make their cash last.  Last week, Terry Reidy, city manager of  Asbury Park , said
he was considering short-term borrowing to pay municipal workers
because he may run out of cash by mid-month. The town of
Harrison was shifting money among municipal accounts as it
awaited $4.5 million, according to Gabriela Simoes, chief
financial officer.  The transitional aid is 13 percent less than the $159
million budgeted last year, the result of Christie’s promise
that municipalities will be gradually phased out of the program.
Assistance went to 22 municipalities last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  