-- 
Nigeria’s Naira Falls for Second Day on Dollar Demand Pressure

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-12-05T11:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/nigeria-s-naira-falls-for-second-day-on-dollar-demand-pressure.html
Nigeria ’s naira depreciated for a
second day against the dollar, on higher demand for the U.S.
currency in the import-dependent country.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer weakened 0.1
percent to 161.6 per dollar on the  interbank market  by 11:20
a.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Central Bank  of Nigeria on Nov. 21 lowered the midpoint
of its exchange-rate band at its twice-weekly auctions to 155
naira per dollar from 150 naira. Rising imports and weakening
oil prices, the source of more than 95 percent of Nigeria’s
foreign-exchange income, mounted pressure on the bank.  “A lack of U.S. dollar liquidity will continue to
precipitate naira losses, despite an upward adjustment of the
mid-point,” Celeste Fauconnier and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana,
analysts at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a
report today. “The CBN’s regular involvement in the  currency
market  outside of the official auctions has raised market
expectations of consistent U.S. dollar supply, causing the naira
to spike when the central bank is absent from the market.”  Inflation in Nigeria remains a threat, leaving little room
to loosen monetary policy even as the European debt crisis
worsens,  Central Bank of Nigeria  Governor Lamido Sanusi said
Dec. 1.  The central bank kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged at a
record high of 12 percent on Nov. 22 after having raised it by 6
percentage points since September last year. The bank increased
 interest rates  2.75 percentage points in October after inflation
climbed above its 10 percent target.  Ghana’s cedi appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.6393 against the
dollar, as of 10:26 a.m. in Accra, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  