-- 
TNK-BP Considering Vietnam Block After Bidding for Conoco Assets

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-05T13:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/tnk-bp-still-considering-bid-in-vietnam-offshore-licensing-round.html
TNK-BP ,  Russia ’s third-largest oil
producer, is considering bidding in a Vietnam licensing round
and expects to hear from ConocoPhillips about a bid for assets
there as it seeks to expand in the Southeast Asian country.  “We have not made a decision yet,” Alexander Dodds,
executive director for exploration and production, told
reporters in Moscow today, referring to a licensing round for
nine blocks that ends Dec. 9. TNK-BP’s board meets this week.  TNK-BP is seeking to expand outside Russia to boost oil and
gas production as domestic legislation favors state-controlled
 OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and OAO Rosneft. The venture bought $1.8 billion of
assets in Vietnam and Venezuela this year from  BP Plc (BP/) , a 50
percent shareholder, and agreed in October to pay $1 billion for
a stake in 21 exploration blocks in the Brazilian Amazon.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil company, said in
May it plans to sell its stake in three oil and natural-gas
assets in the  South China Sea  as part of its own program to fund
share buybacks and growth.  TNK-BP hasn’t received an answer from ConocoPhillips, Dodds
said. “We did put a bid in,” he said. “Hopefully, we will
hear soon.”  TNK-BP may favor the licensing round over the
ConocoPhillips assets, Mikhail Slobodin, executive vice
president of TNK-BP’s gas division, said on Nov. 23. “It’s
unlikely we will buy this asset,” Slobodin said at the time.
“It is too big for the start of our operations in Vietnam in
terms of expansion.”  The TNK Vietnam unit aims to increase output through joint
ventures and acquisitions as well as current assets, General
Director Hugh McIntosh told reporters in Hanoi on Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  