-- 
NLRB Unit Aware of Reports Hayes Got Offers to Quit, Aide Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-12-05T20:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/nlrb-unit-aware-of-reports-hayes-got-offers-to-quit-aide-says.html
The  National Labor Relations Board ’s
watchdog knows of reports that  Brian Hayes , the board’s only
Republican, got offers aimed at getting him to resign, the
board’s spokeswoman said.  Dave Berry, the independent NLRB inspector general,
“confirmed that his office is aware of allegations concerning
possible enticements” offered to Hayes, spokeswoman Nancy
Cleeland said, without providing details. The watchdog’s office
will neither confirm nor deny an investigation is underway.  Hayes told Chairman Mark Pearce in October that he might
quit, leaving the board without a quorum to act, to thwart
efforts by the board’s two Democrats to speed the pace of union
elections. Hayes has said he opposes that effort, and Republican
Governor Nikki Haley of  South Carolina  and the anti-union blog
LaborUnionReport.com had urged him to leave to block action. The
board needs three members to adopt rules.  Aaron Albright, a spokesman for Representative  George Miller  of California, the senior Democrat on the House Education
and Workforce Committee that oversees labor policy  said in an
e-mail that “we understand that the inspector general has
opened his own investigation into these matters, apparently
based on information he has received, and we will await the
results of that investigation”  Reports of a possible IG investigation were reported
earlier today by The Hill newspaper. Berry didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail requesting comment.  Hayes said at a public NLRB meeting last week that he has
decided not to resign. His term ends in December 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  