-- 
Noda Ally Calls on Japan Defense Chief to Resign

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-12-05T15:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/noda-s-coalition-ally-calls-on-japan-defense-minister-to-resign.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s coalition ally called on Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa
to quit over a deputy’s gaffe, saying the outcry over the
incident could undermine the government.  “This is not just a problem for Minister Ichikawa but for
the Prime Minister, whose response could affect his political
position,”  Shizuka Kamei , head of the People’s New Party, said
in an interview yesterday at his office in  Tokyo . “He can’t
keep his seat and fulfill his duties as defense minister.”  Opposition parties will submit a parliamentary censure
against Ichikawa this week after a ministry official compared
the planned relocation of a U.S. military base on Okinawa to
rape. Ichikawa also came under fire for later saying he
“doesn’t know the details” of a 1995 incident in which three
American soldiers sexually assaulted a schoolgirl.  The defense minister yesterday said he will take a salary
cut over the incident. Noda told a parliamentary committee he
wanted Ichikawa to remain in office.  The defense minister’s departure would be the second from
the Cabinet since Noda took office in September, highlighting a
political landscape plagued with verbal gaffes that have led to
frequent ministerial changes. A protracted fight over Ichikawa’s
responsibility threatens to delay compilation of a fourth
reconstruction budget and plans for next year’s outlays.  Noda’s approval rating fell to 38 percent from 42 percent a
month ago, according to a Mainichi newspaper poll published
yesterday. About 54 percent oppose his proposal to gradually
double the 5 percent sales tax by the middle of the decade to
help pay for social welfare costs, while 45 percent approve. The
paper surveyed 1,012 people Dec. 3-4 and gave no margin of error.  Assault Incidents  Satoshi Tanaka, director of the Okinawa Defense Bureau,
compared the planned relocation of the U.S. Futenma Marine Air
Base to rape in comments to reporters on Nov. 28 and was
subsequently fired. Local residents want the facility moved off
the island, in part because of the 1995 attack.  “It’s absolutely not the case that Ichikawa was making
light of the problems of Okinawa, but the reality is that’s how
it’s perceived coming after the deputy’s comments,” Kamei said.  There’s a “high probability” the Diet will censure
Ichikawa, Liberal  Democratic Party  lawmaker Ichita Yamamoto said
on Fuji TV on Dec. 4. “Noda is saying that Ichikawa is the
right person in the right job, but if he quits after this, I’d
like to use the budget committee to rigorously examine Noda’s
responsibility” for appointing him in the first place, he said.  The LDP and Komeito, another opposition party, plan to
submit the censure motion on Dec. 9, Japanese newspapers
reported. Noda’s Democratic Party of  Japan  has a majority in the
lower without Kamei’s group.  ‘My Utmost’  “I will do my utmost to fulfill my responsibilities in
this position, knowing that it will be difficult to restore
trust,” Ichikawa told a parliamentary committee yesterday.  Noda’s first trade minister, Yoshio Hachiro, stepped down
after nine days for calling areas near the crippled Fukushima
nuclear plant “towns of death.” After visiting the site he
also rubbed his sleeve against a reporter saying, “Do you want
some radiation?” media including the Nikkei newspaper reported.  Noda’s predecessor,  Naoto Kan , was criticized for
appointing Ryu Matsumoto to head reconstruction efforts from the
March earthquake and tsunami after the minister was forced to
quit over his public chastising of the governor of a devastated
prefecture who arrived late to a meeting.  While Japan’s  gross domestic product  grew at a 6 percent
pace in the three months ended September, a post-quake rebound
is losing steam as the European debt crisis saps demand for
Japanese goods and the yen near a record high erodes exporters’
profits.  That means reconstruction demand at home remains the one
bright spot for the world’s third-largest economy. Noda
instructed his ministers Dec. 1 to compile a fourth extra budget
for rebuilding, which Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  says will be at
least 2 trillion yen ($26 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  