-- 
Nokia Siemens Leads Forward-Start Loan Resurgence as Funding Access Closes

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-12-05T12:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/nokia-siemens-leads-forward-start-loan-resurgence-as-funding-access-closes.html
Nokia Siemens Networks and Italian
builder  Astaldi SpA (AST)  are leading a resurgence in forward-start
loans amid rising concern the credit markets will shut to some
companies next year.  Issuance of the loans, which lock in funding before debt
comes due, rose to 2.8 billion euros ($3.8 billion) in the past
month -- almost 40 percent of the total this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Nokia Siemens, the venture of Nokia
Oyj and Siemens AG, is seeking 1.5 billion of forward-starts,
people with knowledge of the deal said Nov. 28.  The potential breakup of the euro amid fiscal imbalances
from  Greece  to Ireland has prompted European lenders to hoard
capital to buffer sovereign debt losses. This year’s forward-
starts of 7 billion euros compare with a record 30 billion euros
in 2009 when the financial crisis left treasurers with few
funding options, the data show.  Companies that “lack access to the  bond market  are less
able to attract liquidity elsewhere and therefore need to
protect bank liquidity however they can,” said Jonathan Pughe,
head of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s  Europe ,  Middle East 
and Africa corporate loans syndicate. “A forward-start is a
tried and tested way of doing that.”  Forward-starts pay higher interest and fees in exchange for
the promise of future funding.  Grupo Dragados SA , the
construction unit of Milan-based  Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios AS (ACS) , agreed to pay 300 basis points more than the euro
interbank offered rate in June for a two-year extension on its
debt -- 50 basis points more in interest than on its last
transaction arranged in 2009.  Loan Amid Layoffs  A week after disclosing plans to eliminate a quarter of its
workforce, the largest layoffs in its history, Nokia Siemens
started talks with lenders for a one-year  term loan  and a
revolving credit expiring before June 2015, the people said. The
Espoo, Finland-based network-equipment venture wants to extend
the maturities of a 2 billion-euro deal maturing next year.  “We have always explored multiple options to strengthen
our financing,” Ben Hunt, a London-based spokesman for Nokia
Siemens said. He declined to elaborate on refinancing plans.  Astaldi’s loan “allows us to pursue the planned expansion
of the group’s activities without challenging the basic
assumptions of our business plan,” Chief Executive Officer
Stefano Cerri said in the statement on Dec. 2.  The 325 million-euro loan allows  Italy ’s second-largest
construction company to refinance debt until 2016, according to
the statement. The Rome-based company replaced a facility for
the same amount due in April 2013 and cut 415 million euros of
debt maturing that year.  The deals from Nokia Siemens and Astaldi follow a 840
million-pound ($1.3 billion) forward-start for Grainger Plc, the
U.K.’s largest publicly traded residential landlord. The loans
will extend Grainger’s maturities to between 2014 and 2020, the
company said in a Nov. 24 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net  