-- 
Norway Tests Bond Markets After Eksportfinans

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 
2011-12-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/norway-tests-bond-markets-as-eksportfinans-drives-funding-need.html
Norway  is planning to step up its
issuance of government bonds after disrupting credit markets as
far as  Japan  with an uncoordinated decision last month to wind
down state-backed  Eksportfinans ASA .  The government wants to find an extra 40 billion kroner
($6.9 billion) next year to fund direct loans to exporters,
after deciding last month to wind down Eksportfinans, according
to a Dec. 2 proposal. That’s on top of planned bond sales of 22
billion kroner. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said Nov. 18
Eksportfinans will be dismantled after rejecting the lender’s
plea to dodge capital rules limiting loans to single industries.  Owners of Eksportfinans’ $35 billion in outstanding bonds
have since watched their holdings sink as Moody’s Investors
Service cut the lender seven steps to junk and  Standard & Poor’s 
followed with a five-level downgrade. According to S&P,
Eksportfinans’ euro medium-term note program may already be in
default. Still, the government’s plan could make export finance
cheaper and even reduce AAA rated Norway’s borrowing costs as it
floods its  debt market  with liquidity sought by investors.  “Perversely, if Norway came to the market, as it does now
with a relatively solid fiscal base, and issues a bit more debt,
I think you can see that as a positive,” said Gregor MacIntosh,
who helps oversee $37 billion as head of rates at Lombard Odier
Investment Managers in Geneva. “From a strategic perspective it
makes good sense to invest.”  Emulating  Sweden   Norway’s average daily turnover in  government bonds ,
excluding repo transactions, is 1.2 billion kroner ($209
million). That compares with about 17.3 billion kronor ($2.6
billion) in neighboring Sweden, according to data provided by
Nasdaq OMX and Bloomberg calculations.  “I’m pretty sure if we have a very liquid market, for
example like Sweden, the yield in Norway would be much lower,”
said Leif Inge Christensen, senior dealer in Oslo at Danske Bank
A/S. “Sweden’s 10-year issue is yielding way below Norway. That
wouldn’t be the case if we had the same liquidity.”  Bigger bond sales by the world’s second-richest nation per
capita, which boasts a $560 billion sovereign-wealth fund and no
net debt, may offer refuge for investors seeking an escape from
the euro crisis. Some buyers have so far hesitated to commit to
Norway’s 204 billion-krone  bond market  because of a lack of
liquidity, Danske’s Christensen said.  “Everybody wants to have the possibility to diversify the
risk these days and Norway is the most obvious candidate in the
world, I presume,” he said. “There is no better credit risk
out there. So the reason they don’t buy even more is that it is
so hard to get big sizes and it’s hard to turn around. If you
get better liquidity it would be even a better market for them
to diversify their currency reserves.”  Bond Outperformance  The yield on 10-year notes issued by AAA rated Sweden, the
largest Nordic economy with a 540 billion-krona bond market, was
1.77 percent on Dec. 5, or about 40 basis points less than
similar-maturity German bunds. Norway pays 2.40 percent to
borrow for 10 years, or 22 basis points more than  Germany .  Norway’s broad market bond index has returned 8.5 percent
this year, when including reinvested interest, while Swedish
debt with a maturity of more than one year has given investors
returns of 12.1 percent, Bloomberg indexes show. Danish bonds
are up 11.6 percent, according to the indexes.  Sweden, where the European Commission estimates government
debt will fall to 36.3 percent of gross domestic product this
year, boasts the world’s best-performing bond market for
maturities of 10 years or longer.  Issuance Outlook  Sweden is taking advantage of the demand for its bonds by
boosting issuance and plans to sell more 30-year debt to lock in
record-low borrowing costs. Sweden’s 10-year note yielded 67
basis points less than German bunds with a similar maturity on
Nov. 25, its best discount ever. It costs Sweden about 50 basis
points less to borrow for 30 years than it does Germany.  Sigurd Klakeg, deputy director general at the Norwegian
Finance Ministry, said it’s still unclear how much debt the
country will issue next year and that it doesn’t have the same
“refinancing risk” focus as Sweden.  Norway will provide loans to exporters on similar terms to
those available at Eksportfinans, Trade and Industry Minister
Trond Giske said in a Nov. 30 interview.  “There’s no possibility of subsidizing a new
institution,” Giske said. “But of course the Norwegian
government has a very good rating and so a state-owned bank
would probably get the best rating of all banks.”  Market Situation  Norway, the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter, has been
shielded from the worst of the debt crisis and boasts budget
surpluses and unemployment below 3 percent. Norway is “better
placed” than most in  Europe  to weather the euro area’s debt
turmoil, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report last
month. The country’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and
shipping income, will expand about 2.5 percent in 2011 and 2012,
the IMF said on Nov. 22.  The country’s debt issuance “really depends on the market
situation,” Klakeg said in an interview. “We have very good
flexibility to choose between drawing on our fairly substantial
cash reserves, the short-term market and the longer-dated bond
market. And what alternative we will go for is, of course,
impossible to say at this stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  