-- 
Obama Says Congress ‘Must Act’ on Payroll Tax Cut Extension

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-12-05T19:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/obama-congress-must-act-on-payroll-tax.html
President  Barack Obama  said keeping a
temporary cut in the  payroll tax  through next year is crucial to
sustaining the recovery and criticized Republicans for resisting
Democratic proposals to extend it.  The  U.S. economy  still faces headwinds, including the debt
crisis in  Europe , Obama said at the White House.  “Although the  unemployment rate  went down last month our
recovery is still fragile,” Obama said. “Now’s the time to
step on the gas.”  Obama and congressional Democrats have been seeking a path
to keeping the payroll tax cut in place for 2012. Republicans
have opposed proposals by the administration to raise taxes for
the wealthiest Americans to offset lost revenue.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is proposing a revised
plan to continue a cut in the payroll tax deduction for
employees. Reid would drop an accompanying payroll-tax cut for
employers and impose a surtax on millionaires that would expire
in 10 years.  The plan would the  payroll tax  paid by employees to 3.1
percent from the current 4.2 percent. Eliminating the proposed
tax cut for employers would shrink the cost of the package to
about $180 billion over 10 years from $265 billion, according to
a Democratic aide.  Reid is tweaking the Democratic measure in an attempt to
win some Republican support and secure the 60 votes that would
be needed to advance the legislation.  GDP Impact  Unless Congress acts, the current payroll tax cut -- which
lowered the employee portion of the Social Security payroll tax
from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent for 2011 -- will expire on Dec.
31.  Mark Zandi , the chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, has
said failure to extend the payroll tax cut into 2012 could cause
U.S. gross domestic product to shrink by at least 0.5 percentage
point during 2012.  “This isn’t just a political fight,” Obama said. Without
action by Congress, 160 million Americans would see their taxes
rise at the start of the new year, he said.  The Labor Department said Dec. 2 that the nation’s jobless
rate fell to 8.6 percent in November from 9 percent the month
before after employers added 120,000 jobs and 315,000 Americans
left the  labor force . The rate was the lowest since March 2009.  Obama’s economic aides said last week that more needs to be
done to accelerate the pace of hiring to make up for the more
than 8 million jobs lost during the recession that started in
December 2007 and ended more than a year later.  Obama will travel to Osawatomie,  Kansas , tomorrow to give a
speech on the economy. President  Theodore Roosevelt , a
Republican, visited Osawatomie calling for a “new nationalism”
more than 100 years ago. Obama is seeking to capitalize on a
connection with Roosevelt, who said then: “I stand for the
square deal.”  The ideas that Roosevelt put forward “are very much at
issue today and the president’s speech will encapsulate the
debates we’ve been having this year,” White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  