-- 
Obama Goes Populist on Tax Cuts, Consumer Chief

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/obama-presses-cordray-consumer-confirmation-with-populist-re-election-bid.html
President  Barack Obama  is setting up
to campaign as a populist defender of the middle class, using
the fight over his nominee to run the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and the extension of a payroll tax cut.  The president will be “aggressively” campaigning for
 Richard Cordray ’s confirmation ahead of a likely Dec. 8 Senate
vote, White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters
yesterday.  That follows Obama’s travel in recent weeks to battleground
states such as  Pennsylvania  and New Hampshire, where he accused
Republicans of hypocrisy for refusing to let Bush-era tax cuts
expire while blocking extension and expansion of a payroll tax
cut that the president has said would save the typical family
more than $1,000 a year next year.  “From nominations to economic proposals, the point right
now is for the administration to show that they’re looking for
economic solutions and that Republicans are looking to obstruct
them,” said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public
affairs at  Princeton University  in New Jersey.  In July, Obama nominated Cordray, who was  Ohio ’s Attorney
General from 2009 to 2011. He rose to national prominence when
he sued  GMAC  Mortgage LLC and its corporate parent, Ally
Financial Inc., accusing them of using fraudulent affidavits in
court cases over foreclosures in the state. He also managed
litigation against financial firms including  American
International Group (AIG)  and Bank of America Corp.  Nomination Blocked  Forty-five Senate Republicans have signed a letter sent to
Obama in May saying they will oppose any nominee for the
consumer agency in part, they said, because the bureau should be
run by a board instead of a single director.  The position was created under the Dodd-Frank Act
regulating the financial industry. The Republican opposition to
Cordray, if it holds, would be enough to block his nomination,
because it takes 60 votes in the 100-member Senate to end debate
and advance a nomination.  Less than a year before Election Day 2012, with his
approval rating at  44 percent  in a Dec. 1-3 Gallup Poll, Obama
is making a “very important and fundamental strategic shift
from 2010,” when Republicans won by framing the election in
terms of spending and deficit reduction, said  Paul Begala , a
Democratic strategist who is advising an independent campaign
group raising money for the president’s re-election bid.  “He is advancing the Democratic message that we’re for the
middle class and Republicans are for the rich,” said Begala,
who was a political aide to former president  Bill Clinton .  Jobs Plan  The theme has been taking shape since Obama unveiled in
September a plan to spur hiring that made the payroll  tax-cut 
its centerpiece and called for higher taxes on millionaires to
pay for the cost.  On a Nov. 30 trip to Scranton, Pennsylvania, Obama said
Republicans face a choice: “Are you going to cut taxes for the
middle class and those who are trying to get into the middle
class, or are you going to protect massive tax breaks for
millionaires and billionaires?”  Republican strategist  John Feehery  said he thinks voters
will view Obama’s message as pure politics. “He’s trying to put
on his populist hat going into this campaign, and I’m not sure
if people really believe that Obama’s fighting for them or just
fighting for his re-election.”  ‘Anti-Business’  Feehery said the administration’s “goal is to be as anti-
business as they can be, but the problem for Obama is that
business is the one that actually creates jobs in this country
and being anti-business means being anti-jobs.”  Obama has been pushing Congress to extend and expand the
payroll tax cut, which lowered the employee portion of the
Social Security payroll tax from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent for
2011. The tax cut is set to expire Dec. 31.  Even as the Labor Department said Dec. 2 that the nation’s
jobless rate fell to  8.6 percent  in November from 9 percent the
month before, the administration argued more needs to be done to
spur faster growth.  Obama trailed former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
among likely general election voters in  New Hampshire  by 10
percentage points amid voter discontent with the president’s job
performance and the economy in a Bloomberg News poll Nov. 10-11.
Obama carried New Hampshire by 54-45 percent in 2008. Romney,
campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination, argues
that his background in business gives him the experience to
improve the economy.  Kansas  Stage  On Dec. 6 Obama will travel to Osawatomie, Kansas, where he
will argue that this is “a make-or-break moment for the middle
class and all those working to join it,” according to a White
House statement. President Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican,
visited Osawatomie calling for a “new nationalism” more than
100 years ago. Obama is seeking to capitalize on a connection
with Roosevelt, who said then: “I stand for the square deal.”  Kansas’s economy ranked 38th among U.S. states in the year
through June 30, according to the  Bloomberg Economic Evaluation
of States Index , which uses data on employment, real estate,
taxes and local stocks to track the direction of state
economies. The state’s personal income increased by 6.8 percent
over the year, according to the study. Employment declined 0.8
percent, and  home prices  fell 2.5 percent, the study shows.  “This is part of the narrative which is portraying
Republicans as defenders of privilege and plutocrats and
Democrats basically looking out for ordinary Americans
consumers, middle class people,” said  Ross Baker , a political
scientist at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Zelizer said any campaign theme will be trumped by economic
data.  “Obama’s best hope is not a message, it’s unemployment
continuing to drop,” Zelizer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  