-- 
Obama Meets With College Leaders as Occupy Protesters Target Student Debt

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-12-05T23:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/obama-meets-with-college-leaders-as-occupy-protesters-target-student-debt.html
A dozen heads of public and private
universities and “thought leaders” in higher education told
President  Barack Obama  of successes in reducing rises in costs
while improving quality.  Obama, along with Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and
other administration officials, convened a meeting today in
 Washington  to discuss college affordability, innovation and
productivity. They met with presidents from the  California State
University  at Long Beach,  Carnegie Mellon University , Indiana’s
Ivy Tech Community College and the University of  North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, among others, according to a White House
statement.  Freeman A. Hrabowski III, president of the University of
 Maryland , Baltimore County, and William “Brit” Kirwan,
chancellor of the University System of Maryland, told Obama they
have worked to lower expenses amid state-level funding cuts for
higher education.  “Improving performance can actually cut costs,” Hrabowski
said in a telephone interview.  He described the Baltimore university’s approach to
teaching chemistry, saying it reduced the rate that students
received D’s and F’s to 15 percent from 30 percent. Students
work in groups of four, ask questions and engage the professor
instead of being lectured to. This cuts costs because fewer
students need to repeat the course and can spend less time in
college, he said.  The public school this year costs about $15,500 for in-
state students and about $26,000 for out-of-state students, both
living on campus, he said.  Obama told the group he was concerned about the level of
student debt, Hrabowski said.  ‘Very Interested’  “He’s clearly very interested in helping America’s
families pay for college and in making sure that the costs are
reasonable,” Hrabowski said.  Officials of the University of Texas System and  Berea
College  in Berea,  Kentucky , were also among the leaders at the
meeting.  As the costs to attend college increases and borrowers take
on loans, student debt has become a rallying cry for the Occupy
Wall Street movement. Two-thirds of the class of 2010 graduated
with  student loans , and their average debt was $25,250, an
increase of 5 percent from the previous year, according to the
 Institute for College Access & Success , a nonprofit research
organization.  For students not commuting to Carnegie Mellon in
Pittsburgh, the estimated cost to attend in the 2011-2012
academic year is $57,520, according to the university’s  website .
The University of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill  costs an
estimated $29,984 for in-state students and $45,670 for those
from out-of-state, according to its  website .  Tuition Increases  Tuition and fees at public universities in the U.S.
increased 8.3 percent this year, twice the rate of inflation, to
an average $8,244, while costs at nonprofit, private colleges
rose 4.5 percent to $28,500, according to the  College Board , a
nonprofit whose members include universities.  Kirwan, of Maryland, said Obama solicited ideas and
listened for about an hour.  Kirwan explained how the Maryland system of 11 colleges and
universities has kept tuition and fee increases to an aggregate
6 percent over four years, by consolidating backroom operations
such as auditing and construction management, and by negotiating
a discount on bulk purchasing of energy and software. In
addition, students must earn 10 percent of their credits outside
the classroom, saving money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 