-- 
Obama Uses Cordray Consumer Confirmation in Populist Push for Re-Election

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-05T01:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/obama-uses-cordray-consumer-confirmation-in-populist-push-for-re-election.html
President  Barack Obama  is using a
battle over the stalled nomination of his candidate to run the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and extension of a payroll
tax cut to campaign as a populist defender of the middle class.  “From nominations to economic proposals, the point right
now is for the administration to show that they’re looking for
economic solutions and that Republicans are looking to obstruct
them,” said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public
affairs at Princeton University in New Jersey.  In recent weeks, Obama has traveled to battleground states
such as  Pennsylvania  and New Hampshire accusing Republicans of
hypocrisy for refusing to let Bush-era tax cuts expire while
blocking extension and expansion of the payroll  tax cut , which
the president has said saves the typical family $1,000 a year.  On a Nov. 30 trip to Scranton, Pennsylvania, Obama said
Republicans face a choice: “Are you going to cut taxes for the
middle class and those who are trying to get into the middle
class, or are you going to protect massive tax breaks for
millionaires and billionaires?”  Less than a year before Election Day 2012, with his
approval rating at  44 percent  in a Dec. 1-3 Gallup Poll, Obama
is making a “very important and fundamental strategic shift
from 2010” when Republicans won by framing the election in
terms of spending and deficit reduction, said  Paul Begala , a
Democratic strategist who is advising an independent campaign
group raising money for the president’s reelection bid.  “He is advancing the Democratic message that we’re for the
middle class and Republicans are for the rich,” said Begala,
former president Bill Clinton’s onetime political aide.  Populist Theme  The populist theme in the president’s re-election argument
has been taking shape since Obama unveiled a job-creating plan
in September that made the payroll tax-cut its centerpiece and
called for higher taxes on millionaires to pay for the cost.  The White House is hoping that  Richard Cordray ’s nomination
as chief of the consumer protection bureau plays into that
theme. White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said during a
conference call with reporters today that the administration
will begin “aggressively” campaigning for Cordray’s
confirmation ahead of a likely Dec. 8 Senate vote.  Earnest said the White House will ratchet up pressure on
lawmakers from  Alaska ,  Indiana ,  Iowa , Maine, Nevada,  Tennessee 
and  Utah . The president is slated to give television interviews
to local news anchors from the seven states on Dec. 8, and
administration officials will brief Washington-based reporters
from the states on Dec. 5. Dozens of state attorneys general,
mayors and other elected officials will push for Corday’s
nomination. Administration officials also will appear on
television stations in the major markets in the states.  Consequences  Earnest said the goal is to drive home “the tangible
consequences for families in those states if the senator who is
elected to represent them in  Washington , D.C., sides with the
financial industry and votes to block his nomination.”  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada has said he
plans to hold a vote on Cordray’s nomination this week. Cordray,
a former Ohio attorney general who is serving as the consumer
bureau’s enforcement director, has drawn widespread Republican
opposition.  Republican strategist  John Feehery  said he thinks voters
will view Obama’s message as pure politics. “He’s trying to put
on his populist hat going into this campaign, and I’m not sure
if people really believe that Obama’s fighting for them or just
fighting for his re-election,” Feehery said.  ’Anti-Business’  Feehery said the administration’s “goal is to be as anti-
business as they can be, but the problem for Obama is that
business is the one that actually creates jobs in this country
and being anti-business means being anti-jobs.”  Obama trailed former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
among likely general election voters in  New Hampshire  by 10
percentage points amid voter discontent with the president’s job
performance and the economy in a Bloomberg News poll Nov. 10-11.
Obama carried New Hampshire by 54-45 percent in 2008.  On Dec. 6 Obama will travel to Osawatomie, Kansas, where he
will argue that this is “a make-or-break moment for the middle
class and all those working to join it,” according to a White
House statement. President Teddy Roosevelt, a Republican,
visited Osawatomie calling for a “new nationalism” more than
100 years ago. Obama is seeking to capitalize on a connection
with Roosevelt, who said then: “I stand for the square deal.”  Kansas Stage  Kansas’s economy ranked 38th among U.S. states in the year
through June 30, according to the  Bloomberg Economic Evaluation
of States Index , which uses data on employment, real estate,
taxes and local stocks to track the direction of state
economies. The state’s personal income increased by 6.8 percent
over the year, according to the study. Employment declined 0.8
percent, and  home prices  fell  2.5 percent, the study shows.  “This is part of the narrative which is portraying
Republicans as defenders of privilege and plutocrats and
Democrats basically looking out for ordinary Americans
consumers, middle class people,” said  Ross Baker , a political
scientist at Rutgers University in New Brunswick,  New Jersey .  The president promoted the Dodd-Frank legislation passed
last year creating the financial protection agency, which Deputy
Director of the National Economic Council Brain Deese said is
“hamstrung” by not having a director in place.  “It cannot supervise and exercise its full authorities
over these non-bank financial institutions which affect the
lives and financial security of tens of millions of American
families,” he said on the conference call with reporters.  Leaderless Agency  “Every day that we go without having a director in place
and without having an agency that’s able to exercise its full
authorities is another day that those tens of millions of
American families remain at risk,” Deese said.  An administration report argues that tens of millions of
Americans rely on non-bank institutions not supervised by a
federal regulators such as payday lenders, mortgage lenders and
credit reporting agencies. They play an “incredibly important
part in the lives of American families” and lack of supervision
“creates an unlevel playing field” in the financial system,
Deese said.  The  report  points to studies showing that payday lenders on
average charge fees of approximately $16 for a $100 two-week
loan.  Republican opposition to Cordray, if it holds, would be
enough to block his nomination, because it takes 60 votes in the
100-member Senate to end debate and advance a nomination.  “I think Obama’s best hope is not a message, it’s
unemployment continuing to drop,” Zelizer said.  Joblessness  The Labor Department said Dec. 2 that the nation’s jobless
rate fell to  8.6 percent  in November from 9 percent the month
before after employers added 120,000 jobs and 315,000 Americans
left the labor force. The  unemployment rate  was the lowest since
March 2009.  Obama has been pushing Congress to extend and expand the
payroll tax cut, which lowered the employee portion of the
Social Security payroll tax from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent for
2011. The tax cut is set to expire Dec. 31.  At a Dec. 2 event with former President  Bill Clinton 
promoting energy-efficient upgrades for buildings, Obama said
Congress must extend the payroll tax cut and renew unemployment
insurance.  “Failure to take either of these steps would be a
significant blow to our economy,” he said as Clinton looked on.  “It would take money out of the pocket of Americans who
are most likely to spend it, and it would harm small businesses
that depend on the spending.  It would be a bad idea.”  This year’s tax break cost the government $111.7 billion in
forgone revenue, according to the congressional Joint Committee
on Taxation. The U.S. transferred money from the general fund to
cover the reduced funding for Social Security.  Paying for Tax-Cut  On Dec. 1, the Democrat-controlled Senate rejected a
Democratic proposal that would have imposed a 3.25 percent
surtax on annual income exceeding $1 million to pay for
extending the payroll tax cut and expanding it to employers.  The Senate also rejected a separate Republican measure that
would have extended the payroll tax cut for employees for one
year and offset the cost by reducing the federal work force by
10 percent, freezing federal pay through 2015 and requiring high
earners to pay more for Medicare premiums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  