-- 
Occupy DC Protesters Say They’ll Rebuild Shelter Razed Near White House

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-12-05T20:21:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/occupy-dc-protesters-say-they-ll-rebuild-shelter-razed-near-white-house.html
Washington protesters aligned with
the Occupy Wall Street movement said they plan to build another
place to hold meetings in bad weather after U.S. Park Police
tore down a plywood shelter near the White House.  “We are going to regroup, think of alternatives and move
ahead with a plan,” said John Zangas, 52, who said he has lived
with the protesters for seven weeks. “We need a symbol of our
permanency here.”  Police arrested 31 people yesterday in a confrontation with
 Occupy DC  demonstrators in McPherson Square, about three blocks
north of the executive mansion. Hundreds have been arrested in
 New York ,  Los Angeles , Philadelphia and other cities since the
protests began in  Manhattan  on Sept. 17.  Occupy DC’s garage-like building was erected Dec. 3 for
community meetings in foul weather, Zangas said in an interview
at the park. Forecasters predict overnight temperatures in the
low- to mid-30s Fahrenheit (1 degree Celsius) this week. The
protesters plan to meet tonight to develop alternative ideas for
a structure that may meet with police approval, he said.  “This is not a blow to us,” Zangas said. “We’re not a
bunch of kids who will head home because the police took our
toys.”  Authorities removed the shelter because of safety concerns,
said David Schlosser, a spokesman for the Park Police.  “They would be best served by working with the National
Park Service and by obtaining a permit,” he said.  One of those arrested, Ben Faure, 19, of Wichita,  Kansas ,
said he was part of the “barn raising” that erected the
shelter. He said he was fined $100 and released without being
jailed.  “I helped build the barn and it mattered to me that it
stay there,” Faure said. “Confronting the police was worth it
to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  