-- 
Oil Little Changed, Reversing Gains on Possible S&P Downgrade

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-12-05T21:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/oil-in-new-york-rises-a-second-day-on-iran-tension-italian-budget-cuts.html
Oil was little changed, reversing an
earlier gain as Standard & Poor’s planned to say it may strip
 Germany  and  France  of their AAA credit ratings and put all 17
euro nations on review for possible downgrade.  Prices pared gains late in the day after reports that the
agency may strip France and Germany of their AAA ratings amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Prices advanced earlier after a Tehran-
based newspaper cited a foreign ministry spokesman as saying
crude will exceed $250 a barrel if nations threaten to ban
Iranian exports.  “The sovereign debt concern is far from over,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “The European economy is teetering on
recession and the economic concern is weighing on commodity
prices.”  Crude for January delivery climbed 3 cents to $100.99 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Nov. 16 and the second-highest since June 9.
Prices are up 11 percent this year.  Brent futures for January settlement slid 13 cents to
$109.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  S&P Decision  Oil slipped in the last hour of trading after on reports
that S&P would place the euro area nations, including six AAA
rated countries, on a negative outlook depending on the result
of a summit of European Union leaders on Dec. 9. John Piecuch, a
spokesman for S&P in New York, had no comment.  Prices rose earlier on speculation that Europe’s debt
crisis was easing. Italian 10-year bond yields fell by the most
in almost four months after Prime Minister  Mario Monti  proposed
budget cuts. Monti presented the 30 billion-euro ($40 billion)
plan today, before a Dec. 9 debt summit in Brussels.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said today after meeting
with German Chancellor Angela Merkel that Europe’s two biggest
countries agreed to back automatic penalties for deficit
violators, a European monetary fund and monthly summit meetings.
He said they aimed to reach consensus by March.  “There is some optimism about Europe and the geopolitical
tension is helping oil too,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “Part of what’s helping push  oil prices  higher is the
cue we are getting off the equity market.”  Equities Gain  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index, which last week had the
biggest increase since 2009, rose 1 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 0.7 percent.  Prices also advanced after  Ramin Mehmanparast , an Iranian
Foreign Ministry spokesman, told the Shargh newspaper in an
interview published yesterday that even verbal threats to block
exports of Iranian oil will cause prices to rise.  “As soon as such a plan is raised seriously, the oil price
will rise to above $250 a barrel,” he said. “I do not think
the situation in the world and especially in the West today is
adequately prepared to raise such discussions.”  Iran pumped 4.25 million barrels a day of oil in 2010, 5.2
percent of the world’s total production, according to  BP Plc ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The European Union added 180 Iranian officials and
companies to a blacklist on Dec. 1 to try to pressure the
world’s third-largest crude exporter to curtail its nuclear
program.  Iran  says it isn’t seeking technology to build nuclear
weapons.  Forecast Increased  Raymond James & Associates Inc. analysts including Marshall Adkins in Houston raised their 2012 forecast for West Texas
Intermediate oil to $92.50 from the previous $85 as the planned
reversal of the Seaway pipeline allows barrels from the
Midcontinent to reach the  Gulf of Mexico . The Brent price
estimate was left unchanged at $100 a barrel.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising crude prices by 2.6 percent in the week ended Nov. 29,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report Dec. 2. Money managers increased
bullish oil bets by 5,007 futures and options combined to
194,695.  Trading volume was 401,683 contracts as of 4:07 p.m. Volume
was 465,228 on Dec. 2, 30 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.32 million, the highest level since Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  