-- 
Oil Rises for Second Day on Iran Tension, European Efforts to Ease Crisis

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-12-05T13:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/oil-rises-for-second-day-on-iran-tension-european-efforts-to-ease-crisis.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New York 
on concern that tension in the  Middle East  threatens supplies
and as investors bet that European leaders will take steps to
tame the region’s debt crisis.  West Texas Intermediate oil gained as much as 1 percent,
after posting the first weekly rise in three. Iran said crude
will surge to more than $250 a barrel if nations threaten to ban
its exports, according to the Shargh newspaper. European leaders
meet this week as U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
visits the region. Hedge funds and other money managers raised
bullish bets on Brent by 26 percent in the week ended Nov. 29.  “Iran is contributing to the strength today,” said
 Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
 London  who predicts Brent, the European benchmark, will rise to
$115 by the end of the year. “As long as you don’t think about
Europe, there are plenty of reasons to envisage higher prices in
the first quarter. Demand from developing economies makes a
price collapse unlikely.”  Crude for January delivery climbed as much as 96 cents to
$101.92 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.61 at 1:05 p.m. London time.
Prices gained 4.3 percent last week, the first increase since
the period ended Nov. 11, and are up 14 percent the past year.  Brent futures for January settlement were at $111.04 after
rising as much as $1.28, or 1.2 percent, to $111.22 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European
benchmark contract traded at a premium of $9.31 a barrel to the
U.S.-traded West Texas Intermediate grade.  Iran Tension  Even verbal threats to block exports of Iranian oil will
cause prices to increase,  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign Ministry
spokesman, told Tehran-based Shargh in an interview published
yesterday. Iran pumped 5 percent of the world’s oil last year,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  The European Union added 180 Iranian officials and
companies to a blacklist on Dec. 1 to try to pressure the
world’s third-largest crude exporter to curtail its nuclear
program. The U.S., U.K. and  Canada  announced measures on Nov. 21
making it harder for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government
to receive payments for crude exports, though they stopped short
of banning trade in Iranian oil.  “Geopolitical problems are very difficult to forecast,”
Dominic Schnider, the global head of commodity research for UBS
AG’s wealth-management unit in  Singapore , said in a Bloomberg
television interview. “What you can say is prices are unlikely
to really drop heavily, given the uncertainty.”  Hedge Fund Bets  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising crude prices by 2.6 percent in the seven days ended Nov.
29, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report Dec. 2. They had cut so-called
long positions, bets on rising oil, by the most since August the
previous week, the Washington-based CFTC said.  Money managers and hedge funds raised bullish bets on Brent
crude by 14,833 contracts, or 26 percent, in the week ended Nov.
29, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 72,356 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report.  Timothy F. Geithner  arrives in Frankfurt tomorrow to meet
with political leaders and central bankers. The  European Central
Bank  has a policy meeting Dec. 8 and a European summit will be
held Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  