-- 
Monti Seeks Support for $40 Billion Austerity Package to Trim Italy Debt

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-12-05T08:48:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/monti-to-lobby-parliament-to-back-30-billion-euro-budget-plan.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will lobby
parliament to support a 30 billion-euro ($40 billion) package of
austerity and growth measures to trim the euro-region’s second-
biggest debt and prevent Italy from sparking the euro’s breakup.  Monti presents the plan to the Chamber of Deputies in Rome
at 4 p.m. and to the Senate at 6 p.m. after his Cabinet approved
the package yesterday, a day ahead of schedule. The package,
which includes more than 12 billion euros in spending cuts, will
force workers to delay retirement, resurrect a tax on first
homes, crack down on tax evasion and open up closed professions.  Monti, sworn in on Nov. 16 after  Silvio Berlusconi 
resigned, is under pressure to move quickly as a selloff of the
country’s bonds sent borrowing costs surging last month past the
7 percent threshold that led  Greece , Ireland and Portugal to
seek aid. Italy is seen as too big to bail out with 500 billion
euros of bonds maturing in the next three years, more than the
current size of the European Union’s rescue fund.  “Monti has decided that there are no other options than to
impose very tough measures in order to convince markets that the
country is serious about lowering its debt,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in
an interview. “It is going to be very difficult for Mr. Monti
to impress the market with anything, including this package,
unless a credible firewall is swiftly erected around  Italy  and
 Spain .”  Bonds Gain  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 29 basis points to
6.395, the lowest in a month, narrowing the gap with German
bonds top 424 basis points. The FTSE MIB index gained the most
of  Europe ’s benchmarks, adding 1.8 percent at 9:30 a.m. Lenders
led the advance with Banca Monte Paschi dei Siena SpA adding
more than 6 percent as the package included a government
guarantee on new sales of bank debt included.  The budget package comes at the start of a critical week
for Europe’s efforts to end the debt crisis and prevent Italy
and Spain from succumbing and causing a breakup of the single
currency. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meets French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  tomorrow to advance a plan for stricter
enforcement of the region’s deficit rules that will be presented
to European Leaders at a summit on Dec. 9.  Funding Costs  Market tensions eased last week as investors bet that the
summit would make progress on unifying budget policy that could
leave for more robust support from the  European Central Bank  or
eventual issuance of euro-region bonds.  Italian 10-year bonds rallied for the first week in eight,
with the yield falling 58 basis points over the week to 6.68
percent. That narrowed the yield difference over similar-
maturity German bunds by 45 basis points to 4.55 percentage
points. Even with the decline in yields, Italy is paying the
highest rates in more than a decade to attract buyers for its
debt and offered more than 7 percent on new bonds for the third
time in a week on Nov. 29.  Monti’s Cabinet adopted the measures after a three-hour
meeting in  Rome  and then presented the plan in an emotional two-
hour press conference. Labor Minister Elsa Fornero broke into
tears as she described the sacrifices the government was asking
workers to make and explained that all but the lowest pensions
would no longer be indexed to inflation.  The prime minister appealed to Italians to prepare for
sacrifices needed to save the country and said that he would
forego his salary as prime minister and finance minister.  Distributing Sacrifices  “We have responded to the necessity of putting the public
finances under a strong control so that Italy isn’t the weak
point of Europe but a source of strength,” he said. “At the
same time we have paid attention to fairness and have done our
best to distribute the sacrifices.”  The plan includes 20 billion euros of austerity measures
and another 10 billion euros of proposals that aim to boost
growth of an economy whose expansion has trailed the European
averaged for more than a decade. Gross domestic product will
contract 0.4 percent to 0.5 percent in 2012 and be flat the
following year, Deputy Economy Minister Vittorio Grill said at
the press conference.  “It’s quite ambitious and the measures are at the top end
of what was expected, so it should be well
Received,” said  Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in  London . “It’s also positive that it’s a decree law so it
goes into effect immediately.”  Tax Evasion  The package, the third austerity plan to be adopted in the
past six months, touches on all aspects of Italian society with
items aimed at shrinking the size of the government, raising the
 retirement age , forcing all transactions of more than 1,000
euros to be done electronically to fight tax evasion, an
increase of the sales tax of two percentage points, and tax
breaks for companies that hire young workers and women.  In the future pensions will be based on contributions to
the system rather than the salary at retirement age, Fornero
said. The retirement age for women will be raised until it
matches the 66-year limit for men in 2018 and early retirement
will be penalized and men will need to contribute to the social
security system for 42 years for men and 41 years for women
before being able to retire.  The measures are “timely and ambitious,” European
Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said in
an e-mailed statement last night. “The low growth potential of
the Italian economy cannot be corrected overnight, but the
measures announced today will help removing some bottlenecks to
growth.”  Income Tax  The government dropped a plan to raise the  tax rate  on
Italy’s highest earners, though it will tax most traded
securities and luxury goods such as yachts, aircrafts and high
performance cars, and resurrect a property levy on first homes
that had been abolished by Berlusconi. Restoring that tax could
raise 3.5 billion euros a year, former Finance Minister  Giulio
Tremonti  had estimated.  The measures may be just the first salvo in Monti’s efforts
to make the Italian economy more competitive and spur growth. He
said last night that they government still plans to overhaul
labor market laws, but his government needed more time to
prepare the measures, which he hoped to announce “within
weeks.”  Saving Euro  “It’s a very tough package, but we don’t have any choice
except to pass it,”  Emma Marcegaglia , head of employers’ lobby
Confindustria, said after meeting with Monti yesterday. “The
plan is key to saving Italy and preventing the collapse of the
euro.”  Italy’s budget deficit of 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product last year is less than  France  and half that of the U.K.,
and the measures may help the government achieve its goal of
balancing the budget in 2013. The country’s debt is larger than
Greece, Spain,  Portugal  and Ireland combined.  Monti spent the weekend meeting with leaders of the main
political parties, unions, employers and social groups to try to
build support for the plan before it goes to parliament. Monti,
an economist and former European Commissioner, was chosen by
President Giorgio Napolitano to lead Italy after Berlusconi’s
resignation and the professor, as he his known, has no political
base in parliament.  The measures the new government plans to take are severe
and necessary to “make Italy better,” the leader of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,  Angelino Alfano , said
after the talks on Nov. 3. “Monti has been called in precisely
to take decisions which are far from easy, and we are aware of
this,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  