-- 
Monti Presents 30 Billion-Euro Italian Budget Plan: Highlights

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-12-05T14:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/monti-presents-30-billion-euro-italian-budget-plan-highlights.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  announced
30 billion euros ($40 billion) of austerity and growth measures
through 2014 aimed at shoring up  Italy ’s finances and balancing
the budget in 2013. Here are key measures from the budget plan
approved by the Cabinet that Monti is presenting to both houses
of Parliament in  Rome  today.  *The plan includes 20 billion euros in austerity measures and
another 10 billion euros in steps aimed at boosting growth and
employment. Spending cuts amount to more than 12 billion euros,
and 4 billion euros in savings come from welfare measures and
the elimination of some tax breaks approved by the previous
government.  *Pension revamp: Pensions will be tied to contributions rather
than salary at retirement starting in 2012. Larger pensions will
be de-linked from inflation. The  retirement age  will be raised
to 62 years for women and 66 for men, with incentives to work
until 70 for both. Women’s retirement age will be aligned with
that of men starting in 2018. Early retirement will be
penalized. Before being able to retire, men will need 42 years
of contributions to the social security system and women will
require 41 years, from the current 40 years for both.  *Reintroduction of a tax on primary residences dropped by the
previous government, along with a reassessment of registered
property values.  *The value-added  sales tax  will be raised 2 percentage points
from September 2012, if necessary.  *State guarantee of bank-bond sales.  *A fee on the balance of securities held in trading accounts,
not applicable to  government bonds .  *One-time charge of 1.5 percent applied to capital repatriated
in a recent amnesty program, in addition to the 5 percent fee
originally assessed on the funds.  *Company tax amounting to 5.5 billion euros. Companies that hire
workers will be able to fully deduct the regional IRAP levy that
is calculated on the basis of revenue and headcount rather than
profitability.  *The government will refinance a guarantee fund backing about 20
billion euros in credit for small and medium-sized enterprises.  *Measures against  tax evasion  include requiring electronic
payment for transactions above 1,000 euros. The current limit is
2,500 euros. Fighting evasion is a “priority” for the
government, which will also encourage banks and credit-card
companies to lower their transaction fees, Monti said.  *Tax on  luxury goods  such as private airplanes, sports cars and
yachts.  *Liberalization of shop hours and the retail sale of some
medicines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  