-- 
Loonie Gains Haven Status With Only G-10 Tightening Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-12-05T13:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/loonie-joins-dollar-as-haven-amid-forecasts-for-only-rate-increase-in-g-10.html
Canada ’s dollar is turning into a
haven for foreign-exchange investors shunning European turmoil
and seeking the safety of the U.S. without the budget deficits
or political gridlock.  The currency, which underperformed nine major peers in
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes in the first eight months
of the year, has rebounded, topping all except the U.S. dollar
and yen since. As the U.S. struggles with a $1.3 trillion budget
shortfall, AAA rated Canada may use rising commodity revenue and
spending cuts to balance the budget within five years.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will be the only
central bank leader in the Group of 10 countries to raise
 interest rates  next year, according to forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg News. Inflation has  exceeded  the bank’s 2 percent
target for 11 months as the economy grows at double the pace of
the Group of Seven nations. Canada’s six largest banks say the
so-called loonie will gain versus the dollar even as the U.S.
economy strengthens.  “There’s a North American story right now that is
potentially very powerful,”  David Watt , a senior currency
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s
largest lender, said in a Nov. 28 telephone interview. If “you
want less exposure to financial uncertainty and less exposure to
sovereign risk, then Canada has got a number of beneficial
features,” he said.  Currency Forecasts  The loonie, known for the aquatic bird’s image on the
dollar coin, will appreciate to parity with the greenback by the
end of next year, Watt said. Toronto-Dominion Bank, the
country’s second-largest lender, sees it rallying to 95 cents
per U.S. dollar by then after weakening to C$1.09 in the first
quarter. Bank of Nova Scotia, the third-largest, predicts it
will strengthen to 98 cents.  Canada’s dollar closed at C$1.0195 versus the greenback on
Dec. 2 in Toronto, capping its biggest weekly gain since
October. It was at C$1.0156 at 8:09 a.m. in  New York . While the
currency has lost 2.9 percent since the start of the year, the
most among 10  currencies  tracked in Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes, it’s up 2.1 percent in the past three months.
Only the  U.S. dollar , up 5.5 percent and the yen, 2.1 percent
higher, have strengthened more.  Resilient Economy  “Despite external headwinds, the Canadian economy has
shown a fair amount of resilience, underpinned as it is by a
stable and healthy banking sector and solid fiscal position”
Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc’s securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, and
another analyst at the company, Farrukh Khan, wrote in a Nov. 29
research report.  They recommend buying the Canadian dollar versus the euro
and forecast it will strengthen to C$1.28 per euro from
C$1.36521 last week. European leaders will meet this week to
discuss ways to curb the region’s growing debt crisis, which has
seen bailouts of Greece, Ireland and Portugal and now threatens
to engulf Italy and Spain.  Options traders are becoming less bearish. The one-month
so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate, which measures the
premium charged for the right to buy the  U.S. dollar  in one
month against the loonie over contracts to sell, ended Dec. 2 at
2.27 percentage points, the lowest closing level since
September, from 3.15 percentage points the week before. The rate
slid to as low as 2.1 percentage points today, the least since
Sept. 21 on an intraday basis.  Outpacing G-7 Growth  Canada’s economy is growing at 3 percent, twice the average
pace of Group of Seven and euro-area nations. Finance Minister
Jim Flaherty pledged his Conservative Party government will
eliminate the budget deficit, forecast at C$31 billion this
fiscal year, by 2015. The U.S. deficit is $1.3 trillion, or 9.6
percent of output. Canada’s budget deficit is 4.3 percent of
output.  Banks in Canada were named the soundest for a fourth year
by the World Economic Forum. RBC, TD, Scotia and CIBC reported
last week that fourth-quarter profit rose an average 43 percent.
The companies didn’t require bailouts during the 2008 financial
crisis and weren’t among the global banks downgraded by  Standard
& Poor’s  on Nov. 29.  Carney will raise the Bank of Canada’s  policy rate  by 25
basis points in the fourth quarter next year to 1.25 percent,
according to the weighted average of 21 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Rates on Hold  The  Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep rates unchanged
until at least the middle of 2013. The  European Central Bank 
will cut rates next quarter, while the Bank of England, the
Swiss National Bank and the Bank of Japan will stay on hold
through 2012, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict.  Concern the  U.S. economy  would sink into a recession made
the loonie the worst-performing G-10 currency after the U.S.
dollar since the middle of 2010.  “Sentiment had turned so incredibly bearish on the U.S.
economy that the potential for more positive surprises going
forward will help the Canadian dollar,” said  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital in Toronto, in a Dec. 1 telephone interview.  Canada’s currency shouldn’t be considered a haven because
of its relationship to U.S. stocks, according to  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit.  The 30-day so-called correlation coefficient between the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Canadian currency reached
0.9221 on Nov. 30, the highest in Bloomberg records dating to
1992. A reading of 1 indicates the measures move in lockstep.  No Haven  “It can’t really be considered to be a safe haven in terms
of somewhere to go in times of uncertainty because in times of
uncertainty it tends to underperform, which is not what a safe
haven is supposed to do,” Osborne said in a Nov. 28 telephone
interview. “The Canadian dollar is still very much attached to
risk assets.”  An improving U.S. economy, destination for about 70 percent
of Canada’s output, would boost demand for its raw materials,
which account for about half the country’s export revenue.  The U.S. added 120,000 jobs last month and the unemployment
 rate  fell to the lowest in more than two years, according to a
Dec. 2 Labor Department report. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc.’s  business barometer  increased to 62.6
in November from 58.4 the previous month as orders and
production strengthened.  Resource Rich  Canada has the biggest proven crude oil reserves after
Saudi Arabia and  Venezuela , according to BP Plc. It’s the
world’s second-largest producer of  uranium  after Kazakhstan, the
third-biggest producer of  natural gas  and the third-largest
exporter of  wheat .  The loonie is likely to beat commodity-linked counterparts
such as the Australian and New Zealand dollars next year because
growth is slowing in Europe and  China , according to Royal Bank
of Scotland’s Sinche and Khan.  China’s  economy , the world’s second largest, will slow to
8.5 percent next year, from 9.2 percent in 2011, the median
estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey show. The
country accounts for 25 percent of  Australia ’s exports, with
 Asia  taking more than 70 percent, according to the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia.  Economic Divergence  “While recent bouts of risk aversion have weighed on the
Canadian dollar, the growth divergence that is underway between
the euro zone and  North America  is likely to favor the Canadian
dollar in coming weeks and months,” Khan and Sinche wrote in
the Nov. 29 report to clients.  Traditional havens have been undermined by central bank
intervention. The Swiss National Bank has pegged the maximum
franc rate at 1.20 per euro, while Japan’s estimated 8 trillion
yen intervention knocked the currency down more than 4.5 percent
against the dollar during intraday trading on Oct. 31.  “Canada represents a commodity proxy, a stable government
and a stable banking industry,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in
Toronto, the country’s sixth-largest bank, in a Nov. 30
telephone interview. “As America goes, so Canada goes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia  at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  