-- 
Orders to U.S. Factories Decreased in October for Second Month

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-05T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/orders-to-u-s-factories-decreased-in-october-for-second-month.html
American factories received fewer
orders in October for a second month, led by diminished demand
for aircraft and business equipment as fears of a global economic
slowdown impeded manufacturers.  Bookings  for factory goods fell 0.4 percent, more than
forecast, after a revised 0.1 percent drop in September that was
previously estimated as a gain, according to data from the
Commerce Department today in Washington. Inventories showed the
biggest gain in six months.  Anticipation of a stumbling world economic expansion should
 Europe ’s financial strain trigger a recession probably curbed
manufacturers in the short run. Other reports have shown stronger
equipment sales, export demand, and  consumer spending  during the
holidays alongside leaner inventories, which are laying the
groundwork for a production pick up to rebuild stockpiles.  “Manufacturing is in a pretty good recovery right now,”
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets in  Boston , said before the report. “The only
thing that held it back was the uncertainty over the course of
the summer, from everything from gas prices, to the debt-ceiling
debate and the euro crisis.”  Economists forecast factory orders would fall 0.3 percent,
according to the median of 63 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from declines of 1.1 percent to gains of
0.8 percent. September was previously reported as a 0.3 percent
increase.  Durable Goods  Orders for  goods  meant to least at least three years
decreased 0.5 percent, less than the 0.7 percent decrease
estimated by the government Nov. 23.  Orders for  capital goods  excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 0.8
percent compared with the 1.8 percent slump previously estimated.
The increase in September was also revised up from 0.9 percent to
1.4 percent.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, dropped 0.1 percent after a 0.5 percent
decrease in September. Those readings were revised up from
decreases of 1.1 percent and 1 percent previously estimated.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, fell 0.3 percent, today’s report showed.  Inventories climbed 0.9 percent in October, the biggest gain
since April, indicating factories were already ramping up
production to restock warehouses. Manufacturers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.33 months at the current sales pace, the same
as in the prior month.  European Crisis  Fears of a global economic retrenchment, which may have
caused businesses to cut orders to U.S. factories, were
underscored last week when six central banks led by the  Federal
Reserve  lowered banks’ emergency funding costs to ease Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis. A Chinese purchasing managers’ index also
 dropped  in November to the weakest level since February 2009, and
a separate report showed an industrial slump in  Australia .  Those concerns were offset by other indications U.S.
manufacturing was weathering the turmoil. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index increased to 52.7 in November,
the fastest in five months, while its measure of orders and
production  grew  at the fastest pace since April. Additionally,
four of the six largest automakers by U.S. business beat
expectations, boosting industry sales to a 13.6 million
seasonally adjusted annualized rate, according to Autodata Corp.  “We’re encouraged by the industry’s recent performance and
the developments that we’ve seen in the economy,”  Don Johnson ,
vice president of U.S. sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said in a
conference call with reporters last week. He cited gains in
 consumer confidence  as supporting continued growth.  Business Investment  Factory output may maintain growth as an approaching
deadline to qualify for a larger government tax credit drives an
increase in businesses demand for equipment, In addition, a
dollar that lost 11 percent of its value from June 2010 through
Dec. 2 as tracked by IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) 
has made American goods cheaper abroad.  “Manufacturing activity grew at a steady pace across most
of the country, with all districts other than St. Louis reporting
increases in orders, shipments, or production,” the Federal
Reserve said in its Beige Book survey released Nov. 30. The
overall economy expanded at a “moderate” pace, according to the
report, which covers activity from October to November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  