-- 
Jobless Dads Get Quality Time with Children

-- B y   J o e l   S t o n i n g t o n
-- 
2011-12-06T05:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/more-mancession-dads-caring-for-kids-while-moms-at-work.html
Jeff VanderHeijden didn’t expect to
be a stay-at-home father for his 3-year-old daughter, especially
after getting a raise and promotion as a counselor last year at
a residential program for troubled teenagers. Two weeks later,
he was fired.  That’s when VanderHeijden, 35, of Carlisle,  Pennsylvania ,
joined the growing ranks of U.S. men spending more time caring
for a child. One-third of fathers with working wives are now a
regular source of care for their children, the result of the
depressed economy and large numbers of out-of-work men, the U.S.
 Census Bureau  reported yesterday.  “Certain projects like refinishing the basement kind of
had to go on hold, but it really pays off in the long run,”
said VanderHeijden, whose wife works as a teacher. “You can’t
put a price on a father-daughter relationship.”  The number of dads regularly caring for children under age
15 increased to 32 percent in 2010 from 26 percent in 2002.
Among those fathers with preschool-age children, one in five
served as the primary caregiver, meaning adults such as
VanderHeijden who spend the most time with their child, the
census found.  The recession has increased the number of fathers with an
active role in child care, a trend that has been growing since
at least 1988, said Lynda Laughlin, a family demographer at the
Census Bureau.  The ‘Mancession’  “The economy hasn’t completely rebounded, particularly for
men,” she said. “What did they label it, a ‘mancession?’”  The economic downturn initially had a greater effect on men
than women, with males losing more net jobs between December
2007 and May 2011, according to a  July report  from the Pew
Research Center. Men have regained jobs more quickly in the
recovery, the Pew study found.  During recessions, fathers spend more time as partial and
primary caregivers of children, Laughlin said, partly because
unemployment or changes in work hours increase their
availability to do so. “It also can reduce available income to
pay for child care outside of the home,” she said.  The recession isn’t the only reason. Women are increasingly
contributing more to family income than men, and there is a
growing desire among men to take part in the lives of their
children, according to Ellen Galinsky, president and co-founder
of the New York-based Families and Work Institute.  Bad News, Good News  “The good news is that kids are with their fathers more,”
Galinsky said. “The bad news is that families are so squeezed
economically.”  The new statistics, from the Census Survey of Income and
Program Participation, showed that 54 percent of unemployed
fathers with a working wife and preschool-age children are
primary caregivers, while 17 percent of employed fathers in the
same situation fill that role.  Some couples decide that the cost of child care cancels out
the income from a lower-wage job, regardless of the recession.  “If I’m making X and my wife is making X plus 10, who do
you want making the money?” said Patrick Spillman, 42, of  New
York , who’s the primary caregiver for his 3-year-old daughter.
“It’s a matter of dollars and cents.”  About three years ago, Lance Somerfeld, 38, found there
were few resources for fathers like him after he decided to stay
at home with his newborn son. He started the NYC Dads Group and
watched it grow into 500 men who share ideas for museum trips,
classes, play groups and other activities.  Most of the men in the group weren’t laid off. Instead, he
said, they have wives who are making more money or are further
along in their careers.  “I just see dads wanting to be a part of their kids’
lives,” Somerfeld said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Stonington in New York at 
 jstonington@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  