-- 
House Cybersecurity Bill Envisions Clearinghouse for Threat Data

-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 
2011-12-05T22:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/house-cybersecurity-bill-envisions-clearinghouse-for-threat-data.html
A draft bill in the U.S. House would
create an organization to share cybersecurity data between the
government and companies, a move privacy advocates say must
include safeguards to protect personal information.  The so-called National Information Sharing Organization
would be overseen by a board of directors that includes
officials from federal agencies, civil liberties organizations
and companies that own or operate critical infrastructure such
as financial institutions or utilities.  Details of the organization’s operations have yet to be
set, and the board would designate agencies that belong. The
House cybersecurity subcommittee plans a hearing on the draft
tomorrow, and the National Cable and Telecommunications
Association and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  said they’re reviewing the
language.  “Information-sharing is often referred to as the key to
combating cyber threats,” said Cheri McGuire, Symantec’s vice
president of global government affairs and cybersecurity policy,
who is scheduled to testify at tomorrow’s hearing. She said
sharing data is a tool to allow protective actions.  Gregory Nojeim, senior counsel at the nonprofit Center for
Democracy and Technology, said the draft takes a “good
approach” toward improving cybersecurity. Nojeim, who is also
scheduled to testify, said the bill must clarify the types of
that data companies can share with the government and what
federal agencies can do with the information.  Privacy Concerns  “It’s important that information-sharing not devolve into
governmental monitoring of private-to-private communications,”
he said. Proposals should define the data shared, limit the use
and purpose of sharing and include audits to ensure that rules
are followed, said Nojeim, whose San Francisco-based group works
to promote innovative technology with strong privacy
protections.  The clearinghouse envisioned under the bill may share
timely, classified information about threats to critical
information technology networks, according to the  draft .  Data shared by private companies with the organization
would be exempt from public disclosure and shielded from use in
federal or state lawsuits. The information could be used in
federal investigations into criminal acts.  The draft bill doesn’t give the Homeland Security
Department power to regulate private companies when it comes to
cybersecurity, instead calling on the department to develop
performance standards and market incentives for network
protection. Those would be shared with other agencies that
regulate important infrastructure, such as financial
institutions, telecommunications companies and utilities.  Risk Assessments  “Agencies that currently have regulatory authority over
this particular aspect of the economy would be required to
incorporate identified performance standards,” said Brian
Kaveney, a spokesman for Representative Dan Lungren, a
California Republican who led the drafting of the bill and is
chairman of the House Subcommittee on Cybersecurity,
Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies.  The draft specifies that the department would be
responsible for developing and conducting risk assessments for
federal information-technology systems. The department would
work in consultation with private companies to improve security
of their networks.  The draft is one of several cybersecurity measures
circulating in the House. Republican leaders haven’t decided
when to bring any of the bills to the House floor for a vote.  To contact the reporter on this story: Chris Strohm in
Washington at   cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Shepard at   msmshepard7@bloomberg.net  