-- 
Trans-Pacific Trade Agreement Should Protect Forests, Fish, U.S. Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-12-05T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/pacific-trade-agreement-should-protect-forests-fish-u-s-says.html
The U.S. is pushing Pacific nations
to accept curbs on fishing subsidies and on wood from trees
felled illegally, according to a proposal being released today.  As part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership under negotiations
by nine nations, the U.S. wants new restrictions on commerce
that may harm the environment.  The negotiating proposals “are trailblazing in a number of
ways,” Demetrios Marantis, the deputy U.S. Trade
Representative, said in an interview Dec. 2. The trade office is
releasing today its so-called green paper outlining publicly for
the first time demands it has made in the talks.  The planned accord among the Pacific Rim nations is the
first trade deal that President Barack Obama’s administration is
negotiating on its own, rather than inheriting from President
George W. Bush.  The current talks are with  Australia , Chile, Peru and
 Singapore , all of which already have separate free-trade
agreements with the U.S., as well as with  Malaysia ,  New Zealand ,
Vietnam and Brunei. Two-way trade between the U.S. and those
eight nations totaled $171 billion last year.  Canada ,  Mexico  and  Japan  have expressed interest in joining
the accord. If they do, it would be the largest free-trade deal
ever for the U.S.  U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk has said the trade pact
must deal with what he has termed 21st century issues, such as
rules for state-owned enterprises and protections for the
environment.  Rhino Horns, Tiger Cubs  The U.S. wants the other nations in the accord to agree to
bar the import and sale of illegally logged wood and wood
products, as well as prohibitions on the sale of protected
species such as rhino horns, live tiger cubs, tortoises and
iguanas, according to the green paper.  Marantis said the other nations’ rules should be modeled
after the Lacey Act, which sparked controversy in the U.S. after
federal agents raided the factory of Gibson Guitar Corp. in
Nashville,  Tennessee . The U.S. said Gibson was using wood
illegally cut in  India  for its guitars.  In addition, the U.S. is pushing for “disciplines” on
fishing subsidies, which environmental groups such as
Washington-based Oceana say is crucial to reduce the depletion
of fish stocks by commercial catches. The paper doesn’t specify
how those subsidies would be restricted.  In the past, the U.S. has resisted calls that it negotiate
curbs on its agricultural subsidies as part of free-trade
agreements. Marantis said the Obama administration isn’t worried
that other nations may seize on the fishing proposal to argue
that the Trans-Pacific Partnership should include limits on U.S.
aid to farmers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  