-- 
Patricia Dunn, Former HP Chairman, Dies at 58

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-12-05T23:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/patricia-dunn-hp-chairman-fired-in-spying-scandal-dies-at-58-of-cancer.html
Patricia Dunn, the onetime Hewlett-
Packard Co. chairman fired in 2006 for overseeing a  company (HPQ) 
investigation that relied on detectives posing as reporters to
obtain phone records, has died. She was 58.  She died yesterday at her home in Orinda, California,
according to a statement released by her family. The cause was
ovarian cancer, one of three types of cancer she battled since
2002.  The Hewlett-Packard snooping scandal that cost Dunn her
job, and had her facing criminal charges for a time, fueled
debates over identity theft and corporate misbehavior. The
company hired investigators who posed as reporters and company
directors to obtain phone records of those people, a practice
called “pretexting,” to root out who was leaking information
to the media.  Dunn said she initiated the investigation at the insistence
of a majority of Hewlett-Packard’s board and had received
assurances that the methods used to obtain phone records were
legal. One part of that probe, launched in January 2006, was
prompted by a report by online news service Cnet.com that
contained information discussed in a board strategy meeting.  The company’s board fired Dunn in September 2006, about
four months before she planned to step down.  Pleased With Outcome  In 2007, Judge Ray Cunningham of Santa Clara Superior Court
dismissed felony charges against Dunn, who had been charged with
fraudulent wire communications, wrongful use of computer data,
 identity theft  and conspiracy.  “I am pleased that this matter has been resolved fairly,”
Dunn said at the time. “I have always had faith that the truth
would win out.”  The investigation moved Congress and the California
legislature to pass laws prohibiting the release of phone
records without consent. Among the targeted reporters was Peter
Burrows of BusinessWeek, which was acquired by Bloomberg LP in
2009.  Known as “Pattie,” Dunn repeatedly made Fortune
magazine’s list of the most powerful women in business in the
late 1990s and early 2000s, as co-chief executive officer of
 Barclays Global Investors , a unit of Barclays Plc. She stepped
down as CEO in June 2002 to be treated for  breast cancer  and
melanoma.  Newsweek Cover  The hunt for leakers at Hewlett-Packard wounded her public
image.  Newsweek magazine  put her  on its cover  as “The Boss Who
Spied on Her Board.”  “I was stunned,” Dunn told the New Yorker magazine for a
2007  article .  At the time, she was still facing criminal charges, and she
told writer  James Stewart  that she feared not living long enough
to beat them.  “I care deeply about what people who know me think,” she
said. “But, in order to be exonerated, it takes so long. My
legacy may be written before that can happen.”  She  told  Bloomberg Businessweek in 2010, “Some of this
experience was negative and unhappy, but it didn’t ruin my life.
I’ve expanded my work in the nonprofit community. You can move
beyond something like this. I don’t see it as having defined
me.”  Patricia Cecile Dunn was born on March 27, 1953, in
Burbank,  California , according to a  biography  on the website of
All American Speakers LLC, which books paid lectures.  Degree in Journalism  She grew up in  Las Vegas , where both her parents worked in
the casino industry -- her father as entertainment manager at
the Dunes and Tropicana hotels, her mother as a model and
showgirl. After her father’s death when Dunn was 11, the family
moved to California. Dunn began college at the University of
 Oregon  and graduated in 1975 from the  University of California 
at Berkeley, earning a degree in journalism.  Starting as a temporary secretary at Wells Fargo Investment
Advisors, she worked her way up to CEO. Along the way she met
William Jahnke, whom she would marry. Barclays bought the firm
in 1996, and Dunn became the sole CEO in 1998.  She joined the Hewlett-Packard board in 1998, recruited by
then-Chairman Lewis Platt, who cited her understanding of global
financial markets while at Barclays.  “Pattie Dunn worked tirelessly for the good of HP,”
Michael Thacker, a spokesman for the  Palo Alto , California-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are saddened by the
news of her passing, and our thoughts go out to her family on
their loss.”  Link With Fiorina  Dunn’s career was intertwined with the rise and fall of
 Carly Fiorina , another female executive who shattered the glass
ceiling.  Fiorina was named CEO of Hewlett-Packard in 1999 after
climbing the management ranks at Lucent Technologies Inc. Then
44, Fiorina was the first outsider to run Hewlett-Packard and
the first woman in the position.  The board lost faith in her after she missed analysts’
earnings estimates and failed to meet goals set after the $18.9
billion purchase of Compaq Computer Corp.  Dunn played a central role in events leading to the 2005
ouster of Fiorina, writing a four-page report outlining the
board’s concerns with her, the Wall Street Journal reported at
the time. The company named Dunn chairman on Feb. 9, 2005.  Besides Jahnke, her husband of 30 years, survivors include
daughters Janai Brengman and Michelle Cox, son Michael Jahnke
and 10 grandchildren, according to the family statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  