-- 
William D. Cohan: Paulson Hedge-Fund Chat Just Business as Usual

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-12-05T00:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/paulson-hedge-fund-chat-business-as-usual-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
(Corrects Tavakoli’s Goldman Sachs job description in third
paragraph.)  What should we make of the revelation
last week -- courtesy of Richard Teitelbaum and  Bloomberg
Markets  magazine -- that in July 2008 Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  shared some confidential musings with a group of
plugged-in New York hedge-fund executives at the offices of Eton
Park Capital Management LP?  According to the report, Paulson mapped out for the
assembled honchos -- many of whom had ties, like Paulson, to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- a scenario to put the government-
sponsored entities  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  into
conservatorship. Seven weeks later, the government did exactly
that, an action that wiped out the companies’ shareholders.  Was it nothing more than “crony capitalism” -- the idea
that the rich always seem to get better information about the
markets before anyone else -- as  Janet Tavakoli , a former
Goldman employee turned Chicago-based consultant, put it?  Or was it a way for Paulson to begin to disseminate into
the market the momentous news that Fannie and Freddie could be
taken over by the government and that their shareholders would
be eviscerated, as argues  William Poole , a former president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis ?  “It seems to me, you’ve got to cut the guy some slack,
even if he tipped his hand,” Poole told Teitelbaum. “How do
you prepare the market for the fact that policy has changed
without triggering the very crisis that you’re trying to avoid?
What is he supposed to say without misleading these people?”  A Possible Scenario  Or was it something else entirely: The batting around of
options for Fannie and Freddie with a bunch of smart guys, well
in advance of any decision having been made? If it was the
latter -- which my review of the Fannie and Freddie timeline
leads me to conclude -- I’m not sure it’s so horrible that the
Treasury secretary would be discussing possible scenarios before
deciding what he was going to do.  There is no question that Paulson appears to have put these
hedge-fund managers into an untenable situation. After Paulson
made the suggestion at Eton Park that Fannie and Freddie’s
shareholders could be wiped out, the executives had to choose
between passing up a possible money-making opportunity (by
shorting the shares of Fannie or Freddie) or risking prosecution
for  insider trading , should someone be able to prove
definitively that by July 21 Paulson had already decided on a
course of action.  According to Bloomberg Markets, it seems that none of the
bigwigs at the meeting traded on the information that Paulson
conveyed, although tracking specific short-sale transactions is
impossible from public information. (Some of the men claimed
they could not remember what Paulson said at the meeting, which
I find beyond hard to believe.)  But at least one of the hedge-fund managers at the meeting
claimed -- anonymously -- that Paulson had left him with the
distinct impression that Fannie and Freddie would be put into
conservatorship and that shareholders would be wiped out. “The
 fund manager  says he was shocked that Paulson would furnish such
specific information -- to his mind, leaving little doubt that
the Treasury Department would carry out the plan,” Teitelbaum
wrote.  But a review of the timeline of events leading up to the
government’s Sept. 7 decision to take over Fannie and Freddie
makes it pretty clear that by July 21 no decisions had been
made, by Paulson or by anyone else, about the fate of the two
entities.  The  House of Representatives  didn’t pass the Housing and
Economic Recovery Act until July 23, two days after his Eton
Park meeting. On July 26, the Senate passed the legislation.
President  George W. Bush  signed the bill into law on July 30,
giving Paulson the “bazooka” he had requested (but said he had
no intention of using) for dealing with Fannie and Freddie.  Making the Decision  On Aug. 7, Paulson went to  China  for a week to attend the
Olympics. He returned to  Washington  on Aug. 15. In his 2010
memoir  “On the Brink,”  Paulson recalled that Barron’s ran a
lengthy article that weekend about “the poor prospects for the
two GSE’s and predicted a government takeover that would wipe
out the holders of the common shares.” He said he thought the
article was “pretty accurate.” (His book made no mention of
the Eton Park meeting.)  While Paulson was in China, the Fed, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
the asset-management behemoth, studied Fannie and Freddie’s
books and concluded the two were badly undercapitalized. Paulson
then thought the best course of action was to put the companies
into receivership, which is akin to liquidation, not
conservatorship, which is more like a corporate bankruptcy
process where the companies remain intact and operating.  It wasn’t until Aug. 23, a day after Treasury had hired the
 law firm   Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz  LP to analyze the legal
options between receivership and conservatorship, that Paulson
made the decision that conservatorship for Fannie and Freddie
was the way to go. It was more than a month after the Eton Park
meeting.  Based on the evidence, Paulson did not divulge inside
information on July 21 to the hedge-fund managers in  New York .
He shared with them one possible idea for solving the Fannie and
Freddie problems. Since that was the solution that was
eventually selected -- a month later -- in retrospect his
conversation looks damning. But it wasn’t and it isn’t.  Which isn’t the same thing as saying we shouldn’t be upset
about it. The whole episode should be seen as further
confirmation that hedge-fund managers, private-equity moguls and
the top executives of large banks have long received special
access to government leaders at the highest levels to plead
their cases, or just to get a whiff of whatever might be on
their minds. When it comes to getting access to powerful people,
it’s not what’s illegal that’s the crime, but rather what’s
legal.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 