-- 
Obama Payroll Tax Cuts Seen Undermining Social Security Support

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-12-05T21:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/payroll-tax-cuts-seen-by-some-obama-allies-as-undermining-social-security.html
Some Democratic lawmakers say that,
while President Barack Obama’s plan to cut payroll taxes may
strengthen the  U.S. economy , it may have some unintended
fallout: weakening Social Security.  The lawmakers and advocacy groups say they are concerned
the tax cuts may undermine political support for the retirement
 program , which provides benefits to almost 55 million Americans
and is funded by the payroll levies.  “I don’t object to putting more money in people’s pockets,
and there are lots of ways to do that, but not with Social
Security,” said Representative Rush Holt of  New Jersey , who
said he will have a hard time supporting the White House plan.  Should Congress fail to extend the break, set to expire in
four weeks, millions of Americans will see their paychecks start
shrinking in January. That would be a setback for the economy
and could subtract 0.7 percentage point from economic growth,
according to  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.  Still, Obama’s proposal comes amid growing concern about
Social Security’s finances. The program has begun spending more
on benefits each year than it receives in  payroll tax  revenue
and, starting in 2036, won’t be able to pay full scheduled
benefits, according to the trustees’  latest report .  The system is funded by a 12.4 percent payroll tax equally
divided between workers and employers. Congress cut the employee
portion this year by 2 percentage points. Obama wants to reduce
it further next year, to 3.1 percent, while offering the same
rate to employers that take on new workers. The Social Security
funding that is lost would be made up through general revenue.  Not the Last?  Social Security advocates say they fear these cuts won’t be
the last. It may not be any easier for Congress to allow them to
lapse next year, with the elections in November and the
 unemployment rate  projected by the  Congressional Budget Office 
to average 8.5 percent. Forcing the government to tap further
into general revenue could lead to the kind of funding fights
that Social Security has avoided until now.  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat, said he
supports extending the payroll tax cut, though reluctantly.  “To take it away would be a body blow to the economy,”
said Nadler, who called the tax cut a “very bad” change in
Social Security policy. So “we’ve got to live with it for
another year or two.” Massachusetts Democrat  Barney Frank  said
that while he didn’t like the tax cuts initially, it would be a
“great mistake” not to continue them now.  ‘Straight Politics’  Some critics of Obama’s proposal say their wariness stems
from Social Security’s unique character. It was designed in 1935
by President  Franklin Roosevelt  to be an autonomous program that
paid its own way through a dedicated tax.  Though the payroll tax is regressive -- it hits lower-
income Americans harder -- Roosevelt believed the levy would
make the program politically impregnable. That’s because
Americans would feel their benefits had been “bought and paid
for” by their payroll taxes by the time they reached
retirement, said tax historian Joseph Thorndike.  “We put those payroll contributions there so as to give
the contributors a legal, moral, and political right to collect
their pensions,” Roosevelt said, according to a 1941 memorandum
written by  Luther Gulick , an adviser. “With those taxes in
there, no damn politician can ever scrap my Social Security
program. Those taxes aren’t a matter of economics; they’re
straight politics.”  Threat to Legacy  Until recently, the program’s special status was
underscored by statements the government mailed to more than 150
million workers tallying how much they have paid in  Social
Security taxes  and how much they can expect to receive in
retirement. The government said it is suspending those mailings
to save money and plans to make them available online.  Critics say the administration’s  tax-cut  plan threatens
that legacy because it would replace with other revenue the $265
billion the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated
would be forgone by Social Security next year.  While transferring other revenue into the program would
ensure benefits aren’t cut because of the tax reduction, Social
Security advocates may have a harder time arguing that seniors’
benefits were bought and paid for by their payroll taxes.  Chuck Blahous , a former Bush administration economic
adviser who now sits on Social Security’s Board of Trustees,
called the Obama plan a “very fundamental transformation” in
how the program operates.  ‘Severe Trouble’  “When you start funding Social Security that way, you
basically destroy any notion that people really paid for their
Social Security benefits,” he said. “Once we destroy that,
we’re going to destroy a lot of the political protections that
Social Security has long enjoyed.”  Blahous added, “We’ve got this political dynamic that
says, ‘Well, if you don’t extend this, then you’re in favor of
raising taxes on poor working people. If that’s the dynamic,
then Social Security is in really severe trouble.”  The ambivalence over tapping into the funding for the
popular retirement program is underscored by a split among
advocacy organizations for the elderly. AARP, the largest group,
supports the payroll tax cuts -- as long as they are temporary -
- while the National Commission to Preserve Social Security &
Medicare has  criticized  the administration’s plan.  No Danger  Alan Krueger, the chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, denies there is any danger to the system. He
told reporters in a Nov. 29 briefing, “I don’t think this
jeopardizes the Social Security  trust fund  or the solvency of
Social Security. The trust fund is made whole by general
revenues.” And he said Obama has proposed a way to fully pay
for his tax-cut plan.  Senator  Dick Durbin , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat,
also rejected the complaints. He said the government has been
borrowing surplus Social Security revenue to pay for other
programs, and promising to repay it later with other  tax
revenue , so the money has already been mixed.  “This is not the first time,” he said. Durbin, of
 Illinois , said he hoped the tax cut would be allowed to lapse
next year though he said he couldn’t rule out another extension.  It’s that uncertainty that concerns some lawmakers.  “We shouldn’t let the federal government undermine Social
Security by convincing Americans that they don’t really have to
pay for it,” said Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia
Democrat. “If we extend the cuts this year, what about the next
year and the year after? When does it stop?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  