-- 
Penn State to Donate Bowl Game Revenue to Fight Sexual Abuse

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/penn-state-to-donate-bowl-game-revenue-to-fight-sexual-abuse.html
Penn State  University, which accepted
an invitation for its football team to play in the TicketCity
Bowl, said it will donate its postseason revenue from the sport
to groups seeking to protect children from sexual abuse.  Penn State will face the  University of Houston  in the Jan.
2 game at Cotton Bowl Stadium in Dallas.  The Nittany Lions had a 9-3 record this season, losing two
of their final three games after  Joe Paterno  was fired as coach
in the wake of a child sexual abuse scandal involving former
assistant Jerry Sandusky. School officials had previously said
Penn State would play in a bowl game because the players had
nothing to do with the scandal.  “As Penn State continues to move forward from recent
events we are committed to help break the silence that surrounds
child sexual abuse and lead to better protection of our
children,” Penn State President Rodney Erickson said in a
 statement  on the school’s website.  Erickson said revenue received from the  Big Ten
Conference ’s bowl payout will be used to support the school’s
recent partnerships with the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape
and the National Sexual Violence Resource Center, as well as
other related initiatives.  Penn State is among a record 10 Big Ten schools invited to
postseason bowls, with two teams headed to Bowl Championship
Series games. The  University of Wisconsin  plays Oregon in the
 Rose Bowl  and the University of  Michigan  meets Virginia Tech in
the Sugar Bowl. The Big Ten received $27.2 million from the BCS
to distribute to its member schools last season after having two
schools in BCS games, the SportsBusiness Journal said.  Return to Dallas  Penn State will be playing in  Dallas  for the first time
since the 1975 Cotton Bowl, and the Nittany Lions’ opponent is a
Houston team that was 12-0 before losing the Conference USA
championship game 49-23 to Southern Mississippi. Led by
quarterback Case Keenum, Houston’s offense was No. 1 in the
nation with 444 passing yards a game this season.  “The opportunity to play in the TicketCity Bowl is fitting
acknowledgment of the hard work, dedication and perseverance our
student-athletes have exhibited during this especially
challenging season,” interim coach  Tom Bradley  said in a
statement.  Penn State will be making its 44th bowl appearance and its
27th postseason victories are third all-time.  Sandusky, 67, was charged with 40 counts of molesting eight
boys in a period from 1994 to 2009. He has denied wrongdoing.  Paterno, 84, who won a record 409 games as Penn State’s
coach, was fired and Graham B. Spanier, 63, was removed as the
university’s president by the Board of Trustees for inaction
after word of possible assaults became known in 2002.  Athletic Director Tim Curley and Senior Vice President
 Gary Schultz  were charged with perjury and failure to report the
allegations. They have denied the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  