-- 
Pennsylvania Hires Greenhill to Weigh Sale of State Assets

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-12-05T16:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/pennsylvania-hires-greenhill-to-weigh-asset-sales-to-investors.html
Pennsylvania  hired investment bank
Greenhill & Co. to help convert government assets and services
into cash as states try to plug at least $40 billion in deficits
next year by selling toll roads or turning over lotteries to
contractors.  The New York-based firm employs Republican Governor Tom Corbett’s Democratic predecessor,  Ed Rendell , as well as a
banker who advised the state during Rendell’s unsuccessful
effort to sell the Pennsylvania Turnpike in 2008.  Greenhill will review all Pennsylvania functions and
services except the liquor system, according to the state’s
request for companies to submit proposals. Parks and prison
health care might be run privately, Corbett has said.  “State governments’ interest in privatizing crown jewel
infrastructure assets has been a growing trend for years,” said
Moody’s Investors Service analysts led by senior credit officer
Richard Donner in a report today. “But the benefit of a one-
time cash infusion for road and highway capital improvements is
partly offset by the often politically unpopular decision.”  Now on Sale  Ohio  on Nov. 22 hired KPMG LLP to advise it how to tap the
Ohio Turnpike to generate money for highway and bridge projects.
Philadelphia hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  last year to consider a sale of
its gas works, and  Ohio State University  this year engaged
Morgan Stanley to  seek buyers  for its parking system.  New York
City  turned to Greenhill to consider options for office-space
and parking assets, according to a  report  from cityhallnews.com.  The compensation for Greenhill, hired Nov. 30, won’t exceed
$150,000 for three months, and pay for any future work hasn’t
been set, said Eric Shirk, a spokesman for Corbett. Greenhill
may negotiate deals on the state’s behalf.  Corbett formed an advisory council on the matter in
September, saying companies may perform government activities
while costing taxpayers less.  Consultant Public Financial Management, a unit of
Philadelphia-based PFM Group, separately evaluated
Pennsylvania’s liquor operations. In October, PFM estimated in a
report that selling wholesale and retail liquor licenses for
$1.6 billion may help close $29 billion in unfunded pension
liabilities or help pay to improve infrastructure.  Nothing Doing  Greenhill’s effort is led by banker Robert Collins. While
at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in 2008, Collins advised Pennsylvania on an
attempt to sell the Turnpike to investors for an upfront payment
of $12.8 billion. Rendell championed the proposal, which failed
to win support from state lawmakers.  Rendell left office at the end of 2010 because of  term
limits . This year he became a part-time adviser at Greenhill,
assigned to boost the company’s services for governments.  In Ohio, options include leasing the 241-mile (388-
kilometer) toll road, creating a partially private operation and
selling bonds backed by toll revenue, according to the
administration of Governor  John Kasich . Private operations would
boost the creditworthiness of the outstanding $600 million in
bonds, Moody’s said. The turnpike, rated Aa3, the fourth-highest
in Moody’s scale, is one of the largest and highest-rated toll
roads in the U.S., the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  