-- 
Peru Declares State of Emergency to End Protests Against Newmont Gold Mine

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-12-05T18:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/peru-declares-state-of-emergency-to-end-anti-mining-protests.html
Protesters halted demonstrations that
have paralyzed  Peru ’s biggest gold project and threatened
billions of dollars in investment after President  Ollanta Humala 
declared a  state of emergency  in the northern  Andes .  Humala yesterday granted the armed forces extra powers for
60 days, including the right to arrest without a warrant in four
provinces of the Cajamarca region after two weeks of clashes
between police and protesters forced  Newmont Mining Corp.  to
suspend the $4.8 billion Minas Conga gold project. The move came
after talks between the government and demonstrators, who say
the project threatens water supplies, broke down.  “It’s very positive that Humala is taking specific
measures to maintain order and not let the situation get out of
control,” said Isabel Darrigrandi, who covers Peruvian mining
stocks for Celfin Capital SA in Santiago. “His major challenge
is to support the  mining industry  and at the same time avoid
alienating his base of support. There are groups among his base
that have a very radical anti-mining position.”  Environmental protests this year by farmers halted projects
by companies including  Southern Copper  Corp.,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and  Bear Creek Mining Corp. (BCM)  Denver-based Newmont, the biggest
U.S. gold producer, said it will seek talks with the government
and communities opposing the project, Peru’s largest.  Newmont slid 0.1 percent to $66.94 at 1:09 p.m. in  New York 
and has declined 2.9 percent in the three days after suspending
the Conga project. Southern Copper gained 2.3 percent to $31.38
while Anglo American rose 1.2 percent to 2,501.5 pence in  London 
and Gold Fields slid 1.1 percent in Johannesburg.  Operating Normally  Wilfredo Saavedra, head of the Cajamarca Environmental
Defense Front, called a 60-day pause in protests at a televised
rally in Cajamarca late yesterday. Villagers will stage a march
if no accord is reached in that period, Saavedra said.  Food markets reopened and flights to Cajamarca resumed
today after protests in the region, which is home to mines
operated by Newmont and Gold Fields Ltd., shut schools and
businesses and blocked roads, Interior Minister Oscar Valdes
told Lima-based Radioprogramas. Both mines are operating
normally, the companies said today.  Television footage showed several hundred soldiers and
police carrying riot shields guarding the airport, roads and
government offices.  Machinery Destroyed  Residents have burned a warehouse and destroyed $2 million
of machinery at Newmont’s Minas Conga site, 560 kilometers (350
miles) northwest of Lima. Cajamarca, where Newmont was forced to
shelve its Cerro Quilish gold project in 2004, is also home to
copper projects being developed by Anglo American Plc,  Rio Tinto
Plc (RIO)  and China Minmetals Corp.  “The intransigence of a group of local leaders was once
again made clear,” Humala said yesterday in a speech broadcast
nationally on radio and television. Talks “have not succeeded
in achieving even minimal accords to allow the return of social
peace and the restoration of public services.”  Peru, the world’s third-largest copper miner and the sixth-
largest gold producer, has lined up $50 billion in mining
investment projects over the next decade. Minas Conga seeks to
produce 680,000 ounces of gold and 107 million kilograms of
copper annually.  ‘Critical Stage’  Peru needs mining investment to grow by an average 6
percent to finance spending on the 8 million Peruvians living in
extreme poverty, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said in a Dec.
3 interview.  “We’re at a critical stage,” Castilla said. “We need
benefits to reach the population, but we can’t afford to lose
that investment.”  Humala, a former renegade army officer who took over one of
 Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines a decade ago, was elected in June
on pledges to raise taxes and exert greater control over the
mining industry. Metals account for 60 percent of the country’s
 export  revenue and half its tax income.  While drawing support from Peru’s peasant majority, Humala
has also tried to curry favor among investors since taking
office July 28. In addition to asking central bank President
Julio Velarde to a second, five-year term, he’s also said he’d
honor policies that made Peru the fastest-growing economy in
 Latin America  over the past decade.  “Humala in a way has turned the mining industry into a
partner of the government,” Celfin’s Darrigrandi said. “The
government created a royalty and special taxes for the sector to
fund social programs. He needs the sector to move forward with
investments because his social programs depend on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 