-- 
Pfizer, Research Affiliates, ‘Occupy’: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-05T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/pfizer-research-affiliates-occupy-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Wyeth unit and Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. were accused by a group of prescription
drug retailers of illegally keeping a generic version of the
Effexor XR antidepressant off the market.  “Wyeth engaged in an overarching anticompetitive scheme to
prevent and delay the approval and marketing of generic versions
of Effexor XR,” the retailers, including  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and
 Kroger Co. (KR) , said in a complaint filed Nov. 30 in federal court
in Trenton,  New Jersey .  The retailers allege that Wyeth fraudulently obtained
patents and engaged in “sham litigation” to delay generic
versions of the extended release drug. They also alleged that
Wyeth and the U.S. unit of Israel-based Teva Pharmaceuticals
Industries Ltd. colluded to keep  Teva (TEVA) ’s generic version off the
market until June 2010.  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for New York-based Pfizer, and
Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva  North America , didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the lawsuit after
regular business hours Dec. 1.  The case is Walgreen v. Wyeth, 11-6985, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Research Affiliates Sues WisdomTree Over Portfolio Patents  Research Affiliates LLC, the asset-management company, sued
 WisdomTree Investments Inc.  for allegedly infringing three of
its patents.  The patents include a method for using accounting-data-
based indexing to create a portfolio of assets, Newport Beach,
California-based Research Affiliates said in a complaint filed
Dec. 1 in federal court in Santa Ana, California.  “Our main focus is product quality and performance, but we
will protect our  intellectual property  and the interests of our
business partners when our patents are infringed,” Research
Affiliates’ Chairman  Rob Arnott  said in a statement.  Research Affiliates, a closely held company majority owned
by its employees, said $78 billion in assets are managed using
investment strategies it developed. The company told WisdomTree
in 2005 that it was applying for one of the patents at issue,
according to the complaint.  WisdomTree responded by saying that Research Affiliates’
intellectual property rights were “speculative at best” and
that WisdomTree was submitting prior public information about
inventions related to the proposed patent to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, according to the complaint. The office issued
the patent to Research Affiliates, according to the filing.  Stuart Bell, a spokesman for New York-based WisdomTree,
didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Financial products that Research Affiliates claims infringe
its patents include WisdomTree Dividend Index and WisdomTree
Earnings Index. Research Affiliates is seeking a jury trial and
a court order to stop WisdomTree from using the methods alleged
to be patented.  WisdomTree, a firm specializing in exchange-traded funds,
said it manages about $11.4 billion in ETF assets. Michael
Steinhardt, the former hedge-fund manager, is chairman.  Research Affiliates is represented by  Palo Alto ,
California-based  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC .  The case is Research Affiliates v. WisdomTree Investments,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Central District of California,
Southern Division ( Santa Ana ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Multiple ‘Occupy’ Trademark Applications Filed at USPTO  The “Occupy” movement has spawned more than 25 different
applications to register trademarks containing various
permutations of the name in such phrases as “Occupy  Wall
Street ,” according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Among the most recent applications are one filed Nov. 22 to
register “Occupy  Los Angeles ” for use with “political action
committee services.” The applicant lists only a general-
delivery address in Los Angeles.  On that same date, Kop-N-Go Inc. of  New York  filed an
application to register “Occupy Hip Hop” tor use with hats,
sweatshirts and t-shirts.  A resident of Bloomington,  California , filed an application
that day to register “Occupy Any Wear” for use on clothing.
ERB & Sons LLC of Los Angeles filed an application Nov. 21 to
register “Occupy America” to be used on long and short-sleeved
t-shirts.  “Occupy the Outdoors” is a trademark sought by  Whitetail
Institute of North America Inc.  The Pintlala, Alabama-based
company, which filed its application Nov. 17, appears from its
website to be a producer of seeds for food plants intended to
attract deer.  A mark containing “Occupy the Dance Floor” is sought by a
resident of Baltimore,  Maryland . He says in his application --
filed Nov. 15 -- that it will be used for T-shirts.  Other pending applications are to register “Occupy  Las
Vegas ,” “Occupy the Vote 2012,” “Occupy Together,” and
“Occupy as One.” There is also an application, filed Oct. 19
by a resident of Powell, Ohio, to register “Everywhere I Go I
Occupy” as a mark, also to be used on t-shirts.  Bob Marley’s Family Sues Performer’s Half Brother for Infringing  The holders of the intellectual property rights related to
the Reggae singer  Bob Marley  sued the late performer’s half
brother for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed Dec. 1 in federal court in Ft. Lauderdale,
 Florida , is related Richard Booker’s applications to register
“Mama Marley” and “Nine Mile” as trademarks in the U.S.  According to court papers, Booker operates a restaurant in
 Jamaica  named “Mama Marley’s” and conducts tours of  the Nine
Mile region  of Jamaica, a region of the island country
associated with the late singer and where he is buried.  The IP rights holders also complain that Booker has
advertised his restaurant in the U.S. and operates  the Nine Mile
Music Festival  and the “ www.bobmarleymovement.com ” website
they say infringe their marks. They claim that to no avail they
engaged in “extensive settlement talks” with Booker over his
use of the name and likeness of the late performer.  The rights holders -- Marley’s widow and nine of his 11
children -- asked the court to bar further trademark
infringement by Booker, and for an order cancelling Booker’s “9
Mile Music” trademark and barring the registration of several
pending trademark applications. Additionally, they seek awards
of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  They are represented by  Bruce G. Hermelee  of  Hermelee &
Geffin LLC  of Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.  The case is Fifty-Six Hope Road Music Ltd. v. Richard
Booker, 1:11-cv-24326-MGC, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Anti-Piracy Group BREIN Accused by Composer of Infringing  Bescherming Rechten Entertainment Industrie Nederland , the
Dutch anti-piracy group known as BREIN, has itself been accused
of copyright infringement by a musician who said the group is
using his work without permission, the anti-copyright Torrent
Freak website  reported .  Melchior Rietveldt  was asked by BREIN to compose music for
an anti-piracy video to be shown at a local music festival, and
is now objecting to its use by the organization in other
contexts, according to Torrent Freak.  He found his music included in an anti-piracy message
embedded in a DVD of one of the Harry Potter films, Torrent
Freak reported.  The composer is seeking at least 1 million Euros ($1.4
million) in compensation for what he says is unauthorized use of
his work, according to Torrent Freak.  Lawmakers Float Alternative to Google-Opposed Online Piracy Bill  U.S. lawmakers are circulating an alternative approach to
Hollywood-backed anti-piracy legislation after Internet
companies including Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. objected to
the bills.  Under the draft proposal from a bipartisan group of Senate
and House members, U.S. intellectual-property holders could
petition the U.S. International Trade Commission to investigate
foreign websites accused of trafficking in pirated content and
counterfeit goods. The commission is an independent agency set
up to protect U.S. markets from unfair trade practices.  “We’re going to be able to handcuff the bad actors that
are selling fake movies and Viagra,” Senator Ron Wyden, an
Oregon Democrat who helped draft the proposal, said in an
interview Dec. 1. “This is a model that gets us a chance to go
after them without doing so much damage to the architecture of
the Internet.”  Anti-piracy bills in the House and Senate have pitted the
nation’s biggest Internet companies against the U.S. film and
music industries, which want the government to do more to halt
the online sale of goods such as knockoff watches and illegally
copied music. Web companies say the proposed legislation would
require them to police the Internet, undermining the growth of
the U.S. technology industry.  The House bill would let the U.S. attorney general seek
court orders requiring U.S. Internet-service providers, search
engines, payment processors and ad networks to block or cease
business with websites linked to online piracy. The measure,
introduced in October by House Judiciary Committee Chairman
Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican, also would give intellectual-
property holders ways to compel payment and ad services to sever
ties with such websites.  The Senate Judiciary Committee approved in May a similar
bill, S. 968, known as the Protect IP Act. Both the House and
Senate measures have multiple co-sponsors from both parties.
Wyden has threatened to block the Protect IP Act from reaching a
vote in the full Senate.  Under the alternative proposal, the International Trade
Commission would be authorized to issue cease-and-desist orders
against foreign websites that could be used to force payment
processors, such as Visa Inc. or PayPal Inc., and online
advertising networks to cease providing services to such
websites.  The trade agency has the power to block imports of products
found to infringe intellectual property rights, can propose
tariffs on products to counter subsidized imports and
investigates trade-related issues for Congress and the
president.  Wyden said the group intends to circulate the draft and
request feedback, and introduce legislation in the coming weeks.  The alternative proposal was signed by 10 lawmakers from
both parties, including Democratic Senators Maria Cantwell of
Washington and Mark Warner of  Virginia ; Republican
Representatives Darrell Issa of California and Jason Chaffetz of
Utah; and Democratic Representatives Anna Eshoo and Zoe Lofgren
of California.  The House bill is H.R. 3261.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Colorado Holds Hearing on Fracking Formula Trade Secrets  Colorado’s oil company regulators are to hear testimony
today about the confidentiality of formulas for fluids used to
fracture underground rock structures in the search for oil, the
Coloradoan  reported .  Governor John Hickenlooper has proposed a new rule that
would mandate disclosure of chemicals used for hydraulic
fracturing, or “fracking,” which many oil-exploration
companies maintain should be exempted as trade secrets,
according to the Coloradan.  Some environmental groups contend it’s vital to disclose
these chemicals as some of them could contaminate drinking
water, according to the newspaper.  Under the proposed rule, energy companies would have to
disclose their fracking formulas on a publicly accessible
website, the Coloradoan reported.  IP Moves  Hogan Lovells Expands China IP Group With Perkins Coie Hire  Hogan Lovells LLP  hired William “Chip” Fisher for its IP
practice, the Washington-based firm said in a  statement .  Fisher, who joins from Seattle’s  Perkins Coie LLP , does
counseling and litigation in the areas of patents, trademarks,
trade secrets and copyrights. He’s represented clients whose
technologies have included e-commerce systems, electronic
financial transaction systems, network traffic management,
secure data networks, electronic media, and digital rights
management. He has also previously practiced at Schwabe
Williamson & Wyatt PC of Portland, Oregon.  He is fluent in Mandarin Chinese and will work from the
firm’s Shanghai office.  Fisher has an undergraduate degree in Chinese from the
University of  Massachusetts , a master’s degree in criminal
justice from Northeastern University, and a law degree from
 Boston University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 