-- 
Pfizer’s Kidney Cancer Drug May Not Be Effective, FDA Staff Report Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-05T21:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/pfizer-s-kidney-cancer-drug-may-not-be-effective-fda-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s advanced kidney cancer
treatment may not be effective at prolonging the time some
patients live without the disease getting worse, a Food and Drug
Administration staff report said today.  The FDA said it was concerned that the number of U.S.
patients who benefited from the therapy, chemically known as
axitinib, was small. People who showed the most response were
first treated with medicines known as cytokines, which are not
used as much as newer treatments.  “Advice is sought on whether the issue of” survival free
from disease progression is “being driven by a subset of
patients that is likely to be scarce in the United States,”
according to the report.  The medicine from New York-based Pfizer, the world’s
biggest drugmaker, may compete with tivozanib from  Aveo
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO)  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , which is also
being tested to treat advanced kidney cancer. Both block
receptors in the body thought to play a role in spreading
tumors. Kidney cancer affects  296,000  people in the U.S.,
according to the  American Cancer Society .  An advisory panel is scheduled to meet on axitinib Dec. 7
and make recommendations to the agency on the risks and benefits
of the treatment. The FDA isn’t required to follow the panel’s
advice.  Pfizer fell less than 1 percent to $19.84 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 13 percent this year.  More than a third of patients in the trial had received
cytokines.  Kidney Cancer Treatments  Typical  kidney cancer treatments , according to the  National
Institutes of Health , include surgery to remove part of all of
the kidney, radiation, chemotherapy and other drugs such as
 Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Nexavar. Pfizer compared axitinib to Nexavar, which
the FDA approved in 2005, in its final-phase clinical trial.  Results “indicate that axitinib has demonstrated a
statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement
in efficacy” compared with Nexavar, Pfizer said in the  report 
that it will present to the advisory panel Dec. 7.  The trial found axitinib kept the disease from progressing
for a median of 6.7 months compared with 4.7 months for Nexavar,
according to  results  released in June. The study included 723
patients. The FDA is expected to decide whether to approve
Pfizer’s drug by March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 