-- 
Pharmasset Poised to Pay 20% on Gilead Closing in First Quarter: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-12-06T17:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/pharmasset-poised-to-pay-20-on-gilead-closing-in-first-quarter-real-m-a.html
After attracting a record windfall
for a drug takeover, Pharmasset Inc. is now offering the biggest
annualized return of any U.S. deal for traders willing to bet on
smooth development of its experimental hepatitis C treatment.  Gilead (GILD)  Sciences Inc. agreed last month to buy Pharmasset of
Princeton,  New Jersey , for $10.8 billion, 94 percent more than
its 20-day trading average and the highest premium on record for
a drug takeover of comparable size, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. After the shares fell 3.4 percent in the last
week, the $137-a-share price tag would deliver an annualized
return of at least 20 percent if the purchase closes in the
first quarter as projected. That’s the highest potential gain of
any pending U.S. deal greater than $1 billion, the data show.  Pharmasset posted a bigger  slump (VRUS)  than 99 percent of
companies in the Russell 1000 Index last week as some investors
grew concerned that Gilead will walk away from the takeover if
Pharmasset faces delays in the development of its oral drug for
hepatitis C. While Pharmasset’s 234 percent advance this year
prior to the deal had topped the  Russell 1000 , last week’s drop
is now giving Pharmasset shareholders the chance to profit again
by betting the deal will close, said Wall Street Access.  “It’s a real fat spread,”  Keith Moore , an event-driven
strategist at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM Partners, said in
a telephone interview. “If there’s negative news Gilead can
walk away from the deal. But the likelihood of that happening is
very low.”  ‘Serious Adverse Event’  Chris Kittredge, an outside spokesman for Pharmasset, and
Amy Flood, a spokeswoman for  Foster City , California-based
Gilead, declined to comment on Pharmasset’s trading and
investors’ concerns about the deal closing.  Last week Pharmasset fell 3.6 percent while the Russell
1000 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted their biggest
weekly rallies since March 2009. Pharmasset dropped 0.1 percent
to $128.59 at 12:37 p.m. in  New York  today. Gilead slipped 0.8
percent to $39.85.  The decline last week pushed Pharmasset shares $8.56 below
Gilead’s bid as some investors worried that the potential losses
from a failed deal are too great to justify wagering on the
acquisition’s completion. Gilead specified in a regulatory
filing last month that Pharmasset can’t experience any “serious
adverse event” during clinical trials for its drug PSI-7977.
Such events include injury to trial subjects that lead to a hold
on development by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or
“significant” delays.  Paid for Risk  The offer represented a 6.7 percent premium to Pharmasset
shares on Dec. 2, the widest gap since the deal was announced
Nov. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show. After rebounding 21
cents yesterday, the deal still offered a 6.5 percent premium,
which is the equivalent of a 20 percent annualized return if the
deal closes March 31. Betting on the takeover presented the
largest annualized return of any pending U.S. deal valued at
more than $1 billion, the data show.  “It’s one of the more attractive situations out there
because you are getting paid for the risk,” Peter Lobravico,
New York-based vice president of merger arbitrage trading and
sales at Wall Street Access, said in a phone interview. “As the
stock goes down, the risk-reward gets more attractive.”  The annualized return would be even higher if the deal
closes before the end of the first quarter. Lobravico and MKM’s
Moore project a January completion, which would yield at least a
50 percent profit based on Pharmasset’s price yesterday.  Hepatitis C Drug  Pharmasset is developing an oral drug for hepatitis C,
which is now largely treated with injections. The viral
infection, for which there is no vaccine, can lead to  liver
cancer . As many as 170 million people globally carry hepatitis
C, which is transmitted through exposure to infected blood, and
more than 350,000 die from related illnesses each year,
according to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization .  Its leading product, PSI-7977, is entering two phase 3
studies in patients with genotype 2 and 3. A third study in
genotype 1 patients will start in the second half of next year
and could lead to initial regulatory approval in 2014, according
to a statement from the companies. Genotype 1 is the most common
and hardest to treat.  Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV medicines, is
buying Pharmasset at a premium that’s more than three times the
average 25 percent paid for drug takeovers greater than $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The deal handed
shareholders a $4.7 billion increase in market value the day it
was announced. Gilead said it expects the purchase to close in
the first quarter, and the tender offer already has committed
financing.  The tender offer, which began today, is set to expire Jan.
12, according to a regulatory filing.  ‘Significant Downside’  While there’s only a “slim chance” of Pharmasset’s drug
causing an adverse event that would prompt Gilead to back out,
the investment may still have proven too risky for some
shareholders, according to  Michael Yee , a San Francisco-based
biotechnology analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “I do not foresee any serious adverse event or issues that
are likely to arise,” Yee said in a phone interview. Still,
“there’s significant downside for the stock if it were to
happen,” he said.  If the deal is canceled because of problems in the drug
trials, the shares may drop to half of their $72.67 value before
the takeover was announced, said Wall Street Access’ Lobravico.  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)  said last week that its INX-189 drug, a
hepatitis C treatment similar to the one Pharmasset makes,
showed a “significant increase in antiviral activity” when
used in combination with ribavirin. The positive results mean
that Inhibitex may be able to “truly” compete with Pharmasset,
Brian Skorney, an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co., said in
a note to clients Nov. 29.  ‘Huge Bet’  Inhibitex “had pretty good results, which means Pharmasset
is not that much ahead of the rest of the market,” Nils Hayat,
a  Tel Aviv , Israel-based risk arbitrage analyst with Makor
Capital, said in a telephone interview. The Pharmasset spread
widened because the increased competition means the stock will
drop even further if the deal falls apart, Hayat said.  Even before the acquisition was disclosed, Pharmasset had
gained 234 percent this year, twice as much as any other company
in the Russell 1000, as its drug trials advanced.  Pharmasset reported last month that 40 patients who
received PSI-7977 were responsive after 12 weeks. About half the
patients had been followed up to 24 weeks and were all cured
with no significant adverse events. The drug was tested in
combination with ribavirin, which is currently used in treating
the disease in patients with hepatitis C genotypes 2 and 3.  While the spread has widened, Gilead is still likely to
close the deal to capture the potential growth in the market for
new hepatitis C treatments, according to Lionel Melka, co-
manager of Paris-based Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co.’s Diva Synergy
Fund, which focuses on acquisition targets.  “We’re very confident that this deal will go through,”
Melka said in a phone interview. “It’s a huge bet that Gilead
knows what it’s doing. You don’t put $11 billion on the table if
you don’t know what you’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 