-- 
Power to Homes, Businesses Faces Cybersecurity Threat, MIT Finds

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/power-to-homes-businesses-faces-cybersecurity-threat-mit-finds.html
The U.S. needs standards to guard
against cyber attacks on power lines that run to homes and
businesses, according to a  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
report.  Federal standards to secure the nation’s high-voltage
electricity grid against sabotage from hackers, disgruntled
employees and terrorists don’t cover almost 6 million miles (9.7
million kilometers) of lower-voltage power lines, according to
the 268-page study being released today.  The study focuses on challenges to the U.S. power network
over the next two decades, including the addition of renewable
sources of energy, such as wind and solar power, and electricity
pricing. U.S. officials are studying whether reliability may be
jeopardized by attacks on the network or by Environmental
Protection Agency rules, which utilities say will force them to
shut down some generating plants fueled by coal and oil.  “If regulatory policies and the technologies employed in
the grid do not change, it is likely to be difficult to maintain
acceptable reliability and electric rates,” the scientists from
MIT in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in today’s report.  Attacks on the power network are “a greater threat to our
reliability” than air-pollution rules, John Norris, a member of
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , said at an agency
conference Nov. 30. The EPA will ensure its regulations don’t
endanger grid reliability,  Gina McCarthy , the environmental
agency’s assistant administrator, said at the conference.  Single Agency  The MIT study also calls for designation of a single
federal agency to combat cyber attacks on the U.S. power
network.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has proposed that
the Homeland Security Department lead cybersecurity efforts for
the power network, while Congress has placed more emphasis on
the Energy Department and FERC, according to the study.  “Ongoing jurisdictional confusion raises security
concerns, underscoring the need for action,” according to the
MIT study led by John G. Kassakian, a professor of electrical
engineering and computer science, and Richard Schmalensee, a
professor of economics and management.  The North American Electric Reliability Corp., an Atlanta-
based organization that serves as the government’s power-grid
watchdog, has measures in place to guard against cyber attacks
and can fine utilities as much as $1 million a day for violating
reliability standards. The National Institute of Standards and
Technology is also taking steps to bolster cybersecurity.  The agency chosen to lead grid-cybersecurity efforts should
work with state and federal authorities as well as industry
experts, the MIT group said.  FERC should also have greater authority to let high-voltage
 power lines  be built across state lines over local opposition,
according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  