-- 
Putin May Shift Blame for Russian Duma Vote Setback to ‘Fall Guy’ Medvedev

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-05T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/putin-may-shift-blame-for-russian-duma-vote-setback-to-fall-guy-medvedev.html
Russian Premier  Vladimir Putin  may
shift the blame to President  Dmitry Medvedev  to insulate himself
from his first election setback, said political scientists and
economists from Moscow to  London .  Medvedev led the campaign of Putin’s United Russia party 
and is set to switch jobs with him next year. The party won 49.5 
percent of the Dec. 4 vote for the State Duma, the lower house 
of parliament, preliminary results show. That compares with 64.3 
percent four years ago and is the first time the party’s support 
declined from one nationwide vote to the next since it was set 
up a decade ago.  Medvedev, 46, may inherit the day-to-day running of a
government that expects the budget to open up a deficit of 1.5
percent of gross domestic product next year after ending 2011 in
a surplus of about 0.5 percent. He will also have to contend
with a more fractured parliament than during his presidency.  “It won’t mean anything for Putin, all power will remain
in his hands,”  Mikhail Kasyanov , a former prime minister under
Putin who now opposes the government, said in a telephone
interview. “The fact that United Russia under Medvedev got far
fewer votes than it did four years ago when it was led by Putin
may end up being quite convenient.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.8 percent to 1,517.89 at
yesterday’s close in Moscow after falling as much as 0.4 percent
earlier. Steelmakers OAO Severstal and OAO Novolipetsk Steel
both climbed more than 2.5 percent. The dollar-measured  RTS
index  rose 0.9 percent to 1,559.28. The ruble strengthened 0.1
percent to 30.9046 per dollar.  Appeal to Voters  Medvedev was promised the job of premier after he agreed in
September to make way for Putin’s return to the Kremlin. While
 Russia  needs to tighten its finances to limit the fallout from
the euro zone debt crisis, Putin, 59, who is focused on securing
election as president in March, may pump more money toward
appealing to voters, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and  Aberdeen Asset Management. (ADN)   Putin would get 31 percent of the vote in a presidential
election, compared with 7 percent for Medvedev and 8 percent for
Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , according to a Levada Center
poll last month. A third said they were undecided. The Nov. 18-
21 poll interviewed 1,591 people and had a margin of error of
3.4 percentage points.  ‘Fall Guy’  Medvedev may become the “fall guy” for  United Russia ’s
election setback, allowing Putin to appoint former finance
minister  Alexei Kudrin  as prime minister in his place, Tim Ash,
head of emerging-markets research at RBS in London, said in an
e-mailed research note yesterday.  The president sacked Kudrin in October after the finance
minister, who is well-respected by investors, criticized him for
increasing military expenditure, warning that spending was
approaching a critical level if global economic conditions sour.  Medvedev lost political stature after surrendering his
chance of a second term to Putin and paid the price in
credibility, Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS
Global Insight, said by e-mail yesterday.  “Putin is likely to hold his end of the deal and appoint
Medvedev as his prime minister once he finalizes his return to
the Kremlin,” she said. “But Medvedev’s term in the prime
minister’s office is unlikely to be long,”  After balancing this year’s  budget , Russia will probably
run a 2012 deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product,
Putin said Nov. 16. The country, which posted budget surpluses
between 2000 and 2008, faces deficits of as much as 3 percent
through 2014 as oil prices fall, presidential aide  Arkady Dvorkovich  said in June.  ‘Tough Task’  “The government is going to have a tough task in Russia,
as maintaining good debt ratios would require cuts in social
spending and pensions over the medium-term, which is politically
difficult,”  Charles Robertson , global chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in London, said in an e-mail yesterday.
“Any prime minister is going to need support from the president
to push through the necessary reforms.”  The cost of insuring Russian government debt against
default over five years with credit default swaps has risen 85
basis points, or 0.85 percentage point, since June 30 to 227,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That compared with an increase of 46 basis
points to 156 for  Brazil  so far this half, the data show.  The ruble has dropped 9.7 percent against the dollar since
the end of June, heading for the worst half-year since the six
months through December 2008.  ‘Post-Election Hangover’  A surge in spending on state salaries and social benefits
“could well create a large post-election hangover” by
increasing the oil price required to balance the budget, said
Ash at RBS.  Russia may need an average oil price of $126 a barrel to
balance its budget next year, compared with an earlier forecast
for $118, after a bigger-than-estimated increase in military
salaries,  Alfa Bank  said last month. The price of Russia’s main
export, Urals crude oil, traded at about $110 a barrel
yesterday.  The  budget deficit  will widen unless the country continues
to benefit from “high oil and gas prices,” European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development President  Thomas Mirow  said in a
Nov. 30 interview. The world’s largest energy exporter relies on
oil and gas revenue to fund 40 percent of its budget.  While Putin rewarded Medvedev’s loyalty during his four-
year term as president, the Russian leader would benefit from
replacing him as prime minister with a “strong figure who could
manage the government,”  Masha Lipman , an analyst at the Moscow
Carnegie Center, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “I can imagine him being pushed aside,” Lipman said,
listing possible replacement candidates as Sergei Naryshkin,
head of the presidential administration, and First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  