-- 
Quarterbacks Luck, Griffin, Among Five Finalists for Heisman Trophy

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-06T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/quarterbacks-luck-griffin-among-five-finalists-for-heisman-trophy.html
Robert Griffin III of Baylor
University is among five finalists for the Heisman Trophy and
will be joined at this week’s award ceremony in  New York  by
fellow quarterback Andrew Luck, running backs Montee Ball and
Trent Richardson, and cornerback Tyrann Mathieu.  Griffin, a junior, finished the season as college
football’s top-ranked quarterback as he led Baylor to a 9-3
record and a No. 12 ranking in the Bowl Championship Series
standings. He’s thrown for 3,998 yards and 38 touchdowns, while
rushing for 832 yards and nine scores.  Luck, the runner-up to winner Cam Newton last year, is
seeking to join Jim Plunkett as Stanford’s second  Heisman Trophy
recipient , and Ball aims to be the third  Wisconsin  player to be
voted college football’s top player. While  Alabama ’s Richardson
and Louisiana State’s Mathieu are each seeking to give their
schools a second Heisman winner, Griffin is hoping to become the
first Baylor player to capture the award in its 77-year history.  “It’s big for our program and shows the direction that
we’re going in,” Griffin  told reporters  yesterday. “Hopefully
the vote turns out our way, but being invited is an honor. It’s
not all that we want, but it’s a starting spot.”  Griffin and Baylor will play the University of  Washington 
in the Dec. 29 Alamo Bowl, marking the first time the Bears have
made back-to-back postseason appearances since 1991 and 1992.
Eddie George, who won the 1995 Heisman Trophy at Ohio State, is
among more than 900 voters for the award and said Griffin tops
his ballot.  “He had signature wins against  Oklahoma ,  Texas , TCU,”
George said on Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN network yesterday after
announcing the finalists. “I’m blown away by his performance
and even in his losses, he was great. I think he might have the
edge over all the other candidates.”  Luck’s Season  Luck passed for 3,170 yards and 35 touchdowns after
electing to return for his senior year even though he was
projected as a top National Football League draft pick. NFL
scouts and draft analysts say Luck will probably be the No. 1
selection in this year’s draft.  Luck guided  Stanford University  to an 11-1 mark and second
place in the Pac-12 north division this year. No. 4 Stanford
will play third-ranked  Oklahoma State  in the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2.  Ball, a junior, ran for a nation-high 1,759 yards and 32
touchdowns as  Wisconsin , which will play  Oregon  in the Rose Bowl
Jan. 2, finished 11-2 in the  Big Ten  Conference. He leads the
country with 38 touchdowns overall, one shy of the single-season
record at college football’s top level set by  Barry Sanders .  Ball is the first Heisman finalist from a Big Ten school
since Ohio State’s Troy Smith won in 2006. Wisconsin’s two
Heisman winners were Ron Dayne in 1999 and Alan Ameche in 1954.  Alabama’s Richardson  Richardson, a junior, amassed 1,583 rushing yards and 20
touchdowns for second-ranked  Alabama  (11-1), which will play
 Louisiana State  for the national championship on Jan. 9.  He could be the second Alabama running back to win the
Heisman in the past three seasons, as Mark Ingram became the
Crimson Tide’s first recipient in 2009.  Mathieu was voted the  Southeastern Conference ’s defensive
player of the year and finished the season ranked second in punt
returns. Nicknamed “The Honey Badger” for his fearless style
of play, Mathieu returned a punt 62 yards for a score as LSU
beat Georgia 42-10 in the conference title game Dec. 2.  Charles Woodson, the 1997 Heisman Trophy winner from the
University of Michigan, was the only player to receive the award
while playing primarily on defense. Woodson, like Mathieu,
played cornerback and returned kicks.  LSU’s only Heisman winner was Billy Cannon in 1959.  New York Presentation  The finalists will travel to New York for the presentation
of the Heisman Trophy on Dec. 10 and Baylor coach Art Briles
said he’s excited about Griffin’s opportunity to make history.  “What it would do for the university is unequalled in
modern history at Baylor,” Briles said. “We’ve had a lot of
firsts over the last few years, it’s time to have one more.”  Quarterbacks Matt Barkley of the  University of Southern
California  and Case Keenum of the University of Houston were
among the leading players not selected as Heisman finalists.  Barkley threw a  Pac-12  record 39 touchdown passes this
season and set a school mark by completing 69 percent of his
passes for a USC team that’s ineligible for postseason play
because of National Collegiate Athletic Association violations.
Keenum led the nation with 5,099 passing yards and 45 touchdowns
as Houston went 12-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  