-- 
Rajaratnam’s Prison Trades May Run From Postage Stamps to Mackerel Packets

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-12-05T20:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/rajaratnam-s-prison-trades-may-run-from-postage-stamps-to-mackerel-packets.html
Raj Rajaratnam leaves behind the
ruins of a Wall Street career that made him a billionaire hedge
fund manager to begin an 11-year prison sentence, the price for
running a far-flung  insider-trading  conspiracy that turned tips
from company executives and technology consultants into cash.  He will trade in suits for a uniform, a luxury Manhattan
apartment for a cell, and credit cards and cash for postage
stamps and packages of mackerel, the black market currency of
his new home. The millions of dollars he made on illegal trades
will be replaced by manual labor starting at 12 cents an hour.  Rajaratnam surrendered today at about 12:30 p.m., according
to Robert Lanza, a spokesman for  Federal Medical Center Devens 
in Ayer, Massachusetts. At 12:15 p.m., a red SUV with tinted
windows and government license plates entered the prison grounds
with a state police escort.  Today, Rajaratnam will be fingerprinted, photographed,
strip-searched and issued a number to serve as his identity. It
is the beginning of what -- for the convicted co-founder of
Galleon Group LLC, agreed two former inmates and an ex-U.S.
prison official -- will be very hard time.  Rajaratnam, 54, was sentenced in October after a federal
jury in Manhattan found him guilty of 14 counts of securities
fraud and conspiracy. He directed colleagues, consultants and
corporate officers to leak information that made him tens of
millions of dollars.  Longest Sentence  His was the longest sentence ever handed down for such a
crime, and the culmination of a four-year nationwide probe of
insider trading. Last week, a three-judge panel rejected his
last-minute plea to remain free while he appeals his conviction.  Devens is located on a decommissioned military base about
40 miles northwest of  Boston . Rajaratnam said in court papers
that he has health problems including diabetes, and will
probably need dialysis and a kidney transplant.  As he gets used to his new surroundings, the former inmates
and ex-prison official predicted Rajaratnam will have a
particularly difficult experience adjusting to the loss of
control faced by many former executives when jailed.  “You’re a white-collar guy who’s running a company or a
stock broker wearing a suit and tie,” said  Jack Donson , a
consultant who retired from the U.S. Bureau of Prisons in June
after 23 years working as a correctional treatment specialist.
“The hardest thing to get used to is being told what to do by a
$30,000-a-year corrections officer.”  ‘Shock For Him’  Devens houses 1,180 male inmates, said John Colautti,
another prison spokesman. An adjacent minimum security prison
has 124 men.  John Dowd , a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment.  “A lot of things are going to be a shock for him. It is
not by any means a country club,” said Joe Tomaso, who served
10 months at Devens in 2007 for mail fraud. “Everything is very
rigid and structured.”  Rajaratnam, whose wiretapped telephone calls played a key
role in his conviction, will be limited to 300 minutes a month
on the phone -- 400 minutes during the holiday months of
November and December. Except when he’s talking to his lawyers,
his mail and calls will be monitored by prison staff.  He’ll have to be sure he’s in his assigned spot for the
five daily counts or risk a trip to the Special Housing Unit,
the high-security lockup that inmates call “the hole.”  ‘Disgusting’ Mackerel  He can move around the prison only during the 15-minute
“open movement” periods, which are called every hour on the
half hour. He’ll be told when he may eat, go to bed and buy
extra food and supplies from the prison commissary. Prisoners
can buy luxuries including fresh vegetables and laundry service
on the black market, paying with postage stamps and plastic and
foil packages of mackerel, according to Tomaso.  “It’s disgusting, and I never ate it, nor would I, but
mackerel, along with postage stamps, are inmate currency,” he
said. Corrections officers check inmates’ lockers for the items.
An inmate caught with too many stamps or too much mackerel may
be disciplined -- even sent to the hole, Tomaso said.  After his formal prison intake, he’ll be given prison
identification with his inmate number -- 62785-054 according to
the BOP website -- which will be his identity to prison staff.  Rajaratnam’s street clothes and possessions -- with the
exception of a wedding ring, glasses and a few other approved
items -- will be taken away, according to the author of
“Federal Prison: A Comprehensive Survival Guide,” who uses the
pseudonym “Jonathan Richards” in the book and on his  website .  Tuberculosis  Richards, who was released from Devens in April 2007 after
serving six months for student loan fraud, spoke on condition of
anonymity because he doesn’t want his prison record publicized.  New inmates coming to Devens from outside the prison system
are typically sent to the Special Housing Unit for at least 48
hours while waiting for the results of a test for tuberculosis,
said Colautti, the Devens spokesman.  Most inmates outside the 132-bed hospital unit are housed
in cells or in “cubes,” which are surrounded by a 5-foot
concrete wall, according to Richards. The open-dormitory style
cubes are noisy and put inmates sleeping in the top bunks within
sight of everyone in the unit.  Inmates are required to work, and Rajaratnam will probably
be assigned a job, possibly with limitations required by his
physical condition, said Donson, who advises lawyers, defendants
and inmates on the workings of the federal prison system.  “If you can push a broom or if you can dust off a
windowsill, you’re going to be doing something,” said Donson.
New Devens inmates are typically assigned to work in the
kitchen, one of the least popular jobs, according to Colautti.  Ex-Drug Addicts  Devens houses male inmates who need specialized or long-
term medical or mental health care, according to the BOP. If he
requires dialysis for his failing kidneys, Rajaratnam will
probably spend the time surrounded by ex-drug addicts suffering
the effects of prolonged intravenous drug use, Donson said.  Devens is also the only federal facility that offers a
high-intensity program for inmates classified as high-risk
sexual offenders, the Residential Sex Offender Treatment
Program.  Hundreds of physically healthy sex offenders, including
child molesters and men serving sentences for Internet sex
crimes, are assigned to Devens both for treatment and their
protection, according to BOP documents. About a quarter of
Devens inmates are sex offenders, said Colautti.  The Devens Federal Medical Center is classified as an
“administrative facility,” which means it takes prisoners of
all security designations. About one in five Devens inmates are
considered medium- or high-security, Colautti said. Almost 20
are serving life sentences, he said.  ‘White-Collar Guys’  “The white-collar guys sometimes don’t know how to take
the real convicts,” said Donson. “I bet there’s a lot of heavy
people he’s in there with.”  Richards’s cube-mate, or “celly,” was a crack-cocaine
dealer from  Washington , an eight-time felon who’d lost an eye in
a failed attempted to rob another dealer, he said. Tomaso said
his cellmate was a sex offender.  Current Devens inmates include C. Gregory Earls, the former
chief executive officer of U.S. Technologies Inc. convicted of
 securities fraud . He’s due to be released in 2014. Also at
Devens is Frank Locascio, who is serving a life sentence
following his 1992 racketeering conviction with former Gambino
family organized crime boss John Gotti.  Shoot Inmates  The facility is surrounded by razor-wire fencing, with a
perimeter patrolled by armed officers with authorization to
shoot any inmate who tries to escape, according to Tomaso.  Rajaratnam is unlikely to face violence at Devens if he
treats other inmates with respect, according to Richards, who
said he witnessed a fistfight at the facility about once a
month. Most fights get their start in the TV room, where inmates
argue over where they can sit and what channel to watch. The
conflicts are quickly broken up, he said.  “If there’s ever a fight, they’re on it in a heartbeat,”
Tomaso said of the guards.  Fighting can cost prisoners some of the 54 “good time”
days they get off their sentences after their first year, and
can result in a trip to the hole. There is no parole in the
federal prison system.  Still, an inmate who backs down when attacked can count on
becoming a target for the rest of his time at Devens, according
to Richards.  Richards said Rajaratnam should remember to put his hands
out thumbs-up when he’s handcuffed to minimize discomfort. He
should avoid being seen talking with child molesters and
government cooperators, and to assure immediate access to a
doctor, he should tell the guard he’s about to lose
consciousness, Richards added.  ‘Don’t Rat’  “Watch out who you hang with,” said Tomaso. “Don’t walk
in there cocky. Don’t gamble and don’t borrow. Don’t get on
anybody’s wrong side.”  The number one rule is that inmates must settle disputes
between themselves, without calling in prison staff.  “Don’t rat,” Richards said in his book.  Both Richards and Tomaso agreed that Rajaratnam may benefit
from his notoriety while in prison.  “Some of the guys will look up to him because he stuck it
to the system,” said Tomaso. “He got a lot of money.”  Additionally, since Rajaratnam is a high-profile inmate
with lawyers and consultants, staff may treat him with more care
than other prisoners, particularly in connection with his
medical needs, according to the former inmates.  ‘Lower Level’ Care  Before Rajaratnam was sentenced, Phillip Wise, a former
warden at the federal medical center in Rochester,  Minnesota ,
told the judge presiding over the case that the Galleon co-
founder faced a “lower level of medical care” in prison.  Devens provides dialysis to about 85 inmates, with a
capacity for as many as 125, Sandra Howard, Devens’s clinical
director, said in an affidavit submitted in September in
Rajaratnam’s criminal case at the request of prosecutors.  Since 2004, 15 Devens inmates have received kidney
transplants, performed by specialists at the University of
 Massachusetts , she said. The prison has about 31 inmates who
received transplants before they were in custody, she said.  “Rajaratnam has medical conditions that are managed
routinely by the Federal Bureau of Prisons,” Howard said in her
affidavit.  Richards and Tomaso were critical of the care at Devens.  “BOP does not give its inmates stellar care at the
public’s expense like some believe,” said Tomaso, a former
emergency medical technician who has liver disease. “When you
are actually in custody on-site, you get the bare minimum.”  Food or Medicine  Inmates called in late to the dining hall sometimes had to
choose between eating and taking their medications, which were
given at the same time, he said. Six times during his 10-month
sentence, Tomaso said he had to be sent for care to an outside
hospital, where he remained shackled to his bed. He said he
doesn’t blame the poor care on the prison’s medical staff, who
he said are overworked.  Richards, who said he was sent to Devens because he suffers
from a chronic pain condition, claimed he was denied prescribed
medication throughout most of his six-month sentence, leaving
him frequently in intense pain. Despite a doctor’s order that he
avoid prolonged standing and sitting, Richards said he was
assigned a job in the kitchen that would have kept him on his
feet for eight hours a day.  Other prisoners waited weeks to see specialists and routine
ailments like the flu went untreated, he said. Richards said
little care is given to inmates unless they are very ill --
having a seizure or heart attack, for example. The care that was
given was generally inadequate, he said.  Less Time  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in  Manhattan , who
presided over Rajaratnam’s case, said he considered the hedge
fund manager’s medical condition in giving him less time than
the 24 ½ year-term prosecutors had sought.  Rajaratnam had sought to serve his term in a federal
medical facility at a complex in Butner,  North Carolina , where
convicted  Ponzi scheme  mastermind  Bernard Madoff  was assigned.
The BOP has final say on where a prisoner is assigned.  Colautti, a Devens prison spokesman, said his facility is
accredited by the Joint Commission, which reviews and certifies
health care programs in the U.S.  While he cited privacy rules in declining to discuss
individual cases, he noted that the commission recently gave
Devens an outstanding rating.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 