-- 
RBC May Sell Guaranteed Payout Products If Regulator Backs Banks

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-05T21:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/rbc-may-sell-guaranteed-payout-products-if-regulator-backs-banks.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  may consider
selling guaranteed retirement cash-flow products in its bank
branches if  Canada ’s regulator rejects an insurance industry
challenge to keep banks from selling the investments, the
lender’s head of insurance said.  The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
has been reviewing  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Lifetime Cash Flow
product, which gives buyers age 55 and older guaranteed payments
for life. Bank of Montreal launched the investment in January,
drawing complaints from Canadian insurers that call the offering
an annuity that they say violates federal rules barring banks
from selling insurance in bank branches.  “It’s a very needed offering,” Neil Skelding, chief
executive officer of RBC Insurance, said today in an interview
in Toronto. “Certainly, we’d like to fulfill that need if
possible at the retail branch.”  OSFI spokesman Rod Giles in Ottawa said the issue is still
under review.  Royal Bank is waiting for OSFI to clarify the rules before
considering whether it would enter the market, Skelding, 48,
said.  “Until there’s some certainty around that, it would be
uncharacteristic of us to launch into a market,” Skelding said.  Royal Bank offers payout annuities through its 53 insurance
stores, which are kept separate from bank branches.  Royal Bank’s insurance unit reported record earnings of
C$601 million ($592 million) for the fiscal year ended Oct. 31,
representing about 9 percent of the Toronto-based lender’s
profit from continuing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  