-- 
Record U.S. Exports Led by Caterpillar Seen in World Markets

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-05T16:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/record-u-s-exports-led-by-caterpillar-in-developing-markets-seen-for-2012.html
U.S. exports, a driver of expansion
in the world’s largest economy, will grow next year even as a
sovereign-debt crisis pushes  Europe  into recession.  The euro area’s share of overseas sales for American-made
goods has dwindled to 13 percent from 19 percent at the peak in
the early 1990s, according to  Joseph Carson  of AllianceBernstein
LP. A trade shock that cuts all euro-zone imports by 10 percent
in the next 12 months would trim U.S. economic output by only
0.2 percent, UBS AG estimates.  Total U.S. exports -- responsible for almost half of growth
since the 18-month recession ended in June 2009 -- reached a
record  $180.4 billion  in September, even as Europe’s woes were
escalating. America’s push into faster-growing  emerging markets 
such as  China  is helping to sustain demand for goods from
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  machinery to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones.  “The best thing for the economy is that growth in the rest
of the world is positive,” said Carson, director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein in  New York  and a former
Commerce Department economist. “It is likely our exports slow
down, but it doesn’t mean they collapse. We’ll still have an
investment- and export-led expansion next year.”  Sales of U.S. goods abroad have jumped 29 percent in the
nine quarters of the recovery, the fastest growth at the start
of any economic rebound in the past five decades, as the country
“piggybacked” on demand in developing nations, said Carson,
who is also a former chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Developing Markets  U.S. merchandise exports to emerging economies climbed  20
percent (MXEF)  through September from a year earlier, while sales to
the euro area grew 14 percent, Carson said. Developing markets
now account for 55 percent of U.S. goods shipments, which
include crude oil and natural gas, up from 40 percent in 2000.  The U.S. has become a net exporter of oil products for the
first time since 1949 as companies from  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to
 Marathon Petroleum Corp.  process more crude to feed demand in
Mexico and Brazil, where growth outpaces the U.S.  “Europe is important but not nearly as important” as in
the past, said  Jim Paulsen , Minneapolis-based chief investment
strategist at Wells Capital Management, which manages about $340
billion. “At the heart of the U.S. export story is a consumer-
based emerging world.”  President Barack Obama, during a trip last month to the
Asia-Pacific region, repeatedly highlighted the need to boost
exports to Asian markets to accelerate expansion and reduce
unemployment, at 8.6 percent in November. In a Nov. 17 speech
to Australia’s Parliament, he said he’s made a "deliberate
and strategic decision” that the U.S. must have a long-term
role in  Asia , which accounts for half the global economy.  Key Partners  U.S. neighbors also remain key trade partners. Merchandise
exports climbed 22 percent last year to Canada, which receives
19 percent of America’s shipments and 27 percent to Mexico,
whose 13 percent share matches the euro zone’s.  The 17-nation currency bloc is already in a “mild”
recession, with growth forecast to slow to just 0.2 percent in
2012 from 1.6 percent this year, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said Nov. 28. The U.S. will expand 2
percent next year after 1.7 percent in 2011, it projected.  Even with Europe’s slump, a combination of factors bodes
well for U.S. exports. The dollar’s  11 percent (DXY)  decline since
June 2010, as tracked by IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar
Index, has made American goods cheaper abroad. Rising emerging-
market wages also mean more purchasing power for consumers and a
shrinking cost gap that helps U.S. exporters, Paulsen said.  Accelerating Demand  Demand in developing countries may reaccelerate by the
middle of 2012, after having cooled as central banks, including
those in China and India, raised borrowing costs earlier this
year to tame inflation, he said.  “The U.S. could see a pretty big pickup in exports even
without Europe,” Paulsen said, adding that this will boost
stocks tied to exports and manufacturing, including industrial
and technology companies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised Caterpillar, the world’s
largest construction and mining-equipment maker, to “conviction
buy” from “buy” on Nov. 13, with a 12-month price estimate of
$118 a share. It was $97.55 at 11:43 a.m. in New York. The
Peoria, Illinois-based company forecasts revenue will climb as
much as 20 percent in 2012, assuming “not a worldwide
recession, but actually quite poor growth,” Michael DeWalt,
director of investor relations, said in a Nov. 8 teleconference.  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK) , a maker of factory-automation
software and products, is “cautiously optimistic” about 2012
even with “the possibility of a mild recession in Europe”
proving a headwind for profit, Chief Financial Officer Theodore Crandall said on a Nov. 17 conference call with analysts.  ‘Unsettled Global Economy’  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-equipment maker,
forecast 2012 profit on Nov. 23 that topped analysts’ estimates
even as it cited an “unsettled global economy.” Farm-machinery
industry sales in the U.S. and Canada will rise between 5
percent and 10 percent for the year, may be little changed in
Western and Central Europe and South America, and up
“strongly” in Asia, it said in a statement.  Investors also may find developing-country equities a good
bet, especially as they’ve become “much less popular now,”
Paulsen said. “That makes for a good entry point.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 20 percent since
this year’s peak on May 2 of 1,206.49, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has fallen  7.2 percent. (SPX)   Exports added 1.14 percentage points to America’s 2.4
percent economic growth since the second quarter of 2009, Carson
said. Overseas shipments, adjusted for prices, may expand 6.4
percent in 2012, compared with 6.9 percent this year, he
forecasts.  Small Share  American goods exports to the euro zone make up less than 2
percent of U.S. gross domestic product, said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist for Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. Even a 20 percent plunge in the shipments, which
“would require something close to a depression” on the
continent, would shave less than 0.4 percentage point from U.S.
growth, he said.  One reason is that almost 75 percent of goods shipped to
the euro area go to Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and
France, its relatively resilient economies, Carson said. All
four countries are predicted to expand in 2012, he said.  “Europe would have to have a catastrophic collapse to make
a real significant dent on our GDP, and even then, it would be
evident in our financial system long before it shows up in our
exports,” said Stanley, a former Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Richmond researcher.  Cheaper Borrowing  To prevent such a collapse, six central banks led by the
Fed made it cheaper last week for banks to borrow dollars in
emergencies, in a global effort to ease Europe’s debt crisis.
European policy makers gather this week under pressure from
investors to intensify their crisis-fighting or risk deeper
financial turmoil and perhaps the breakup of the single currency
region.  The European Central Bank’s Governing Council, under the
chairmanship of new President Mario Draghi, meets in Frankfurt
Dec. 8, hours before European leaders begin convening in
Brussels for another round of talks.  Demand for American goods also may wane if the global
slowdown worsens, exacerbated by economies more dependent on
exports to Europe. Forty-seven percent of the U.K.’s overseas
shipments and 17 percent of China’s are bound for the euro zone,
UBS economists estimate.  While trade between the U.S. and Europe may never become
“trivial,” the expanding role of non-euro destinations
indicates “exports will remain one of the bright spots for U.S.
growth,” Pierpont’s Stanley said.  Vulnerable States  Even so, some states are more vulnerable, said  Mark Vitner ,
a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,
North Carolina. Almost 6 percent of Utah’s GDP is tied to
exports to the European continent, followed by South Carolina,
West Virginia and Louisiana, he said.  Utah’s outlook is tempered by the fact that its largest
exports, gold and silver, go mainly to the U.K. rather than a
euro nation, said Vitner, who tracks U.S. and regional economic
trends. Slowing demand for West Virginia’s coal may be cushioned
by Germany’s desire to move away from nuclear energy, he added.  As part of a goal to double exports by 2015 from 2009
levels, Obama is trying to forge the Trans-Pacific Partnership
with Chile, Peru, Australia,  New Zealand , Malaysia,  Singapore ,
Vietnam and Brunei. Europe’s crisis, which will slow exports
rather than tip the U.S. into recession, underscores the need to
diversify, Vitner said.  “The takeaway is that companies need to be nimble and be
able to adapt quickly to changes in the global economy,” he
said. “If exports are a big part of your business, you don’t
want to be locked into any one area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  