-- 
Record of Brinksmanship Shows Merkel’s Mettle: Margaret Heckel

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   H e c k e l
-- 
2011-12-05T00:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/record-of-brinksmanship-shows-merkel-mettle-commentary-by-margaret-heckel.html
During the financial crisis of 2008,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  met  Nicolas Sarkozy  for a
private lunch in the Paris house of Sarkozy’s wife,  Carla Bruni .  This gesture of friendship didn’t keep the French president
from using a news conference shortly thereafter to harangue
Merkel for refusing to supplement a 130 billion euro ($175
billion) spending program proposed by the European Union with an
additional German spending program. When asked how their
countries were reacting to the crisis, Sarkozy said, “France is
working at it, while Germany is just thinking about it.”  Every newspaper in Germany interpreted this correctly as a
huge slap in the face for Merkel. The German chancellor wasn’t
fazed. She had already been pressured by U.S. President  George W. Bush  and U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , along with
Sarkozy, to open the German purse strings and jump-start the
economy with a huge spending program when she was in Washington
for the Group of 20 summit in November.  “Madame No,” as she was known in the European press for
her unwillingness to pump tax money into the German economy,
never reacted publicly to Sarkozy’s words. Instead, she took six
weeks to think about an adequate reaction to the financial
crisis. Only in January 2009 did Germany finally announce an
economic program worth 50 billion euros.  In stark contrast to the hastily set up spending programs
of the U.S., U.K. and  France , the German one was well thought
through and delivered: Germany registered far fewer job losses
during the crisis, and it was the first Western country to come
out of it.  More of Same  Such results only embolden Merkel to find her own solutions
to problems. Europe should expect more of the same from her when
European Union government leaders and heads of state meet in
Brussels later this week. Last week, in an address to the German
parliament, she likened Europe’s debt crisis to a marathon.
“You can last the whole course if you’re aware of the magnitude
of the task from the start,” she said. Her fellow European
leaders no doubt hope she means this.  Merkel has been repeatedly called the most powerful woman
in politics today. She probably is the person who will decide
whether and how the euro will survive. But her decision will
come at the last possible moment. Merkel is famous for being
able to withstand pressure. She certainly won’t let herself be
bullied by markets, banks or her fellow decision makers in
 Washington , Beijing, Paris or Brussels.  Her standard operating procedure was on display again on
May 9, 2010. She began the day in Moscow where she was a guest
of honor at the parade commemorating the 65th anniversary of the
Russian victory in World War II. Later that day, Merkel was back
in Berlin to witness her governing coalition suffer a
devastating defeat in an important state election, and also to
find out that Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  wouldn’t be
able to attend the Brussels summit on the first Greek rescue
package in the euro crisis. He had taken ill and had been rushed
to the hospital.  So the chancellor called Thomas de Maiziere, then the
interior minister, interrupting his Sunday afternoon walk with
his wife, and sent him to Brussels. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  had warned European heads of state
that the euro could be doomed if they didn’t agree on a rescue
package before  Japan ’s stock exchange opened at 2 a.m. European
time. By the time de Maiziere reached Brussels, the euro area’s
finance ministers had agreed on only one thing:  Germany  should
shoulder the bill.  De Maiziere and Merkel spoke by phone on and off as
midnight passed. Everyone was afraid of the opening in  Tokyo , he
told her. “Stay strong,” she replied. “There’re still two
hours left.” By the time those two hours had passed, Merkel got
what she had wanted from the beginning: The  International
Monetary Fund  would be involved in bailing out  Greece , and money
for Greece would only be allocated on a pro-rata basis.  Intellectual Involvement  Merkel’s political experience has shown her that when she
has the gall to wait until the last minute, she is often able to
force the hands of others to get the deal she wants. Her
engagement in the euro isn’t emotional, as was the case with
former Chancellor Helmut Kohl or Schaeuble. Both of these men
spent their formative years in  West Germany  after World War II
and truly believe that the EU is the only instrument to pacify
the continent.  Merkel’s involvement is an intellectual one, colored by her
analysis of how the world will look in 20 to 30 years. She
frequently talks about power shifting from the U.S. and  Europe 
to  Asia  and the other  emerging markets . She is aware that only a
united Europe with a dynamic economy stands a chance of playing
a significant part in the new arrangement.  “If the euro fails, Europe will fail,” she often says.
And that’s the strongest signal she’s likely ever to give of her
intent to save the common currency.  ( Margaret Heckel  is a journalist and author of a best-
selling German-language biography of Angela Merkel. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Heckel at  heckel@margaretheckel.de   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Henry at   dhenry2@bloomberg.net  