-- 
Regeneron-Bayer Drug Matches Lucentis at 2 Years in Fewer Doses

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-12-05T07:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/regeneron-bayer-drug-matches-lucentis-at-2-years-in-fewer-doses.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  and
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  said their medicine Eylea matched  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Lucentis in fewer treatments after two years for people with the
vision disorder wet age-related macular degeneration.  Patients on Eylea gained an average of 7.6 letters on an
eye chart after 96 weeks, compared with 7.9 for those on
Lucentis, Regeneron and Bayer said today in a statement. The
drugs were injected on an as-needed basis in the second year,
said George Yancopoulos, Regeneron’s chief scientific officer.  Wet AMD, caused by abnormal blood vessel growth behind the
retina, is a leading cause of blindness in the elderly. U.S.
regulators approved Eylea in November after two studies showed
the drug, given once every two months after three initial
monthly doses, improved eyesight over one year as well as
Lucentis, dosed monthly. The results today showed patients on
Eylea had fewer injections in the second year, at 4.2 on average
compared with 4.7 for Lucentis.  “The study picked up the fact that, especially for the
patients who needed more intense dosing, you could get by with
substantially less injections with Eylea,” Yancopoulos said in
a telephone interview. That “supports its longer duration of
action.”  Both treatment arms showed an average loss of 0.8 letters
on the eye chart between 52 weeks and 96 weeks, showing that as-
needed dosing isn’t as effective as a fixed regimen,
Yancopoulous said.  Regeneron, based in Tarrytown,  New York , declined 3.2
percent to $58.28 at the close of trading on Dec. 2. The shares
gained 78 percent this year before today. Bayer, based in
Leverkusen,  Germany , declined 0.1 percent to 47.30 euros, and
had fallen 14 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  