-- 
Regulators Face Grilling on Volcker, Dodd Frank

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-12-06T18:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/regulators-face-grilling-by-congress-on-volcker-rule-dodd-frank.html
U.S. lawmakers questioned regulators
implementing the Dodd-Frank Act today about their progress on
rules aimed at preventing a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis,
including a ban on proprietary trading by Wall Street firms.  The Treasury Department,  Federal Reserve  and other agencies
have spent more than a year drafting rules required by the law,
from new oversight for the $708 trillion global swaps market to
tools for winding down failing financial firms and enhanced
supervision of the largest and most complex companies.  “The ultimate shape of both individual requirements and
overall reform is becoming clearer by the week,” Deputy
Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said in remarks prepared for the
Senate Banking Committee hearing. “Increasingly, financial
firms are in a position to adjust their business models in
anticipation of final rules.”  Regulators are working on hundreds of rules required by
Dodd-Frank, Congress’s response to the credit market collapse
that forced lawmakers to approve bailouts for financial firms
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The
Senate panel called regulators to testify on the progress as
agencies struggle to meet deadlines amid budget cuts and
strained resources.  ‘Timely Resolution’  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Banking Committee, called for a “timely resolution” to
outstanding rulemakings such as the Volcker rule, which would
ban proprietary trading by banks that benefit from deposit
insurance and Fed borrowing privileges.  “I recognize that these rulemakings are difficult, but
this is the time when tough decisions have to be made by our
regulators,” Johnson said in his opening statement.  Regulators have sought increased resources from Congress,
which has been caught between  House Republicans  working to cut
spending and  Senate Democrats  looking to protect the law.  Mary Schapiro , chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said her agency won’t be able to do its job without
a bigger budget.  “If the SEC does not receive additional resources, many of
the issues highlighted by the financial crisis and which the
Dodd-Frank Act seeks to fix will not be adequately addressed,”
Schapiro said in prepared testimony. The SEC “desperately”
needs new specialized staff and technology, she said.  ‘Wringing Efficiencies’  The new Dodd-Frank duties “are so significant that they
cannot be achieved solely by wringing efficiencies out of the
existing budget,” Schapiro said in her statement.  A draft of the Volcker rule, released by regulators in
October, has drawn criticism from both Democratic and Republican
lawmakers as well as banks. Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan have
already shuttered proprietary trading desks in advance of the
pending prohibition.  The multiagency rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , would ban banks from making trades for their own
accounts while allowing them to continue short-term trades for
hedging or market-making. It also would limit banks’ investments
in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the top Republican on
the Banking Committee, criticized the draft of the rule, saying
it lacked clarity and a sign-off from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which chose not to endorse it.  “The proposal to implement the Volcker rule has been
marred by misconduct, ambiguity and interagency discord,”
Shelby said.  CFTC  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said it was a lack of
“capacity” rather than disagreement that drove his agency’s
decision not to join other regulators on the Volcker draft. The
CFTC’s version of the rule would look similar, he said.  “I would envision that we would move forward with the
proposal consistent with what other regulators have done,”
Gensler told lawmakers.  A coalition of U.S. and international banking trade groups
wrote to regulators on  Nov. 30  requesting a delay in the comment
period for the draft version of the rule, citing members --
which include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  -- that
are still trying to understand the proposal.  “Our members are deeply concerned about the potential
impact of the proposal on capital formation, markets and
liquidity for a range of asset classes and on the safety and
soundness of banking entities and the businesses in which they
engage,” the Financial Services Forum, Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, Financial Services Roundtable,
 American Bankers Association  and Institute of International
Bankers wrote in the letter.  ‘Intensive Study’  The Volcker proposal is “the result of months of intensive
study and analysis by the agencies,”  John Walsh , acting
comptroller of the currency, said in his opening statement. The
public comment period closes Jan. 13.  The Federal  Deposit Insurance  Corp., which was given
increased responsibilities to resolve failing financial firms
deemed a systemic risk, is working with overseas regulators to
coordinate the resolution process for firms with operations
abroad, said  Martin Gruenberg , the agency’s acting chairman.  “In the wake of the financial crisis, there has been an
increased international awareness of the need for greater inter-
jurisdictional cooperation in the planning for resolution of
specific cross-border institutions,” Gruenberg said in his
opening remarks.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said banks need to build
sufficient reserve capital to avert taxpayer-funded bailouts
similar to the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Dodd-Frank requires the Fed to impose stricter capital
standards for U.S. banks with total assets of $50 billion or
more. In addition, the Basel Committee is establishing a
surcharge for global banks with a large systemic footprint.  “The best way to avoid another TARP is for our large
regulated institutions to have adequate capital buffers,
reflecting the damage that would be done to the financial system
were such institutions to fail,” Tarullo said in testimony to
the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  