-- 
Reid Said to Eliminate U.S. Payroll Tax Cut for Companies

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-12-06T16:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/reid-said-to-drop-payroll-tax-cut-for-companies-lower-millionaire-surtax.html
Democrats in the  U.S. Senate  will
seek another vote on a payroll tax cut for workers this week in
an attempt to pressure more Republicans to support an extension
into 2012.  Legislation proposed by Senate Democrats yesterday would
cut the payroll tax paid by employees to 3.1 percent next year
from the current 4.2 percent. The $185 billion cost would be
covered by a 1.9 percent surtax on annual incomes exceeding $1
million and by raising the fees charged to lenders by
government-owned mortgage giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac .  The proposal was sponsored by Senator Robert Casey, a
Pennsylvania Democrat who is facing a tough race for re-election
next year.  The measure nods at concerns Republicans have raised about
how to pay for the extension’s cost. The plan reduced the
millionaire surtax rate from 3.25 percent to 1.9 percent and
incorporated ideas that were raised during negotiations of the
bipartisan congressional supercommittee. The proposal also trims
the cost by eliminating a proposed payroll tax cut for
employers.  Republicans said they were still unlikely to back the plan.  “This was not a compromise,” Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said today on the Senate floor. “This was
nothing more than a bill designed to fail.”  Republican Support Needed  Democrats control 53 seats in the Senate and would need the
support of at least a few Republicans to secure the 60 votes
that will be necessary for passage. Senator  Susan Collins  of
Maine was the only Republican to support advancing a Democratic
payroll tax cut proposal last week. Three members of the
Democratic caucus opposed the measure, which didn’t clear the
60-vote threshold.  Collins said she backed the Democratic bill last week to
“send a signal” that lawmakers can “no longer continue to
have these completely partisan votes where each side knows that
it’s not going to succeed and it’s really political theater.”  She said she would join Senator  Claire McCaskill , a
Missouri Democrat, to offer alternative legislation today. That
proposal would continue the 4.2 percent payroll tax for workers
in 2012 and expand it to employers, according to a summary of
the measure. It also would extend several other tax breaks that
expire at the end of the year, including those for research and
development and bonus depreciation.  Republicans aren’t likely to back the Collins-McCaskill
measure because it includes a 2 percent surtax on income
exceeding $1 million. Taxpayers who report business income on
their individual returns would be exempt from the surtax.  Dec. 31 Deadline  Unless Congress acts, the current two-percentage-point
reduction -- from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent -- in the employee
portion of the Social Security payroll tax will expire Dec. 31.
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, has said that
failure to extend the payroll tax cut into 2012 could shave one-
half of one percentage point from U.S. gross domestic product
next year.  “Raising taxes by $1,000 next month will have an immediate
negative impact on the economy,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor yesterday.
“We all know Congress can’t afford to play chicken with this
economy.”  President  Barack Obama  said Republicans would be “leaving
1.3 million Americans out in the cold” next month if they allow
the payroll tax cut to lapse.  ‘Important Insurance’  “It’s important insurance for them against the
unexpected,” Obama told reporters yesterday. “It will spur
spending. It will spur hiring and it’s the right thing to do.”  Republican leaders indicated it was unlikely that they
could support the proposal. “The only thing bipartisan about
adding a tax hike on job creators is the opposition,” said  Don
Stewart , a spokesman for McConnell.  Senate Minority Whip  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, said
he doesn’t think the Democratic plan will gain any more votes
from his party than it did last week.  “I don’t think it’s different enough to make a significant
difference,” he said. “It wouldn’t be enough to get my
support.  Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee, criticized the surtax proposal in an
e-mail, calling it a ‘‘permanent tax hike on small businesses to
pay for temporary one-year tax policy.’’  10-Year Surtax  In response to criticism that Democrats were using a
permanent tax increase for high earners to offset a temporary
payroll tax cut, the legislation proposed yesterday would end
the surtax in 10 years.  It also proposes means-testing eligibility for unemployment
compensation and  food stamps , a provision Republicans included
in their plan. Democrats wouldn’t require high earners to pay
higher Medicare premiums, as Republicans had earlier proposed.  The plan would require  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  to raise
their guarantee fees by at least 12.5 basis points while
allowing the director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency to
determine the details. The higher fees would raise $38.1
billion, according to Casey’s summary.  House Republicans plan to propose legislation in coming
days that would extend the 4.2 percent payroll tax rate for one
year for employees. House lawmakers will seek to avoid cuts to
physician reimbursements by Medicare and address expanded
 unemployment benefits  that are set to expire at the end of the
year. The Republican plan also is expected to include language
expediting construction of the Keystone XL pipeline from  Canada 
as well as an Environmental Protection Agency proposal to limit
emissions for industrial boilers.  Romney Backs Extension  On the Republican presidential campaign trail, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney told a radio talk show
yesterday that he supports a one-year extension, marking a shift
from October when he appeared to reject the idea.  ‘‘I would like to see the  payroll tax  cut extended just
because I know that working families are really feeling the
pinch right now,” Romney said yesterday on Michael Medved’s
radio show. “Middle-class Americans are having a hard time.”  At an Oct. 10 Republican presidential debate hosted by
Bloomberg LP and the Washington Post in Hanover,  New Hampshire ,
Romney had said he didn’t want “temporary little Band-Aids”
for the  tax code . “I want to fundamentally restructure
America’s foundation economically,” he said then.  Another contender for the Republican nomination, former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , has consistently supported
continuation of the payroll tax cut.  “I am against tax increases in the middle of a
depression,” Gingrich told Bloomberg Television in September.
“We should extend tax cuts for working Americans just as I
would extend the Bush tax cuts” for the wealthiest taxpayers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  