-- 
Wealth Gap Widens in Developed Nations: OECD

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-12-05T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/rich-poor-divide-is-widening-oecd-says.html
The gap between rich and poor is
widening across most developed economies as skilled workers reap
more rewards and top executives and bankers benefit from a
global job market, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said.  The average income of the richest tenth of the population
is now about nine times that of the poorest tenth, the Paris-
based OECD said today in a report. The gap has increased about
10 percent since the mid 1980s.  Mexico , the U.S., Israel and the U.K. are among the
countries with the biggest divide between rich and poor, while
Denmark, Norway, Belgium and the  Czech Republic  are among those
with the smallest gap. The earnings multiple is 14-to-1 in the
U.S. and Israel, compared with about 10-to-1 in the U.K., Italy
and  Japan  and 6-to-1 in Germany and Denmark.  “The social contract is starting to unravel in many
countries,” OECD Secretary-General  Angel Gurria  said in a
statement. “This study dispels the assumptions that the
benefits of economic growth will automatically trickle down to
the disadvantaged and that the greater inequality fosters
greater social mobility.”  The OECD used a “Gini coefficient,” or standard measure
of  income inequality  that ranges from zero to one. At zero an
entire population would have identical incomes, while at one all
income would go to one person. The coefficient stands at about
0.316 today, up 10 percent since the mid-1980s.  The coefficient rose in 17 out of 22 OECD countries for
which long-term data are available. Only Turkey,  Greece , France,
Hungary and Belgium recorded no increase or small declines in
their coefficients, the OECD said.  “There is nothing inevitable about high and growing
inequalities,” Gurria said. “Up-skilling the workforce is by
far the most powerful instrument to counter rising inequality.
The investment in people must begin in early childhood and be
followed through into formal education and work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  