-- 
Richard Branson’s Carbon War Room Launches Jet-Fuel Reduction Initiative

-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-12-05T12:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/richard-branson-s-carbon-war-room-launches-jet-fuel-reduction-initiative.html
The Carbon War Room, funded by  Virgin
Atlantic  Airways Ltd. founder  Richard Branson , today launched a
web and information site aimed at reducing the use of
traditional jet fuels by as much as 50 percent.  Branson announced the creation of a ranking system for
airlines that use biofuels with the largest publisher of
scientific information,  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , owner of the
LexisNexis database, during the climate talks in Durban.  The online resource contains information about the sector
and facilitates contact between producers of biofuels and the
aviation industry as “the  airline industry  generates about 2-3%
of  carbon emissions ” said Suzanne Hunt of the Huntgreen
environmental agency, based in Washington, D.C.  “This might not sound like much but it is accelerating
very fast,” Hunt said. “We started talking to buyers and
producers of  aviation fuel  and discovered that the technology is
ready and demand outstrips supply but that there was not much
information available that would connect buyers and producers.”  The Carbon War Room teamed with Elsevier as “we know that
a lot of the solutions to the energy problems have to come from
new technologies,” said Jan Paul Grolle of Elsevier. Interviews
with hundreds of people working in the alternative energy sector
“indicated they lack reliable information.”  The request was to make sure that any information is
organized by experts, reviewed and made available. “And we are
not only talking about  jet fuel  but also other biofuel
sectors.” Grolle said.  “The biggest problem at the moment is the high price of
renewable energy,” Hunt said, “but if demand increases, the
price can come down. Producers also lack access to finance, and
we are facilitating contact between investors and producers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  