-- 
RIM Weighed Down by Tablet ‘Albatross’ in IPad-Ruled World

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-12-05T21:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/rim-weighed-down-by-tablet-albatross-in-ipad-dominated-world.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s commitment
to keep battling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad even as demand for its
BlackBerry PlayBook slumps means the company will likely have to
sell the tablet at a loss. Its strategy depends on it.  The company said on Dec. 2 that it would book $485 million
in pretax charges to write down the value of its PlayBook
inventory and that it doesn’t expect to meet its full-year
earnings target. Shipments have fallen for two consecutive
quarters and are now about 1 percent of those of the iPad,
forcing RIM to cut the price by $300, or more than half, making
it unprofitable.  RIM will need to keep suffering the losses because the
PlayBook is its sole product to run on software called BBX, an
operating system the company is betting its future on, said  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC. Abandoning the
PlayBook may signal a lack of confidence in the system,
alienating developers and leaving Apple’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android mobile ecosystems with little competition, he said.  “You can’t kill it,” Thornton said. “The PlayBook is all
they have to show developers, they don’t have a smartphone
yet.”  The PlayBook writedown is the latest in a steady stream of
bad news for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM, whose BlackBerry is
losing market share to the iPhone and Android devices. Apple and
Google are attracting consumers with handsets that can run tens
or hundreds of thousands of games, tools and other applications
made by developers for those systems.  Dim Prospects  RIM said more promotions are needed to drive demand for the
seven-inch PlayBook, shipments of which slumped to 150,000 units
last quarter, down from 500,000 units in the quarter of their
April debut. That may mean further price reductions for a
product that costs $250 to $300 to make, according to Thornton.  “If they’re selling it at $199, they’re already in the
red,” said Thornton, who is based in  Boston  and has a
“neutral” rating on RIM shares. “For every one they sell,
they’re losing money.”  Apple sold a record 11.12 million iPads in its most recent
quarter and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire tablet -- similar in
size to the PlayBook -- may sell 3.9 million units in its first
quarter on sale, according to researcher IHS iSuppli.  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  scrapped its TouchPad tablet in August after failing
to draw users away from the iPad.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, referred queries
about the company’s PlayBook strategy back to comments co-Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Lazaridis  made in the Dec. 2 statement.  ‘Positive Response’  Lazaridis said at the time the PlayBook was worth
continuing because the tablet market is still “in its infancy
and that ‘‘based on the positive response to the promotions that
are underway in select markets,  RIM (RIMM)  believes this strategy will
accelerate adoption’’ of its new operating system and help built
the application ecosystem for devices planned for 2012.  ‘‘Whether you call the PlayBook an albatross or a yoke
around the neck, management has not done a good job in bringing
good products to the forefront and that’s why the share price is
suffering,’’ said Bahl & Gaynor Investment Counsel’s  Matt McCormick , whose firm oversees $4.1 billion and doesn’t own RIM
shares. ‘‘I don’t see the prospects brightening anytime soon.”  RIM shares have dropped 71 percent this year, while Apple
has climbed 22 percent. RIM added 1.5 percent to $17.02 at the
close in  New York .  ‘Amazing’ Opportunity  Co-CEO  Jim Balsillie  told analysts in March that the cost
of developing the PlayBook and its new operating system would
“impact our near-term earnings growth trajectory” but that it
was worth it for a product with “amazing market opportunity.”  Weeks later after its April debut, the PlayBook was
criticized for lacking a dedicated e-mail program. RIM promised
it would fix that in a software upgrade that it now says won’t
come until February. Moreover, the company says the first
BlackBerrys built on BBX won’t come out until they’re ready,
declining to reiterate an earlier goal of the first quarter of
next year.  RIM fell 9.7 percent on the day it announced the PlayBook
writedown, its biggest decline since its previous quarterly
sales miss in September. Before today, the stock was 11 percent
below its book value of $18.92, implying investors view RIM as
worth less than the net value of its cash, inventories, real
estate and intellectual property.  No Return?  “The BlackBerry is a bad product” and “the market is
saying this is a broken company,” said  Malcolm Polley , chairman
of Stewart Capital Mutual Funds, who oversees $1 billion and is
based in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .  Compounding RIM’s problems is the slumping demand for its
BlackBerry smartphones. Device shipments, made up mainly of
BlackBerrys, will decline in the fourth quarter from the third
quarter, RIM said Dec. 2.  “It’s not just PlayBook, this is more of a mix on the
BlackBerry smartphone side coming in on the lower end,” said
Jeff Fidacaro, an analyst with Susquehanna International Group
LLP in New York.  The company’s U.S. market share sank to 9.2 percent in the
third quarter from 24 percent a year earlier as consumers opted
for the iPhone and phones from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  that run Android, according to research firm Canalys.  “RIM needs compelling product lines,” said  Ashok Kumar  an
analyst with Rodman Renshaw LLC New York. “They are losing
market share and they have to stem that to recover, or they
reach a point of no return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  