-- 
Romanian 2011 Inflation May Be Below Central Bank Forecast

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-12-05T11:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/romanian-2011-inflation-may-be-below-central-bank-forecast-1-.html
Romania’s  inflation  rate may end the
year at less than the central bank’s forecast, bolstering
expectations that policy makers will continue to lower  interest
rates  to spur economic growth.  The rate might fall below the 3.3 percent forecast for this
year from 3.55 percent in October, Governor Mugur Isarescu said
in a speech at a seminar in Bucharest. The bank targets an
inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point, for
this year and next.  “The December annual rate might be lower than our latest
forecast, which was deemed optimistic,” Isarescu said. “The
 exchange rate  has been relatively stable considering the obvious
tensions from the euro area which led to stronger declines of
eastern European currencies.”  The inflation rate, which has fallen near two-decade lows
since July, prompted the central bank to cut the key rate last
month and will probably enter the central bank’s target for the
first time in five years, after the impact of a 5 percentage-
point government tax increase last year dissipated.  ‘Some Doubt’  “While we have some doubt” that the rate will fall below
the forecast, “and we’re currently forecasting year-end
consumer price growth of 3.5 percent, the dovish statement will
likely reinforce rate-cut expectations,” Vlad Muscalu, a
Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank  Romania  SA, wrote in a
note to clients today.  The leu was little changed at 4.3560 per euro as of 1:18
p.m. in Bucharest trading, while the Bucharest Stock Exchange’s
benchmark BET Index gained 1.1 percent to 4,395.21.  Romanian policy makers resumed cutting rates on Nov. 2,
bringing borrowing costs to a record-low 6 percent for the first
time in 18 months to spur a weak economic recovery after a two-
year recession.  An inflation slowdown isn’t enough to warrant faster
interest-rate changes, Deputy Governor Cristian Popa also said
today. Any future rate reduction must be carefully weighted, he
said.  The central bank may act to curb “excessive” volatility
of the leu stemming from pressure generated by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, Popa told reporters later after the event in Bucharest.
Growth may be slower in 2012 than the bank’s current forecast of
2.3 percent, he said.  Central bankers left rates unchanged after a July 2010
increase in the value-added  tax rate  to meet international
bailout pledges boosted inflation to the fastest in two years.
Before that, the bank  lowered  borrowing costs four times to
combat the worst recession in two decades.  Romania’s inflation rate unexpectedly rose in October to
for the first time in five months 3.55 percent from 3.45 percent
in September on higher heating bills and food costs, the
 National Statistics Institute  said on Nov. 10.  “Vegetable and fruit prices are rebounding after a bumper
harvest in the autumn triggered decreases, while administered
prices will continue their adjustment,” Isarescu also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  