-- 
Trucker Tries Pollution Audit Obama May Demand of U.S. Suppliers

-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/trucker-tries-pollution-audit-obama-may-demand-of-u-s-suppliers.html
AmeriCom Automation Services Inc.
uses a fleet of 20 trucks and vans to haul fiber-optic
telecommunications cable to far-flung federal government
outposts, such as border stations in Texas and  New Mexico .  Operating in remote locations means the company has to use
gasoline-guzzling vehicles rather than the alternative-fuel ones
some of its competitors in more populated territories use, said
Heather Vernon, safety officer for the veteran-owned company in
 Las Cruces , New Mexico.  That could become a competitive disadvantage when bidding
for government work, as the company is learning through a pilot
 project  to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions in the federal supply
chain. The project, which stems from a 2009  executive order  by
President  Barack Obama , may eventually affect how contracts are
awarded in the $500 billion-a-year federal market.  “It’s going to be difficult to fight with companies that
have easier access” to less-polluting fuels, Vernon said.
“That’s going to be the hardest part about this. As a service-
based company, we live off our vehicles.”  Difficult Fight  The government has set a  target  of reducing by 13 percent
 greenhouse-gas emissions  attributed to a broad category of
activities that includes suppliers, federal employee travel and
waste disposal by 2020. The  plan  calls for U.S. agencies to
consider environmental factors in making 95 percent of non-
defense purchases, possibly leading to  procurement  preferences
for companies that report their emissions.  About 50 companies, including AmeriCom, agreed to collect
data on how many miles their employees drove or flew, and how
much electricity is consumed, among other things. The results
were submitted to the  General Services Administration , which is
overseeing the project, in September and used to calculate
baseline emission levels for 2010. Companies were asked to
establish reduction targets for subsequent years.  “Supply chain emissions is an emerging field, and all
stakeholders will need time and resources to adjust to a steep
learning curve,” a  study mandated  by Obama’s executive order
concluded in April 2010.  In AmeriCom’s case, it learned that its competitors might
appear more environmentally friendly to contracting officers
because they travel shorter distances or can afford more fuel-
efficient vehicles, Vernon said. As a result, the company, which
has 70 employees, plans to sell its one-ton trucks to buy those
half the weight in its pursuit of a 2 percent emissions cut over
its 2010 level.  Nowhere in  Texas   “Until you can go to the middle of nowhere in Texas and be
able to pull over and refuel your vehicle with bio-fuel, it’s
going to be tough,” Vernon said. “The whole purpose of this
pilot is to find the drawbacks and advantages of getting this
done. That’s why we’re participating.”  In a briefing for participants, GSA officials said 39 of
the original 85 companies had dropped out, said Gail Dunn,
senior administrator for Marstel-Day LLC, an environmental
consulting firm in Fredericksburg,  Virginia , that is one of the
companies still participating.  “There were a lot of companies that probably found it more
difficult than they expected or they had more emissions than
they were willing to commit to the reduction,” she said.  Opportunities for Participants  Participating will eventually give Marstel-Day an advantage
over other vendors if greenhouse-gas emissions reporting becomes
a requirement for contractors, Dunn said.  “It’s pretty obvious that companies aren’t as up to speed
as they should be,” Dunn said. “As the government thinks about
rolling this out, they’re going to have to take a phased
approach. I see an opportunity for companies like Marstel-Day
that have a head start to help others.”  Nancy Gillis, director of the GSA supply chain emissions
program office, did not respond to requests for information
about the project or how it may affect procurement in the
future.  Some large companies already track their emissions.  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  voluntarily report
their emissions, including those from suppliers, according to
the  Carbon Disclosure Project , based in  London .  The organization collects emissions data on behalf of
banks, pension funds and other institutional investors. More
than 306 of  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  member companies, including
defense contractors  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , reported emissions to the group in 2011, up
from 262 in 2009.  “Sustainability is one element of everything we do in the
business world,” said Larry Allen, president of Allen Federal
Business Partners, a procurement consulting firm. “It’s very
important but it certainly has to be balanced against all the
other things you want to accomplish, such as keeping competition
reasonable.”  Agencies should be wary of viewing “sustainability as a
‘holy grail’ that is executable unto itself” by pushing
companies to report and reduce emissions to the government when
it’s not required in the private sector, Allen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nishad Majmudar in Washington at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  