-- 
Russian Parties Had Uneven Playing Field in Vote, OSCE Says

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-12-05T11:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/russian-vote-lacked-fairness-in-uneven-playing-field-osce-says.html
Russia ’s parliamentary election
lacked fairness as the ruling United Russia party benefited from
uneven access to state resources and favorable media coverage,
international election monitors said.  Observers from the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe  noted “serious indications of ballot-box
stuffing” and other procedural violations during voting
yesterday, the watchdog’s Office for Democratic Institutions and
Human Rights said today in an e-mailed statement.  “These elections were like a game in which only some
players are allowed on the pitch, and then the field is tilted
in favor of one of the players,” Heidi Tagliavini, head of the
ODIHR’s observation mission, said in the statement. “Although
the choice was limited and the competition lacked fairness,
voters were able to come out and have their voices heard.”  United Russia , which is chaired by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and was led in the vote by President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
suffered an electoral setback as voters left it with less than
half of ballots cast, according to a preliminary tally. The
election was “absolutely fair, just and democratic elections,”
Medvedev said today during a meeting with supporters outside
Moscow.  ‘Entertaining and Energetic’  “A more entertaining and energetic parliament will benefit
our country,” Medvedev said. “No one has a monopoly on truth
and the formulation of absolutely correct approaches.”  Monitors from the OSCE visited 150 stations, and assessed
the counting at 34 of them as “very bad,” Tagliavini told
reporters today in Moscow. Observers saw signs of possible
ballot-box stuffing at 17 of them, she said.  The Yabloko party, which had 3.3 percent of the vote
according to preliminary results, said not all of the ballots
cast for them had been counted. The result is not sufficient to
win seats in the Duma.  “We firmly know that many more of your ballots were cast
than were ’counted’ by the bureaucrats responsible for the
official result,” Grigory Yavlinsky, a founder of Yabloko, and
Sergei Mitrokhin, its chairman, said in a statement on the
party’s website. “We’ll defend your voices in Russian and
international courts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  