-- 
Russian Inflation Slows More Than Forecast to 15-Month Low

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-12-05T14:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/russian-inflation-slows-more-than-forecast-to-15-month-low.html
Russia ’s  inflation  rate fell more
than economists forecast last month to the lowest level since
August 2010 because of a shortage of cash in the economy and
weaker food-price growth.  Consumer prices rose 6.8 percent in November from a year
earlier after a 7.2 percent increase in October, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed  statement 
today. Prices rose 0.4 percent from a month earlier. Economists
forecast rises of 7 percent and 0.6 percent, two surveys showed.  The slowdown may help boost Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
as he seeks a return as president next year. Putin has backed
the central bank’s goal of capping inflation at a  two-decade low 
of 7 percent. More than half of Russians still see the inflation
level as “very high,” a poll showed last month.  “The decrease is most likely because of the fairly tight
monetary conditions since the start of May,” Alexandra Evtifyeva, an economist at VTB Capital in Moscow, said today by
telephone. “The central bank and  Finance Ministry  have really
tightened up liquidity.”  The ruble traded little changed after the report,
depreciating 0.2 percent to 30.9096 per dollar at 5:29 p.m. The
ruble-denominated Micex Index of 30 stocks extended gains and
was 0.5 percent stronger at 1,513.56.  Consumer prices soared in the second half of 2010 after a
drought damaged Russia’s harvest, helping push inflation to 8.8
percent by year-end. Food-price inflation slowed to 5.3 percent
in November from a year earlier, down from 6.2 percent in
October, the statistics service said.  ‘Fairly Sharp’  The “fairly sharp” decline is due to a favorable base
effect following a surge in food prices last year, Evtifyeva
said.  Inflation in the year to date was 5.6 percent, the service
said, less than forecast by economists and down from 7.6 percent
in the first 11 months of last year.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy, advanced 0.5 percent in November compared with October,
in line with the median forecast in another survey of
economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  