-- 
S&P Puts 15 Euro Nations on Watch for Downgrade Amid Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 
2011-12-06T00:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/s-p-said-to-place-all-17-euro-nations-on-downgrade-watch-over-debt-crisis.html
Standard & Poor’s  said Germany and
 France  may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings as the debt
crisis prompts 15 euro nations to be put on review for possible
downgrade.  The euro area’s six AAA rated countries are among the
nations to be placed on a negative outlook, and their credit
ratings may be cut depending on the result of a summit of
European Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said today in a statement.
The euro reversed its gains and U.S. Treasuries rose earlier
today after the Financial Times reported that the credit-ranking
firm planned to reduce six AAA outlooks.  “Systemic stress in the eurozone has risen in recent weeks
and reached such a level that a review of all eurozone sovereign
ratings is warranted,” S&P said in a statement.  The downgrade warnings come as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy push for a rewrite
of the EU’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation in a
demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis. With the fate
of the currency shared by the 17 euro countries at risk, Merkel
and Sarkozy presented a common platform for a Dec. 8-9 summit of
EU leaders in Brussels that aims to halt the crisis now in its
third year.  “The S&P move is yet another signal that euro area
countries must take decisive action to deal with the crisis or
else the problems will spread from Greece and others with the
most acute fiscal problems to the rest of the euro zone,” said
 Phillip Swagel , a professor of economics at the University of
Maryland’s School of Public Policy who was an assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush
administration. “It is time for Germany and France to act --
either to save Greece and the others or to let them fail.”  Germany,  Belgium   The firm said that ratings could be cut by one level for
 Austria , Belgium,  Finland , Germany,  Netherlands  and Luxembourg,
and by up to two notches for the other governments.  The other countries warned were  Estonia , France, Ireland,
 Italy , Malta, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and  Spain , according
to S&P. The company said it maintained the negative outlook for
Cyprus, and  Greece  wasn’t put on “creditwatch.”  The euro pared gains against the dollar, trading at $1.3401
per euro at 5:01 p.m. in  New York  after rising as high as
$1.3487.  In a joint statement, the governments of France and Germany
said they “recognize” the move by S&P and “affirm their
conviction that the common proposals made today will strengthen
coordination of budget and economic policy, and promote
stability, competitiveness and growth.”  S&P roiled global equity, bond, currency and commodity
markets on Nov. 10, when it sent and then corrected an erroneous
message to subscribers suggesting France’s rating had been
downgraded.  Stability Facility  Downgrades of Germany and France would affect the rating of
the European Financial Stability Facility, the bailout fund for
struggling euro member countries that has funded rescue packages
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  partially through bond sales.
If the EFSF has to pay higher interest on its bonds, it may not
be able to provide as much funding for indebted nations.  Yields on EFSF 3.375 percent bonds due in July 2021 2 basis
points, snapping a five-day rally, to 3.6 percent, according to
Bloomberg prices.  “Negative news is going to continue to spur rallies in the
Treasury markets, at least until the ECB steps in to end this
mess once and for all,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
before the announcement. “With the euro currency in a state of
flux, the U.S. markets remain the only true safe haven.”  U.S. Downgrade  S&P downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating by one level to
AA+ for the first time Aug. 5, citing the nation’s political
process and criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut spending or
raise revenue enough to reduce record budget deficits.  Investors nevertheless sought Treasuries after the S&P
rating cut sparked financial market turmoil. Treasuries gained
6.4 percent last quarter, their best performance since the last
three months of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  The rating company’s decision on the U.S. was flawed by a
$2 trillion error, according to the Treasury Department. S&P
disputed the Treasury’s assertions and said using the
department’s preferred spending measures in its analysis didn’t
affect its credit grade.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill ending an impasse with lawmakers over raising the
nation’s debt ceiling.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said  Treasury
securities  remain a core holding for investors. “The downgrade
didn’t scare off any investors,” and the action, along with the
prospect of other downgrades, hasn’t done “significant damage”
to the economy, Bernanke said at a Nov. 10 at a town-hall-style
event in El Paso,  Texas .  German bunds are underperforming Treasuries for the first
time since the European debt crisis began in 2009.  Best-Performing  Treasuries due in 10 years or more are 2011’s best-
performing sovereign securities, returning 26 percent as of Nov.
30, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. German 30-year bunds
yielded more than their U.S. peers last month for the first time
since May 2009 as the government was only able to find buyers
for 65 percent of a 6 billion euro ($8.1 billion) offering on
Nov. 23, its worst auction in 16 years.  Credit-default swaps tied to France climbed 4 basis points
on Dec. 2 to 196 basis points, while contracts insuring against
a default on  Germany ’s debt were about unchanged 97 basis
points, CMA data show. That compares with 51 basis points for
credit swaps on the U.S. and 90 basis points for the U.K.  A basis point on a credit-swap contract protecting $10
million of debt for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.
Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Bond yields of countries stripped of their AAA ratings
since 1998 have historically been little changed following the
credit grade change, according to an Oct. 28 report from
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Terry Belton, global head
of fixed-income and foreign-exchange research. The yield on 10-
year Japanese government debt rose 10 basis points the week
after it was cut to Aa1 by Moody’s in November 1998. The
 interest rate  declined 3 basis points following the cut by S&P
to AA+ in February 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  