-- 
SAIC Loses Bid Protest for U.S. Army Ground Combat Vehicle

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 
2011-12-06T01:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/saic-loses-bid-protest-for-u-s-army-ground-combat-vehicle.html
SAIC Inc. (SAI) ’s protest of the U.S.
Army’s decision to award development contracts for a new ground
combat vehicle to two competitors was denied by the Government
Accountability Office.  The decision was released in an e-mail today by Ralph
White, managing associate general counsel for procurement law at
the GAO.  “Our review of the record led us to conclude that the
Army’s evaluation decisions resulting in the award of only 2
contracts were reasonable, consistent with the stated evaluation
criteria, and did not improperly favor the successful offerors
over SAIC,” White wrote.  SAIC, based in McLean, Virginia, on Aug. 26 protested the
Army’s award a week earlier of technology development contracts
to two competing industry teams.  The Pentagon announced on Aug. 18 that a team led by  BAE
Systems Plc  of London received a $450 million contract and a
team led by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  of  Falls Church , Virginia,
received a $440 million contract.  “We are disappointed to learn that the GAO did not sustain
SAIC’s protest, and as a result of that decision will not grant
the requested relief to award a third GCV contract to SAIC’s
Team Full Spectrum,” Melissa Koskovich, a spokeswoman for SAIC,
wrote in an e-mail. “We are confident that our innovative
approach provided a best value solution to the Army and U.S.
taxpayers.”  International Partners  SAIC was partnered with Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , as well
as Germany’s Krauss-Maffei Wegmann GmbH and  Rheinmetall AG. (RHM)   The Army initially planned to award up to three contracts
for the 24-month technology development phase of the program.
The overall program is estimated to cost as much as $40 billion,
according to a March GAO report.  The service wants to buy as many as 1,874 vehicles to
replace a portion of its fleet of Bradley infantry fighting
vehicles. The new armored vehicles are designed to carry nine
soldiers and their equipment.  Army Secretary John McHugh on Nov. 2 said the service may
also consider buying for the program  Germany ’s Puma vehicle,
made by a joint venture of Krauss-Maffei Wegmann and
Rheinmetall, and Israel’s Namer, made by General Dynamics.  Program Frozen  White of the GAO wrote that the decision “expresses no
view as to the merits” of the initial proposals and that the
bid-protest process examines whether procuring agencies complied
with statutory and regulatory requirements.  SAIC’s protest froze development of the program for about
three months. The Army wanted to begin delivering the vehicle in
seven years, or fiscal 2018.  “We’re ready to support the Army,”  Rob Doolittle  a
spokesman for General Dynamics, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re looking forward to getting back to work on the
contract.”  The General Dynamics team includes  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  Tognum AG. (TGM)  The BAE Systems team includes
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  QinetiQ Group Plc ,  iRobot Corp. (IRBT) , Tognum
AG and  Saft Groupe SA (SAFT) , according to the company.  “We are pleased with this decision as it paves the way for
this important program to progress, and we look forward to
working with our Army customer to move ahead,” Shannon Booker,
a BAE spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  