-- 
Samsung Shares Rise After Apple Loses Bid to Ban Galaxy Devices in U.S.

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-12-05T07:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/samsung-shares-rise-after-apple-loses-bid-to-ban-galaxy-devices-in-u-s-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of mobile phones, rose in Seoul trading after
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a bid to block sales of the South Korean
company’s Galaxy phones and tablet computers in the U.S.  Samsung gained 1.5 percent to 1.06 million won at the close
of trading in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index gained 0.4
percent.  The U.S. District Court in  San Jose ,  California , ruled Dec.
3 against Apple’s plea to ban Samsung from selling its 4G
smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer in the country.
The victory builds on an Australian court ruling last month that
lifted an earlier injunction on the tablet in the country.
Samsung and Apple have filed at least 30 suits against each
other on four continents since April.  “The situation is turning positive for Samsung,” Seoul-
based analysts C.W. Chung and Marcello Ahn at Nomura Holdings
Inc. wrote in a note today. “In the best case, Samsung will be
able to receive patent license fees from Apple.”  The conflict will probably continue regardless of the San
Jose ruling, said Trip Chowdhry, an analyst at Global Equities
Research in  San Francisco .  “It’s getting more convoluted,” he said by phone today.
“I don’t think this will be over. I do see that there may be
some negotiated settlement, but not anytime soon.”  Apple won a one-week extension of the Australian ban on the
Galaxy Tab 10.1 on Dec. 2, effective until the country’s top
court considers the iPad maker’s request for permission to
appeal the Nov. 30 decision by a lower court.  Samsung modified the tablet’s design last month and renamed
it Galaxy Tab 10.1N to avoid a German sales ban upheld by a
Dusseldorf court in September.  In October, Samsung changed the way photos are browsed on
three Galaxy-phone models for the Dutch market to bypass an
injunction won by Apple in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  