-- 
San Francisco Gasoline Strengthens a Second Day on Refinery Work

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-12-05T22:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/san-francisco-gasoline-strengthens-a-second-day-on-refinery-work.html
San Francisco gasoline strengthened
against futures for a second day as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s  El Segundo 
refinery worked to start units after a power failure and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ Wilmington plant shut a reformer.  California-blend gasoline in  San Francisco  climbed 1 cent
to a premium of 1.6 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:06 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery of the
fuel rose 0.75 cent to $2.6297 a gallon.  The El Segundo plant, California’s largest oil refinery,
may flare until Dec. 9 as it recovers from a windstorm that
knocked out power to units and sparked a fire, San Ramon,
California-based Chevron said in a filing with the South Coast
Air Quality Management District.  Houston-based Conoco also shut a reformer at the 147,000-
barrel-a-day Wilmington refinery, south of  Los Angeles , for a
catalyst regeneration, a person with direct knowledge of the
work said. The unit is expected to be down for a week to 10
days, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  “There is planned maintenance work under way at our Los
Angeles refinery,” Rich Johnson, a Conoco spokesman in Houston,
said in an e-mail. “Details regarding the specific units
involved and the duration of the work are considered
proprietary.”  Carbob in Los Angeles slipped 0.15 cent to a premium of
2.45 cents to futures. California-blend diesel, known as CARB
diesel, in  Los Angeles  also fell 0.38 cent to a discount of 2.88
cents against heating oil futures traded on the Nymex,  the
fuel’s lowest level since Aug. 15.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
weakened 2 cents to a discount of 7 cents to futures, the lowest
level since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  