-- 
Merkel Shrugs Off French Germanophobia on Sarkozy Alignment With Germany

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-12-05T15:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/sarkozy-efforts-to-align-with-merkel-on-euro-provoke-french-germanophobia.html
Angela Merkel  and  Nicolas Sarkozy 
shrugged off anti-German sentiments expressed by some opposition
leaders in France following efforts to bring the French stance
on solving  Europe ’s debt crisis closer to Germany’s.  Meeting in Paris today, the two leaders dismissed comments 
by some members of the Socialist Party in France who've accused
President Sarkozy of pandering to Germany’s “Bismarck-like
policies,” and obeying its “diktat” in solving the region’s
crisis. The charges led Sarkozy’s governing party to attack what
it said was “irresponsible Germanophobia.”  The charges and counter-charges show how German demands for
greater budget controls across Europe are sparking questions of
national sovereignty. The stakes are particularly high in
France, which faces presidential elections in April and May next
year and which has fought two World Wars with neighboring
 Germany  in the last century.  “The lesson of history is that we must solve our problems
with words and not weapons -- and that’s exactly what drives us
to seek compromise,”  Chancellor Merkel  said at a press
conference today.  Sarkozy is blamed by opposition parties, including the far-
right National Front, for bowing to Germany’s call for more
discipline and more federalism to exit the crisis.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist Party candidate in the 2012 presidential
elections, has called for a more “balanced relationship,”
rather than one where “it’s Merkel who decides and Sarkozy who
follows.”  Inviting Rebuke  “This spat is unfortunately a French political game,”
said Gerard Grunberg, a professor at the Political Sciences
Institute in Paris. “The Socialists are tackling Sarkozy on a
key point for French voters: sovereignty. Socialists will do
everything to weaken Sarkozy in the run-up to the elections and
this crisis-exit negotiation with Merkel is a minefield.”  In a speech on Dec. 1, Sarkozy showed he had fallen in line
with the German view on the crisis that has roiled markets and
brought down five euro-area governments. He said the countries
sharing the euro must prepare their budgets in common, narrow
competitiveness gaps and face tougher automatic penalties for
fiscal rule-breaking.  At the press conference today, Sarkozy said French
politicians from across the political spectrum have worked on
strengthening the Franco-German alliance, invoking Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand .  “Madame Merkel knows that these words are not spoken by
responsible people and there is no reason to be hurt,” he said.
“We can’t play with the history of our countries.”  ‘Bismarck-Like’  Sarkozy’s efforts to align France more closely with Germany
have prompted rebuke and charges of a loss of sovereignty.  On Nov. 30, Arnaud Montebourg, a Socialist lawmaker,
likened Merkel’s policy demands to a  “German diktat imposed on
the euro zone.” Speaking on France Info radio, he said the
German chancellor was killing the euro, “building Germany’s
wealth on the ruin” of its neighbor.  The politician, best-known for his book entitled “De-
Globalization,” said “the question of German nationalism is
emerging through the Bismarck-like policy of Merkel. She is
building confrontation to impose her domination.”  Otto von Bismarck designed the German Empire in 1871,
becoming its first chancellor, and is championed by the
country’s nationalists.  The “Germanophobia” spat exploded late last week in
 France  with references made to World War II, when the Germans
occupied France. Lawmakers Julien Dray and Jean-Marie Le Guen
were among leaders who alluded to the war to describe Sarkozy’s
attitude and German policies. The Socialist Party chief at the
lower house of parliament, Jean-Marc Ayrault, who’s part of
Hollande’s campaign team, criticized the lawmakers.  Hollande’s Stance  Visiting Berlin today, Hollande was more tempered, saying
 in a speech  to the Social Democrats SPD party that he seeks a
“balanced relationship” between the two countries, saying the
Franco-German friendship is “equal and respectful.”  Hollande “knows he must have stable, good relations with
Germany if he is in power,” said Grunberg. “But when he uses
the word balanced relations, it’s his way of saying he won’t
accept everything from them.”  The spat reemerged last night when French Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  said Hollande needs to show “firmness in
reining in his allies’ remarks.” adding that he was
”complacent.”  An  Ifop poll  for Atlantico web site showed Hollande would
win against Sarkozy in the May final round of the elections. The
Socialist frontrunner would gather 56 percent of the votes
against 44 percent for Sarkozy. Paris-based Ifop called 934
registered voters and published a margin of error of 3.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  