-- 
Serbia Faces ‘Serious Stumbling Block’ Toward EU, Hoyer Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-12-05T14:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/serbia-faces-serious-stumbling-block-toward-eu-hoyer-says-1-.html
Serbia  faces a “serious stumbling
block” to becoming a candidate for European Union membership
after German and Austrian soldiers were wounded last week in an
incident at Serbia’s border with Kosovo, German Deputy Foreign
Minister Werner Hoyer said.  “We had last week again a very unpleasant surprise with
the Kosovo-Serbian border,” Hoyer told reporters in Brussels
today before a meeting to prepare for the Dec. 8-9 EU summit. He
called it “extremely serious and the Serbian government must
know when it doesn’t prevent things it can prevent, then it is a
serious stumbling block.”  Serbian President  Boris Tadic  said he was “hopeful” that
the EU’s decision this week on Serbia’s candidacy will be
positive and even if it isn’t, “Serbia must move on” as “that
is not a definitive defeat, just one lost battle,” Blic news
portal quoted Tadic as saying today.  Serbs who live in  Kosovo ’s north began removing road blocks
this morning, according to B92, clearing roads that lead to
Serbia, sooner than expected after leaders of four Serbian
municipalities in Kosovo vowed to remove the barricades only
after parliament verifies an agreement between Belgrade and
Pristina on integrated border management.  The accord reached under the EU auspices on the weekend,
and crucial for Serbia’s bid to become an EU candidate, sees a
“balanced presence” of Serbian and Kosovo police and customs
officers on the border, while Eulex, the EU’s law-and-order
mission, will hold executive powers at the crossings.  Serbia hopes to be declared a candidate for EU membership
at the EU summit by Dec. 9. Its neighbor, Montenegro, is likely
to go further with its EU bid by being ruled eligible to start
entry talks, Hoyer said.  “There is probably going to be more or less consensus on
Montenegro where we intend to actively begin negotiations,”
Hoyer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James G. Neuger at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net  