-- 
Service Industry Grows Modestly as Europe’s Debt Crisis Curbs New Business

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-12-05T09:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/service-industry-grows-modestly-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-curbs-new-business.html
U.K.  services  expanded at a
“modest” pace in November as new business growth slowed,
according to a survey.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 52.1 from 51.3 in October, Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
said today in  London . New business rose at the slowest pace this
year, they said. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said last week the
intensifying turmoil in  Europe  is characteristic of a systemic
crisis. While the central bank will probably keep the target for
its bond purchases at 275 billion pounds ($430 billion) this
week, some policy makers have said more stimulus may be needed.  “Companies remained concerned about the outlook,” Markit
Chief Economist  Chris Williamson  said in the report. “Strong
headwinds from the continued euro-zone crisis combined with
public sector pressures are adding to the anxiety levels.”  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the
report, and traded at $1.5637 as of 9.44 a.m. in London, up 0.3
percent on the day.  A separate report from Markit last week showed that
manufacturing shrank for a second month in November, while
growth in construction slowed. Markit said the services and
manufacturing reports indicate the economy will  stagnate  in the
current quarter.  Job Cuts  “There was evidence from the survey panel that the
business climate remained tough, with the European debt crisis
undermining confidence,” Markit said. It also reported that
employment in services fell in November for the fourth time in
the past five months.  Surrey, England-based  Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , a
recruiting company that operates in the U.K., Europe,  Asia  and
the Americas, said today profit growth slowed in October and
November compared with the third quarter as the crisis in Europe
“reduced client and candidate confidence levels.”  King said at a press conference last week that banks need
to bolster their defenses against the debt turmoil. European
leaders meeting this week are trying to safeguard banks amid
concern the 17-nation euro area is on the brink of unraveling.  “An erosion of confidence, lower asset prices and tighter
credit conditions are further damaging the prospects for
economic activity and will affect the ability of companies,
households and governments to repay their debts,” threatening
banks’ balance sheets, King said. “This spiral is
characteristic of a systemic crisis.”  All 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the
 Bank of England  will hold its bond-plan at 275 billion pounds at
its Dec. 8 policy decision. All 52 economists in a separate poll
say the bank will keep the  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  