-- 
U.S. Service Industries Expand at Slowest Pace Since January 2010: Economy

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-05T21:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/service-industries-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-fastest-pace-in-six-months.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in November at the slowest pace since January 2010 as
employment cooled, a sign improvement in the biggest part of the
economy will be uneven.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
 index  unexpectedly fell to 52 last month from 52.9 in October,
the Tempe, Arizona based-group said today. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain to 53.9. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Falling  home prices , slow wage growth and limited job gains
may make it difficult for households to sustain the pace of
spending after the holiday shopping season. For companies,
 Europe ’s debt crisis and a lack of clarity on the U.S. budget
deficit and taxes remain obstacles to investment and hiring.  “The economy continues to muddle along at a moderate
pace,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief economist at
Parthenon Group Inc. in  Boston , who projected a reading of 51.5.
“The economic fundamentals are reasonably strong but are being
stymied by the elevated uncertainty.”  Stocks rose, adding to the best weekly gain since 2009, as
Germany and  France  pushed for a new European Union treaty to
combat the debt crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed
1 percent to 1,257.08 at the close in  New York .  A slowing economy in Europe remains a risk for American
companies. European services and manufacturing output contracted
more in November than initially estimated.  European Economy  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 47 from 46.5 in October,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s less than an
initial estimate of 47.2 on Nov. 23 and the third monthly
reading below 50, indicating contraction.  Companies may struggle to sustain sales as global economies
weaken. China’s  official manufacturing  PMI released last week
fell to 49 in November from 50.4 in the previous month, the
first contraction since February 2009. U.K. manufacturing output
also shrank last month.  The financial crisis in the  euro zone  will weigh on the
 U.S. economy  through early 2012, Jan Hatzius, chief economist
for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on a conference call last
week. The U.S. economy will expand at a 1 percent annual pace
during the first half of 2012, he said. The euro area will
contract 0.8 percent during 2012, he said.  In October, American factories received fewer orders for a
second month, the Commerce Department said today.  Bookings 
dropped 0.4 percent after a revised 0.1 percent decrease that
was previously estimated as a gain.  Range of Estimates  Estimates of the 79 economists in the Bloomberg survey for
the ISM services report ranged from 51.5 to 55. The group’s
index of industries that account for about 90 percent of the
economy averaged 56.1 in the five years to December 2007, when
the last recession began.  The slowdown in services employment was at odds with last
week’s jobs data. The survey’s  employment gauge  dropped to 48.9
from 53.3, the biggest decrease since March 2009. Among the
industries reporting a reduction in employment were real estate,
finance and public administration. Some 15 percent said
headcount was expanding in November compared with 16 percent in
the previous month.  The Labor Department’s figures last week showed the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.6 percent last month, the lowest
since March 2009, from 9 percent. Payrolls climbed by 120,000
after a revised 100,000 increase in October.  Employment at service-providers increased 126,000,
including a 50,000 gain in retail trade as companies hired for
the  holiday shopping season , according to the Labor Department.  At Odds  “The drop in the employment component of the survey does
not mesh with other employment metrics such as payrolls and
claims” for jobless benefits,  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, said in an e-
mail to clients.  Transportation companies were joining retailers such as
Kohl’s Inc. and  Macy’s Inc (M)  in boosting holiday hiring.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  said Nov. 7 that it was
considering hiring 55,000 holiday workers this year, a 10
percent increase from 2010, to help with shipping gains
bolstered by online shopping.  U.S. consumers poured into the malls and took to the Web
during Thanksgiving weekend, spending a record $52.4 billion at
a pace that may be hard to sustain as the holiday shopping
season gets under way, the  National Retail Federation  said,
citing a survey from BIGresearch.  Other data in the services report paint a brighter picture
of the industry. The group’s measures of  new orders  and business
activity both improved.  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, expects
an “excellent holiday season,” partly due to shoppers’
“strong interest” in accessories for self-purchase, Chief
Executive Officer Lew Frankfort said on a conference call last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  