-- 
Shipping Fuel Charges May Fund Climate Aid, UN Document Shows

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-05T17:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/shipping-fuel-charges-may-fund-climate-aid-un-document-shows.html
Charges on shipping fuels may be used
to funnel money into a United Nations climate aid fund,
according to a draft document published at international  climate
change  treaty talks in Durban,  South Africa .  The document proposes that “financial resources” raised
by unspecified actions to be taken by the  International Maritime
Organization  to cut bunker fuel emissions be channeled into both
the UN’s mooted Green Climate Fund and into providing
compensation to developing nations whose companies are affected
by the extra shipping costs.  The text is significant because it identifies the first
potential private source of income for the fund, which
 Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat leading the discussions,
has said is a key outcome the talks need to agree on.
Industrialized nations have pledged to raise $100 billion a year
by 2020 to help vulnerable nations adapt to climate change and
reduce emissions.  Setting a $25 per ton carbon price on shipping fuel could
generate $25 billion a year by 2020 and help reduce emissions in
a sector responsible for about 3 percent of global  greenhouse
gases , according to environment group WWF and charity Oxfam.
About $10 billion of that could be channeled to the Green
Climate Fund, they said.  More than 190 nations are meeting in Durban for two weeks
of talks ending Dec. 9. The draft text is being debated for
inclusion in a document outlining potential outcomes of the
discussions. Delegates from developing nations including Brazil,
 China  and an alliance of 42 island nations have said it’s
important to identify sources of finance for the fund to avoid
it being an empty shell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  