-- 
Short Sellers Place Record Bet on Molycorp as Rare Earths Sink

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/short-sellers-place-record-bet-on-molycorp-as-rare-earths-sink.html
Investors’ bets against  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) 
stock are at their highest since the rare-earth producer’s July
2010 initial public offering on speculation prices for the
minerals will keep falling.  About 19 percent of Molycorp shares outstanding were sold
short on Nov. 28, up from 7.2 percent at the beginning of the
year, according to the most recent data from  Data Explorers , a
New York-based research firm. That compares with an average of
3.6 percent for the  Russell 1000 Index (RIY) , the data show. Molycorp
is the 12th most shorted stock in the index.  Cerium and lanthanum, the rare-earth minerals that are most
abundant in the ore mined by Molycorp, have dropped 33 percent
and 18 percent respectively since touching records on June 13.
Prior to that date, they had both risen more than fivefold this
year, following export restrictions imposed by  China , the
largest rare-earths producer.  There’s a “buyers’ strike” among rare-earth consumers
such as automakers and oil refiners who are looking for cheaper
alternative raw materials, said Jonathan Hykawy, an analyst with
Byron  Capital Markets  in Toronto.  Earnings estimates for rare-earth producers “have gotten a
little ahead of themselves as analysts put out numbers that were
based on unrealistic pricing assumptions,” said Scott Goginsky,
a portfolio manager and analyst at Biondo Investment Advisors in
Milford,  Pennsylvania , which has 10 percent of its assets
invested in Molycorp, the most of any fund, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining Restart  Molycorp fell 4.3 percent to $32.51 on Dec. 2 in New York.
It’s dropped 35 percent in 2011, lagging behind the 8.2 percent
decline for the Russell 1000 Materials & Processing Index. While 
the company’s price-earnings ratio has sunk to 35 times reported 
results from 248 times on Aug. 1, Molycorp has more than double 
the valuation of the  stock index , according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg.  The company, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , owns the
Mountain Pass mine in  California , the largest rare-earth deposit
outside China. In October, it resumed mining at the site, which
was shut in 2002.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar metals used in
products including refining catalysts, electric cars and wind
turbines. China, which said in 2010 it would cut exports by 72
percent, controls at least 90 percent of global supply,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  Business Model  Lanthanum oxide , used in catalysts for oil refining, rose
to a record 164,000 yuan ($25,810) a metric ton this year
through June 13, according to data from Shanghai Steelhome
Information. Cerium oxide, which is used in glass polishing,
jumped to 207,500 yuan a ton in the period, the data show.
Cerium and lanthanum account for 81 percent of Molycorp’s
shipments, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith  said Nov. 30.  Jim Sims, a spokesman for Molycorp, said the company
doesn’t comment on individuals’ investment decisions.  “Molycorp is delivering on exactly the milestones it said
it would deliver on,” Sims said. “Prices are an order of
magnitude higher then when we did our business model.”  In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If
the price drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at
a lower price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  “Most of the people putting the shorts on are anticipating
earnings are going to weaken from here,” said Hykawy, who has a
“buy” rating on Molycorp. “Given the capacity expansion, the
volume expansion, that was probably as good as it was going to
get in terms of their earnings for a while.”  ‘Strategically Important’  The reliance on one country for most rare earths means
Molycorp will benefit from companies and governments seeking
non-Chinese supplies, said Robert Stimpson, a  money manager  at
Oak Associates Ltd. which owns shares in Molycorp.  “We cannot depend on the generosity of China for access to
the minerals that we need for key products,” Stimpson, whose
Akron, Ohio-based firm oversees $850 million in assets, said in
a telephone interview on Nov. 14. “Politically, the whole
industry is now on the radar of the government as being
strategically important.”  Molycorp plans to double Mountain Pass’s annual capacity to
40,000 metric tons of rare-earth oxides by the end of 2013. The
company said in October it would spend $114 million to
accelerate output at Mountain Pass.  Molycorp said Nov. 10 it will produce 4,586 to 4,975 metric
tons of so-called rare-earth oxide equivalent in 2011, compared
with an Aug. 11 forecast of 4,941 to 5,881 tons. The company
said the lower projection was caused by equipment outages
related to the speeding up of development work at Mountain Pass.
Molycorp plans to produce at an annual rate of 19,500 tons by
Sept. 30.  “It’s going to be somewhat of a lumpy business while
they’re trying to get the mine going and they also have
operations there where they’re trying to build a whole new
infrastructure,” Goginsky said. “We’re not concerned about
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  