-- 
Singapore Lending Surges 91% to Record $38 Billion on Oil, Propery Deals

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-12-05T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/singapore-lending-surges-91-to-a-record-38-billion-on-oil-propery-deals.html
Syndicated lending in  Singapore  has
almost doubled to a record this year, driven by demand from
property developers and a surge in commodity trading.  Loans surged 91 percent to $38.3 billion this year from the
same period of 2010, beating the previous record of $30.7
billion in all of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The total doesn’t include a S$5 billion ($3.9 billion) loan
sought by  Temasek Holdings Pte  and Khazanah Nasional Bhd., the
state-owned investment companies of Singapore and Malaysia, to
fund S$11 billion of hotels, apartments, offices and shops.  “Growth for the Singapore market has been boosted by a
huge increase in financings for commodity sector,” said Boey
Yin Chong, managing director of syndicated finance at  DBS Bank
Ltd. (DBS) , Singapore’s biggest arranger of syndicated loans. “From a
$500 million base in 2007 we’ll probably hit $9 billion plus by
the end of 2011.”  The economy in Singapore, home to the world’s second-
busiest container port and  Asia ’s largest oil-trading, refining
and storage center, is forecast to expand 5 percent this year
after growing  14.5 percent  in 2010. While slowing, that’s still
better than the 1.9 percent predicted by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development for its 34-member nations
in 2011.  Shrinking Rate Margins  Borrowing costs fell to an average 73 basis points over
benchmark rates since June 30 from 105.5 in the first half of
the year, Bloomberg data on 46 loans show. Average loan margins
in Asia, excluding  Japan , for U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings
increased to 243 from 204 in the same period.  As growth in Asia outstrips  Europe  and the U.S., the region
is becoming a more important source of funding for energy
traders and suppliers of commodities such as edible oils, grains
and sugar, according to Eugene Szeto, HSBC Holdings Plc’s head
of Southeast Asia loans syndicate.  Syndicated loans in Europe, the Middle East and Africa fell
to $120.5 billion this quarter versus $260.4 billion in the
three months to Sept. 30, Bloomberg data show.  Commodities  have
returned 4.9 percent this year versus a loss of 8.2 percent for
 global equities .  Singapore-based  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s
biggest palm-oil processing company, increased a $1.3 billion
loan signed in November 2010 to $1.5 billion in October,
according to an Oct. 28 regulatory filing.  Geneva-based Vitol Group, the world’s largest independent
oil trader, signed a $1.585 billion facility due in 2012 in June
for its Asia unit. Vitol has tapped the Asian bank loan market
for funds every year since 2006, Bloomberg data show.  Asian Growth  “If Asia is a company’s growth market it makes sense for
them to raise funds and build bank relationships here as well,”
said Szeto, who is based in Singapore. “Companies are also keen
to tap pockets of liquidity in Asia because aside from being an
additional funding source, Asian bank market liquidity is seen
as relatively more stable and reliable than in parts of the
western world.”  Loans to agriculture and mining companies jumped 320
percent in October from October 2010, according to figures from
the Monetary Authority of Singapore released Nov. 30. Loans to
manufacturers rose 52 percent while building and construction
lending increased 23 percent.  As economies in Europe face possible recession, gross
domestic product in  Indonesia ,  Malaysia , the  Philippines ,
Singapore,  Thailand  and  Vietnam  will expand an average 5.6
percent from 2012 to 2016, the OECD said in a Nov. 29 report.  Singapore, ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to
do business, was among the top 20 destinations for international
investment last year, according to the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development.  Bookrunner Rankings  HSBC is the third-largest arranger of loans in the city-
state, with an 8.9 percent market share, behind DBS at 10.2
percent and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. at 9.9 percent,
Bloomberg data show. United Overseas Bank Ltd., Singapore’s
third largest by market value, is fourth at 8.6 percent.  London-based HSBC, which makes  more money (HSBA)  in Asia than
anywhere else, ranks higher for banks involved in arranging
loans and then selling the debt to other lenders. The top five
so-called bookrunners for loans this year are DBS, HSBC and OCBC,
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc.  Bookrunners are responsible for issuing invitations,
disseminating information to interested lenders and reporting to
the borrower on progress. A bank with the title of mandated lead
arranger isn’t always a bookrunner.  Olam, Temasek  “There’s a perception the market is dominated by Singapore
banks but that’s not the case despite Singapore banks being
active in arranging deals,” DBS Bank’s Boey said. “Having a
robust market also means lenders are able to sell down more in
syndication.”  Olam International Ltd., the commodities trader part-owned
by Temasek, signed a $1.25 billion facility in August with about
30 banks including lenders from the  Middle East  and  India ,
Bloomberg data show. The 10 banks committing funds to Temasek
and Khazanah included Melbourne-based Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. and Japanese lenders Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., two people familiar
with the matter said last month.  Of the $37.1 billion of syndicated loans this year, $31.4
billion have been to property, energy or resource companies,
Bloomberg data show.  “Government incentives for commodity companies to open
their regional offices here has helped Singapore to corner much
of the market for commodity refinancing,” Boey said. “Last
year there was about $5 billion done. This year it’s been double
that as these global houses seek to diversify funding as well as
increase their investment in the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  