-- 
South Korea’s Han Says World Needs Alternative to Kyoto Treaty

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-05T07:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/south-korea-s-han-says-world-needs-alternative-to-kyoto-treaty.html
The world needs an alternative system
to the  Kyoto Protocol  treaty which regulates the gases blamed
for global warming, former South Korean Prime Minister Han Seung-soo said.  Instead of taking internationally-binding emissions cuts,
nations should set their own carbon dioxide targets and enshrine
them in domestic law, replacing Kyoto’s so-called top-down
approach, Han said in an interview at the sidelines of UN
climate talks in Durban, South Africa.  “The Kyoto Protocol type of emissions reduction may not be
repeated,” said Han, who is now chairman of the  Global Green
Growth Institute  in  Seoul . “We have to find a new alternative
to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a bottom-up approach.”  The fate of Kyoto threatens to derail the Durban talks,
with developing nations demanding that industrialized countries
take on new targets when current ones expire in 2012. Japan,
Canada and  Russia  refuse to do so, the U.S. never ratified the
treaty and the 27-nation European Union says it’ll only accede
if all countries accept a road map to reach a new deal by 2015.  Chinese delegation chief  Xie Zhenhua  told reporters
yesterday  China  may accept legally-binding targets after 2020,
providing conditions were met including the agreement of a
second commitment period of Kyoto. Han said that’s not likely to
happen in Durban, and urged envoys to make progress on
establishing a green climate fund to channel climate aid.  No Second Period  “It’s almost certain that the second commitment period of
the Kyoto Protocol is not to be done at this meeting, so if
there is an achievement to be made here, I hope it will be the
Green Climate Fund,” said Han, also a former special envoy on
 climate change  for UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon. “When it
starts it will greatly contribute to helping solve the problem
of climate change.”  Countries agreed at last year’s meeting in Cancun, Mexico,
to set up the fund in Durban, where the U.S., Saudi Arabia and
Venezuela have all objected to a draft set-up for the pool of
money, prompting the South African hosts to organize informal
consultations on the matter.  Han said Xie’s statement could change the mood of the
conference, while adding he doesn’t think China will accept
Kyoto-style internationally-binding caps.  “What China wants to do is not to have a verification
process by international inspectors who come to China and verify
whether they have done it,” said Han. “No developing country
will do that.  India  won’t do it.  Brazil  won’t do it. They will
promise that they will reduce CO2 by 20 percent, 30 percent by a
certain year and then they will do it by domestic legislation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban,  South Africa  via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 