-- 
South Korea Economy Expands More-Than-Estimated 0.8% on Car, Metal Exports

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-12-05T23:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/south-korea-economy-expands-0-8-more-than-initially-estimated-in-october.html
South  Korea ’s economy expanded more
than the central bank initially estimated in the third quarter
as exports of cars and metal products increased.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.8 percent over the three
months through September from the second quarter, compared with
an October estimate of 0.7 percent, the Bank of Korea said in
 Seoul  today. The economy expanded 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, beating the bank’s October estimate of 3.4 percent.  Europe ’s debt crisis has weighed on Asia’s growth, with
 China  recording the weakest manufacturing since 2009 for last
month. All nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
Bank of Korea to keep  interest rates  unchanged for a sixth
straight month on Dec. 8, the longest pause since tightening
began in July 2010.  “We expect the BOK to maintain a neutral policy stance at
this week’s meeting, recognizing economic uncertainties while
giving no indications of an imminent rate cut,” Ma Tieying, an
economist with DBS Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said before the
release. “Although economic growth is slowing in Korea, the
risk of a recession remains low.”  The won advanced 0.1 percent to close at 1,129.80 in Seoul
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  stock index gained 0.4 percent.  Goods exports increased 1.6 percent in the third quarter
from the previous quarter, today’s report showed. Private
consumption gained 0.4 percent and  government spending  rose 1.4
percent.  Exports Drive Economy  Overseas shipments continue to drive the economy, expanding
a more-than-expected 13.8 percent in November, according to
government data released Dec. 1. Meanwhile,  industrial
production  unexpectedly fell 0.7 percent in October from
September, the fifth decline this year.  The Bank of Korea may lower its growth outlook for this
year and next due to the global economic slowdown when it
revises its forecasts this week, Lee Jong Kyu, deputy director-
general at the Economic Research Institute at the Bank of Korea,
said in an interview in Bali on Dec. 2.  South Korea ’s economy will grow by 3.8 percent in 2012, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast
last week. That’s lower than the Bank of Korea’s projection in
July that the economy would expand by 4.6 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ken McCallum at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberg.net  