-- 
Sovereign, Financial Bond Risk Falls on Crisis Resolution Bets

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-12-05T15:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring European
sovereign and financial debt fell to the lowest levels in a
month, extending the biggest-ever weekly decline, on speculation
leaders are closer to resolving the region’s crisis.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments declined eight basis points to
318 at 2:30 p.m. in  London . The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers dropped for a
sixth day, falling 31.5 basis points to 255, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Paris today to try to reach agreement on
the stricter enforcement of budget rules ahead of a European
Union summit in Brussels on Dec. 9. Investors are betting that
will clear the way for more intervention from the  European
Central Bank  after the breakdown of recent agreements fueled
speculation the euro area was on the brink of collapse.  “There is considerable investor sentiment that something
good will materialize,”  Scott MacDonald , the head of research
at Aladdin Capital in Stamford,  Connecticut , wrote in a note.
“A failure to herd the 17 euro-zone cats into a viable
sovereign debt resolution program” will have “far-reaching
consequences for markets,” he wrote.  Merkel said today that European leaders will seek to “win
back a bit of trust” at the summit. “We are in a difficult
situation and we have to win back confidence, because the issue
of our reliability has suffered,” Merkel told reporters in
Paris today after meeting with Sarkozy.  Subordinated Debt  A measure of subordinated financial debt risk tumbled 45
basis points to 460, JPMorgan prices show. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  Swaps on Belgium dropped 18 basis points to 272, according
to CMA. The country will get a full-time government as soon as
today, ending 540 days of post-election brinksmanship between
the Dutch-speaking north and French south.  France fell 12 basis points to 184,  Germany  was five lower
at 92, Italy tumbled 20 to 428 and Spain fell 34 to 348.  The cost of insuring corporate debt also dropped to the
lowest in a month. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings declined for an eighth
day, dropping 12.25 basis points to 166.75, JPMorgan prices
show.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings decreased 36.5
basis points to 708.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  