-- 
Spain Services Drop, Signal Economic Slowdown

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-05T09:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/spain-services-drop-as-economy-signals-slowdown.html
Spanish industry and services
declined the most since 2009, adding to evidence the economy may
contract in the fourth quarter, just as the newly elected
government is set to deepen austerity measures.  Industrial production  fell 4 percent from a year earlier in
October, the most since November 2009, after a revised 1.4
percent drop the previous month, the National Statistics
Institute in  Madrid  said today.  A purchasing managers index of  Spain ’s services industry
index dropped to 36.8 in November from 41.8 the prior month,
signaling the sharpest decline since March 2009, Markit
Economics said. Spain is “highly likely” to contract in
the fourth quarter, the research company forecast.  Spanish Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  inherits a
shrinking  economy  and a 22.8 percent jobless rate when he takes
office on Dec. 21 with a mandate to slash the euro region’s
third-largest budget deficit. The  economy  stagnated in the third
quarter and probably weakened further in the last three months
of the year as the debt crisis escalated, the Bank of Spain said
on Nov. 30.  “We expect a contraction of 0.9 percent in 2012,” said
 Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP Paribas in  London . “You
have further fiscal correction, ongoing deleveraging and the
situation in the  euro zone  that’s not helping, so you have a
slowdown in exports and domestic demand continuing to fall.”  Spain is fighting to reduce borrowing costs that surged to
 euro-era  records last month as contagion from the debt turmoil
moved closer to the currency core. The extra yield on  Spanish 
yields compared with equivalent German securities narrowed to
337 basis points today, from 355 basis points on Dec. 2 and a
euro-era closing level high of 469 basis points on Nov. 22.  Ratings Pledge  Rajoy, the leader of the  People’s Party  that won its
biggest ever majority on Nov. 20, made a campaign pledge to
restore the AAA credit rating that Spain lost in 2009. He hasn’t
said where he will cut spending, while promising to restore the
purchasing power of pensions, which accounted for 112 billion
euros ($151 billion) in this year’s budget.  Rajoy has said he won’t stray “under any circumstances”
from Spain’s target of cutting the deficit to 4.4 percent of
gross domestic product next year from the 6.6 percent estimated
for 2011 by the European Commission.  As he prepares to take over from Socialist Prime Minister
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , Rajoy has started talks with
unions and business leaders about changes to  labor -market rules
that aim to spur  job creation . The PP wants to change rules on
collective wage-bargaining to give companies more flexibility,
it said on the campaign.  “It will take time and 2012 will show soft growth, but
besides austerity measures I’m quite confident the new
government will try to work harder on structural reforms,” said
Tullia Bucco, an economist at Unicredit Global Research in
Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  