-- 
Stocks in U.S. Trim Advance on Concern Over French, German Outlook at S&P

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-12-05T19:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/stocks-in-u-s-euro-trim-advance-on-concern-over-french-german-ratings.html
U.S. stocks  trimmed gains (SPX) , while the
euro erased its advance versus the dollar and Treasuries pared
losses, as the Financial Times reported that Standard & Poor’s
will put France, Germany and other European nations on
“creditwatch negative.”  The  S&P 500  rose 1 percent to 1,256.7 at 2:23 p.m. in New
York after climbing as much as 1.8 percent earlier. The Dollar
Index was little changed at 78.587 after retreating as much as
0.6 percent, while the euro erased a gain of as much as 0.7
percent. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes climbed two basis
points to 2.06 percent after rising eight points earlier.  S&P will release a statement later today and also plans to
put the Netherlands,  Austria , Finland an Luxembourg on
“creditwatch negative, the  FT  reported, implying a 50 percent
chance of a ratings downgrade within 90 days. Earlier gains in
equities and the euro came after Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  proposed budget cuts and Germany and France pushed for a
new European Union treaty to fight the debt crisis.  ‘‘This is a period where rating agencies have to be more
cautious,’’ Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First
Citizens Bancshares Inc., which manages $4 billion in Raleigh,
 North Carolina , said in a telephone interview. ‘‘It’s
conceivable that there will be more downgrades. There’s some
optimism building there that if Europe has a bold enough plan,
they could put some of the problems behind. We’re still
skeptical because of the many structural problems that require
long-term solutions.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index posted a sixth consecutive
day of gains, the longest winning streak since October and
adding to its biggest weekly rally since 2009, and the Stoxx
Europe 600 rose for a second day. Italy’s FTSE MIB Index rallied
2.9 percent as Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA and Banco
Popolare SC climbed more than 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  