-- 
European Stocks Climb as Italy Seeks to Cut Debt; UniCredit, Intesa Gain

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-12-05T16:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/stock-futures-rise-in-europe-u-s-as-italy-seeks-debt-cuts-sap-may-move.html
European  stocks rose, with the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index extending its biggest weekly
rally since November 2008, as Italy’s Prime Minister Mario Monti
introduced a proposal to cut his nation’s debt.  A gauge of lenders led gains on the  Stoxx 600  as  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and BNP Paribas SA jumped more than 3.5
percent.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  climbed 3.8 percent after
Scotland’s biggest fund manager reported profit and sales that
topped estimates.  SAP AG (SAP)  fell 2.5 percent as the world’s largest
maker of business-management software agreed to buy
SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion in cash.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.8 percent to 242.75 at the close,
trimming the benchmark measure’s decline this year to  12 percent 
as concern abated that the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis
will intensify.  “If the euro zone holds together -- as we suspect it will
-- there should be considerable upside for stocks,” said  Ian Scott , chief global strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “More
than a recession is already in the price.”  The Stoxx 600 last week posted its largest advance in three
years, as central banks cut the  interest rate  on dollar funding,
China reduced its  reserve ratio  for banks and euro-area policy
makers planned to channel as much as 200 billion euros ($269
billion) through the  International Monetary Fund  to fight the
debt crisis. The benchmark measure has  rallied 13 percent  from
this year’s low on Sept. 22 amid optimism policy makers will
solve the crisis.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every western-
 European (SXXP)  market. France’s CAC 40 Index advanced 1.2 percent and
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.3 percent. Germany’s DAX Index
increased 0.4 percent.  Mario Monti ’s Plan  Monti presented a plan to reduce the European Union’s
second-biggest debt to the Chamber of Deputies in Rome today.
The budget package came at the start of a critical week for
Europe’s efforts to prevent Italy and Spain from succumbing to
the crisis and causing a breakup of the single currency.  France and Germany want a new EU treaty to set out the
rules for euro-area governments, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
after meeting Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  “We want it to be impossible for the deregulation that led
to the euro zone’s current situation to recur,” Sarkozy said in
Paris. “Our preference is for a treaty of 27, but we’re
perfectly ready to have a treaty of 17.”  Merkel and Sarkozy are developing a plan for stricter
enforcement of the region’s deficit rules that they will present
to EU leaders at a summit on Dec. 9.  A gauge of  European banks  advanced 2.5 percent. UniCredit,
Italy’s biggest lender, jumped 5.4 percent to 83.6 euro cents.
Intesa Sanpaolo added 3.9 percent to 1.35 euros and BNP Paribas,
 France’s largest bank (BNP) , rose 4.9 percent to 33.16 euros.  Santander Gains  Banco Santander SA gained 2.5 percent to 5.93 euros after
 Spain’s biggest lender (SAN)  said it will seek to raise 1.97 billion
euros by swapping preferred shares sold to retail customers in
2009 for newly issued stock as part of a strategy to increase
its capital.  Aberdeen Asset Management climbed 3.8 percent to 211.2
pence as full-year profit surged after revenue rose faster than
costs and it sold more higher-margin products.  SAP slipped 2.5 percent to 43.61 euros. The German software
maker agreed to buy  San Mateo , California-based SuccessFactors
on Dec. 3 to better meet demand for new technologies such as
cloud computing, real-time analytics and mobile applications.  UBS AG downgraded  SAP  to “neutral” from “buy,” saying
that the software company’s decision to acquire technology
rather than develop it internally does “raise questions about
SAP’s competitiveness in other on-demand areas.”  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  declined 4.1 percent to 1.44 euros as
 Germany’s second-largest bank  offered to repurchase as much as
600 million euros of hybrid equity instruments.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  slumped 5.2 percent to 345.9
pence after the recruiter said full-year pretax profit will miss
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  