-- 
Vale Mega Ore Vessel Springs Leak in Ballast Tank After Two Months Service

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-12-05T13:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/stx-vale-mega-vessel-takes-on-water-after-cracking-hull-o-globo-reports.html
A  Vale SA (VALE)  vessel leased from  STX Pan
Ocean Co. (STX)  to transport as much as 400,000 metric tons of iron
ore to China will undergo repairs to fix a leak in a ballast
tank about two months after being delivered.  The fault was found while the $110 million Vale Beijing,
which is almost as big as the Bank of America Tower in  New York ,
was being loaded at a port in  Brazil , STX said. The Seoul-based
shipping line said it’s investigating the cause of the leak and
plans to move the ship for repairs.  The Vale Beijing is part of Vale’s plan to form a fleet of
35 mega-ships, the biggest dry-bulk vessels ever built, in a bid
to cut the risk from fluctuating cargo rates to China, the
largest buyer of the steelmaking material. STX Pan Ocean
received the vessel from affiliate STX Offshore & Shipbuilding
Co. on Sept. 27, the first of eight such sized ships it will
operate under a $5.8 billion, 25-year deal with Vale, the
world’s biggest  iron-ore  miner.  The ship is at Ponta da Madeira in northeastern Brazil,
according to data on the Bloomberg terminal. The port, the
country’s second-busiest in terms of cargo throughput, has four
terminals, only one of which can handle vessels as big as the
Beijing, according to Vale’s  website .  A Vale official, who asked not to be named citing corporate
policy, declined to comment on the vessel. The Rio de Janeiro-
based O Globo newspaper reported the incident earlier on its
 website .  Det Norske Veritas, which monitors compliance with ships’
design and structural rules, is talking to the owners of the
Beijing about “technical issues,” Aage Andreas Enghaug, a
spokesman, said by phone from Oslo. He said he couldn’t
elaborate on what the issues were.  China  Opposition  The launch of Vale’s mega-ships has sparked opposition from
Chinese shipowners who are concerned they will worsen a capacity
glut and plunging rates. Chinese ports have so far failed to
handle any of the ships, which are about twice the size of the
capesize vessels now generally used to haul iron ore from Brazil
to  Asia .  The miner is “confident” that it will eventually get
permission to use the ships in China, Vale Chief Financial
Officer Tito Martins said in an interview last month.  Vale rose in early Sao Paulo trading today, gaining 0.9
percent to 40.26 reais at 11:05 a.m. STX Pan Ocean rose 1.7
percent to S$7.15 at the close of trading in Singapore. STX
Offshore dropped 1.1 percent to 14,000 won in  Seoul .  STX Pan Ocean’s mega-ships are the only ones ordered from
Jinhae, South Korea-based STX Offshore. The shipbuilder was due
to deliver one more this year, four in 2012 and one in 2013,
according to a Sept. 27 statement.  The builders of the other vessels in Vale’s planned fleet
include Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. and  China
Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , which won a
combined 19 orders directly from the iron-ore producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  