-- 
LSU to Face SEC Rival Alabama in College Football’s BCS Championship Game

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-05T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/lsu-to-face-sec-rival-alabama-in-college-football-s-bcs-championship-game.html
Louisiana State  and the  University of
Alabama  will play for college football’s national championship
next month in a rematch of a Nov. 5 regular season game won by
LSU 9-6 in overtime.  The national title game will be played Jan. 9 at the
Superdome in  New Orleans , about 80 miles southeast of LSU’s
campus in Baton Rouge,  Louisiana .  While LSU finished No. 1 in the BCS standings with a 13-0
record, Alabama topped Oklahoma State for the No. 2 spot after
both teams went 11-1. It will be the first time in the 14-year
history of the Bowl Championship Series that two teams who met
in the regular season will face each other in the title game.  “Our team is very deserving of the opportunity to play in
a national championship game,” Alabama coach Nick Saban said in
a televised interview with ESPN. “I think there’s a lot of
people out there that think these are the best two teams in the
country and want to see them play again.”  This will be the first time the BCS title game is contested
by teams from the same league, guaranteeing the  Southeastern
Conference  a sixth straight national champion.  “The upside is you understand your opponent, you’ve
studied them before,” LSU coach Les Miles said about the
rematch with  Alabama , which missed three field goals and had
another blocked in last month’s game in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
“We’ll go right to that game and study and see what adjustments
to the game plan we can make.”  LSU improved to 13-0 with a 42-10 win over the University
of Georgia two days ago in the SEC championship game. The Tigers
finished No. 1 in the final BCS standings, a spot they’ve held
since the first rankings came out in October.  Alabama Finishes No. 2  Alabama (11-1) claimed the No. 2 spot in the BCS ahead of
 Oklahoma State  (11-1) even though the Cowboys routed Oklahoma
44-10 on Dec. 3 to capture the  Big 12  Conference title.  While Alabama’s lone loss came at home against LSU in a
game in which the SEC rivals combined for five field goals,
 Oklahoma  State’s only blemish was a 37-31 double-overtime defeat
at Iowa State on Nov. 18. Alabama had dropped to third in the
rankings behind Oklahoma State following its loss and then moved
back to No. 2 when the Cowboys were beaten.  “We had a tough loss, but we came back and did everything
we could do to dominate the game against Oklahoma,” Oklahoma
State coach Mike Gundy told ESPN.  The BCS standings determine the championship game
participants and incorporate the USA Today coaches’ poll, Harris
Interactive poll and six computer rankings.  Close Finish  LSU finished with a 1.000 BCS rating, while Alabama was at
.942, followed by Oklahoma State at .933. BCS executive director
Bill Hancock said it was the closest finish between the second-
and third-place teams under the current formula, which has been
in place since 2004.  Oklahoma State will face fourth-ranked  Stanford University 
(11-1) in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 2 in Glendale, Arizona.  Fifth-ranked Oregon meets No. 10 Wisconsin in the Jan. 2
Rose Bowl in Pasadena,  California . In other BCS games,  Virginia
Tech  plays  Michigan  at the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans and Clemson
faces  West Virginia  at the Orange Bowl in Miami.  Arkansas , which finished sixth in the BCS, will meet No. 8
Kansas State in the Jan. 6 Cotton Bowl.  Seventh-ranked Boise State (11-1) is headed to the Dec. 22
MAACO Bowl in Las Vegas against a 6-6 Arizona State team after
being passed over for an at-large spot in a BCS bowl.  Ninth-ranked  South Carolina  plays No. 20  Nebraska  in the
Capital One Bowl on Jan. 2 in Orlando,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  