-- 
SuccessFactors Options Trade Paid 56-Fold After Company Announced Takeover

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-12-05T20:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/successfactors-options-trade-paid-56-fold-after-company-announced-takeover.html
A bullish  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)  options
trade soared 56-fold from its purchase Dec. 2 after  SAP AG (SAP) 
bought the software company for $3.4 billion.  A total of 998 of December $31 calls changed hands for 15
cents each at 10:19 a.m. New York time on Dec. 2, data sent to
Bloomberg show. The shares, which hadn’t closed above $31 since
June, jumped 52 percent to $39.79 when exchanges opened today.
The calls, which expire Dec. 16, jumped 5,567 percent to $8.50
at the open, boosting the value of the investment to $848,300
from $14,970. Before Dec. 2, the December $31 calls had an
average daily volume of 29 contracts over the prior 10 weeks.  “It looks to me like it’s more than just luck,”  Henry Schwartz , president of Trade Alert, a New York-based provider of
options-market data and analytics. “To see flow like that that
in excess of the average daily volume and so close in front of a
deal is either incredibly lucky timing or insider information.”  SAP, the largest business-management software maker, said
Dec. 3 that it agreed to buy  San Mateo , California-based
SuccessFactors for $40 a share, or 52 percent more than the last
close. Calls that give the right to buy stock at a set price and
date offer higher returns to traders speculating on takeovers.  Most of the December $31 calls traded Dec. 2 changed hands
at the ask price, which indicate that buyers of new bullish
positions initiated the transactions. They helped boost the open
interest for those options by 160 percent to 1,542 contracts.  ‘Very Unusual’  “I find it very unusual that there was a volume spike in
those out-of-the-money calls on the last business day before a
deal was announced,” said Steve Sosnick, equity risk manager at
Timber Hill LLC, the market-making unit of Interactive Brokers
Group Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “I would hope that
someone is looking at this.”  Andrea Meyer, a spokeswoman for SuccessFactors, didn’t
return calls seeking comment. Jim Dever, a spokesman for
Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, and  John Nester , a spokesman for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, declined to
comment. The SEC monitors the options market for potentially
illegal  insider trading .  “It looks to be some rather fortunate timing,” said Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of
options-market analytics. “Putting on calls that far out of the
money makes no sense, and there was was no other catalyst
expected to move shares that big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  