-- 
Serve Sweet Wines With Peking Duck, Octopus, Stinking Cheeses

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/sweet-wines-pair-with-peking-duck-octopus-stinking-cheeses-john-mariani.html
The idea that sweet wines go best
with dessert is a no brainer, but producers of those wines would
have you believe they go with anything and everything.  A century ago that was pretty much the case, when sweet
Hungarian Tokaji, Portuguese Madeira and Port, Spanish sherries,
Italian Marsalas and French Sauternes were enjoyed as much with
savory dishes as with sweet. Champagnes, now preferred bone dry,
were once much sweeter, from demi-sec (half dry) to doux
(sweet).  The best sweet wines are made from grapes whose sugars have
been concentrated by drying, partial freezing, late harvesting
or infection by the so-called “Noble Rot.” Some, like Port and
Sherry, are fortified with spirits to stabilize them.  The worst are made like fruit punch, with sugar and fruit
infusions added. So in a world where Thunderbird outsells
chardonnay and cabernet, people still associate sweet “dessert
wines” with cheap plonk.  “The term dessert wine is a taboo today -- ‘dry’ is where
it’s at,” said Daniel Johnnes, wine director for the Dinex
Group in New York. “I direct my sommeliers not to list sweet
wines as ‘dessert wines,’ and to discuss with the guest the
varying degrees of sweetness between, say, a Sauternes and a
lighter bodied Barsac. I think they go very well with certain
braised meats with caramelized flavors.”  Such wines are a tough sell. Among Sauternes, only the
illustrious Cru Chateau d’Yquem sells really well, often served
with foie gras or Roquefort cheese.  ‘Mental Block’  “The contemporary attitude is that anything sweet is bad
for you and will put on weight, which is absolute rubbish,”
said  David Levin , owner of The Capital Hotel and Restaurant in
 London . “It’s a mental block, so we really have to promote our
sweet wines. We carry six vintages of Yquem half-bottles, which
are far easier to sell than a whole bottle.”  Levin’s wife Lynne, who manages their wine estate in the
Loire Valley, has just released half bottles of Levin Noble
2010, a botrytis-affected sauvignon blanc for sale in the U.K.
 Australia , and  Sweden . “It’s got 60 grams residual sugar,” she
said. “But the balance of acids allows it to go well with many
different dishes, like a goat’s cheese salad.”  American wine producers are struggling too. According to
Ken Young, executive director of the  Sweet and Fortified Wine
Association  in Appelgate,  California , sweet wines now account
for 7.5 percent of U.S. wine shipments. “Before 2008 we had
sale increases around 6.2 percent annually, but since then it’s
only around 2 percent. Sales are pretty flat for fortified
wines, though late-harvest wines are doing pretty well.”  Barsac and Crab  So sweet wine makers are trying hard to prove their wines
go with all sorts of savory dishes. At a dinner at Restaurant
Daniel in New York, vigneron Aline Bal of Chateau Coutet, served
her Barsacs with soft-shell crabs and pressed duck. French
actress Carole Bouquet, who owns a winery on the Italian island
of Pantelleria, last month served her Sangue d’Oro passito at
 New York ’s Boulud Sud with first courses like octopus a la
plancha with almonds, arugula, and sherry vinegar; and sheep’s
milk ricotta with tomato confit, and tapenade.  Even the great Hungarian Tokaji wines, whose sweetness is
graded by star-like symbols called puttonyos, have their place
before and after dessert.  “The very sweet six-puttonyos Tokajis should be drunk
after dessert, like a Cognac or Port,” said Ben Hawkins,
director of  Hungary ’s  Royal Tokaji Wine Co.  and author of the
just-released “Real Men Drink Port . . . and Ladies Do Too”
(Wine Appreciation Guild, 192 pages, $24.95). “We blend three-
and four-puttonyos wines to make an aged late harvest wine,
which has more acidity, so they can be enjoyed with more savory
dishes, like a three-year-old Gouda.”  Cheese Choice  I, too, would insist that sweet wines go better with
cheeses than dry red wine. Whether it’s Port with Stilton, a
late-harvest riesling with goat’s cheese, or a vin santo with
Parmigiano, the flavors assimilate better than with  cabernet
sauvignon  or pinot noir, which may take on a metallic taste.  I also like sweet Chinese poultry dishes with sweet wines.
Try a sweet rice or lychee wine with Peking duck or General
Tso’s chicken. The French classic duck a l’orange is well served
with a Lustau Sherry, and when feasting on sweet North African
dishes like tagine and bisteeya, dry wines just don’t work. I’d
go with a glass of ruby Port.  After dessert, curl up with a magnificent Silvano Garcia
Dulce Monastrell 2001 ($30), a powerful argument for the
individuality of  Spain ’s viticultural soul and perfect with
sweet-fleshed roast chestnuts and a dish of figs before the
fireplace.  And for something truly remarkable, make some scrambled
eggs in butter with shavings of black truffles. Pour a glass of
iced Pacific Rim Vin de Glaciere Riesling 2010 ($16 half
bottle), made in  Washington ’s Yakima Valley. Now, that is a
decadent revelation indeed.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 