-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance for Seventh Straight Day as Banks Rally in Zurich

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-12-05T17:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-in-zurich-as-credit-suisse-ubs-rally-adecco-falls.html
Swiss stocks (SMI)  climbed for a seventh
day, extending last week’s biggest gain for the benchmark Swiss
Market Index since July 2009, after Italy proposed a 30 billion-
euro ($40 billion) package to reduce its debt.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) 
paced European banks and insurers higher as borrowing costs
declined for euro-area governments before this week’s European
leaders summit. Givaudan SA paced declining shares after
Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock.  The SMI, a measure of the biggest and most actively traded
companies, rose 0.4 percent to 5,739.86 at the close in Zurich,
for the longest winning streak since March. The gauge rallied 6
percent last week after central banks, including the  Swiss
National Bank , took action to ease Europe’s debt crisis. The
broader Swiss Performance Index advanced 0.5 percent today.  “Everything seems to be pointing in the right direction
and investors can be forgiven for hoping that politicians
finally grasp the seriousness of the problem,” said Chris
Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in London. “This week
has been billed as the final chance to save the euro.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  presented an austerity
plan to lawmakers in Rome today after his Cabinet approved the
package yesterday, a day ahead of schedule, in a bid to trim the
euro area’s second-biggest debt. The plan includes more than 12
billion euros in spending cuts and forces workers to delay
retirement.  French, German Cooperation  Stocks extended gains as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pushed for a tightening of
the European Union’s governing economic rules in a demonstration
of unity on ending the debt crisis.  Merkel and Sarkozy said that the euro region’s two biggest
economies were aligned on backing automatic penalties for
deficit violators and locking limits on debt into euro states’
constitutions. The French leader said they aimed to reach
consensus on the changes required by March.  In Ireland, Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin detailed
plans for cuts in  government spending  next year.  Credit Suisse rallied 2 percent to 23.33 Swiss francs as
yields on Italian and Spanish government bonds declined and the
cost of insuring European sovereign and financial debt fell to a
one-month low.  Shares of insurers also advanced. Zurich Financial rose 1.3
percent to 208.80 francs and Swiss Re AG increased 0.6 percent
to 49.69 francs.  Givaudan declined 2.6 percent to 838.50 francs after
Deutsche Bank downgraded the world’s largest maker of flavors
and fragrances to “sell” from “hold.”  Adecco SSA slipped 0.6 percent to 40.07 francs. U.K. rival
Michael Page International Plc dropped 5.2 percent in  London 
trading after the recruiter said full-year pretax profit will
miss analysts’ estimates as markets continued to weaken amid
“increased uncertainty and lower confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  