-- 
U.K. Economic Growth Forecasts Cut by EEF as Manufacturers See Stagnation

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-05T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-k-economic-growth-forecasts-cut-by-eef-as-manufacturers-see-stagnation.html
The Engineering Employers Federation
cut its U.K. growth forecasts and said manufacturers expect the
industry to stagnate in the first quarter.  The EEF sees  gross domestic product  rising 1 percent in
2012 instead of the 2 percent forecast in September, with
factory output growing 0.9 percent rather than 2.2 percent,
Chief Economist Lee Hopley told reporters at a briefing in
London on Dec. 2. A manufacturing survey published today showed
companies predict flat output and a “modest contraction” in
orders in the first quarter, Hopley said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said last week
British economic growth will be slower this year and next than
previously forecast as the euro-area sovereign debt crisis
undermines demand in the biggest market for U.K. exports.
Manufacturing weakened from China to  Europe  last month as the
turmoil darkened the outlook for the global economy.  “Given all the headwinds that we’re seeing and all the
enormous risks to growth stability in the  euro zone  and the
financial sector, we’ve had to downgrade our growth forecasts,”
Hopley said. “We’ve got more question marks over the start of
2012 than we did. That’s inevitable looking at what’s happening
in key markets and the degree of uncertainty and that just seems
to be escalating on a weekly basis.”  China ’s  manufacturing  contracted in November for the first
time since February 2009, while in Britain and the 17-nation
euro area the sector shrank at the fastest pace in about 2
1/2 years, purchasing managers reports last week showed.  Stagnation  Manufacturers were evenly divided on whether output would
rise or fall in the first three months of 2012, indicating
stagnation, Hopley said. The balance saying sales rose in the
current quarter exceeded those reporting declines by 12
percentage points, down from 27 points in the three months
through September.  Measures of domestic and export orders both fell, with
manufacturers predicting a further decline in the first quarter,
Hopley said. The survey questioned 453 companies Nov. 3-23.  Bank of England  policy makers raised the target for asset
purchases by 75 billion pounds ($118 billion) to 275 billion
pounds in October as the economic outlook deteriorated. Some
officials have said they may need to expand stimulus further.  “I think it’s more than likely the bank would proceed on
that basis,” Hopley said, when asked if she thought officials
may extend the target in February when the current round of
purchases ends.  A report by Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets today showed a
U.K.  job-security index  rose 2 points to minus 21. Thirteen
percent of employed respondents said they felt there had been an
improvement in  job security , while 34 percent said there
had been a deterioration, the unit of Lloyds Banking Group
Plc reported in an e-mailed survey.  A separate index of new jobs published today by Reed.co.uk,
Britain’s largest recruitment website, rose to 133 in November
from 129 in October. The gauge was at 121 in September. Reed’s
gauge of salaries gained 1 point to 98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  