-- 
U.K. Competition Watchdog Probes About 1% of Business Complaints

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-05T07:50:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-k-competition-watchdog-probes-about-1-of-business-complaints.html
Britain’s antitrust watchdog received
a record number of corporate complaints last year alleging anti-
competitive behavior by suppliers and rivals as companies seek
to improve their position during the economic downturn.  The U.K.  Office of Fair Trading  received 1,993 complaints
last year -- a 14 percent increase over 2009 and more than
double the 2006 figure, according to OFT data reviewed by the
London-based  law firm   Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP . The
watchdog is probing about a dozen of them.  “There is usually a lot of competition for the OFT’s
attention, and when businesses are under pressure they will look
to every avenue they can for an advantage over their
competitors,”  Stephen Smith , who heads the law firm’s
competition practice, said in the statement.  Businesses and lawyers have complained about the OFT’s
failure to open a sufficient number of cases -- one of many
criticisms made as the U.K. government prepares to merge the
watchdog with another regulator, the  Competition Commission .
Last year the OFT started 11 cases under Britain’s 1998
competition law, less than 1 percent of the number of complaints
received from businesses seeking to break into markets with
large, established players, the law firm said.  “The OFT simply doesn’t have the resources to follow up on
every complaint,” Smith said. “That means that sometimes even
really strong cases won’t be investigated.”  The regulator has said it’s committed to opening more
cases. It currently has 15 open probes, five of which were
started this year, OFT spokesman Frank Shepherd said.  ‘Prioritization Principals’  “We have to take decisions based on our prioritization
principals and focus our efforts and resources on deterring and
influencing behavior that poses the greatest threat to consumer
welfare,” Shepherd said in a phone interview.  About a decade ago, the OFT opened nearly double the number
of current cases in a bid to set precedents early, according to
figures provided by the regulator. It has since lowered the
number to focus on higher-impact cases, while simultaneously
increasing the amount of penalties imposed on violators,
according to the data.  The OFT’s current cases include hotel online bookings,
advertising on bus stops and benches and electronic books, among
others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  