-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance for Second Day on Italy Debt-Reduction Plan

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-12-05T17:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-k-stocks-advance-as-italy-debates-debt-reduction-plan.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, extending the
biggest weekly increase in almost three years, as Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  introduced a debt-reduction plan and
Germany and France pushed for closer economic cooperation.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led gains among
lenders. Aberdeen Asset Management Plc rallied 3.8 percent as
profit increased.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  plunged 5.2
percent after saying full-year earnings will miss analysts’
estimates.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index gained 15.67, or 0.3 percent,
to 5,567.96 at the close in London. The benchmark gauge last
week posted its biggest increase since January 2009, as the U.S.
unemployment rate fell and Germany and France pushed for greater
fiscal union in the euro area. The FTSE All-Share Index added
0.3 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 1.6
percent.  “Markets are gaining ground as investors acknowledge
reports out of Italy surrounding tough new austerity measures,”
Harley Salt, head of sales trading at IG Markets in  London ,
wrote in a note.  Monti presented the debt-reduction plan to the Chamber of
Deputies in Rome today after his Cabinet approved the package
yesterday. The measures include more than 12 billion euros ($16
billion) in spending cuts, will force workers to delay
retirement, resurrect a tax on first homes, crack down on tax
evasion and aim to open up closed professions.  Fiscal Discipline  German Chancellor Angela Merkel met French President
Nicolas Sarkozy to advance a plan for stricter enforcement of
the region’s budget-deficit rules. They want to have a new
treaty that would impose stricter budget limits agreed among all
euro-area countries by March, Sarkozy said.  With a European Union summit in Brussels looming Dec. 9,
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner arrives in Frankfurt
tomorrow to prod political leaders and the  European Central Bank 
holds a policy meeting Dec. 8.  Stocks pared gains after the Institute for Supply
Management’s non-manufacturing index in the U.S. fell to 52 in
November, missing economists’ estimates for an increase.  A gauge of European banks rose 2.5 percent for the biggest
gain among the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600  Index.
A measure of British banks advanced 1.4 percent.  Lloyds, Barclays  Lloyds jumped 6.3 percent to 27 pence.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced 5.3 percent to 22.77 pence.  Aberdeen Asset Management rallied 3.8 percent to 211.20
pence. Scotland’s largest money manager said fiscal full-year
profit surged as revenue rose faster than costs and it sold more
higher-margin products. Earnings before one-time items in the
year ended Sept. 30 rose to 241.7 million pounds ($378.2
million), beating analyst estimates.  Pace Plc (PIC) , the world’s biggest maker of television set-top
boxes, jumped 19 percent to 67.90 pence, extending last week’s
28 percent gain. The shares were raised to “hold” from
“reduce” at Numis Securities Ltd.  Michael Page , a recruitment services company, tumbled 5.2
percent to 345.90 pence. The company said full-year pretax
profit will miss analyst forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  