-- 
Pound Advances Against Dollar, Yen on Debt-Crisis Optimism; Gilts Decline

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-12-05T16:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-k-s-pound-strengthens-versus-dollar-and-yen-as-european-stocks-advance.html
The pound strengthened against the
dollar, snapping a two-day decline, as optimism that euro-area
leaders are acting to ease the region’s debt crisis spurred
demand for higher-yielding assets.  Sterling also rose versus the yen and gilts fell as an
index of  U.K. services  unexpectedly gained in November. Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  proposed 30 billion euros ($40
billion) of new austerity measures yesterday, while German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
meet today ahead of a Dec. 9 European Union summit. The  European
Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  this week, according to the
median forecast in a  survey  of economists.  “Markets in general are cautiously optimistic going into
the EU summit and ECB meeting,” said  Lee Hardman , a strategist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Those
expectations are weighing on the safe-haven currencies like the
dollar and the yen today and that’s helping to lift cable,” he
said referring to the pound against the dollar.  The pound was 0.6 percent stronger at $1.5687 at 4:32 p.m.
 London  time. It appreciated 0.4 percent to 122.05 yen and
advanced 0.1 percent to 85.76 pence per euro.  The FTSE 100 Index of stocks rose for the sixth day in the
past seven, advancing 0.4 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
climbed 1 percent.  Services Surprise  Sterling has appreciated 1.6 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies. The
pound’s advance has been surpassed by the dollar, the yen and
the Canadian and Australian dollars.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 52.1 from 51.3 in October, according
to Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply . The median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey  called for a drop to 50.5.  A separate report from Markit last week showed that
manufacturing shrank for a second month in November, while
growth in construction slowed. Markit said the services and
manufacturing reports indicate the economy will stagnate in the
current quarter.  The Engineering Employers Federation cut its U.K. growth
forecasts and said manufacturers expect the industry to stall in
the first quarter of 2012.  The EEF sees gross domestic product rising 1 percent in
2012 instead of the 2 percent forecast in September, with
factory output growing 0.9 percent rather than 2.2 percent,
Chief Economist  Lee Hopley  told reporters at a briefing in
London on Dec. 2. A manufacturing survey published today showed
companies predict flat output and a “modest contraction” in
orders in the first quarter, Hopley said.  BOE Asset Purchases  Bank of England  policy makers meeting on Dec. 8 will hold
off expanding economic  stimulus , according to all 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Monetary Policy Committee raised its
asset-purchase target to 275 billion pounds in October from 200
billion pounds.  “Minutes of the last meeting made it clear that the pace
of asset purchases was unlikely to be increased imminently,”
wrote  Adam Cole , London-based global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at RBC Europe Ltd., in an e-mailed note today. “We
expect the MPC to do another 50 billion pounds of purchases, but
only to make that decision at the February meeting.”  The 10-year gilt yield rose six basis points to 2.35
percent. The yield on two-year notes climbed two basis points to
0.40 percent, up from its  record low  of 0.36 percent reached on
Dec. 1.  Gilts have returned 14 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds made 7.4 percent,
with U.S. Treasuries gaining 9.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 