-- 
U.S. Postal Service Seeks to Slow Mail Delivery

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-12-05T19:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-s-postal-service-seeks-to-slow-mail-delivery.html
The U.S. Postal Service, which is
trying to cut $20 billion in operating costs by 2015, is seeking
to slow mail delivery to help save $2.1 billion a year.  The agency is asking the Postal Regulatory Commission to
let it relax delivery standards for first-class mail, which
includes letters and bills,  David Williams , vice president of
network operations, said today at a news conference in
Washington. Ending next-day mail delivery would reduce the
number of mail-processing plants the service needs, he said.  The Postal Service said in September it was considering
loosening delivery standards and closing 252, or more than half,
of its mail-processing plants. The agency said last month it
predicts a $14.1 billion loss in 2012 as mail volume continues
to drop.  The processing plants sort mail overnight for next-day
delivery, meaning that “most of the time, those machines are
sitting idle,” Williams said. “Our network is simply too big
to handle the revenues coming in today and, more importantly,
way too big for what we project in the future.”  The  Postal Service  has a standard for the 48 states of the
continental U.S. of delivering mail placed in its blue drop
boxes within one to three days. The service, which doesn’t
guarantee first-class mail delivery within a certain period of
time, is asking for permission to change the standard to two to
three days.  The service, which is seeking permission from Congress to
fire workers, close post offices more easily and end Saturday
mail delivery, has closed 26 mail processing plants since
September and now has 461, Williams said.  That’s a 32 percent decrease from 2006 when the service had
673 mail processing facilities. First-class mail volume dropped
27 percent during that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  