-- 
U.S. November ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-12-05T15:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-s-november-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
November for the 24th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 52 percent in
November, 0.9 percentage point lower than the 52.9 percent
registered in October, and indicating continued growth at a
slightly slower rate in the non-manufacturing sector. This is
the lowest reading since January 2010, when the index registered
50.7 percent. The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index
increased 2.4 percentage points to 56.2 percent, reflecting
growth for the 28th consecutive month. The New Orders Index
increased by 0.6 percentage point to 53 percent. The Employment
Index decreased 4.4 percentage points to 48.9 percent,
indicating contraction in employment after one month of growth.
The Prices Index increased 5.4 percentage points to 62.5 percent,
indicating prices increased at a faster rate in November when
compared to October. According to the NMI, 12 non-manufacturing
industries reported growth in November. Respondents’ comments
for the most part project continued slow, incremental growth.
There still remains a strong concern about lagging employment.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE (Based on the NMI)  The 12 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
November based on the NMI composite index -- listed in order --
are: Retail Trade; Mining; Information; Utilities; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; Public Administration;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Wholesale Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The six industries reporting contraction in November
-- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Educational Services;
Other Services; Finance & Insurance; and Construction.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Business activity continues to swing back and forth.
Customer traffic remains lower than expected, but discretionary
spending is fluctuating, making it difficult to find the pulse
of the consumer.” (Arts, Entertainment & Recreation) “Lending is
getting a little better. Competition for good deals is fierce
because there remains a very limited number of high-quality
borrowers.” (Finance & Insurance) “Raw materials prices appear
to be stabilizing, and in some cases are dropping. Diesel fuels
remain elevated and have not dropped.” (Mining) “We currently
see no signs of a turnaround. Customers are nervous about the
future of their jobs and incomes. Due to this fact, our sales
are down and our need to hire more employees is, too.”
(Accommodation & Food Services) “Business is slowly improving.
Outlook for the next few months is good.” (Retail Trade) “In the
face of an extremely tight business climate, prices continue to
be sticky. We are not seeing significant price moderation.”
(Management of Companies & Support Services)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Airfares (2); Crab Legs; Diesel Fuel; #2 Diesel Fuel;
Fluorescent Lamps (2); Food Products; Fruit; Fuel(c); Gasoline;
Gloves; Hard Drives; Heating Fuel; Natural Gas; Packaging Film;
Paper; Paper Products (3); Steel Products(c) (3); and Vegetables.  Commodities Down in Price  Computers; Fuel(c); and Steel Products(c).  Commodities in Short Supply  Hard Drives is the only commodity reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.
(c) Reported as both up and down in price.  NOVEMBER 2011 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In November, the NMI registered 52 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 24th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in November
registered 56.2 percent, an increase of 2.4 percentage points
when compared to the 53.8 percent registered in October. Nine
industries reported increased business activity, and eight
industries reported decreased activity for the month of November.
Comments from respondents include: “Clients deciding to act and
not wait any longer” and “Trying to finish projects prior to end
of year.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in
November -- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Mining; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Utilities; Information; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Transportation & Warehousing. The
industries reporting decreased business activity in November --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Other Services;
Educational Services; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific
& Technical Services; Finance & Insurance; and Construction.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in November
for the 28th consecutive month. The index registered 53 percent,
an increase of 0.6 percentage point from the 52.4 percent
reported in October. Comments from respondents include: “New
customers and products” and “Building inventories for favorable
sales outlook.”  The 10 industries reporting growth of new orders in
November -- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Information; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Mining; Wholesale Trade; Utilities; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Public
Administration. The six industries reporting contraction of new
orders in November -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Other Services; Educational
Services; Construction; Transportation & Warehousing; and
Finance & Insurance.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector
contracted in November after one month of growth, as ISM’s Non-
Manufacturing Employment Index registered 48.9 percent. This
reflects a decrease of 4.4 percentage points when compared to
the 53.3 percent registered in October. Five industries reported
increased employment, eight industries reported decreased
employment, and five industries reported unchanged employment
compared to October. Comments from respondents include:
“Reduction in staff in areas where activity is consistently slow”
and “Minor cost reduction effort to ensure year-end targets.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in
November are: Mining; Retail Trade; Construction; Wholesale
Trade; and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services. The
industries reporting a reduction in employment in November --
listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Educational Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services; Finance & Insurance;
Health Care & Social Assistance; and Public Administration.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 50 percent in
November, 2 percentage points lower than the 52 percent
registered in October, indicating that supplier deliveries were
unchanged in November. A reading above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries.  The five industries reporting slower deliveries in November
are: Transportation & Warehousing; Other Services; Accommodation
& Food Services; Public Administration; and Utilities. The four
industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in November are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Information; Wholesale
Trade; and Finance & Insurance. Nine industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in November compared to October.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in November
after one month of contraction. The index registered 52.5
percent, which is 7 percentage points higher than the 45.5
percent reading that was reported in October. Of the total
respondents in November, 24 percent indicated they do not have
inventories or do not measure them. Comments from respondents
include: “More orders, so higher raw materials inventories” and
“Finally, inventories are in line with run rates.”  The nine industries reporting an increase in inventories in
November -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Retail Trade; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Construction;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Utilities; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services. The six
industries reporting decreases in inventories in November --
listed in order -- are: Other Services; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Mining; Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance; and
Accommodation & Food Services.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for
purchased materials and services increased at a faster rate in
November. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for November
registered 62.5 percent, 5.4 percentage points higher than the
57.1 percent reported in October. In November, the percentage of
respondents reporting higher prices is 23 percent, the
percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 72 percent,
and 5 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Thirteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase
in prices paid, in the following order: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services; Educational Services;
Mining; Utilities; Finance & Insurance; Other Services; Public
Administration; Retail Trade; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Wholesale Trade; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Information. The four industries reporting a
decrease in prices paid are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; and Construction.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted
in November for the fifth time in six months. The index
registered 48 percent, 1 percentage point higher than the 47
percent reported in October. Of the total respondents in
November, 37 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The two industries reporting an increase in order backlogs
in November are: Other Services; and Accommodation & Food
Services. The seven industries reporting lower backlog of orders
in November -- listed in order -- are: Construction;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Health Care &
Social Assistance; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Public
Administration; and Management of Companies & Support Services.
Nine industries reported no change in order backlogs for the
month of November compared to October.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-
manufacturing activities to be provided outside of the  United
States  by domestically based personnel grew in November for the
fourth consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for
November registered 55.5 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points
higher than the 54 percent reported in October. Of the total
respondents in November, 65 percent indicated they either do not
perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work outside
of the United States.  The six industries reporting an increase in new export
orders in November -- listed in order -- are: Mining;
Accommodation & Food Services; Construction; Public
Administration; Finance & Insurance; and Wholesale Trade. The
two industries reporting a decrease in export orders in November
are: Educational Services; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. Eight industries reported no change in new
export orders in November compared to October.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index contracted in
November for the third consecutive month. The index registered
48.5 percent, which is 0.5 percentage point higher than the 48
percent reported in October. Fifty-five percent of respondents
reported that they do not use, or do not track, the use of
imported materials.  The four industries reporting an increase in the use of
imports in November are: Finance & Insurance; Transportation &
Warehousing; Information; and Construction. The five industries
reporting a decrease in imports for the month of November are:
Educational Services; Other Services; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade.
Nine industries reported no change in imports for the month of
November compared to October.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in
November registered 63 percent, which is 5.5 percentage points
higher than the 57.5 percent reported in October. This indicates
that respondents believe their inventories are still too high at
this time. In November, 31 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 5 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 64 percent said their inventories were about right.  The nine industries reporting a feeling that their
inventories are too high in November -- listed in order -- are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Wholesale Trade; Other Services; Finance &
Insurance; Utilities; Mining; Information; and Health Care &
Social Assistance. The two industries reporting that their
inventories are too low in November are: Accommodation & Food
Services; and Construction. Six industries reported no change in
inventory sentiment in November compared to October.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on
data compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders, Inventory Change, Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index
based on the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with
equal weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted)
and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties
of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures
showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope of
change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the
non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are
sent out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee
respondents the first part of each month. Respondents are asked
to ONLY report on information for the current month. ISM
receives survey responses throughout most of any given month,
with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in
the month to submit responses in order to give the most accurate
picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the third business day of the following
month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission is to
lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the
third business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business®
featuring the December 2011 data will be released at 10:00 a.m.
(ET) on Thursday, January 5, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  