-- 
Treasuries Erase Drop After S&P Warns of European Credit Rating Reductions

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-12-05T21:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-s-bonds-fall-as-italy-s-austerity-plan-saps-demand-for-safer-securities.html
Treasuries erased losses after
 Standard & Poor’s  warned it may cut the credit ratings of
Germany and 14 other euro-zone member nations, renewing the
refuge appeal of U.S. government securities.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes had climbed as high as
eight basis points before closing little changed at 2.04 percent
after S&P said ratings may be reduced as earlier as the
conclusion of a European Union meeting at the end of this week.  “It continues to be very difficult to short Treasuries
with continued problems around the world, ”said  Brian Edmonds ,
head of  interest rates  in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one
of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .  The 10-year note yielded was little changed from yesterday
at 2.04 percent at 4:51 p.m. New York time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent securities maturing
in November 2021 fell 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 99 21/32.  Stocks pared their gains, with the S&P 500 Index advancing
1 percent after gaining 1.8 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
increased for a second straight day, rising 0.8 percent, before
the S&P announcement.  “We expect to conclude our review of euro-zone sovereign
ratings as soon as possible following the EU summit scheduled
for Dec. 8 and 9, 2011,” S&P said in a statement. “Ratings
could be lowered by up to one notch for  Austria ,  Belgium ,
 Finland , Germany,  Netherlands , and Luxembourg, and by up to two
notches for the other governments.”  European Summit  The downgrade warnings come as German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy push for a rewrite
of the EU’s governing rules to tighten economic cooperation in a
demonstration of unity on ending the debt crisis.  With the fate of the currency shared by the euro countries
at risk, Merkel and Sarkozy presented a common platform for a
Dec. 8-9 summit of EU leaders in Brussels that aims to halt the
crisis, now in its third year.  Bonds began to pare their drop after the Financial Times
reported earlier that S&P planned to reduce six AAA outlooks,
without citing the source of the information.  Sarkozy said at a press conference with Merkel in Paris
that the French and German governments want to have a new treaty
agreed to among all euro-zone countries by March. The German and
French leaders plan to send a letter on Dec. 7 to European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  outlining their ideas for a treaty
imposing stricter limits on the budgets of euro members.  Italian bonds rose today, narrowing the extra yield
investors get for holding the nation’s securities instead of
German bunds to as little as 3.94 percentage points, the least
since Oct. 31. The euro was little changed at $1.3397.  Monti’s Plan  Prime Minister Mario Monti of  Italy  presented lawmakers a
proposal for 30 billion euros ($40.4 billion) of austerity and
growth measures approved by the cabinet yesterday.  Funding next year’s $1.3 trillion U.S. budget deficit may
get a boost from  Germany  as bunds underperform Treasuries for
the first time since the European debt crisis began in 2009.  While the U.S. needs to double bond sales to investors
after the Fed reduced purchases, Treasuries due in 10 years or
more are 2011’s best-performing sovereign securities, returning
26 percent as of Nov. 30, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  Germany’s 30-year bonds yielded more than U.S. peers last
month for the first time since May 2009 as its government was
only able to find buyers for 65 percent of a 6 billion euro sale
on Nov. 23, its worst auction in 16 years.  Obama on Bonds  President  Barack Obama ’s administration will more than
double sales to investors to about $1 trillion from $454 billion
in 2011 because the Fed’s stimulus programs have diminished,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a Nov. 25 report.  The Fed announced in September it would replace $400
billion of shorter maturities in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap borrowing costs.  The central bank bought $1.736 billion of Treasuries due
from 2022 to 2031 and purchased $4.902 billion of securities
maturing from 2018 to 2019 under the program today, according to
the New York Fed’s website.  Treasuries earlier today pared  losses  after the Institute
for Supply Management’s U.S. non-manufacturing index fell to 52
in November from 52.9 a month earlier. Fifty is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  “The markets are more focused on what’s going on in
Europe,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist in
Philadelphia at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $12
billion in fixed-income assets.  Ten-year note  yields  will climb to 2.41 percent by June
2012, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of financial companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
dkruger1@bloomberg  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  