-- 
U.S. Nov. Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-12-05T15:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/u-s-nov-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of
U.S. employment trends index from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index (ETI) Increased
Again in November  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index (ETI) increased in
November to 103.7, up from the revised figure of 102.42 in
October. The November figure is up 6.4 percent from the same
month a year ago.  Says Gad Levanon, Director of Macroeconomic Research at The
Conference Board: “The Employment Trends Index posted a large
increase for the second straight month, with all of its
components showing gains over these two months. The better than
expected growth in economic activity in recent months is likely
to lead to some acceleration in job growth in the beginning of
2012. However, this improvement may be short lived, in
particular as the  U.S. economy  slows down once again in the
coming quarters.”  This month’s strength in the ETI was driven by positive
contributions from seven out of the eight components. The
improving indicators include The Conference Board Consumer
Confidence Survey “Jobs Hard to Get,” Initial Claims for
Unemployment Insurance, Percentage of Firms With Positions Not
Able to Fill Right Now, Number of Employees Hired by the
Temporary-Help Industry, Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons,
 Job Openings , and Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators, each of which has proven accurate in its own area.
Aggregating individual indicators into a composite index filters
out so-called “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment
Trends Index include:
-Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get”
(The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Survey)
-Initial Claims for  Unemployment Insurance  (U.S. Department of
Labor)
-Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now
(© National Federation of Independent Business Research
Foundation)
-Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry (U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics)
-Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)
-Job Openings (BLS)
-Industrial Production (Federal Reserve Board)
-Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic
Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index
monthly, at 10 a.m. ET on the Monday that follows each Friday
release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics employment situation
report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conference -
board.org/data/eti.cfm.  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
