-- 
UN Security Council Passes Sanctions Resolution on Eritrea

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-12-05T20:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/un-security-council-passes-sanctions-resolution-on-eritrea.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
today voted to expand sanctions on Eritrea and warned mining
companies to exercise greater “vigilance” in doing business
with the African nation.  The 15-member council approved a resolution 13 to 0, with
Russia and China abstaining, that broadens the scope of an asset
freeze and travel ban imposed on Eritrean individuals and
entities in 2009. In addition, UN member states “shall
undertake appropriate measures to promote the exercise of
vigilance” in their dealings with Eritrea’s mining industry.  Eritrea’s $2.59 billion economy relies on mining and gold
that has drawn investment from companies including Canada’s
 Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU)   The push to punish Eritrea was triggered by a UN report in
July that said its government planned a failed plot in January
to disrupt the African Union summit in  Addis Ababa  by bombing
civilian and governmental targets.  The resolution ties Eritrea directly to the attack. The
government of Eritrea denies any involvement in the plot.  The current text is watered down from an October draft that
banned companies from investing in mineral resources and
prohibited the payment of a remittances tax.  The resolution now “condemns” the use of a 2 percent tax
paid by Eritreans abroad “for purposes such as procuring arms
and related materiel for transfer to armed opposition groups”
and “decides Eritrea shall cease these practices.”  Eritrea has been ruled by President Isaias Afeworki, a
former rebel leader, since it gained independence from  Ethiopia 
in 1993. The UN has already sanctioned the Horn of Africa nation
for supporting al-Qaeda-linked terrorists fighting to topple the
Western-backed government of Somalia.  In a Dec. 4 statement from its foreign ministry, Eritrea
said there “is absolutely no justification for rushing a
sanctions resolution that is designed to inflict suffering on
the Eritrean people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  