-- 
Turkish Yields Decline Six Days in a Row Before Debt Auction

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-12-05T16:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/turkish-yields-decline-six-day-in-a-row-before-debt-auction.html
Turkish  yields  recorded their longest
falling streak since December 2010 on expectation that the
central bank will not raise borrowing costs. The decline comes a
day before the Treasury’s last debt auction in 2011.  The  Treasury  plans to offer new fixed-rate lira bonds due
in December 2013 in a sale tomorrow as part of its plans to
borrow 1 billion liras, against a domestic debt service of 1.1
billion liras, according to its  website .  Yields  on the two-year
debt retreated 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to
10.15 percent, falling for a sixth day, to its lowest level
since Nov. 11.  “I’d expect to see strong bids and the Treasury to borrow
easily in the auction,” Bugra Bilgi, a hedge fund manager at
Garanti Asset Management, said in e-mailed comments. “We may
see some foreign investor interest” in the auction “despite
low borrowing requirement of Treasury,” he said.  The Treasury sold benchmark July 2013 bonds at an average
yield of 10.59 percent on Nov. 15, the highest borrowing cost
since July 2009, after yields climbed the most since 2008 in
October as the central bank more than doubled borrowing costs.
Turkish bonds’ returns in U.S. dollar terms are the second-worst
year to date among 27 developing nations tracked by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “The Treasury may borrow more than 1 billion liras to
strengthen its cash reserves if the central bank continues to
provide more funds at one-week repo auctions and the banks’ cost
of funding falls,” Ugur N. Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at
Is Investment Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Inflation Target  Governor Erdem Basci said on Nov. 30 a tight monetary
policy was in place to deal with a “significant” acceleration
in inflation in the next two months and sees no need to adjust
the interest-rate corridor. Basci has sought to combine
inflation-targeting with measures which are designed to absorb
shocks emanating from volatile capital flows.  “This erased the fears that the Bank will continue to
tighten the liquidity conditions more and eased the pressure on
bonds,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in a note to clients dated Dec. 1.  The central bank varies banks’ borrowing costs on a daily
basis between the benchmark rate of 5.75 percent and 12.5
percent as part of its policy announced on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  