-- 
Turkish Inflation Rate Rises to 19-Month High as Lira Slumps

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 
2011-12-05T15:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/turkish-november-inflation-accelerates-to-9-5-after-lira-fall.html
Turkish  inflation  accelerated to the
highest in 19 months in November and  core inflation  surged to a
four-year high after steps to weaken the lira pushed up 
import costs and the government increased sales taxes on some 
goods.  The inflation rate rose to 9.5 percent from 7.7 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its
website today. The median estimate of eight economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg was 9 percent. In the month, prices rose 1.7
percent. The central bank’s preferred measure of core inflation
jumped to 8.2 percent, the highest since June 2007.  “The central bank will argue that this is ‘just’ the
result of exchange rate pass-through,” Tim Ash, head of
emerging-market research for Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 London , said in e-mailed comments. “Well yes, but that’s the
result of the fact that the current account deficit had been
left to get too large for too long. The central bank is finally
on the case, but some would argue too little, too late.”  The central bank cut  interest rates  in August as part of a
plan to narrow Turkey’s record  current account deficit  without
attracting excessive inflows of short-term capital. The lira has
fallen 15 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer among major emerging market currencies after the South
African rand. The plunge forced the bank to reverse course and
intervene in  currency markets  to support the lira, as well as
lending to banks at higher rates to stem consumer demand.  ‘Tightening Bias’  Consumer price inflation is now more than double the four-
decade low of 4 percent reached in March.  Yields  on two-year bonds fell 13 basis points to 10.15
percent at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul, sliding for the sixth day, the
longest streak of declines this year. Yields have risen 304
basis points in 2011. The lira advanced 0.3 percent to 1.8256
per dollar. The main ISE National 100 index rose 0.8 percent to
55,195.81.  “The fact that the core numbers keep on ticking higher
while the economy slows is a worrisome issue and will force the
central bank to keep even closer to their tightening bias,”
Ozhan Antero Atilla, an emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey ’s  economy  is slowing from an 11 percent annual
growth rate in the first quarter. The bank introduced a two-tier
monetary policy on Oct. 26 in an effort to slow consumer demand,
varying borrowing costs for banks between the  benchmark one-week
repo rate  of 5.75 percent and an overnight rate of as much as
12.5 percent. The government also increased taxes on tobacco,
cars above 1600cc and mobile phones to help pare the current 
account deficit, which reached a record 10 percent of economic
output in September.   ‘More Extreme Correction’  The bank sees no need to adjust its so-called interest-rate
corridor, central bank governor Erdem Basci said last month. The
impact on import prices from the lira’s decline is likely to be
temporary as monetary and fiscal policy is disinflationary,
Basci said on Nov. 30.  “I’m not quite sure what signal it sends to the market
when inflation is close to 9.5 percent and the benchmark rate is
at 5.75 percent,” Ash said. “The lira needs to adjust weaker
to counter the wide current account deficit, but given inflation
risks the central bank is loathe to do this. The only solution
is for the bank to engineer a more extreme correction in
domestic demand.”  Expectations for inflation in 12 months rose to 6.99
percent from 6.93 percent in the central bank’s latest survey of
economists and executives, released on Nov. 22.  Inflation Goal  The central bank’s policy of dual lending rates is
“unsustainable” due to the adverse effects on the  bond market ,
Citigroup Inc. economists Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar said
in a report on Dec. 2 from London. It may take six years for the
central bank to reach its medium-term inflation goal of 5
percent, they said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. started publishing forecasts for
Turkey’s overnight money market rate instead of the benchmark
rate, and by that measure Turkish rates are the highest in the
region, according to an e-mailed report on Dec. 1.  Turkey is revising its estimate for inflation this year to
nearly 10 percent, in an economic program that it will present
to the European Union on Dec. 15, government officials who
declined to be unidentified said by telephone today. The draft
document may be changed and is subject to cabinet approval, they
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 