-- 
Turkish Bond Yields Rise First Day in Six as Inflation Surges

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-12-05T09:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/turkish-bond-yields-rise-first-day-in-six-as-inflation-surges.html
Yields  on two-year Turkish benchmark
debt climbed for the first day in six and the lira erased gains
after  inflation  accelerated in November, spurring bets for a
tighter monetary policy.  The yield climbed eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
points, to 10.36 percent at 10:42 a.m. in Istanbul, a Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi index of the securities showed. The lira erased
earlier gains and weakened less than 0.1 percent at 1.8312 per
dollar in a third day of depreciations.  The rate of inflation rose to 9.5 percent from 7.7 percent
a month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its
website today, the highest level since April 2010. The median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 9
percent. In the month, prices rose 1.7 percent. Core inflation
rate rose to 8.18 percent in November.  “The fact that the core numbers keep on ticking higher
while the economy slows is a worrisome issue and will force the
central bank to keep even closer to their tightening bias,”
Ozhan Antero Atilla, emerging-markets analyst at Danske Bank A/S
in Copenhagen, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkish yields on two-year debt climbed from 8.4 percent at
the end of September, the largest increase among 16 developing
nations tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co., on concern that the
central bank policy of fighting inflation without raising
borrowing costs will fail to contain price increases.  Policy makers introduced a dual interest-rate system to
curb lending, support the lira and narrow a gaping  current-
account deficit,  a policy Citigroup Inc. Economists Ilker Domac
and Gultekin Isiklar in a report dated Dec. 2 described as
“unsustainable” due to its cost to the market.  The Turkish currency lost 15.7 percent this year, making it
the second-worst performer among more than 20 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Instead of raising the one-week repurchase rate from a
record low of 5.75 percent, Central Bank of Turkey Governor
Erdem Basci said on Oct. 26 that the policy makers will vary
banks’ borrowing costs daily between the benchmark and an
overnight rate of as much as 12.5 percent.  The bank offered to provide 11 billion liras ($6 billion)
in one-week repo to banks today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  