-- 
Visa Develops Rwanda Payment Network

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-05T17:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/visa-plans-pyramid-of-payments-as-rwanda-starts-from-scratch.html
Visa Inc., the world’s biggest bank-
card network, agreed to help develop Rwanda’s payments system
and connect the African nation’s 11 million citizens to the
global economy as the firm pushes to boost  non-U.S. revenue. (V)   The company will modernize the nation’s payments network
under an accord with the government, working with partners to
upgrade automated teller machines, install merchant card
readers, develop e-commerce capabilities and provide financial
education, said Elizabeth Buse, Visa’s group president
responsible for most business outside the Americas.  “It’s absolutely critical that you start with the
government if you are going to have the full pyramid of payments
services,” Buse, 50, said in a phone interview. “Our intent is
to take what we are doing in Rwanda and repeat it across” other
developing economies, she said.  The project may help Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders, 66, fulfill his goal of generating more than half of
Visa’s revenue outside the U.S. by 2015. Last month, the company
announced a plan to create prepaid accounts linked to mobile
phones across  Africa  and the  Middle East  as it aims to capture
transactions from so-called unbanked consumers.  Visa chose Rwanda, where 86 percent of the population lacks
access to traditional financial services, because of its
friendliness toward private enterprise, stable regulatory
structure and smaller population, Buse said.  ‘ Economic Growth ’  “In all economies, well-developed financial systems are
essential for sustained economic growth,” National Bank of
Rwanda Governor Claver Gatete said in a statement today. “The
partnership between the government of Rwanda and Visa is an
opportunity to increase efficiency and inclusion through the use
of electronic financial services.”  Rwanda’s economy, recovering from the 1994 genocide that
killed about 1 million people in 100 days, is forecast by the
central bank to grow 8.8 percent this year. The economy doubled
in the nine years through 2010, according to the  World Bank .  U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice  has
criticized Rwanda’s “comparatively closed” political culture
and said the East African nation should take steps to broaden
democracy. Restrictions on the media, harassment of activists,
opposition figures and journalists as well as the disappearance
of some of them pose the “next developmental challenge” for
the country, Rice said in a Nov. 23 speech at the Kigali
Institute of Science and Technology in the capital.  ‘ Economic Development ’  “The deepening and broadening of democracy can be the next
great achievement of this great country and its remarkable
people,” she said. “Economic development and political
openness should reinforce each other.”  Visa will teach financial literacy in rural communities and
to bank and government employees, Buse said. The company also
will work with airline  RwandAir  to develop online ticketing and
reservations technology for the national carrier, she said.  “Make no mistake: This is absolutely a commercial activity
from our perspective,” Buse said. “It is driving more volume
and revenue across the Visa network.”  The company got 44 percent of revenue from outside the U.S.
and processed 50.9 billion transactions valued at $5.87 trillion
in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, according to a statement.  Visa climbed 0.5 percent to $97.71 at noon in  New York . It
advanced 38 percent this year through last week, the  third-best
performance (S5INFT)  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology
Index after Purchase, New York-based  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
world’s second-biggest payments network, and video-game
publisher Electronic Arts Inc.  Visa said last month it would roll out prepaid accounts on
MTN Group Ltd.’s cellular network for 5.7 million customers
across the Middle East and Africa, starting with Nigeria and
 Uganda . The offering is Visa’s first in the region since its
$110 million purchase in June of Fundamo, a Cape Town-based
provider of mobile-commerce technology in  developing countries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  