-- 
Walk, Bike to Work in Salt Lake’s Answer to Suburban Nightmares

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/walk-bike-to-work-in-salt-lake-s-answer-to-suburban-nightmares.html
At the southwestern edge of  Salt Lake
City , tightly packed new homes run along gentle ridgelines. In
the background, the snow-covered Wasatch Mountains catch puffs
of cloud on a crisp autumn day.  This is the growing community of Daybreak and it’s much
more than suburbia in a stunning setting. Someday residents of
20,000 houses and apartments could walk or bike to 2.4 million
square feet of shopping and 5 million square feet of offices.  The same mix of uses and walkability can be found in City
Creek, an estimated $1.5 billion redevelopment covering 23 acres
in downtown Salt Lake City, about 45 minutes away.  The Salt Lake City area is piloting a federal program
called Sustainable Communities that could help cities uncover
underserved markets and devise developments that serve them.
Shaun Donovan, secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
worked on the program with  Lisa Jackson , administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency and Ray LaHood, who heads the
Department of Transportation.  “More metro areas understand that they need a variety of
places for people to live,” Donovan said in an interview in his
Washington office. “Or they will end up shutting out whole
classes of working people, like teachers, and firefighters. That
makes it harder to attract employers.”  The hope is that communities can move beyond the brain-dead
national models of development and related finance that led to
bubble-fed overbuilding. Even now few developers know how to
pump out anything but oversized tract houses and identical
shopping strips.  ‘Ghost Towns’  “The ghost towns of the housing bust are places that lack
transportation options, that aren’t walkable,” Donovan said.
“The average family spends 52 cents of every dollar they earn on
housing and transportation combined, so the biggest opportunity
is in development around transportation.”  Providing the link between City Creek, which opens in
March, and Daybreak is a light rail line that started operations
last August.  Daybreak and City Creek got built in sync with a regional
planning effort of 18 communities and four counties along the
Wasatch Front called  Wasatch Choice for 2040 .  Most real-estate developers and their lenders wouldn’t
attempt the density and mix of the Salt Lake City projects.
Neither City Creek Reserve Inc., the development arm of the
Mormon church, nor Daybreak’s developer, Kennecott Land Co.,
which is part of the  Rio Tinto (RIO)  mining empire, needed
conventional lenders.  Getting Comfortable  Sustainable Communities aims at promoting smaller mixed-
use, high-density development around transit stops. The federal
grant is only $5 million, and local planners are using it to
help lenders and developers get comfortable with the market for
this so-called transit-oriented development. They may change
zoning and parking requirements to lower the barriers to entry.  Planners use computer modeling to test transit-oriented
neighborhood-design scenarios, trying out different mixes and
densities of apartments, offices, shops, schools and parks. The
models evaluate the effects “on transportation, utility costs,
 tax revenue , and on return on investment for developers,” said
Andrew Gruber, executive director of the Wasatch Front Regional
Council, a local-government group that co-manages Wasatch Choice
for 2040.  ‘Some Kind of Leap’  “Communities recognize there’s some kind of leap they have
to take,” said Donovan, so that everyone learns what specific
kinds of development are likely to work in the future. It’s an
effort cities almost never attempt.  If Wasatch 2040’s planning tools help reduce development
risks, projects can more adventurously pursue amenable growth
that saves energy, lowers government costs and eradicates a
minimum of farmland and forest.  It’s regrettable that Congress has just eliminated the
program’s funding for 2012, even though the $98 million it cost
this year is meaningless in deficit-reduction terms.  “The reason this effort has gotten so much interest at the
state and local level is that we are supporting a vision, rather
than imposing a vision,” Donovan said.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net ;
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 