-- 
Women CEOs Say Debt Uncertainty and Regulation Hurt Job Growth

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-12-05T22:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/women-ceos-say-debt-uncertainty-and-regulation-hurt-job-growth.html
Women business leaders meeting with
Republican lawmakers said tax burdens, duplicative government
rules, an unskilled workforce and congressional deadlock on the
deficit are hurting  job creation  and the economy.  “Like everyone else, we need certainty when we get up in
the morning and go into the office and worry about how many
people we are going to hire,” said Lisa Hook, chief executive
officer of  Neustar Inc. (NSR) , a provider of telephone and Internet
directories based in Sterling,  Virginia , at a panel discussion
today in  Washington .  “If we don’t have a budget resolution, if we don’t have a
debt-ceiling resolution, that nevertheless impacts our stock,”
Hook said at the roundtable discussion with women CEOs and
female Republican House members on the economy and jobs.  She termed the impasse a “bipartisan problem.”  Concerns expressed included new regulations on banks that
make it more difficult to access credit, a complex tax code and
a need to invest more in training students in science,
engineering, technology and math.  Alison Brown, CEO of Navsys Corp., a closely held company
based in  Colorado  Springs, Colorado, that develops global
positioning system technology, said her company is having more
trouble getting access to working capital.  “As a result of the Wall Street financial crisis,
restrictions are being put on banks that are causing Main Street
to suffer,” she said.  Product Development  Brown said that before the crisis she could invest in
product development with “reasonable certainty” that she could
get access to a line of credit to hire employees and purchase
materials. “This is no longer the case, and this is a serious
problem for any small business planning growth,” she said.  Uncertainly over budget cuts at the Department of  Defense 
is also delaying contracts for her company, Brown said. “Fiscal
2012 is looking even grimmer.”  Brown, Hook and others called for a greater effort and
investment to encourage students to study science and math
because highly skilled jobs are going unfilled.  Catherine Heigel, president of Duke Energy  South Carolina ,
said the company’s priorities include passage of a tax holiday
for offshore profits brought back to the U.S.  “Duke Energy has over $1.2 billion in foreign earnings
that currently sit offshore that we would very much like to
bring back,” she said. “We would pay an effective tax rate of
more than 50 percent on that money if we brought it back.”  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is
buying Progress Energy Inc. to become the largest U.S. utility
owner.  Multinational companies including Microsoft Corp. and
Oracle Corp. are urging Congress to make passing a measure to
allow a tax break on their offshore profits a greater priority
than a  tax-code  overhaul.  The panel was moderated by Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a Washington Republican and vice chair of the House
Republican Conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  