-- 
Zynga Lets Bing Gordon Turn $35 Million Into $650 Million

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-12-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-05/zynga-lets-bing-gordon-turn-35-million-into-650-million-technology.html
It’s a good thing for  Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers  that Bing Gordon really likes online video
games. That made the venture firm into the biggest winner in
 Zynga Inc. ’s initial public offering, poised to turn a $35
million investment into about $650 million.  Gordon worked at  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  for 26 years, serving
as chief creative director for a decade. Electronic Arts was a
major force in early computer games, the kind on floppy disks,
with a hot stock and popular titles such as the “Madden”
football series. Its fortunes sagged in 2008, however, as gamers
began to switch to social networks such as  Facebook Inc. ’s site.  The rise of Zynga, whose IPO values the company at as much
as $7 billion, and the struggles of Electronic Arts show how
quickly today’s leading-edge companies can become yesterday’s
news unless they quickly embrace the latest technologies.  “When you’re inside a big company like Electronic Arts and
you’ve got momentum in a direction, it’s sometimes very
difficult to break away from that direction,” said  Neil Young ,
co-founder of the mobile-gaming startup Ngmoco Inc. He worked as
a vice president at Electronic Arts until 2008. “Bing was
always challenging the company to try to think outside of its
norms and also to think very big.”  Gordon, 61, graduated from  Yale University  in 1972 and
spent a year as an actor in  New York , a skill that still makes
its way into board meetings, where Gordon is known to break into
a song or poem. He attended business school at  Stanford
University  in 1976 and then joined Electronic Arts in 1982, just
as the company was getting established.  Early Gains  One of the company’s  original investors  was  Kleiner
Perkins , which was willing to bet on the relatively novel idea
of playing games on computers. As the market boomed, Electronic
Arts held its own IPO in 1989 and saw its stock gain more than
12,000 percent over the next 18 years.  Then came the shift to social networks -- something Zynga
capitalized on by rolling out a series of Facebook games,
including “Mafia Wars” and “FarmVille.”  Electronic Arts was getting about three-quarters of its
revenue from consoles and personal-computer games in 2007. As
the economic slump deepened and more consumers switched to free
games online, the company racked up losses. Electronic Arts lost
almost $2.5 billion over a four-year period. The stock fell by
about three-quarters between October 2007 and the end of 2008.  Who Knew?  Zynga’s ascent was hard to predict in 2007, said  Jeff
Brown , a spokesman for  Redwood City , California-based Electronic
Arts.  “All of the metrics, all of the analytics at the time may
not have pointed to Zynga’s success,” Brown said. Zynga “really
created lightning and did an extraordinary job, in jump-starting
not just the company but the genre.”  Electronic Arts is now putting more resources into social
games, helped by its acquisitions of Internet-gaming startups
PopCap Games Inc. and Playfish Inc., Electronic Arts Chief
Executive Officer John Riccitiello has said this year.  Online gaming took a leap forward in 2007 when Facebook
started letting outside developers build applications for the
site. Dave Morin, who was Facebook’s senior platform manager,
met Gordon in June of that year at Apple Inc.’s developer
conference in San Francisco. Gordon had been on stage with  Steve Jobs  discussing plans to bring Electronic Arts games to
Macintosh computers.  Brainstorming Sessions  The next week, Gordon visited Morin at Facebook’s
headquarters in  Palo Alto ,  California . They had two or three
lengthy brainstorming sessions in the following weeks, during
which Gordon showed him some preliminary projects he was
building at Electronic Arts, Morin said.  “They did a bunch of experimenting on Facebook and built
some simple games,” said Morin, who last year co-founded  Path ,
a San Francisco-based social-networking company backed by
Kleiner Perkins. “He knew there was this opportunity.”  Mark Pincus  founded Zynga in 2007 as a way to let Facebook
friends play games together. Gordon later met Pincus, who had
built a poker app for Facebook that was gaining popularity.
Pincus talked with a group of Electronic Arts executives,
including Gordon, about investing in his venture, according to
Paul Martino, who had started a previous company with Pincus and
provided some seed funding for Zynga.  “Mark has a very enlightened view of partnering with
people who can really help,” said Martino, who’s now a partner
at investment firm  Bullpen Capital  in  Menlo Park , California.
“While EA didn’t like what they heard at the time, Bing sure
liked what he heard.”  Frequent Visits  Gordon started making regular visits to Pincus’s incubator
space in  San Francisco ’s Potrero Hill district. After their
initial meeting, every time Martino stopped by to see what
Pincus was working on, Gordon was there.  “It was clear that this was going to be a special
mentoring relationship,” Martino said. “He and Mark had
absolutely the same vision of where games were going.”  Gordon already sat on Amazon.com Inc.’s board alongside
 John Doerr , a lead partner at Kleiner Perkins. In 2008, after
more than a quarter-century at Electronic Arts, Gordon jumped to
the venture firm. The move gave him a freer hand to act on his
vision for the industry.  Gordon is still held in high esteem at Electronic Arts,
said Brown, the company spokesman.  Still Beloved  “He is one of the most respected and revered people in the
30-year history of this company,” said Brown, who helped
organize Gordon’s going-away party in 2008. “He’s created so
many careers and so many opportunities for so many people. He’s
a true visionary.”  Gordon’s arrival sparked a return to Web investing for
Kleiner Perkins. While the firm had profited from Internet
companies during the dot-com boom, it had shifted its focus to
alternative energy in the past decade. Accel Partners, Greylock
Partners and Union Square Ventures, meanwhile, were financing
the next generation of Internet companies, such as Facebook,
Twitter Inc. and LinkedIn Corp.  Gordon soon made his first investment: Zynga. The company
had already received financing from investors such as Avalon
Ventures and Foundry Group. Gordon also joined Zynga’s board.
His second bet: mobile-game company Ngmoco, which was acquired
for $400 million by Japan’s DeNA Co.  The year after Gordon left his old company, Electronic Arts
tried to catch up in social gaming by spending $400 million to
acquire Zynga’s biggest rival, Playfish. Yet Zynga owns five of
the 12 most popular applications on Facebook, while Electronic
Arts has one, according to research firm  AppData.com .  Shares Rebound  Still, Electronic Arts’ efforts to adapt, along with its
narrowing losses, have reassured investors. The shares have
increased more than 40 percent this year. Analysts expect the
company to post its first profit in six years in fiscal 2012,
which ends in March.  Electronic Arts’ Riccitiello says Zynga will have a hard
time maintaining its dominance in the market, especially as his
company puts more of its influence behind Playfish.  “Zynga probably has something on the order of 80 percent
of the social platform for gaming, which hats off, they’ve done
a great job,” Riccitiello said in March at an investment
conference. “I am unaware of any sustained 80 percent market
share on any entertainment platform at any time, ever. It just
takes time to compete.”  In addition to investing in Zynga, Ngmoco and Path, Gordon
has backed  Klout Inc. , which tracks influence on social
networks; Callaway Digital Arts Inc., a maker of applications
for kids; and Lockerz Inc., a members-only website that caters
to fans of fashion, electronics and music.  Sales Jump  Gordon’s biggest bet to date remains Zynga, where  revenue 
in the third quarter jumped 80 percent from the previous year,
surpassing $306.8 million.  Kleiner Perkins owns 65.2 million Class B shares of Zynga.
Assuming a $10 share price, that would be worth more than $650
million. Gordon still spends at least one day a week in Zynga’s
office, and is an avid player of the company’s top titles:
“FarmVille,” “CityVille” and “CastleVille.”  For Kleiner to secure its returns on Zynga, the company’s
stock price needs to hold up for at least six months
-- the so-called lock-up period during which insiders are barred
from selling.  Groupon Inc. , Pandora Media Inc. and HomeAway Inc.
have all dropped since their IPOs this year.  In the meantime, Gordon is hunting for the next big idea.
During visits to Lockerz’s offices in  Seattle , he holds three-
or four-hour brainstorming sessions where he sketches out
features on a whiteboard, said Kathy Savitt, the startup’s
founder.  “One of the things about Bing that’s so disruptive is not
just his ideas but his presence,” Savitt said. “He might start
singing, he might recite a poem, but he’s definitely someone who
is full of life in everything he does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  