-- 
‘Planet of the Apes’ Opens at Top With Sales of $54 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-08-07T18:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/-planet-of-the-apes-opens-as-weekend-s-top-film-with-54-million-in-sales.html
“Rise of the Planet of the Apes,”
the prequel to the 1968 science-fiction classic, opened as the
No. 1 movie in U.S. and Canada theaters this weekend, with $54
million in ticket sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  “The Change-Up,” the only other film opening in wide
release, was fourth in its debut, generating $13.5 million in
sales for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures , researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” featuring  James Franco ,
is the fourth Fox picture to open in first place this year. It’s
also the first film from Chernin Entertainment, the production
company led by former News Corp. President and Chief Operating
Officer  Peter Chernin . Chernin, 60, resigned from News Corp. in
2009 to produce films and television shows.  “The success of `Planet of the Apes' is terrific and better
than anyone expected,” Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer
of Boxofficeguru.com, said in an interview. “It’s a testament
to the strength of a film that is solid and has good reviews.”  In the film, a chimp used in drug tests is endowed with
high intelligence. He leads a rebellion against harsh treatment
in the lab, setting the stage for the role reversal of humans
and apes explored in the original film. Franco plays a
sympathetic scientist who treats the young chimp with kindness.  ‘Smurfs’ Hold Second  Tom Felton , who played Draco Malfoy in the “Harry Potter”
films, co-stars as one of the chimp’s antagonists. The cast also
includes  Freida Pinto  and John Lithgow. The effects-heavy movie
cost about $90 million to make, according to the  Internet Movie
Database . The website  Boxoffice.com  forecast weekend sales of
$39 million.  Last week’s second-place film,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “The Smurfs,”
held its position with revenue of $21 million. Combining live
action and computer effects, “The Smurfs” stars Neil Patrick Harris as a  New Yorker  who helps the tiny, blue creatures after
they are forced from their village by an evil wizard. The movie
has generated worldwide sales of $129 million in the 10 days
since its release, Hollywood.com said.  The space-invader western “Cowboys & Aliens” fell to
third from first with sales of $15.7 million. The film stars
Daniel Craig as a gunslinger who joins with cowhands and Indians
to resist an attack from another planet. The movie, produced by
 Steven Spielberg , was made for an estimated $163 million and has
taken in $67.4 million in the U.S. since its Aug. 4 debut.  Raunchy Comedy Fades  In “The Change-Up,”  Jason Bateman  plays a harried father
and husband who swaps bodies, and lifestyles, with his swinging,
single buddy, played by  Ryan Reynolds . Olivia Wilde and Alan Arkin co-star. The film was made for an estimated $52 million
and was expected to take in $13.5 million, according to
Boxofficemojo.com.  The movie’s “disappointing” opening can be attributed to
bad reviews and competition from other R-rated comedies which
opened this summer, Pandya said.  The raunchy brand of comedies offered by “Change-Up” is
“a little late to the game” and there isn’t “a market for
them anymore,” he said.  “Captain America: The First Avenger,” slipped to fifth
from third with sales of $13 million for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount
Pictures .  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 28.3 percent to
$157 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.  Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 4.8
percent to $6.7 billion, while attendance is down 5.7 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Aug.
5-6 and estimates for today. 