-- 
AAA Rated France May Be Vulnerable to Downgrade Following Cut to the U.S.

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/aaa-rated-france-may-be-vulnerable-to-downgrade-following-cut-to-the-u-s-.html
The decision by Standard & Poor’s to
downgrade the U.S. credit rating leaves  France  as the AAA
country most likely to lose its top grade, some investors and
economists say.  France is more expensive to insure against default than
lower-rated governments including Malaysia, Thailand, Japan,
Mexico,  Czech Republic , the state of Texas and the U.S.  “France is not, in my view, a AAA country,” said Paul Donovan, London-based deputy head of global economics at UBS AG.
“France can’t print its own money, a critical distinction from
the U.S. It is not treated as AAA by the markets.”  While all three major credit-rating companies have
confirmed France’s top level in recent months, market measures
indicate increasing investor skittishness over the country’s
vulnerability to the European debt crisis. Euro-region central
bank governors signalled after emergency talks yesterday that
they would buy bonds from Spain and  Italy  to counter investor
concerns and limit fallout from the U.S. cut.  “If Italy and Spain have difficulties, are we sure that,
for instance, France can still be considered a ‘core’ country?”
said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global.
``‘Core’ is becoming a narrower group of countries.”  While France’s debt of 84.7 percent of gross domestic
product is less than Italy’s 120.3 percent, as a percentage of
economic output it has risen twice as fast as Italy’s since
2007. French government debt totaled 1.59 trillion euros ($2.3
trillion) at the end of 2010, according to the European Union;
Italy’s was about 1.8 trillion euros. France has had a larger
 budget deficit  than Italy every year since 2006. S&P rates Italy
A+, four levels below France.  France’s rating at Standard & Poor’s is in a “stable
perspective,” Jean-Michel Six, the firm’s chief economist for
 Europe , said in an interview with France Info radio yesterday.  AAA in Euro  In the euro area,  Germany ,  Austria ,  Finland , Luxembourg,
and the Netherlands also have the top rating.  Neil Mackinnon, a strategist at VTB Capital in  London  and a
former U.K. Treasury official, said that France is among the
European nations whose credit quality now faces more scrutiny.  “Countries like France, Italy and Belgium, and even the
U.K., are vulnerable to downgrade,” he said.  France is the most costly AAA country to protect against
default. Credit default swaps on France trade at 143.8 basis
points, almost triple the U.S.  Spain  is at 407.6 basis points
and Italy at 386.8 basis points. Swaps on Switzerland, the
safest country, are at 35.3 basis points.  A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt.  French Policies  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  has said that the
government has taken action, such as raising the retirement age
and not replacing one of every two retiring civil servants since
2007, to improve its public finances.  French 10-year bonds yield 3.14 percent, down from 3.48
percent since the start of June. Still, the difference between
the yield of French and German 10-year bonds has risen in that
same period to 81 basis points from 36 basis points.  Before going on holiday, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on July
26 wrote a letter to every member of Parliament, making his case
for adding a balanced-budget requirement to the constitution. He
hasn’t yet called a joint session to approve such a measure
because a three-fifths majority is required, and the Socialist
Party is opposed to amending the constitution.  S&P confirmed France’s rating on Dec. 23, Moody’s
Investors Service on May 4, and Fitch on May 31. They all cited
a diversified economy and solid political institutions. They all
warned that efforts to cut its debt must be maintained.  Narrowing Deficit  Sarkozy has committed to cutting the budget shortfall to
5.7 percent of output this year, 4.6 percent next year and 3
percent in 2013. The Socialist Party’s two leading candidates
for next year’s presidential election have also pledged to reach
the 3 percent deficit target in 2013.  “If French authorities do not follow through with their
reform of the pension system, make additional changes to the
social-security system and consolidate the current budgetary
position in the face of rising spending pressure on health care
and pensions,  Standard & Poor’s  will unlikely maintain its AAA
rating,” S&P said in a June 10 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  