-- 
Tiger Woods Targets PGA Championship as Former Caddie Wins With Adam Scott

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-08T05:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/adam-scott-wins-bridgestone-invitational-golf-tiger-woods-ties-for-37th.html
Tiger Woods said he’s still searching
for consistency heading into this week’s U.S. PGA Championship.
His former caddie is already back in winning form with new boss
 Adam Scott .  Woods, in his return to tournament golf after a layoff of
almost four months, tied for 37th place at the Bridgestone
Invitational in Akron,  Ohio , yesterday. He finished 18 strokes
behind Scott, who won in his first event with  Steve Williams  as
his regular caddie. Williams carried Woods’s bag each of the
seven times he won the World Golf Championships event.  Woods finished 1-over par at the Firestone Country Club,
yet said he’s encouraged entering golf’s final major tournament
of the season. The PGA Championship begins Aug. 11 at  Atlanta
Athletic Club  in Johns Creek,  Georgia .  “I had it in spurts this week. I hit it really well and
then I’d lose it and get it back,” Woods said yesterday in a
news conference. “I haven’t played, so it’s nice for me to get
out there in this competitive atmosphere no matter how I was
playing just to figure out how to score.”  Woods, 35, enters the  PGA Championship  seeking to end a 21-
month winless streak. As at the Bridgestone, Woods will have
longtime friend Bryon Bell as his caddie instead of Williams,
who was alongside him for 13 of his 14 major wins, including all
four PGA Championship victories.  ‘Best Week’  While Williams won 72 tournaments worldwide with Woods, he
said his victory with Scott in Akron was a memorable one. Woods
said two weeks ago that he’d no longer be working with Williams,
who caddied for Scott at the U.S. and British Opens this year
while Woods was recovering from injuries.  “I’ve been caddying for 33 years and that was the best
week of my life,” Williams said in a televised interview after
taking the flag off the stick at the 18th hole as a memento.
“There was a lot being said this week and it’s incredible to
back it up.”  Williams would get $140,000 if he receives the standard 10
percent caddie’s cut of Scott’s $1.4 million prize money for
winning. Woods earned $58,500.  Scott shot a 5-under-par 65 during the final round after
withstanding early challenges from Ryo Ishikawa,  Rickie Fowler 
and Jason Day -- all of whom are 23 years old or younger -- as
well as world No. 1 Luke Donald.  Four-Shot Win  Scott, 31, finished 17-under overall at Firestone Country
Club’s South Course, four shots better than Fowler and Donald,
and afterwards said Williams’s experience was critical to his
win. Ishikawa and Day tied for fourth at 12-under par.  “He has such a great knowledge of this golf course and the
greens,” Scott said of Williams, who spent 12 years with Woods.
“He’s seen a guy play incredible golf, the best golf anyone has
ever played around here so many times. He really guided me
around the course nicely.”  Scott’s first victory in the U.S. since the 2010 Texas Open
was his eighth career win on the world’s richest golf tour, the
fourth-most by an Australian behind  Greg Norman  (20), Steve Elkington (10) and  Stuart Appleby  (10). Yet as he walked up to
the 18th green, the fans in Akron were chanting Williams’s name.  “It just validates what I told Adam and what we were
trying to achieve,” Williams said at a news conference.
“Getting the first win is very important. That takes a lot of
pressure off going forward.”  For Woods, there’s no let up. He enters the PGA
Championship with 20-1 odds to end his winless drought, tied for
the fourth-best in the field, according to the Las Vegas
Hilton’s Race and Sports Book.  U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy is the favorite at 10-1,
followed by  Lee Westwood  at 12-1 and Donald at 15-1.  “It would be nice, but hey, I’ve got three days,” Woods
said when asked if he’d like to have one more tournament to get
his game in shape. “I’m going to worry about these three days
and apply it accordingly and be ready come Thursday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  