-- 
Nani’s Double Strike Gives Manchester Utd. Community Shield Win Over City

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-08-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/manchester-united-defeats-manchester-city-3-2-in-community-shield.html
Manchester United  started its season
by winning the Community Shield for a fourth time in five years
as an injury-time goal from Nani completed a 3-2 comeback
against Manchester City.  The Portuguese winger’s second goal of yesterday’s match
completed a turnaround by Premier League soccer champion United,
which trailed its archrival 2-0 at halftime at Wembley Stadium
in London.  “We all believe until the last minute, and the attitude of
the lads in the second half was that everyone believed we could
score,” Nani told  Sky Sports .  The Community Shield is contested by the winners of the
previous season’s Premier League and the F.A. Cup and raises
money for charities and community groups. United last season
claimed a record 19th league title, while  Manchester City ’s F.A.
Cup win secured its first trophy since 1976.  In the past four years, the Community Shield winner has
gone on to take the Premier League title. That included league
successes for United in three of those seasons.  City, which won the last of its two league titles in 1968,
was in control at halftime after two goals in the last seven
minutes of the half.  First, Joleon Lescott got between United’s center-backs Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic to head a David Silva free kick past
goalkeeper David de Gea from close range.  In the closing moments of the half the lead was doubled
when Bosnia striker Edin Dzeko fired a low 25-yard shot into the
net.  ‘Credit’  “I couldn’t believe we were 2-0 down at halftime after it
looked to me like we were controlling the game,” United manager
 Alex Ferguson  told Sky Sports. “But credit to the players, they
kept their heads, played football and got the result we
deserved.”  United had created most of the chances earlier in the match
and continued to provide the majority of the attacking threat
after the interval.  Only seven minutes into the second half the Red Devils got
their first goal when defender Chris Smalling scored from an
Ashley Young free kick.  On 58 minutes, a quick passing move involving  Wayne Rooney ,
Tom Cleverley and Nani ended with Nani clipping a shot over
goalkeeper Joe Hart.  City then had chances with an  Adam Johnson  shot saved by De
Gea, and Dzeko shooting straight at the goalkeeper, while
Cleverley fired high over the bar for United.  With the match seemingly set to be decided by penalty
kicks, Nani robbed Vincent Kompany of possession before racing
toward goal. He rounded Hart and side-footed the ball into the
net.  “I was trying the chip,” Nani said. “But the goalkeeper
stayed on his feet so at the last second I changed my mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 