-- 
Arabtec Second-Quarter Net Drops 74% as Expenses Climb; Misses Estimates

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-08-07T11:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/arabtec-second-quarter-net-drops-74-as-expenses-climb-misses-estimates.html
Arabtec Holding PJSC, the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest construction company by market value, reported
a 74 percent plunge in second-quarter profit, missing analysts’
estimates, as expenses increased.  Net income fell to 28.97 million dirhams ($7.9 million), or
2 fils a share, from 111 million dirhams, or 7 fils, a year
earlier, Arabtec said in a  statement  to Dubai’s bourse today.
The mean estimate of six analysts was for a profit of 44 million
dirhams, according to data compiled Bloomberg.  Construction companies in the U.A.E. are struggling after
developers canceled or delayed half of real-estate projects
planned in Dubai. Property values slumped by more than half
during the global recession as demand evaporated and banks
tightened lending.  “The margins are being squeezed because of mobilization
delays in Saudi and  Egypt ,” said Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst
Chet Riley, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “We’re
not seeing any growth in the backlog at a time the company has
to hold staff and equipment for projects that aren’t moving.”  Arabtec’s second-quarter expenses surged 91 percent to 94
million dirhams, while revenue dropped to 1.22 billion dirhams
from 1.28 billion dirhams a year earlier, the company said.  The company won a $36.8 million contract to build 170
villas at the Marassi project on the northern coast of Egypt,
according to a July 5 statement.  The shares plunged 6.3 percent to 1.34 dirhams in Dubai
trading today. The stock has dropped 15 percent this year
compared with a 9 percent decline in the benchmark Dubai
Financial Market General Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 