-- 
Asahi Is Said to Bid for New Zealand Beverage Producer Independent Liquor

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-08-08T04:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/asahi-is-said-to-bid-for-new-zealand-beverage-producer-independent-liquor.html
Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.,  Japan ’s
largest brewer by volume, is bidding for New Zealand beverage
maker Independent Liquor, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  Asahi submitted its bid on Aug. 4, one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private,
said the following day. The bids, which are due this week, may
be for a stake or the whole company, two other people familiar
with the situation said Aug. 4.  A deal may value Independent Liquor, which is owned by
Unitas Capital Pte. and Sydney-based Pacific Equity Partners, at
about $1.2 billion, including debt, one person said Aug. 4.
Independent Liquor distributes brands including Woodstock
bourbon, Whyte & Mackay scotch, Carlsberg and Tuborg beers as
well as pre-mixed drinks in  New Zealand  and Australia.  Japanese beverage makers including Asahi and Kirin Holdings
Co., the country’s biggest by market value, are expanding abroad
as a declining and aging population hurts domestic demand for
beer and soft drinks. A strengthening yen, which hit a postwar
record of 76.25 to the dollar in March, boosts Japanese
companies’ buying power abroad.  “Especially after the big earthquake and tsunami,
executives realize it is quite difficult to grow only in
Japan,” said Tetsuro Ii, chief executive of Tokyo-based Commons
Asset Management. “More and more Japanese companies accelerate
mergers and acquisitions. The strong yen also pushes M&A.”  Asahi fell 0.4 percent 1,538 yen as of 12:57 p.m. in  Tokyo 
trading. The stock has lost 2.2 percent this year, compared with
the 13 percent slide in the broader Topix index.  Yen Intervention  The magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
caused Japan’s worst disaster since World War II. Japan plans to
spend 19 trillion yen ($243 billion) over the next five years to
rebuild, according to a draft  government proposal .  Japan sold yen on Aug. 4 to weaken the currency, acting
alone after an intervention in March that was coordinated among
the Group of Seven nations. Japan’s currency may strengthen
beyond 70 against the dollar, former Finance Ministry official
Eisuke Sakakibara said on TV Asahi yesterday. The yen traded at
78.05 to the dollar as of 1:10 p.m. in Tokyo.  Pacific Equity and CCMP Capital Asia, as  Unitas  was then
known, agreed to take control of Independent in 2006 when they
acquired the company from the family of founder Michael Erceg.  The offer was worth NZ$1.25 billion ($1 billion), the
Australian Financial Review reported at the time, citing
unidentified people.  Asahi and Suntory Holdings Ltd. may be among those bidding
for Independent Liquor, the Wall Street Journal reported Aug. 4,
citing people it didn’t identify. Naoko Tsuda, a spokeswoman for
Suntory, said on Aug. 5 that the company isn’t bidding.  Overseas Acquisitions  Takayuki Tanaka, a spokesman for Asahi, declined to comment
on whether it’s bidding for Independent Liquor.  Japan’s biggest beermaker by sales volume is expanding its
beverage businesses in  Australia  and New Zealand. Tokyo-based
Asahi acquired the Schweppes brand in Australia in 2009 for
A$1.2 billion ($1.24 billion) to give it the bottling rights to
Pepsi and the country’s second-largest soft-drink operation.  Asahi has lagged behind Kirin, Japan’s biggest beverage
maker by market value, in making purchases overseas. Asahi has
spent more than $2 billion abroad in the past five years,
compared with Kirin’s more than $12 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kirin on Aug. 2 paid 3.95 billion reais ($2.5 billion) to
gain a stake in Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes SA,
 Brazil ’s second-largest beermaker.  Asahi last month agreed to buy the water and juice
businesses of P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd. and New Zealand
drink maker  Charlie’s Group Ltd. (CHA)  for $309 million to expand
overseas as sales growth declines at home.  Kirin made more than 23 percent of its 1.7 trillion yen in
2010 sales abroad, while Asahi generated 6.6 percent of its 1.5
trillion sales in the same period overseas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  