-- 
Australia’s Economy Has ‘Strength’ to Meet Challenges, Swan Says

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-07T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/australia-s-economy-has-strength-to-meet-challenges-swan-says.html
Australia ’s strong economic
fundamentals mean the country will face global challenges from a
“position of strength,” even with some “soft spots” in the
economy, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Low unemployment, sturdy public finances with very low
public debt and a huge pipeline of mining investment make
Australia’s economic credentials among the strongest in the
world, Swan said in his weekly note yesterday.  “I’m not going to sugar coat the fact that the global
economic outlook remains uncertain and this uncertainty is
likely to continue for some time,” he said. “There are soft
spots in the Australian economy as well.” The higher Australian
dollar and “a cautious consumer are making things tough for
retailers, the tourism sector and manufacturers.”  Australia’s economic outlook is favorable with trade at
“historic highs” on demand for commodities from  China  and
other Asian economies, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
report on Aug. 6. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia last week
lowered its forecast for 2011 economic growth to an average of 2
percent from its May estimate of 3.25 percent and raised its
2012 estimate to 4.5 percent from 4.25 percent.  Conditions are forecast to remain strong in the  mining
industry  and those parts of the economy benefitting from
“resource-sector investment,” the RBA said in its quarterly
monetary policy statement issued Aug. 5.  “In other sectors, the high  exchange rate  and subdued
levels of retail spending mean that the trading environment is
likely to remain difficult,” the RBA said.  Not Immune  Australia is “not immune from events overseas,” Swan said,
referring to the U.S. debt rating cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on
Aug. 5.  As the IMF statement shows, “Australia faces the
challenges from a position of strength,” he said. “We’re also
located in the right part of the world at the right time -- the
prospects for our region remain much stronger as the weight of
global activity continues to shift from West to East.”  Australia’s unemployment rate will remain below 5 percent
in 2011 and 2012, the IMF said. The external current account
deficit is expected to narrow to 1 percent of GDP in 2011 before
“progressively widening to about 6.5 percent of GDP in the
medium term,” assuming the real effective exchange rate remains
at its current level, it said.  “An upside risk is that investment in the resource sector
could be larger than expected, boosting growth and adding to
inflation pressures,” the IMF said. “On the downside, a key
risk is that the global recovery stalls or Asian growth falters,
impacting demand for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  