-- 
Bank Risk at Record-High as ECB Said to Intervene: Euro Credit

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-08-08T15:27:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/bank-bonds-hurt-as-sovereign-crisis-threatens-more-writedowns-euro-credit.html
Bank bonds in Europe are the riskiest
ever as the  European Central Bank  was said to be snapping up
Italian and Spanish government debt whose soaring yields hurt
lenders already nursing Greek writedowns.  “Banks that were perceived to have heavy exposure to
Greece were penalized,” said  John Stopford , the London-based
head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management Ltd., which
manages more than $90 billion. “Now, maybe people will be more
worried about exposure to other parts of Europe.”  A benchmark index of credit-default swaps on European banks
and insurers jumped to a record 219 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The extra yield investors demand to buy
bank bonds instead of benchmark German debt surged to 242 basis
points, or 2.42 percentage points, at the end of last week, the
highest since July 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show.  Bondholders are assigning a higher perceived risk to bank
debt even as five people familiar with the matter said the ECB
stepped in to buy Italy and  Spain ’s debt, whose 10-year yields
had surged to euro-area records and approached the 7 percent
level that presaged the rescues of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .
Policy makers, who last week broke an 18-week hiatus by buying
Irish and Portuguese securities, wouldn’t comment on today’s
news, though announced yesterday they would “actively
implement” purchases.  ‘Volatility’  “There’s a lot of volatility around sovereigns, which
leads to uncertainty for banks,” said Hans Stoter, head of
credit investments at ING Investment Management in the  Hague ,
 Netherlands , which manages 218 billion euros ($313 billion) of
fixed-income assets.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA said last week it may miss its 2012
earnings target after discounting the value of its Greek notes,
following similar writedowns by institutions including Deutsche
Bank AG and BNP Paribas SA. Analysts have cited concern that
banks don’t have sufficient capital to endure further writedowns
as a motivation for EU leaders to bolster sovereign debt values
in the region.  Greece’s second bailout, agreed on last month, proposed
that banks accept a 21 percent writedown on the value of their
Greek debt.  Europe ’s 90 biggest lenders hold about 98 billion
euros of the country’s notes, the European Banking Authority
said July 15. Investors judged the plan wouldn’t prevent the
sovereign crisis from engulfing Spain and Italy and bank bond
risk jumped last week.  Bond Sales Slow  Bank bond sales slowed to about 8.3 billion euros since the
beginning of July, the lowest this year and less than a third of
the 28 billion-euro monthly average for 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In a statement issued in the name of President Jean-Claude Trichet after an emergency teleconference meeting of policy
makers yesterday, the Frankfurt-based ECB said “a decisive and
swift” implementation of reforms by both Spain and  Italy ’s
governments is “essential.” It also called on all euro-area
governments to follow through on the measures agreed at a July
21 summit, including allowing the European Financial Stability
Facility to purchase bonds on the secondary market.  Greece’s bailout terms may set a “precedent” for future
restructurings, according to  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service. Last week,  Standard & Poor’s  removed its AAA rating for
 U.S. Treasuries , citing a political impasse that can’t reduce
the deficit of the world’s biggest economy.  SocGen Losses  SocGen, France’s second-largest bank, reported a 31 percent
drop in second-quarter profit because of a 395 million-euro
writedown on Greek government debt. Deutsche Bank took a 155
million-euro hit and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  marked down 534 million euros
of Greek IOUs. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said Aug. 5 that
it lost money in the first half after writing down Greek
holdings by 733 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Speculation that other countries will succumb to the crisis
had pushed up bond yields for the euro region’s most indebted
nations.  “If Italy is sucked into the peripheral crisis then it
starts to become a systemic issue for European banks because
Italian government debt is quite widely held,” said Roger Doig,
a London-based analyst at Schroders Plc, which manages 36.5
billion pounds of fixed-income assets. EU agencies may have to
purchase as much as 850 billion euros of Italian and Spanish
debt, or about half of the amount actively traded, according to
a note by RBS strategists.  Europe Banks  European banks outside Italy held $233.5 billion of the
country’s public-sector debt at the end of March, while foreign
lenders held $90.3 billion of Spanish state obligations,
according to the Bank for International Settlements in  Basel ,
 Switzerland .  News of ECB bond buying initially prompted a rally in
European markets today, pushing the Markit iTraxx Financial
index of credit-default swaps on the senior debt of 25 banks and
insurers down as much as 9 percent, JPMorgan prices show.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps linked
to the debt of 15 governments dropped 6 basis points to 280.
That’s the lowest since Aug. 1 and down from a record last week.
Government bonds of Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal all
jumped.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings rose 30 basis points to a year-
high of 580.5, according to JPMorgan.  “The perceived support from the ECB for Italian and
Spanish bonds is leading to a reduction in systemic risk which
helps banks as they’re large holders of European peripheral
debt,” said Andreas Fischer, a Zurich-based  fund manager  at
Clariden Leu AG.  ‘Hoarding Liquidity’  European governments’ deteriorating finances contrast with
the relatively robust balance sheets of the region’s non-
financial companies, which have been “hoarding liquidity,”
according to Dagmar Kent Kershaw, head of credit fund management
at Intermediate Capital Group Plc in  London , which manages 12
billion euros of assets.  The ECB restarted its bond-purchase program to prop up
sovereign debt markets last week, though it had limited itself
to buying the debt of Ireland and Portugal. World stock markets
lost more than $4.4 trillion since July 26 as speculation mounts
that the global economy faces a recession that would send more
countries begging for international bailouts.  Italian lenders  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  led
Bank of America’s Euro Banking index of bond spreads wider since
the start of July. Relative yields on the debt of UniCredit,
Italy’s biggest bank, surged 209 basis points to 464 as of Aug.
5 and Banco Popolare bond spreads widened 203 basis points to
487, the index data show.  After Greece, for banks “what comes next?” said Alexander Plenk, an analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “That’s the big
question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  