-- 
Biggest Foreign Buyers Set to Stick With Treasuries After U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-07T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/biggest-foreign-buyers-to-stick-with-treasuries-after-downgrade.html
Asian states are likely to retain
their U.S. Treasury holdings for now and European governments
have expressed confidence in the world’s largest economy after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s sovereign credit rating to AA+.  South Korea affirmed confidence in Treasuries after an
emergency meeting of officials yesterday to prepare for any
financial market fallout. Russia said the one-step cut “can be
ignored,” and  France  questioned S&P’s reasoning.  China ’s
official Xinhua news service said in a commentary that the U.S.
must cure its “addiction” to borrowing.  For all the angst, policy makers across  Asia  are lured to
Treasuries as a result of efforts to stem gains in their
currencies against the dollar, which would impair export
competitiveness. China has accumulated $1.16 trillion of the
debt and is the largest individual foreign holder. Japan’s
efforts to weaken the yen boost that country’s demand, and Vice
Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said yesterday that the
Japanese government is ready to intervene again after selling
the currency on Aug. 4.  “Our faith in U.S. Treasuries has not changed,” Yim Jong Yong,  South Korea ’s vice finance minister, told reporters
yesterday in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul , after meeting with
counterparts from the central bank and financial regulators. The
nation will step up monitoring of capital flows and currency
movements because of the risk of volatility from the downgrade
and  Europe ’s debt crisis, he said.  Asia’s Role  Asia accounts for about half of foreign-owned  U.S. debt ,
Treasury data  show . Speaking on Japan’s NHK television, Igarashi
said the government may intervene again if its sees speculative
trading. Last week, the government may have sold a record 4.5
trillion yen ($57 billion), according to Totan Research Co., a
Tokyo money-market brokerage.  “They won’t be happy about it, but Asian central banks
will just have to hold on and stick it out,” said  Sean Callow ,
a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.
“There is pressure on them to hold on to liquid assets and
there is nothing more liquid than the Treasury market. At least
Treasuries have been doing well and they aren’t holding on to
distressed assets.”  Investors in Treasuries earned 3.12 percent in the three
months ending July 31, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. The securities have rallied in recent weeks even after S&P
warned it might lower the rating from AAA, as investors sought a
haven amid deepening concerns that the global economic rebound
may fade. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes closed at 2.56
percent Aug. 5, before the S&P announcement of the cut to AA+,
down from 3.12 percent a month ago.  Japan ’s Stance  Japan, the second-largest international investor in
American government debt, sees no problem with trust in the
securities, a Japanese official said on condition of anonymity.  In the U.K., the world’s third-largest foreign holder of
U.S. debt, Business Secretary Vince Cable said Aug. 6 the dollar
is “the key international currency” in the short run.  “Although the American legislators made a terrible mess of
things a few weeks ago they have now got things back on track
and undertaken to manage their debt in a prudent way,” Cable
said in an interview with the  BBC .  Russia considers U.S. debt reliable and won’t review its
policy of investing in the country, Deputy Finance Minister
Sergei Storchak said by phone on Aug. 6. The downgrade “can be
ignored” for long-term investment strategy, he said.  Moody’s, Fitch  Russia  is one of the 10 largest foreign holders of U.S.
government debt. Expressions of support for the U.S. also came
from the central bank governors of Jordan and Lebanon.  The S&P decision went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that had
pushed the country to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch
both said that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to
enact debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  The Treasury Department said the S&P decision was flawed by
putting discretionary spending levels at $2 trillion higher than
the Congressional Budget Office estimates, said a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified. S&P
disputed that, saying its judgment wasn’t meaningfully affected
by such spending figures.  “We can ask why this agency took this decision based on
figures that are not consensual,” French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said in an interview on RTL Radio on Aug. 6.
“There will be a debate in the U.S. about this decision. It’s
one out of three agencies. It’s only one element.”  Stock Sell-Off  Treasuries have benefited from a global sell-off in stocks
driven by concern that the U.S. recovery is fading as Europe’s
debt crisis widens. Yields on three-month Treasury bills dipped
into negative territory this month, while the MSCI World Index
fell to the weakest level since November.  Over the longer term, failure by the U.S. to restrain its
borrowing may spur diversification out of Treasuries. The bill
Obama signed last week was a compromise from Congress that
raised the federal borrowing limit while putting off decisions
on specific budget cuts or revenue increases.  “This is clearly a wake-up call for the U.S. and those who
think a downgrade doesn’t matter are in denial,” said Thomas Lam, Singapore-based chief economist at OSK-DMG, who accurately
forecast when the worst U.S. recession since the Great
Depression would end. “Markets will enforce their discipline if
the U.S. doesn’t repair its  credit rating .”  Budget Deficits  S&P lowered the U.S. grade citing an insufficient
commitment to reducing budget deficits and stabilizing the debt
burden. It kept the outlook for the rating at “negative,”
saying it may be cut to AA within two years if spending
reductions are lower than agreed to.  The New York-based rating company currently gives 18
sovereign entities its top ranking, including  Australia ,  Hong
Kong  and the Isle of Man, according to a July report. The U.K.
which is estimated to have debt-to-GDP this year of 80 percent,
6 percentage points higher than the U.S., also has the top
credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its net public debt is
forecast to decline either before or by 2015, S&P said in
yesterday’s statement.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo on 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo on 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  