-- 
Rousseff Urges Brazilians to Keep Spending as Stocks Plunge to 2009 Low

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-08-08T23:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/brazil-said-to-keep-foreign-reserves-in-u-s-treasuries-after-downgrade.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
urged her compatriots to keep spending amid rising concerns of a
global recession, saying that  Latin America ’s biggest economy is
strong even as the nation’s stocks tumbled to a two-year low.  Rousseff, after holding talks with Canadian Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper , said that  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the
U.S.’s credit rating was “hasty” and “has no basis in
reality.” While Brazil isn’t “immune” from a decline in the
global economy, it has the strength to resist a downturn in the
U.S. and  Europe , she said.  “We don’t have to stop consuming because we’re not facing
any threat,” Rousseff told reporters in Brasilia, after hosting
Harper. “This is the second time a crisis is affecting the
world and for the second time  Brazil  isn’t trembling.”  The Bovespa index plunged 8.1 percent to 48,668.29, as
S&P’s lowering of the U.S. debt rating to AA+ extended a two-
week decline in stocks. While investors have been dumping stocks
in Brazil, the fourth-largest holder of U.S. Treasuries has no
plans to unload its U.S. debt holdings, said Aldo Mendes, a
central bank director.  Stem the Bloodletting  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
that the Group of 20 nations is prepared to act in a united
manner to prevent the global crisis from worsening, without
providing more details. He said he saw a risk from the U.S.
reacting to the downturn by supporting “looser” monetary
policies.  “Global demand isn’t growing with the exception of the
emerging markets, who are part of sustaining growth but can’t
perform miracles,” Mantega said today. “There is a need now to
rebuild lost confidence and stem the bloodletting that has taken
place in the market.”  Rousseff’s call for her countrymen to keep spending echoed
a plea made by her mentor and predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva , following Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. Lula,
in 2008, said that the global recession causing a “tsunami” in
developed nations would arrive as a “ripple” to Brazil.  After gross domestic product plunged more than 15 percent
on an annualized basis in the final quarter of 2008, Brazil’s
economy shrank 0.6 percent in 2009. Growth then rebounded 7.5
percent in 2010, its fastest pace in two decades, as Lula cut
taxes on the sale of industrial goods such as cars and the
central bank slashed  interest rates  to the record low.  Growing Reserves  Since the crisis, Brazil’s foreign currency reserves have
jumped 60 percent, to a near-record $348 billion, giving the
economy added strength to resist any global downturn, Rousseff
said today. About $211 billion is held in  U.S. Treasuries ,
making Brazil the U.S. government’s fourth-biggest creditor
after China, Japan and the U.K.  While Brazil isn’t an “island in the world” Rousseff said
the government would be “thoughtful” before taking any action
to shore up its $2.1 trillion economy. No measures are planned
this week, she said.  “Brazil is in a good position,” she said today.  Standing alongside Harper, with whom she discussed ways the
Group of 20 richest nations can support global growth, Rousseff
said that Brazil objects to the S&P downgrade.  “We are going to state clearly that we don’t share this
hasty evaluation, which is a bit rushed and incorrect,” she
said.  ‘Temporary’ Plunge  Brazil has no plans to sell its U.S. Treasury holdings as a
result of the S&P downgrade, said Mendes, who oversees monetary
policy at the central bank.  “U.S. Treasuries continue to be the risk free asset par
excellence,” he said in an interview.  Brazil is not required to sell any of its U.S. debt
holdings because of the rating change and will keep in place a
strategy adopted in 2008 of gradually diversifying its foreign
reverses away from U.S. dollars, Mendes added.  While global economic growth is likely to be slower than
previously expected, Mendes said the Bovespa’s plunge is
“temporary” and investors will take a fresh look at Brazil in
the medium term.  Brazil’s central bank reduced its  holdings  in dollars to
81.9 percent of total reserves in 2009 from 90 percent in 2007,
according to its latest report.  Downgrade  The U.S. had its AAA credit rating downgraded for the first
time by S&P on Aug. 5, which slammed the nation’s political
process and said lawmakers failed to cut spending enough to
reduce record deficits.  S&P dropped the ranking one level to AA+, after warning on
July 14 that it would reduce the rating in the absence of a
“credible” plan to lower deficits even if the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit was lifted.  S&P’s downgrade went further than Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit ratings for
the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed a bill
that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that pushed the country to
the edge of default.  S&P currently gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking,
including  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the  Isle of Man , according to
a July report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt-to-gross
domestic product this year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points
higher than the U.S., also has the top credit grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  