-- 
Bright Food Plans Europe or Australia Acquisition in Months, Chairman Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-08T05:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/bright-food-expects-to-make-an-acquisition-in-europe-australia-in-months.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  China ’s
second-largest food company, may make a purchase in Europe or
 Australia  in as soon as six months as it seeks to boost overseas
sales to as much as 30 percent of its total in five years.  “Many projects are under negotiations,” Chairman Wang Zongnan said in an Aug. 5 interview in  Shanghai , referring to
overseas purchases. “The next acquisition may take place in
half a year to a year.”  Potential targets could include European or Australian
companies in the food-distribution and sugar industries, Wang
said at an event marking Bright Food’s five-year anniversary.
Buying overseas assets may help the closely held company make
the best use of its “extremely” strong distribution network in
China, said  Shaun Rein , managing director of Shanghai-based
China Market Research Group.  “Rather than spending the money and time building up new
brands, it makes sense for them to acquire a well established
foreign brand and leverage its strong distribution,” said Rein.  Bright Food, controlled by the Shanghai city government, is
considering making an offer for Australia’s Treasury Wine
Estates Ltd., the world’s second-largest winemaker, two people
familiar with the matter said in July.  Bright Dairy & Food Co., the group’s flagship listed arm in
Shanghai, fell 3.5 percent to 8.73 yuan as of 1:20 p.m. after
earlier tumbling as much as 9.1 percent. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index declined 3.4 percent. Bright Dairy & Food has
lost 15 percent this year, compared with a 9.7 percent drop for
the benchmark.  White Rabbit  The maker of “Big White Rabbit” brand candy earlier this
year lost out to General Mills Inc. for a stake in French yogurt
maker Yoplait. Last year, Wilmar International Ltd. outbid
Bright Food for CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit.  “The group will continue to actively pursue opportunities
to cooperate with foreign companies, in order to broaden
resources base and expand distribution,” Wang said in a speech
to hundreds of employees at the ceremony.  There have been more than $400 billion worth of cross-
border deals in the food and beverage industry over the past
five years, with mainland Chinese companies accounting for less
than $6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bright Food, with interests that span food and beverage,
farming and retailing, was established by merging four state-
owned companies in August 2006.  Wang in April said he aimed to boost revenue from outside
China to as much as 30 percent of the company’s total, from the
current 5 percent.  Fund-Raising Plans  Profit rose 21 percent to 1.63 billion yuan ($254 million)
in the first half, Bright Food said in a statement released
before the ceremony. Sales increased 18 percent to 35.7 billion
yuan in the first six months from the same period last year. The
company aims to reach sales of 120 billion yuan in 2015,
according to Wang.  “Bright” is a brand created by Shanghai Yimin Foods Co.,
one of the four companies that merged to form Bright Food.  Bright Food may raise 6 billion yuan through an initial
public offering of its sugar unit and a bond sale, Wang said in
April.  It inquired last year about acquiring GNC Holdings Inc.,
the retailer of vitamins and supplements, before the Pittsburgh-
based chain raised $360 million in an initial public offering.  The company is in advanced talks to buy Manassen Foods from
Champ Private Equity, the Australian Financial Review reported
last month, without saying where it got the information.  -- Michael Wei  and Margaret Conley in Shanghai. Editors:
Nicholas Wadhams, Frank Longid  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  