-- 
Bungled Debt Skirmish Bodes Ill for Battle to Come: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-08-07T15:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/bungled-debt-skirmish-bodes-ill-for-battle-to-come-albert-hunt.html
Team Obama says the president did the
best possible job and produced the least harmful outcome in the
debt-ceiling crisis, given the bad hand he was dealt. It’s not
clear if this is typical spin or a real self-assessment.  If genuine, it augurs poorly for the big battles ahead with
the congressional super committee when it comes to decisions
about larger deficit reductions and on the fate of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts slated to expire at the end of 2012.  Talk to leading Republicans and Democrats in  Washington  in
the aftermath of the  debt battle , and the president is pictured
as an inconsistent communicator, an inexperienced negotiator, a
leader who most Republicans believe, and many Democrats fear,
shies from a tough fight.  If the debt-ceiling fiasco was high drama, try to picture
the situation 16 months from now, when the consequences of
Congress’s failure to reach a consensus on paring back
entitlements and increasing taxes will be apparent. The result:
huge  spending cutbacks  are scheduled to kick in, more than $3.5
trillion of the Bush tax cuts expire and it will be necessary to
raise the debt ceiling again -- all at the same time.  The stakes escalated with the  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5. Clearly a blow to the
president, it could boomerang on Republicans if they are seen as
the impediment to rectifying the situation.  Phony Deal  Whatever the merits of S&P’s decision, it was made easier
by the phoniness of the deficit deal approved by Congress, which
calls for $900 billion of spending cuts, one-third from defense.
The agreement doesn’t touch the two drivers of chronic deficits:
out-of-control spending on entitlements, especially health care,
and insufficient revenue.  The super committee is being created to cut at least $1.2
trillion from the budget over the next decade or, if it fails,
automatically trigger reductions from both defense and non-
defense expenditures. It is likely this bipartisan panel will
split over whether to include revenue increases and cutbacks in
entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security.  The battle this year was fought on Republican terrain,
essentially focusing on how much spending to cut. Despite polls
showing surging public support for a  deficit-reduction  package
that included higher taxes, congressional Republicans
successfully stiffed all such efforts.  Republican Setback  Still, the outcome wasn’t one-sided. Democrats kept
entitlements off the table, so Republican threats to slash
Medicare remain a golden campaign issue. And Republicans already
are squirming over the possibility of huge defense cuts.  The biggest damage may be establishing the precedent of
holding the debt ceiling hostage to major changes in policy, a
tactic that is now embraced by some of the most sensible
Republicans, including Ohio Senator  Rob Portman .  If one party controls the House or 41 members of the Senate,
it can force drastic changes under the threat of the default gun;
what pleases Republicans such as Portman today may later be used
by Democrats to undo tax cuts or end wars. If often repeated,
the politicians will inevitably drive off the cliff and create a
cataclysm.  This state of affairs was enabled in part by one of the
most incoherent communications strategies displayed by a modern
president. One hundred days ago, Obama seemed in a decent
position. The House Republican budget, written by Representative
 Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , was wildly unpopular, with its deep
cutbacks in Medicare and its failure to raise taxes for more
affluent Americans.  Grand Bargain  The president gave a compelling speech about his economic
priorities at George Washington University on April 13. He
signaled willingness for a grand bargain in which he would agree
to entitlement cuts in return for higher taxes, principally on
the wealthy, or by closing loopholes, to produce significant
deficit reduction.  That message resurfaced only sporadically -- Obama seemed
to recoil when accused of playing “class warfare.” On July 25,
the White House trotted out the president to insist on a
“balanced package.” At the same time, the Democratic majority
leader was pushing a plan that didn’t include higher revenue.  A little earlier, Obama was trying to negotiate a deal with
House Speaker  John Boehner  at the same time the Senate’s so-
called Gang of Six, which included three very conservative
Republicans, proposed a more sweeping proposal that came closer
to the vision outlined by the president in April.  Taxes and Spending  With the stakes much higher this autumn and next year,
Democrats are urging the White House to correct these blunders.
Specifically, they hope the president will insist that every
dollar of spending cuts the super committee demands be
accompanied by a dollar of higher revenue, and to say that
changes in entitlements and taxes are joined at hip.  Obama, they say, also should play the national security
card, forcing Republican to choose between higher taxes or about
$600 billion in defense cuts.  “He can force Republicans to make a fundamental choice: Do
they care more about protecting tax breaks or national
security?” says the ranking Democrat on the House Budget
Committee, Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland .  A separate issue for Obama is the extension of the Bush-era
tax cuts: more than $3.5 trillion, including $800 billion
benefitting wealthier Americans, over the next 10 years. The
president backed down last year from a threat to block high-end
tax cuts when he cut a deal with Republicans to extend them for
two years in exchange for additional stimulus.  Bush Cuts  This was necessary because the White House last year never
tried to “decouple” the Bush tax cuts by proposing to extend
them permanently for the middle class but only for a limited
period for the upper incomes. Doing so might have put
Republicans on the defensive.  Drawing from that experience, many congressional
Republicans now are convinced that Obama will blink again next
year, and will prove unwilling to oppose a measure that would
extend tax cuts during an election year amid a sluggish economy.
The president has vowed publicly and privately to Democratic
congressional leaders that it is a certainty he will block any
extension of tax cuts for the affluent.  Whether he sticks to that may affect the deficit picture,
the U.S. credit rating, and perhaps whether the incumbent is
around for a second term to effect further changes.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 