-- 
Deion Sanders Leads Seven Pro Football Hall of Fame Inductees in Canton

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/deion-sanders-leads-seven-pro-football-hall-of-fame-inductees-in-canton.html
Deion Sanders  was enshrined in the
 Pro Football Hall of Fame  in recognition of a 17-year career
that started with a touchdown in his first game and wound up
changing the way his position was played.  Sanders, voted to the NFL’s All-Decade Team of the 1990s as
a cornerback and kick returner, joined former running back
 Marshall Faulk  in being inducted in their first year of
eligibility. Also honored yesterday in Canton,  Ohio , were
defensive lineman Richard Dent, tight end Shannon Sharpe and NFL
Films founder Ed Sabol. Linebackers Chris Hanburger and Les Richter were inducted as senior committee nominees.  “This game meant so much for me,” Sanders said. “It
taught me how to be a man, how to get back up.”  Sanders was known as “Prime Time” and “Neon Deion,”
showing up in tailor-made suits accented by rings, necklaces and
diamond stud earrings. He stood out just as much on the field,
scoring 22 touchdowns and playing on two  Super Bowl  champions,
and at one time was the NFL’s highest-paid defensive player.  “Deion was one of the few guys that started playing
defense but being offensive,” Hall of Fame defensive back
Ronnie Lott said on the shrine’s  website . “That skill set, that
mindset is really truly something that he set as a standard for
a defensive back and became part of his DNA and became something
that all defensive backs now try to do.”  One of Best  Sanders also played  Major League Baseball  and scored a
touchdown in his NFL debut in 1989 on a 68-yard punt return five
days after hitting a home run for the  New York Yankees .  Sanders, 43, was considered one of the best cornerbacks in
NFL history and totaled 53 interceptions, returning nine for
touchdowns. He also scored nine times on kick and punt returns,
once on a fumble recovery and three times as a receiver.  Sanders spent his first five NFL seasons with the  Atlanta
Falcons , then went to San Francisco in 1994 and helped the 49ers
win a Super Bowl title after being named the league’s Defensive
Player of the Year. He signed a seven-year, $35 million contract
with  Dallas  in 1995 -- the richest for a defensive player at the
time -- and helped deliver a Super Bowl championship for the
Cowboys that season.  After five seasons in Dallas, Sanders ended his career with
the Washington Redskins and  Baltimore Ravens .  ‘Football Heaven’  Faulk, 38, won the NFL’s Most Valuable Player Award in 2000
and his 136 touchdowns are seventh-most in league history. He
rushed for 12,279 yards in 12 years and won a Super Bowl ring
with the  St. Louis Rams  after the 1999 season.  “This is football heaven,” Faulk said.  Dent, 50, the 27th member of the  Chicago Bears  in the Hall
of Fame, was the team’s career sack leader with 124.5 during 12
seasons that covered two stints with the franchise.  “You must dream and you must be dedicated to something in
your life,” Dent said. “Nobody can do anything alone. You need
a support mechanism.”  Dent also played for  San Francisco , Indianapolis and
Philadelphia. During his 15-year NFL career, he had 137.5 sacks
and was the Most Valuable Player of the Super Bowl played after
the 1985 season, when the Bears beat the  New England Patriots .  Tight End Record  Sharpe, 43, played tight end for Denver for 12 seasons,
from 1990 to 1999 and 2002 to 2003, around two years with
Baltimore. He was on three Super Bowl winners and finished his
career as the NFL’s all-time leader among tight ends in
receptions (815), receiving yards (10,060) and receiving
touchdowns (62).  He also set a league record at his position with eight Pro
Bowls.  “There’s a reason they say chasing a dream instead of
walking after it,” said Sharpe, who left for Savannah State
University carrying two grocery bags filled with his belongings.  Sabol, 95, an overcoat salesman who loved filmmaking, shot
his first NFL game -- the championship between the  New York
Giants  and  Green Bay Packers  at Yankee Stadium -- in 1962. Two
years later, he convinced the NFL that the league should
consider preserving games on film.  In 1964, Sabol’s company officially became NFL Films. He
retired in 1995 as president and chairman of the company he
shared with his son, Steve.  Hanburger, who turns 70 next week, played his entire NFL
career with the  Washington Redskins  from 1965 to 1978. He was a
nine-time  Pro Bowl  selection.  Richter, who died in June at the age of 79, played for the
Los Angeles Rams from 1954 to 1962 after being acquired from the
Dallas Texans for 11 players. He was picked for the Pro Bowl
eight times. After his NFL career ended, he became a senior
executive for Nascar.  This year’s class was chosen from 17 finalists by the Hall
of Fame’s 44-member selection committee and announced the day
before the Super Bowl in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  