-- 
Dispute Over ‘Basic Math’ Began With S&P E-Mail

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-08-07T04:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/dispute-over-basic-math-began-with-s-p-e-mail.html
The e-mail message that unleashed
hours of debate between U.S. Treasury Department officials and
 Standard & Poor’s  arrived at 1:45 p.m. on Aug. 5, just as U.S.
and European stock markets were limping toward the end of their
worst week since 2008.  Something didn’t look right to John Bellows, the Treasury’s
acting assistant secretary for economic policy. He found what he
later called a $2 trillion “basic math error” in the e-mail, a
preliminary press release announcing S&P’s first-ever downgrade
of U.S. creditworthiness.  Over the next 5 1/2 hours, the two sides argued over issues
ranging from so-called baseline calculations to deficits,
according to a person familiar with the matter. In the end, the
ratings firm stuck with its decision, citing the level of
government debt and the contentious political climate in
Washington.  The debate in Congress over raising the debt limit
“highlighted a degree of uncertainty around the political
policymaking process which we think is incompatible with a AAA
rating,”  David Beers , S&P’s managing director of sovereign
ratings, said later on a conference call with reporters.  That judgment raised “fundamental questions about the
credibility and integrity of S&P’s ratings action,” Bellows
wrote in a  Treasury blog post  yesterday. “Independent of this
error, there is no justifiable rationale for downgrading the
debt of the  United States .”  Five-Year Horizon  The dispute stems from how New York-based S&P, a unit of
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., used figures from the
 Congressional Budget Office . The discrepancy didn’t change the
downgrade decision, S&P said, because Treasury’s $2 trillion
figure was derived by calculating government debt over a 10-year
period while S&P’s ratings are determined using a three- to
five-year time horizon.  The day of S&P’s decision started with financial markets
fluctuating on concerns about  Europe ’s ability to manage its
debt crisis. That morning, the firm’s credit committee approved
the downgrade.  After Bellows and other Treasury officials discussed what
they viewed as serious flaws in S&P’s analysis, they notified
the ratings firm around 3:15 p.m., said the person, who declined
to be identified because the discussions weren’t public.  Meanwhile, an early rally in U.S. stocks faded on
speculation that an S&P downgrade of the U.S. was imminent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended 0.1 percent lower at 1,199.38
after rising as much as 1.5 percent. For the week, the index
slumped 7.2 percent, the biggest drop since November 2008.  Decision Unchanged  S&P called back about 5:30 p.m. to acknowledge the
discrepancy and changed the debt-to-gross domestic product
numbers in the report, the person said. S&P told the Treasury
that a majority of the credit committee had been made aware of
the matter and had not changed their decision.  At 6:20 p.m.,  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant
secretary for financial markets, left a voicemail with an S&P
executive and said the firm’s analysis was inconsistent with one
of the charts in the report, the person said.  S&P reiterated to the Treasury around 7:15 p.m. that it
planned to move ahead with the downgrade and sent Treasury
officials the final press release around 8 p.m. It was sent to
news outlets about 15 minutes later.  Just before 9 p.m., a Treasury spokesman told reporters S&P
had made a $2 trillion error.  The firm’s reply came a few minutes after midnight with an
e-mailed statement saying the rating was unaffected by the
“change of assumptions.”  Debt Trajectory  “The primary focus remained on the current level of debt,
the trajectory of debt as a share of the economy, and the lack
of apparent willingness of elected officials as a group to deal
with the U.S. medium-term fiscal outlook,” S&P said. “None of
these key factors was meaningfully affected by the assumption
revisions to the assumed growth of discretionary outlays and
thus had no impact on the rating decision.”  On a conference call yesterday with reporters,  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign ratings committee, and
Beers said that in their analysis, the “extremely difficult”
political discussions in Washington over how to reduce the more
than $1 trillion  budget deficit  carried more weight in their
decision than the nation’s outstanding debt.  Moody’s, Fitch  The S&P decision went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that pushed
the country to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch both said
that downgrades were possible if lawmakers failed to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakened.  In his blog posting yesterday, Bellows said the error
occurred because S&P took CBO numbers and applied them to the
wrong starting point, or baseline.  “The impact of this mistake was to dramatically overstate
projected deficits -- by $2 trillion over 10 years,” he said.  Chambers told CNN television Aug. 5 that S&P accepted the
Treasury’s view on the baseline “and our figures that we have
published reflect that.”  “The important thing to say in this is that the amounts
that we’re talking about, say up to about 2015, you’re talking
about 1.5 percent of GDP of difference in your debt,” Chambers
said. “It doesn’t make a material difference” because it
doesn’t change the fact that the U.S. debt-to-gross domestic
product ratio will probably continue to rise in the next decade,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  