-- 
ECB Signals Italian, Spanish Bond Purchases

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-07T21:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/ecb-says-it-will-actively-implement-bond-purchase-program.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will “actively implement” its bond-purchase program, signaling
it is ready to start buying Italian and Spanish securities to
counter the sovereign debt crisis.  In a statement issued in the name of President Jean-Claude Trichet after an emergency teleconference meeting of policy
makers, the Frankfurt-based ECB welcomed Italy and Spain’s
efforts to reduce their budget deficits. It also called on all
euro-area governments to follow through on the measures agreed
at a July 21 summit, including allowing the European Financial
Stability Facility to purchase bonds on the secondary market.  “It is on the basis of the above assessments that the ECB
will actively implement its Securities Markets Program,” the
central bank said. “This program has been designed to help
restoring a better transmission of our monetary policy decisions
-- taking account of dysfunctional market segments -- and
therefore to ensure  price stability  in the euro area.”  With governments failing to act swiftly enough to stop
contagion, it has fallen to the ECB to battle a crisis that’s
threatening the survival of the euro. Buying Italian and Spanish
debt may open the ECB to accusations it is bailing out
profligate nations, breaching a key principle in the euro zone’s
founding treaty and eroding its credibility.  Germany ’s
Bundesbank opposes the move.  “The ECB is once again intervening as the last line of
defense,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London . “The intervention will put a
halt to the bond market crash that some member states faced.
However, the ECB is now in for the long haul and will
potentially have to buy up to half of the Italian and Spanish
traded debt, the biggest risk-pulling effort ever engineered in
 Europe .”  ECB policy makers were forced to step up their response to
the crisis after their failure to enter the Italian and Spanish
bond markets last week helped fuel a global rout. Fears of a
further slump when markets open tomorrow have been compounded by
 Standard & Poor’s  decision on Friday to strip the U.S. of its
AAA credit rating for the first time.  European stocks posted their biggest weekly loss since
November 2008 last week. The Stoxx 600 Europe Index tumbled 9.9
percent to 238.88, the gauge’s lowest level in 13 months.
Italian and Spanish bond yields rose relative to benchmark
German bunds for a second week. Ten-year borrowing rates for
both nations reached the most since before the euro was
introduced in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  