-- 
Employers Ready to Hire Can’t Find Workers Among 9.1% Unemployed

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-07T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/employers-ready-to-hire-in-u-s-can-t-find-qualified-workers-among-jobless.html
Bill Begal says he has spent almost
$2,000 since March on help-wanted ads in newspapers, websites,
and state employment services up and down the East Coast to find
sales and administrative staff for his Rockville, Maryland-based
disaster-cleanup company.  “I want people to come out and work for me,” said Begal,
42, whose teams responded to hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, which
struck  New Orleans  and  Florida  in 2005. “Where are they? I just
don’t see it.”  Behind the highest unemployment levels in more than a
quarter century is an unexpected twist: Employers like Begal and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are having a difficult time filling some
positions, even as 13.9 million Americans remain without work.
The problem is especially acute in pockets such as  Washington ,
D.C., and  North Dakota , which bucked the worst of the 18-month
recession that ended June 2009, and in industries such as
technology where competition for recruits remains high.  “It’s a very much across-the-board phenomena,” said
Jeffrey Joerres, president and chief executive officer of
Milwaukee-based ManpowerGroup, the world’s second-largest
provider of temporary workers behind Glattbrugg, Switzerland-
based  Adecco SA. (ADEN)  “Companies are all feeling the pressure of not
finding the level of talent their businesses require,” from
“entry-level service positions” to “high-end engineers.”  The failure to match willing employers with appropriate
workers is contributing to a jobless rate that has stalled
around 9 percent or higher since April 2009 and is keeping the
unemployed on the sidelines for longer. The rate was 9.1 percent
in July, when payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after an increase
of 46,000 a month earlier, the Labor Department said Aug. 5.  Eroding Skills  More than 40 percent of people out of work have been
without a job for 27 weeks or more, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, making it more difficult for them to re-enter
the workforce later as their skills erode.  U.S. central-bank researchers are trying to determine how
much of the elevated  unemployment rate  is caused by permanent
labor-market changes that monetary policy can’t fix and what
share reflects cyclical trends that correspond with demand and
give officials more room to respond.  “The more this drags on, the more concerned we should all
be getting that a lot of human capital is being lost and
therefore more structural problems are developing,” said Daniel Aaronson, director of microeconomic research for the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago .  ‘Skills Mismatch’  “You do have a skills mismatch out there and a significant
one,” said Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar
Investors LLC, which oversees about $8 billion in mostly U.S.
stocks. While Barish said he doesn’t have a strong idea what
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues will
do at their meeting tomorrow, “there’s a reasonable likelihood
they would hint at additional policy action,” including a
change to the wording of their pledge to keep  interest rates 
near zero for “an extended period.”  The Fed cut the target for the benchmark federal funds rate
to between zero and 0.25 percent in December 2008. Low rates
over a longer period will ultimately help the U.S. stock market,
in spite of last week’s declines, Barish said. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 7.2 percent between July 29 and August
5, the biggest weekly slump since November 2008.  “For investors, this is one of those hold-your-nose
moments when you buy into the panic and buy into the uncertainty
of world equity markets,” he said, recommending shares of
energy company  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , retailer  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and agricultural-commodities processor Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. Cambiar owns those shares on behalf of its clients.  Frustrated Entrepreneurs  Begal, founder of Begal Enterprises Inc., is among a half
dozen entrepreneurs who said during interviews that they are
having a hard time landing new employees in the Washington, D.C.
area, which has an unemployment rate of 6.2 percent, the second-
lowest for a large U.S. metro area after Oklahoma City.  Some candidates lack the “right set of skills”; others
fail to meet the “most basic of qualifications,” such as
proper spelling on their applications, the business owners said.
So even though the pool of potential employees “has gotten
deeper,” the “top talent searches remain as challenging as
they were before the recent market conditions,” said Julie Rakes, a spokeswoman for bank and credit-card issuer  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  in McLean, Virginia.  The recession that began in December 2007 accelerated
existing labor-market trends in the U.S., from increased global
competition for talent to companies becoming more efficient and
exacting in their requirements for new workers, said Manpower’s
Joerres. With demand for goods and services now sagging, “these
things are driving the latency in hiring,” he said. “Companies
can wait” and have “raised the bar.”  ‘Dart’ Job Search  Divya Gugnani, chief executive of fashion-accessory
Internet site Send the Trend in  New York , said she has filled
only one of five openings, even though she’s received more than
1,000 applications. Candidates are using a “dart” approach --
submitting lots of resumes in hopes one will attract attention -
- and sometimes fail to specify even which position they want.  Getting the right people is “brutal,” like “finding a
needle in a haystack,” said the 34-year-old business woman.  The hiring struggle crosses regions and industries,
according to the Fed’s Beige Book survey of economic conditions
released on July 27. Advertising and consulting companies in the
Northeast say their inability to land qualified people is
hurting sales growth. Truckers in the Midwest are coming up
short on drivers, and manufacturers in the Chicago Fed’s five-
state area aren’t getting “appropriately skilled workers,” the
report said.  ‘Rippling’ Through Economy  Eastern  Montana  and western North Dakota’s strong oil
production is “rippling throughout the whole economy” and
“sucking a lot of people” into that industry and related
fields such as accounting and food services, said Toby Madden, a
regional economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis .  With unemployment at 3.2 percent in North Dakota, the
lowest of any state, businesses of all types -- including fast-
food restaurants -- are struggling to find enough workers. Some
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  locations are “offering signing bonuses,”
said company spokeswoman Danya Proud. “This is a franchisee
decision.”  People also are making an “economic decision that the
benefits of staying unemployed in their local area, where
unemployment rates are high, outweigh the benefits of being
employed in the oil patch,” Madden said.  A lack of mobility -- particularly for homeowners who owe
more than their dwellings are worth -- is hindering the ability
to move to places where jobs are available, said Scott Paul,
executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing in
Washington. While enough talent exists to fill jobs currently
being offered, there’s a “geographical mismatch,” as well as a
strong employers’ bias against hiring the long-term unemployed,
he said.  Long-Term Challenge  Over time, his industry faces the challenge of not having
enough skilled workers because vocational education has been
“decimated” in many parts of the U.S. and young people aren’t
interested in manufacturing jobs, Paul added.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s largest
software maker by sales, has lobbied Congress for years to boost
the number of H-1B visas available to employ foreign workers in
the U.S., even as the company cut jobs there.  The U.S. is “falling short” on education, creating a
situation where “jobs move in search of the right people”
rather than the other way around, the company’s General Counsel
Brad Smith said in testimony to a Senate subcommittee on
immigration last month.  “We will not bring unemployment down to the extent desired
until we ‘skill up’ the population to attract the jobs that
otherwise will be located elsewhere,” Smith said.  Microsoft had 4,551 openings as of May and has taken an
average of 65 days to fill core U.S. technology positions with
experienced candidates this year, he said.  ‘Steelworker for the Future’  Some companies, such as Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) , are
taking it upon themselves to mold prospective employees. The
world’s biggest steelmaker by production has a “Steelworker for
the Future” program that pays U.S. high-school graduates for
2.5 years of training, with the chance to earn $17.39 an hour
with the company upon completion.  Begal said he began posting ads five months ago in places
like the Washington Post, Craigslist.com and Monster.com to fill
three to five sales positions with annual pay that could exceed
$100,000 apiece and two office jobs offering at least $40,000
annually.  He initially required sales candidates to have experience
in marketing disaster-restoration services, which generated just
a few responses. Begal re-wrote the ads asking for two years of
experience in any field, which also produced little result, he
said. He’s now on the fourth rewrite, has dropped the
requirement of two years’ experience and is seeking applicants
who are simply “hungry.”  “I keep tweaking the ads to appeal to more people,” he
said. “The results are disappointing: zip, zilch, de minimis,
pathetic, horrible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net 
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  