-- 
Merkel, Sarkozy Urge Speed on Fund Changes

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-08-07T19:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/merkel-sarkozy-urge-speed-on-fund-changes.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called for their parliaments to
approve by the end of September the strengthening of the euro-
area bailout fund and backed a European Central Bank role in
determining when bond buying is needed to stop contagion.  The two leaders “underline the importance for
parliamentary authorities to approve the changes quickly in
their two countries before the end of September,” they said in
a joint statement issued as euro-area central bankers were
involved in a call on stemming the crisis.  They also praised steps by Spain and Italy to strengthen
their public finances and called Italy’s decision announced on
Aug. 5 to balance its budget in 2013, a year ahead of schedule,
of “fundamental importance.”  European Union leaders agreed at a summit on July 21 to
bolster their euro rescue mechanism and authorized the fund to
purchase bonds in secondary markets to bolster demand for euro-
area government debt. The changes to the fund, which need
national approvals, failed to stop the selloff in Spanish and
Italian bonds that pushed their yields to euro-era records last
week.  “Southern  Europe  is a tinder box and Merkel and Sarkozy
promise to douse the flames in a few months time,” said  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker with the Free Democrats, part of Merkel’s
ruling coalition. “I suspect this crisis will catch up with the
governments now and force quick convening of parliaments to get
the new role of the EFSF in legislation.”  ECB Call  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  led a conference call
tonight of euro-region central bank governors to discuss ways to
stem the sovereign crisis that may include the central bank
buying bonds in the secondary market. Once the July 21 agreement
is enacted, the rescue fund known as the European Financial
Stability Facility would be empowered to buy bonds after
consultation with the ECB.  “In line with the decisions of 21 July, France and  Germany 
are confident that the analysis of the ECB will be the basis for
appropriate interventions in the secondary market since it will
help to determine if there is a risk to financial stability in
the euro area as a whole,” the leaders’ statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  