-- 
Full Text: G-7 Statement on ‘Renewed Strains’

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 6 7 8 2 9 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 
2011-08-07T23:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/full-text-g-7-statement-on-renewed-strains-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released via e-mail today by finance
ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrial
nations.  “In the face of renewed strains on financial markets, we,
the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the G-7,
affirm our commitment to take all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth in a spirit of close cooperation
and confidence.  “We are committed to addressing the tensions stemming from
the current challenges on our fiscal deficits, debt and growth,
and welcome the decisive actions taken in the US and  Europe . The
US has adopted reforms that will deliver substantial deficit
reduction over the medium term. In Europe, the Euro area Summit
decided on July 21 a comprehensive package to tackle the
situation in  Greece  and other countries facing financial
tensions, notably through the flexibilisation of the EFSF. We
are now focused on the quick and full implementation of the
agreements achieved. We welcome the statement of  France  and
 Germany  to that effect. We also welcome the statement of the
Governing Council of the ECB.  “We are committed to taking coordinated action where
needed, to ensuring liquidity, and to supporting financial
market functioning, financial stability and economic growth.  “These actions, together with continuing fiscal discipline
efforts will enable long-term fiscal sustainability. No change
in fundamentals warrants the recent financial tensions faced by
 Spain  and  Italy . We welcome the additional policy measures
announced by Italy and Spain to strengthen fiscal discipline and
underpin the recovery in economic activity and  job creation . The
Euro Area Leaders have stated clearly that the involvement of
the private sector in Greece is an extraordinary measure due to
unique circumstances that will not be applied to any other
member states of the euro area.  “We reaffirmed our shared interest in a strong and stable
international financial system, and our support for market-
determined exchange rates. Excess volatility and disorderly
movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for
economic and financial stability. We will consult closely in
regard to actions in exchange markets and will cooperate as
appropriate.  “We will remain in close contact throughout the coming
weeks and cooperate as appropriate, ready to take action to
ensure stability and liquidity in financial markets.”
 