-- 
G-7 Officials Confer Amid Euro Turmoil, U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-07T22:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/g-7-finance-officials-to-speak-today-on-europe-debt-u-s-rating-downgrade.html
Group of Seven finance officials will
talk today by conference call as policy makers seek to avert
turmoil from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a cut in the
U.S. credit rating.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will take part
in a G-7 conference call today, according to an official from a
G-7 country who declined to be identified for lack of
authorization. Finance ministers and central bankers are
preparing a statement, and they may express confidence in the
dollar and support the European Union’s fiscal efforts, the
Nikkei newspaper reported.  U.S. stock futures declined, following the biggest weekly
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 2008, amid concern
that a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating by S&P may worsen
an economic slowdown. S&P 500 futures expiring in September
declined 2.1 percent to 1,172.3 at 7:03 a.m. in  Tokyo . The
dollar fell to a record low against the Swiss franc and declined
for a second day versus the yen.  The G-7 call would follow emergency discussions today by
euro-region central bank governors intended to stop Spain and
 Italy  from becoming the next victims of the sovereign-debt
crisis and limit fallout from the first U.S. debt-rating
downgrade in history. The  European Central Bank  said it will
“actively implement” its bond-purchase program and welcomed
Italy and Spain’s efforts to reduce their deficits.  Providing Liquidity  G-7 finance ministers and central bankers may pledge to
provide liquidity to markets, and the U.S. will detail fiscal
efforts during the talks, Nikkei reported on its website,
without citing anyone.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  joined telephone consultations with euro-area
counterparts Aug. 5 as investors signaled concern a July 21
agreement to expand a 440 billion-euro ($628 billion) rescue
fund would fail to stop the turmoil.  After a series of calls involving German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , European leaders pledged to push implementation of
last month’s deal on the European Financial Stability Facility.
Berlusconi announced measures to speed austerity and target a
balanced budget in 2013, a year ahead of schedule.  Italian Yields  Yields on Italy’s 10-year government debt have increased to
6.1 percent from 4.6 percent in two months, while  Spain ’s yields
have increased to as high as 6.29 percent from 5.14 percent in
March.  Standard & Poor’s announced it was downgrading the U.S.
credit rating one step to AA+ from AAA after markets closed on
Aug. 5, saying budget cuts agreed to by Congress and the
administration fell short of what “would be necessary to
stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics.”  The company warned on July 14 that it would reduce the
rating in the absence of a “credible” plan to lower deficits
even if the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit was lifted.  The U.S. Treasury Department responded that there is “no
justifiable rationale” for the downgrade and that S&P made a $2
trillion mistake in its calculations.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index dropped 7.2 percent to
1,199.38 last week, the biggest weekly decline since November
2008 and the lowest level since Nov. 30, 2010, on concern the
two-year U.S. economic recovery was stalling.  Consumer Confidence   The debt downgrade and market slide are bound to hit the
confidence of American consumers, said Mark Spindel, chief
investment officer at Potomac River Capital, which manages $300
million in  Washington .  “This is an upper-cut to confidence at the worst possible
moment,” Spindel said before the G-7 announcement. “The
downgrade mattered less. It is the path we have taken to get
here: the meager recovery, the dysfunctional political
environment, and the pathetic growth in employment, consumption
and income that don’t seem to be moving back to sustainable
levels.”  Confidence among consumers, whose spending accounts for 70
percent of the economy, fell to the lowest level in two years in
July, according to a survey from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan. The index declined to 63.7, the weakest since March
2009, when the economy contracted at a 6.7 percent annual rate.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to a two-month low
last week.  Software Company  Blackbaud Inc., a Charleston, South Carolina-based software
company, and Blue Nile Inc., a Seattle-based online jewelry-
retailer, both mentioned declining consumer confidence in
earnings conference calls last week.  Separately today, the U.S. Treasury Department announced
that Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told Obama that he intends to
remain in his job. Geithner, 49, told White House officials this
year that he was considering leaving once a deal to raise the
nation’s borrowing limit deal was reached. Obama signed an
increase in the limit on Aug. 2.  “Until things are fixed this is not a job that one can get
up and leave from,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  