-- 
G-7 Vows to Take ‘All Necessary Measures’ to Stabilize Economies, Markets

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-08T09:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/g-7-vows-to-take-all-necessary-measures-to-stabilze-economies-markets.html
Group of Seven nations sought to head
off a collapse in investor confidence after the U.S. sovereign-
rating cut and a slump in Italian and Spanish debt intensified
threats to the global economy.  G-7 finance ministers and central bank governors pledged in
a statement to “take all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth.” Officials will inject
liquidity and act against disorderly currency moves as needed,
they said after a call late yesterday European time. The G-20,
which includes emerging markets, issued a similar communique.  Stocks extended declines that have wiped $5.4 trillion off
equity markets since July 26, driven investors to Treasuries and
gold and rattled consumer confidence already hurt by European
fiscal tightening and elevated American unemployment. The
 European Central Bank  signaled it will buy Italian and Spanish
bonds, and Japan warned it may intervene again to stem gains in
the yen.  “Actions speak louder than words,” said Richard Barwell,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “In
the short run, it might be better they say something rather than
nothing, but we’re probably at the stage now more where people
want to see decisive action.”  Stocks, ECB  Stocks fell in  Asia  and European stocks resumed their
decline after a selloff in mining companies. That overshadowed a
rally in financial shares as the European Central Bank bought
Spanish and Italian debt, according to five people with
knowledge of the transaction.  Treasuries climbed, sending the yield on the 10-year note
down five basis points to 2.51 percent and the five-year yield
seven basis points lower to 1.18 percent. The two-year yield
fell as much as four basis points to a record 0.2520 percent
after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said U.S.
Treasuries were attractive.  G-7 policy makers committed to “coordinated action where
needed,” and to “consult closely in regard to actions in
exchange markets,” even as they reiterated support for market-
set currencies. The group last mounted a joint foreign-exchange
intervention in March, countering a surge in the yen after
Japan’s earthquake.  While the G-7 statement was “better than nothing,” it’s
not likely to stem the dollar’s decline, said  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. Muto added that the scope for coordinated policy action
is limited by inflation pressures, caps on spending, and
 interest rates  that are already near zero in nations such as the
U.S. and  Japan .  Yen Rises  The yen rose 0.7 percent to 77.88 per dollar, about 2
percent from the postwar high reached in March. Investors
flocked to the yen and franc amid the turmoil as currencies of
nations with current-account surpluses. The yen’s gain risked
damping a recovery from Japan’s estimated three quarters of
economic contraction through June, by hurting exports.  Avoiding another “severe” recession may be “mission
impossible,” Nouriel Roubini, co-founder and chairman of
Roubini Global Economics LLC, wrote in the Financial Times.  In Europe, the debt crisis pushed yields on Italy’s 10-year
government securities to 6.1 percent from 4.6 percent in two
months, while Spain’s yields soared to as high as 6.29 percent,
from 5.14 percent in March. Ten-year borrowing rates for both
nations last week reached the most since before the euro was
introduced in 1999, before dropping today as the ECB entered the
market.  Europe  Debt  “No change in fundamentals warrants the recent financial
tensions faced by Spain and Italy,” said the G-7, made up of
the U.S.,  Canada , U.K.,  Germany , France, Italy and Japan. Policy
measures announced by Italy and Spain will “strengthen fiscal
discipline and underpin the recovery in economic activity and
job creation,” the officials said.  The statement added that “the involvement of the private
sector in  Greece  is an extraordinary measure due to unique
circumstances that will not be applied to any other member
states of the euro area.” The latest bailout package for Greece
includes voluntary contributions from private-sector
bondholders.  The ECB said yesterday it will “actively implement” its
bond-purchase program, in a statement issued in the name of
President Jean-Claude Trichet after an emergency teleconference
meeting of policy makers, separate from the G-7 call.  The bank also called on all euro-area governments to follow
through on the measures agreed in July, including allowing the
European Financial Stability Facility to buy bonds on the
secondary market.  ECB’s Shift  “It is on the basis of the above assessments that the ECB
will actively implement its Securities Markets Program,” the
central bank said after the phone discussion.  “The ECB is now in for the long haul and will potentially
have to buy up to half of the Italian and Spanish traded debt,
the biggest risk-pulling effort ever engineered in Europe,”
said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland in  London .  Sovereign investors from Europe to Asia expressed
confidence in U.S. government debt after the S&P decision.  Japan, the second-largest international investor in
American government debt, sees no problem with trust in the
securities, a Japanese government official said on condition of
anonymity two days ago after the S&P decision.  Japan’s efforts to weaken the yen may boost its need to
purchase Treasuries, after the nation’s authorities mounted the
third round of yen sales since September last week. Vice Finance
Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said over the weekend that the
government is ready to intervene again.  Russia’s View  Russia considers U.S. debt reliable and won’t review its
policy of investing in the country, Deputy Finance Minister
Sergei Storchak said after the U.S. downgrade. The cut “can be
ignored” for long-term investment strategy, he said. Russia, a
Group of 20 member, is one of the 10 largest foreign holders of
U.S. government debt.  G-20 finance chiefs said in a separate statement that
members will take “all necessary initiatives in a coordinated
way” to support financial stability and growth.  The U.S. Treasury Department said the S&P move was flawed
by putting discretionary spending levels at $2 trillion higher
than the Congressional Budget Office estimates. S&P responded
that its judgment wasn’t meaningfully affected by such spending
figures.  Debt Impasse  The S&P move went further than Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit ratings for
the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day U.S. President Barack Obama signed a
bill that ended the debt-ceiling impasse that had pushed the
country to the edge of default. Moody’s and Fitch both said that
downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to enact debt
reduction measures and the economy weakens.  “We can ask why this agency took this decision based on
figures that are not consensual,” French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said in an interview on RTL Radio yesterday.
“There will be a debate in the U.S. about this decision. It’s
one out of three agencies. It’s only one element.”  S&P currently gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking,
including  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the Isle of Man, according to
a July report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt-to-GDP
this year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the
U.S., also has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S.,
its net public debt is forecast to decline either before or by
2015, S&P said in yesterday’s statement.  Confidence Hit  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has an AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.
 Belgium  has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  The debt downgrade and market slide are bound to hit the
confidence of American consumers, said Mark Spindel, chief
investment officer at Potomac River Capital, which manages $300
million in  Washington .  “This is an upper-cut to confidence at the worst possible
moment,” Spindel said before the G-7 announcement. “The
downgrade mattered less. It is the path we have taken to get
here: the meager recovery, the dysfunctional political
environment, and the pathetic growth in employment, consumption
and income that don’t seem to be moving back to sustainable
levels.”  Confidence among consumers, whose spending accounts for 70
percent of the  U.S. economy , fell to the lowest level in two
years in July, a survey from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan showed. The reached 63.7, the weakest since March 2009,
when the economy contracted at a 6.7 percent annual rate.  Blackbaud Inc., a Charleston, South Carolina-based software
company, and Blue Nile Inc., a Seattle-based online jewelry-
retailer, both mentioned declining consumer confidence in
earnings conference calls last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in  Tokyo  on 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo on 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  