-- 
Geithner Tells Obama He Will Remain as Treasury Secretary

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-08-07T21:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/geithner-tells-obama-he-plans-to-stay-in-his-job-as-treasury-secretary.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , a central figure in the U.S. government’s bailouts of
Wall Street banks and efforts to raise the debt limit, told
President  Barack Obama  that he intends to remain in his job.  Geithner, 49, will stay on at least through the 2012
election, according to an administration official who was not
authorized to comment publicly.  Geithner, the last remaining member of Obama’s original
economic team, made his announcement after months of speculation
over his future. He told White House officials this year that he
was considering leaving once a deal to raise the nation’s
borrowing limit deal was reached. Obama signed an increase in
the limit on Aug. 2.  “Secretary Geithner has let the president know that he
plans to stay on in his position at Treasury,” Jenni LeCompte,
assistant secretary for public affairs, said in a statement
today in  Washington . “He looks forward to the important work
ahead on the challenges facing our great country.”  Geithner’s decision allows the administration to maintain
continuity in economic policy at a time of investor concern that
the two-year-old expansion may be stalling and after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating for the first time. The S&P
500 Index of stocks slumped 7.2 percent to 1,199.38 last week,
the biggest weekly drop since November 2008 and the lowest level
since Nov. 30, 2010.  “The President asked Secretary Geithner to stay on at
Treasury and welcomes his decision,”  Jay Carney , the White
House press secretary, said in a statement today.  ‘Right Decision’  “It is the right decision for him and the markets,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York, said in an e-mail today. “He has not
finished the job yet as the economic recovery remains fragile
and the trillion-dollar deficits have not been tamed. There is
no obvious immediate replacement waiting in the wings.”  Banking lawyer H. Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman at Sullivan
& Cromwell LLP, said in a phone interview today that Geithner’s
decision is positive because it “removes numerous uncertainties
overhanging the market.” Cohen described himself as an
“unabashed fan” of Geithner’s.  The Treasury secretary’s challenges for the rest of Obama’s
term include reducing unemployment, overhauling the housing-
finance system, working with Congress to further cut the  budget
deficit  and helping European leaders contain their debt crisis.  ‘Middle of Crisis’  “In the middle of this crisis, Geithner probably doesn’t
want to roil markets any more than they have already been, so
it’s best to just say you’re staying for now even if you are
ultimately planning on leaving,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist at BTIG LLC in  New York , said in an e-mail.  The Obama administration probably wanted to avoid a fight
in the Senate, which would have to approve a new Treasury
secretary, said Brian Gardner, senior vice president of
Washington research at New York-based Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc.  “It would have been very tough to confirm a successor,”
Gardner said.  Under Geithner, the U.S. has suffered what he referred to
last month as “unacceptably high, terribly high” unemployment.
The jobless rate fell to 9.1 percent from 9.2 percent in July as
discouraged workers left the  labor force , according to Labor
Department data released Aug. 5.  Debt-Limit Debates  Geithner may find himself in another round of debt-limit
debates. The agreement reached in Congress requires that a group
of 12 lawmakers submit savings in November involving all parts
of government. Geithner also will be tackling the future of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the housing-finance companies that
have drawn about $130 billion in taxpayer support since they
were seized by the government in 2008.  Overseas, Geithner must continue working with European
leaders who are trying to manage the region’s debt crisis. Italy
announced a plan to speed up financial reform on Aug. 5, and the
European Commission called for an expansion of a $623 billion
rescue fund.  After S&P downgraded the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5, U.S.
Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican, wrote on his
Twitter account that Obama should fire Geithner and “replace
him with someone who will focus on balancing our budget and
letting private sector create jobs.”  Bachmann, Geithner  Republican presidential candidate  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota also called on Obama to dismiss Geithner during an
interview with Fox News after the ratings downgrade was
announced.  As Treasury secretary since January 2009 and president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for more than five years
before that, Geithner helped lead efforts to stabilize the
financial system and pull the  U.S. economy  out of the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  Bailouts of banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  were criticized by lawmakers for benefiting the
firms blamed for the crisis. At his January 2009 Senate
confirmation hearing, Geithner said the rescue program “helped
prevent financial catastrophe.”  After the economy began to recover, Geithner pushed for the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul and spoke frequently in the past
several months in defense of the law, which has been criticized
by some Republicans in Congress as hurting businesses.  White House Signal  Geithner had previously signaled to White House officials
that he was considering leaving once the months-long debate over
raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt limit was settled. The
Senate gave final approval to the legislation on Aug. 2, the
date the Treasury gave as the deadline for when the U.S. would
exhaust its borrowing authority.  Geithner frequently warned lawmakers that failing to raise
the limit could have “catastrophic” consequences for the U.S.
economy and said “political theater” in Congress was delaying
action.  In an interview with ABC television last week, Geithner
said he hadn’t made a decision on when to leave the
administration.  “We’ve got a lot of challenges, the president’s got a lot
of challenges, and you know, I’ve got other pressures on me,
too,” he said. “But I’ll make that decision at the right
moment.”  Commuting From Washington  Geithner had previously said he would start commuting to
Washington from New York because his son was returning there to
finish high school.  Even after his efforts supporting Dodd-Frank and for
raising the debt limit, Geithner is most closely identified with
the 2008 financial crisis and the Troubled Asset Relief Program
bailouts.  As president of the New York Fed in September 2008,
Geithner -- along with Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and then-
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson -- was among the key decision-
makers juggling the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
the near-collapse of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , and
talks for Bank of America to buy Merrill Lynch & Co.  Geithner defended the bailouts as necessary to saving the
financial system.  ‘Stronger Shape’  “We can say with confidence today that the American
financial system is in much stronger shape because of the
actions we took, the strategy we embraced to resolve the crisis,
but also because of the progress we made in implementing the
basic foundations, the reforms in Dodd-Frank,” Geithner said
July 18.  Critics, especially Republicans, argue that the bailouts
and Dodd-Frank did little to reduce the possibility that the
U.S. government will at some point be forced again to rescue
financial institutions.  “He’s had a long career of embracing too-big-to-fail,”
said Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute  in Washington and a former aide to Alabama
Senator  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee. “He’s done almost nothing to control the
moral hazard created by the federal safety net.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  