-- 
Giants Top Pick Amukamara to Have Surgery After Breaking Foot in Practice

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/giants-top-pick-prince-amukamara-to-have-surgery-after-breaking-foot.html
Prince Amukamara, the  New York
Giants ’ top draft pick, said he feels he’s let the team down
after breaking a bone in his left foot in practice. He’ll need
surgery and miss the start of his rookie season.  The 21-year-old cornerback may be sidelined for as long as
eight to 10 weeks, Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said. Amukamara,
who was injured a day after signing a four-year, $8.1 million
contract, said he didn’t know when he’ll return.  The Giants open the 2011 National Football League regular
season on Sept. 11 against the  Washington Redskins .  “It’s definitely a little adversity I’m going to have to
deal with,” Amukamara told reporters yesterday at the Giants’
training camp. “I’m really down on myself. I feel like I let
the team down and myself down.”  Amukamara will have a screw inserted in the fifth
metatarsal bone in his foot, though a date for the surgery
hasn’t been scheduled. He was injured during a passing drill two
days ago while covering wide receiver Duke Calhoun.  “It was just one of those random injuries,” said
Amukamara, who was the 19th overall pick in this year’s draft.
“I can’t put pressure on it right now. I can hobble a little
bit, but I can barely even do that.”  The 6-foot, 206-pound Amukamara had 59 tackles and a sack
as a senior at  Nebraska , where he led a defense that allowed
153.6 passing yards per game last season.  “We’re disappointed, very disappointed,” Coughlin said.
“The only thing we can say now is that hopefully he’s on track
to have a chance and recover.”  The Giants’ defense allowed 3,352 passing yards last
season,  ranking ninth  out of 32 NFL teams. New York had a 10-6
record and finished second in the National Football Conference
East Division behind the  Philadelphia Eagles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 