-- 
Governments Are Biggest Risk to Miners, Ernst & Young Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-07T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/governments-are-biggest-risk-to-miners-ernst-young-says.html
The push by governments to raise
taxes and impose stricter ownership controls is the biggest
business risk to global mining companies, said Ernst & Young LLP.  “Over the past 15 to 16 months, resources nationalism has
really bitten,” Mike Elliott, Ernst & Young’s Sydney-based
sector leader for global mining, said in a phone interview on
the release of a risk report. “Almost everywhere you look
there’s an increase in what governments take.”  At least 25 countries, including  Australia  and the U.S.,
boosted or announced increases to mining taxes and royalties
during 2010-2011, Ernst & Young said in its annual mining
business risk report. This raised the average  tax rate  about 5
percent as prices for iron ore, copper and coal rose to records.  “Resource nationalism has become a contagion impacting the
mining and metals industry across the globe,” Andy Miller,
global tax leader for mining and metals for Ernst & Young, said
in the report.  Skills shortages and access to road, rail and ports are the
next biggest risk for mining companies, leading to project
cancellations and cost inflation, the report said.  “The tight labor markets also provide an environment for
greater industrial disputes as organized labor seek to increase
wages,” it said. “A lack of sufficient rail networks appears
to be the largest global bottleneck.”  In Australia, the biggest exporter of coal,  iron ore  and
alumina, there are a record A$174 billion ($182 billion) of
minerals and energy projects at an advanced stage of development,
according to government forecasts from June.  Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest mining company, last
week reported first-half profit that missed analyst estimates,
partly because of cost inflation as mining companies battle
rising wages, raw material and energy costs.  “Cost overruns haven’t reached a peak yet,” said Elliott.
“Equipment shortages haven’t really bitten yet in the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 