-- 
Investors Cut Bullish Commodity Bets in ‘Panic’ on Economy, Debt Concerns

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-08-08T05:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/investors-cut-bullish-commodity-bets-in-panic-on-economy-debt-concerns.html
Funds trimmed bets on rising
commodity prices for the first time in four weeks amid mounting
concern that the global economy is faltering.  Speculators cut their net-long positions in 18 commodities
by 3.6 percent to 1.23 million futures and options contracts in
the week ended Aug. 2, government data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Bullish gold holdings climbed to the highest since at
least June 2006 amid surging demand for an investment haven.  Investors dumped equities and most raw materials for the
perceived safety of Treasuries, the Swiss franc and gold last
week amid escalating debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe . The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials dropped
5.9 percent, the most since May. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
equities tumbled to a 10-month low.  “People were just selling everything in a panic move,”
 Michael Pento , an economist at Euro Pacific Capital, said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 5. “We are very concerned with
what’s going on in the U.S. economy. We expect the market to
continue to be bearish until the  Federal Reserve  comes in with
another round of quantitative easing.”  Service industries in the U.S., the largest part of the
nation’s economy, expanded at the slowest rate in 17 months in
July, a report showed. European services and manufacturing
growth eased to the slowest pace in almost two years.  Commodity Funds  Investors put $2.6 billion into commodity funds in the week
ended Aug. 2, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research company. Almost all the money went
into gold, and industrial-commodity funds had an outflow of $260
million, the firm said.  “Rosy demand scenarios for industrial commodities during
the second half of the year are thin on the ground at present,”
 Cameron Brandt , EPFR’s director of research, said in a report.  Hedge funds and other money managers lifted their net-long
gold position by 8.8 percent to 253,653 futures and options
contracts, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commissioned showed. Bullish bets on copper and soybeans dropped.  Spot gold surged to a record $1,715.75 an ounce today and
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures tumbled as much as 3.1
percent, following a two-week slump that erased its 2011 gain.
Bullion has climbed 20 percent this year while the equity gauge
has dropped 4.6 percent.  Gold Holdings  Gold rallied as the Fed kept borrowing costs near zero
percent since December 2008 and completed two rounds of bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, to bolster the  U.S. economy .  Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by gold climbed
2.94 metric tons to a record 2,185.5 tons on Aug. 5, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, gaining for the 10th session.  Copper futures lost 8.1 percent last week, the biggest
weekly slump since June 2010. The futures for September delivery
dropped 0.9 percent to $4.0820 a pound on Comex today.  “Perceptions of the macro outlook have taken a turn for
the worst,”  Gayle Berry , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , said in a report.  Bullish bets on cocoa futures plunged 49 percent to 6,299
futures and options contracts, the lowest since mid-June. Prices
in New York have dropped 5.7 percent since July 1.  -- With assistance from Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore .
Editors: Patrick McKiernan, James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  