-- 
Investec Hails Benefits of Funding Opera Festival: Interview

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-08-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/investec-trumpets-benefits-from-sponsoring-opera-holland-park-interview.html
In one sense,  Investec Plc (INVP) ’s
sponsorship of  Opera Holland Park  in London concludes this
season on a low note. At the bottom of a ravine, in fact. In
another sense, it couldn’t be higher.  The sixth and final opera this summer is Catalani’s
Alpine barnstormer “La Wally,” in which the hero gets
swallowed by an avalanche and the heroine throws herself into
the abyss after him. It’s staged with a clever use of cloth
and rope, and with generous financial help from Investec
Wealth & Investment in London.  Does the company make a return on funding operatic
avalanches? I meet David Bulteel, an executive director of
Investec and spokesman on the sponsorship, to find out.  With his high forehead and neat moustache, Bulteel, 56,
has the look of a friendly Edwardian schoolmaster. He’s
passionate about choral music, and during our conversation
also reveals that he had been a male alto in his church choir.  When he talks about the success of the partnership with
Holland Park, he displays a similar enthusiasm. It’s like
meeting Tigger, the lively character from A.A. Milne’s “The
House at Pooh Corner,” and it’s infectiously engaging.  “It has been the most fantastic success,” Bulteel says.
“The response from all the clients and fund managers we’ve
taken has been amazingly positive.”  Entertaining Clients  It began four years ago, when Bulteel was working for
U.K. fund manager Rensburg Sheppards Plc. A colleague
recommended Holland Park Opera, and he entertained a party of
clients there.  “We loved what we saw, and returned the following
seasons,” he says. “People would talk about it for weeks
afterwards. It rang all the right bells for us, so this year
we decided to become headline sponsors for the whole season.”  Rensburg Sheppards was acquired last year by Investec, a
private bank and wealth manager with operations in  South
Africa ,  Australia  and the U.K. Now the sponsorship is part of
Investec’s program of giving, which until this year was
focused primarily on sport.  As headline sponsors, the company name is fully
incorporated into the Holland Park season, from the posters to
the intermission announcements. Investec uses zebras in its
advertising, and there are also several eye-catching zebra
statues dotted around the foyer areas.  Branding  Mike Volpe, the general manager of Holland Park Opera, is
delighted to showcase the Investec name as much as possible.
“The brands are fully integrated for the duration of the
sponsorship,” he says. “Their name goes right through
everything, like a stick of rock.”  Investec receives tickets to productions, and gets a
chance to meet the artists. A long chat with Richard Bonynge,
widower of soprano Joan Sutherland and the conductor of this
season’s staging of Donizetti’s “Don Pasquale,” was a
particular hit for Bulteel’s guests.  Bulteel declines to disclose the exact amount of funding,
which he describes as “a substantial six-figure sum.”  The overall budget of Opera Holland Park this year is 2.5
million pounds ($4 million), says Volpe. Its largest single
funder is the  Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , whose
contribution covers about 20 percent of total costs.  The Investec sponsorship agreement is in place for one
year, with an option to renew. “It has been so successful,
that my recommendation to the board will be that we renew, and
it’s looking very realistic at the moment,” says Bulteel.
“Budgets are budgets though, and everything has to be
reassessed every year.”  Nurturing Relations  There’s an affinity in what the two organizations are
trying to do, he says. “We look after individuals, and
nurture them as private clients. Holland Park does the same
thing with young singers. It’s a perfect match.”  One soprano whom Holland Park has nurtured is the rising
star Amanda Echalaz, soon to make her  Metropolitan Opera  debut
as Madam Butterfly. “We threw a party for our colleagues and
clients at the  London  Museum recently,” says Bulteel, “and
Holland Park arranged for Amanda to sing excerpts from
‘Butterfly’ with a string quartet. You can imagine the wow
factor that created. It was incredible.”  Volpe says there are other benefits to a sponsor. “If
you give to the  Royal Opera House , or  Glyndebourne , your money
goes into a big pot. If you give to us, you can see the
results of your giving on stage, in a better set, or more
elaborate costumes. It’s very tangible.”  Soft Benefits  Do the sums add up financially for Investec, I ask?
“There’s a business side to it, of course,” Bulteel says.
“We like to be aware of how many new clients it brings in,
and how much money they might generate. There are softer
issues, however, and softer benefits, and you can’t measure
those in pound signs.”  What sort of benefits? “The staff members love the fact
that they can take clients, and it really helps them build
relationships,” he says. “Yes, it costs money, but the value
we get from it is the most important thing.”  Bulteel remains enthusiastic. “Ten years ago, who’d
heard of Investec in the U.K.? Now, with the help of
sponsorship, our brand awareness is much higher. It’s a win-
win situation.”  “La Wally” is at Opera Holland Park, London, sponsored
by Investec Wealth & Investment, through Aug. 12. Information:
 http://www.operahollandpark.com  or +44-300-999-1000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 