-- 
Irish ‘Dr. Doom’ Kelly Says Euro-Area Too Complex to Collapse

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-07T12:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/irish-dr-doom-kelly-says-euro-area-too-complex-to-collapse.html
The euro-area will survive the
sovereign-debt crisis, said Morgan Kelly, an economics professor
at University College Dublin, dubbed Ireland’s Doctor Doom after
forecasting the collapse of the country’s real-estate boom.  Euro-region central bank governors will hold emergency
talks today intended to stop Spain and  Italy  from becoming the
next victims of the crisis and limit fallout from the first U.S.
credit-rating cut in history.  “Over the past few days the problem has gotten huge,”
Kelly said at an event in Kilkenny, southeast Ireland yesterday.
“Eventually it will be solved -- simply the  euro zone  is too
complex to collapse.”  Newspapers including the New York Times gave Kelly the
Doom nickname after he forecast in 2006 that Irish property
prices may decline as much as 80 percent. He also accurately
predicted last year that Ireland would need a bailout, as
investors shunned government and banking debt after the real
estate bubble burst.  Kelly said last night “we are stuck” with the bailout
after in May advocating Ireland should walk away from the 67.5
billion-euro ($96.2 billion) bailout.  Ireland is “insolvent,” he said. “We owe more money
than we can realistically repay.”  Kelly said bailing out the country’s banks will result in
government debt rising to as high as 250 billion euros in 2015,
compared to the state’s 200 billion-euro peak forecast.  While  Standard & Poor’s  said Aug. 5 it doesn’t expect “any
further material” bank costs for the government, Kelly said the
final bill for rescuing the sector may be as much as 100 billion
euros. The state has injected about 64 billion euros into the
banks.  It will take a decade for the economy to recover, with
real-estate prices still “very far from the bottom,” he said.
Commercial-property prices have fallen 63 percent since
September 2007, according to an index compiled by London-based
Investment Property Databank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  