-- 
Israel Bonds Drop First Time in Week on S&P Cut, Budget Concern

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-08-07T13:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/israel-bonds-drop-1st-time-in-week-after-s-p-cut-budget-concern.html
Israeli  government bonds  fell for the
first time in five days after the U.S. lost its AAA rating at
 Standard & Poor’s  and as local consumer protests intensified.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit
increased the most since June, rising five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4.95 percent at 3:47 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The
Tel-Bond 40 Index of corporate bonds tumbled 3.2 percent, the
most since December 2008. S&P on Aug. 5 cut the  U.S. debt  to
AA+. Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz yesterday called the
downgrade a “warning sign” for Israel’s economy.  S&P on Aug. 2 moved Israel’s AAA rated, U.S.-guaranteed
sovereign bonds on CreditWatch with negative implications to put
them “in line with” the U.S. rating. S&P declined to comment
on whether changes were made to the Israeli debt after the U.S.
downgrade.  “The perception of credit risk for Israeli assets is bound
to increase after the U.S. downgrade as some of the country’s
debt is also guaranteed by the U.S. government and concerns
about a slowdown in the global economy will affect the
economy,” Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS Securities &
Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone. “Social
protests over the weekend against high living costs are fueling
bets the government may need to raise spending, which in turn is
raising uncertainty over the budget.”  Protests  More than 300,000 protesters gathered across the country
yesterday to demonstrate against the price of  consumer goods  and
housing costs. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said today
“corrections” in social-welfare policy must be taken “with
sensitivity, but responsibly.” It isn’t possible to meet every
demand being made, he said.  Steinitz told  Army Radio  he is willing to consider changing
tax policies to alleviate financial pressure on the middle-
class, including the current mix of direct and indirect
taxation.  The yield on the 5.5 percent bond due in January 2022
jumped four basis points to 5.12 percent. The shekel weakened
0.6 percent to 3.5196 per dollar on Aug. 5, the lowest since May
18.  DS Securities & Investments cut its 12-month inflation
forecast to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent on expectations the
demonstrations and a slowing economic recovery will moderate
price increases. The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects
market expectations for inflation over the time period, slid to
the lowest level on record, falling 27 basis points to 233,
implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.33 percent.  Interest Rates  “The  Bank of Israel  is likely to freeze any increases in
the benchmark lending rate in the coming months and chances that
the next change in the rate will be downward have risen,” DS
Securities & Investments’s Zabezhinsky said. “Inflation
expectations can be expected to fall, which may push government
yields down in the medium-term.”  Two-year  interest-rate  swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for short-term rates in the next two years, plunged
11 basis points Aug. 5 to 3.49 percent, dropping the most since
Nov. 23., according to Bloomberg data.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the benchmark
interest rate at 3.25 percent for a second month in July after
10 increases in two years. The central bank on Aug. 2 cut its
forecasts for economic growth to 4.8 percent in 2011 and 3.9
percent in 2012 from 5.2 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively,
saying debt reduction plans in developed countries may lead to a
global slowdown.  Israel ’s credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt against default for five years, increased 3
basis points to 148 on Aug. 5, according to New York prices from
data provider CMA. The contract reached a high this year of 177
in February, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  