-- 
Israel’s TA-25 Index Rebounds From Biggest Slump in 11 Years

-- B y   S u s a n   L e r n e r
-- 
2011-08-08T14:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/israel-stocks-fall-most-in-11-years-on-concerns-about-global-growth-debt.html
Israel ’s benchmark stock index
rebounded from the biggest slump in 11 years on speculation the
nation’s economy will weather a credit-rating downgrade in the
U.S., one of its biggest trading partners.  Israel Discount Bank Ltd. (DSCT) , the country’s third-largest
bank, jumped 4.7 percent.  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , the maker of food
products including chocolate, snacks and coffee, soared the most
since April 2009. The TA-25 Index gained 1.5 percent to 1,090.39
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , after earlier climbing as
much as 2.6 percent. The measure plunged 7 percent yesterday
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating.  “Institutions are taking the opportunity to buy on
weakness,” said Daniel Goldstein, head of institutional sales
at Excellence Nessuah Investment House in  Ramat Gan , Israel.  The TA-25 gauge earlier fell to a low of 1,072.13, or 20
percent below the record close of 1,341.89 on April 21. A loss
of 20 percent or more signals a so-called  bear market  to some
investors. The 25 companies on the index are valued at an
average 10 times estimated earnings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with 11.2 for the MSCI World Index.  European stocks declined as the S&P downgrade overshadowed
the  European Central Bank ’s purchase of Spanish and Italian
government bonds. U.S. index futures and Asian shares declined.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index also entered a bear market after
retreating 20 percent from its high in February.  Global Stocks  Discount advanced the most since June 13 to 5.697 shekels
as UBS AG added the country’s third-largest lender to its Pan-
European Top 20 small/midcaps Key Calls list. The shares tumbled
10 percent yesterday.  “A recently signed series of employee union agreements and
subsequent launch of a new strategic roadmap could market the
turning point for the bank,” Darren Shaw, head of research at
UBS Securities Israel Ltd. in Herzliya Pituach, wrote in a note
to clients today. Shaw raised his recommendation on Discount to
“buy” from “neutral” on June 13 after the bank reached an
agreement with the union that it said would save the bank as
much as 330 million shekels by the end of 2012.  Strauss shares jumped 5.2 percent to 45.66 shekels.  Government bonds  soared. The yield on the benchmark 5
percent Mimshal Shiklit due January 2020 dropped eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.87 percent. The Tel-Bond
40 Index of corporate bonds advanced 0.7 percent. The shekel
weakened for a sixth day, dropping 0.9 percent to 3.5523 against
the dollar.  S&P today cut the ratings on Israel’s sovereign bonds
guaranteed by the U.S. to AA+ from AAA, in line with the rating
action on the U.S. taken Aug. 5. The sovereign credit ratings on
Israel remain unchanged at A/A-1 with a stable outlook, S&P
said.  Not ‘Vulnerable’  “Israel is not very vulnerable to the U.S. downgrade,”
Barclays Plc analysts wrote in a note to clients today, as
economic fundamentals have been on an “improving trend for
quite a while.” Demonstrations about rising food and housing
costs are a “possible concern,” they said.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz on Aug. 6 called the
downgrade a “warning sign” for Israel’s economy. Growth may
reach 4.8 percent this year, the  Bank of Israel  said on Aug. 2.  More than 300,000 protesters gathered across the country
Aug. 6 to demonstrate against rising costs for housing and
consumer goods. The demonstrations are the latest in a series of
protests that started with complaints about the price of cottage
cheese, an Israeli food staple. Dairy companies, including
Strauss Group, have cut prices since.  These demonstrations “could cause a move towards more
populist policies and lead to a worsening in economic
policies,” Barclays analysts wrote.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday
“corrections” in social-welfare policy must be taken “with
sensitivity, but responsibly.” It isn’t possible to meet every
demand being made, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Lerner  in Jerusalem at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  