-- 
Japan Official Warns of Further Yen Selling to Deter Currency Speculation

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-08-08T01:19:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/japan-official-warns-of-further-yen-selling-to-deter-currency-speculation.html
A Japanese  Finance Ministry  official
said the government is ready to sell yen again following last
week’s move if it sees speculative trades driving the currency
higher.  Further intervention would “maintain the effect and warn
those who make unusual moves” in the currency market, Vice
Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said on a television program
of public broadcaster NHK yesterday.  Japan sold yen in the foreign-exchange market last week for
the second time this year to secure an economic recovery
following the March earthquake and tsunami. Group of Seven
authorities will “cooperate as appropriate” on actions in the
 currency markets  as disorderly moves may cause economic damage,
officials said in a statement after a conference call today.  Investors have been buying the yen as a haven from
sovereign debt concerns in  Europe  and the U.S., which had its
credit rating cut for the first time by  Standard & Poor’s  after
markets closed on Aug. 5.  The yen traded at 78.13 against the dollar at 9:52 a.m. in
 Tokyo , while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.1 percent after
S&P’s U.S. rating cut.  While the yen dropped as much as 4.1 percent to 80.24
against the dollar when Japan sold the currency on Aug. 4, it
resumed rising the next day, climbing 0.6 percent amid a global
stock market rout. The yen closed last week at 78.40.  Ineffective Intervention  The government is likely to pursue a campaign of currency
intervention that will prove ineffective and the yen may
strengthen beyond 70 for the first time, former Finance Ministry
official Eisuke Sakakibara said.  Japan ’s currency may trade around 73 per dollar at the end
of the year as the government will probably have to sell yen
without U.S. support, Sakakibara said on TV Asahi yesterday.
Last month, he said the yen may go as high as 75.  Sakakibara became known as “Mr. Yen” during his 1997-1999
tenure as the Finance Ministry’s top currency official because
of his efforts to influence the yen rate through verbal and
actual intervention in foreign-exchange markets.  The G-7 will take “all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth,” the nations’ finance ministers
and central bankers said in the statement. They also agreed to
inject liquidity into markets if necessary.  Unilateral Action  Japan acted alone in selling the yen last week, in contrast
with a previous intervention in March that was coordinated among
the G-7. The  Bank of Japan  added 10 trillion yen ($128 billion)
of monetary stimulus on Aug. 4, hours after the Finance
Ministry’s move.  “There is a good chance speculators will build up yen-
buying positions again, depending on future developments, given
that the present intervention is unilateral,” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. economists Naohiko Baba and Chiwoong Lee wrote in a
note published on Aug. 6. “The impact will not be as large or
as sustainable as a coordinated intervention.”  A stronger yen can erode exporters’ overseas earnings when
repatriated and reduce their competitiveness. Osamu Masuko,
president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Motors Corp., was among
executives who called for more action after last week’s move,
saying in an e-mail that the  exchange rate  “still isn’t
acceptable.”  The latest sale may have been a record 4.5 trillion yen,
according to Totan Research Co., a Tokyo money-market brokerage.  ‘True Determination’  Baba and Lee at Goldman Sachs said that Japan has been
buying U.S. Treasuries when it sells yen, leaving it with more
than 30 trillion yen in unrealized losses that will test the
government’s “true determination” to combat the currency’s
rise.  Japan maintains its trust in the ability of the U.S. to pay
its debts and expects Treasuries to remain an attractive
investment, a government official from the Asian nation said
yesterday on condition of anonymity. Japan is the second-largest
international investor in Treasuries, behind  China .  S&P cut the U.S. sovereign  credit rating  to AA+, citing an
insufficient commitment toward a broader fiscal consolidation
plan that stabilizes the country’s debt.  The ratings company went further than Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings, which affirmed their AAA credit
ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill that ended a debt-ceiling impasse that had pushed
the country to the edge of default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  