-- 
Japanese Stock Futures Drop After S&P Cuts U.S. Credit Rating

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-07T23:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/japanese-stock-futures-drop-as-s-p-u-s-downgrade-spurs-economic-concerns.html
Japanese stock futures declined after
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut the U.S. government’s
credit rating, damping the outlook for Asia’s banks and
exporters.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s largest bank by market capitalization, fell
0.9 percent. Those of  Sony Corp. (6758) , a consumer electronics
exporter that earns about 40 percent of its revenue from the U.S.
and  Europe , lost 1 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index, the
first market to open in the Asia-Pacific region today, lost 3.1
percent in Wellington, set for the biggest drop since October
2008 and dragging the benchmark down by more than 11 percent
from its May 20 high.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September were bid in the pre-market at 9,200 in Osaka at 8:05
a.m. local time today. That compared with 9,140 in Chicago today
and 9,280 at the close in  Osaka  on Aug. 5. Futures on
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.1 percent.  The U.S. downgrade “has added another significant issue
for the global economy and stock markets to overcome,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The risks remain to the downside
for economic growth, with a re-pricing of U.S borrowings likely
to impose a higher cost of capital in the future.”  U.S. Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit rating on
Aug. 5 by one level, to AA+, in response to the deal that
President Barack Obama and lawmakers reached to raise the
federal $14.3 trillion debt limit.  The dollar fell to a record low against the Swiss franc and
declined for a second day versus the yen. The U.S. currency
depreciated to as low as 77.58 yen today in  Tokyo , compared with
78.50 at the close of stock trading on Aug. 5, cutting the value
of some overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Japan ’s yen may strengthen beyond 70 against the dollar as
a likely campaign of government intervention proves ineffective,
former Finance Ministry official Eisuke Sakakibara said on TV
Asahi yesterday.  Group of Seven finance officials will talk today by
conference call as policy makers seek to avert turmoil from
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and the cut in the U.S. credit
rating.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will take part
in a G-7 conference call, according to an official from a G-7
country who declined to be identified for lack of authorization.
Finance ministers and central bankers are preparing a statement,
and they may express confidence in the dollar and support the
European Union’s fiscal efforts, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  U.S. Stock Market  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index sank as much as
3.1 percent today. In  New York , the  S&P 500  slid 0.1 percent on
Aug. 5, after swinging between a loss of 2.7 percent and a gain
of 1.5 percent. The credit-rating cut was announced after the
market closed in New York.  American employers added more jobs than forecast in July
and wages climbed. Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a
46,000 increase in June that was larger than earlier estimated,
the Labor Department said on Aug. 5. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 85,000. The jobless
rate dropped to 9.1 percent as discouraged workers left the
 labor force . Average hourly earnings climbed 0.4 percent.  U.S. stocks reversed gains on Aug. 5 on speculation that
S&P would cut the U.S. credit rating, and erased losses as
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, speaking at a Rome
press conference, vowed to balance the budget and impose
austerity faster than planned as investors flee Italian bonds.
The moves may pave the way for the  European Central Bank  to try
to bring down Italy’s borrowing costs by buying its bonds in
secondary markets.  Crude oil for September delivery gained declined as much as
3.5 percent today. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for
six metals including copper and aluminum sank 3.7 percent on Aug.
5, the biggest drop since May 5.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 8.4 percent this year
through Aug. 5, compared with drops of 4.6 percent by the S&P
500 and 13.4 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings
on average, compared with 12 times for the S&P 500 and 9.8 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 