-- 
Japan Revives Rice-Futures Trading as Radiation May Threaten Harvests

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-08-07T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/japan-revives-rice-futures-trade-as-radiation-threatens-harvest.html
When the  Tokyo  Grain Exchange, the
operator of  Japan ’s largest agricultural bourse, bet its future
on rice trading, it didn’t expect radiation fallout would be
part of investor decisions and volatility.  The exchange will list rice contracts today for the first
time since the start of World War II to boost flagging volumes
and profit. The resumption comes amid concern that fallout from
the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant may spread to crops
after it was found cattle had been fed cesium-tainted rice
straw.  “The nuclear disaster adds to factors that could influence
prices,” said Takaki Shigemoto, a commodity analyst at research
company JSC Corp. in Tokyo. “Rice futures may attract
speculative money.”  Trading may be volatile as investors weigh the impact of a
possible suspension of shipments from growing areas and lower
consumption due to health fears, Shigemoto said. The bourse aims
to boost overall volume on the exchange to 40,000 lots a day on
average by March from 9,626 lots a day in June after listing the
new contract, President Yoshiaki Watanabe said last month.  Commercial stockpiles of rice, a Japanese staple, may drop
to the lowest level in four years in 2012, after the March
earthquake and nuclear disaster curbed production, possibly
spurring the government to release its reserves, according to
the agriculture ministry.  Faced with criticism from consumer groups and opposition
party politicians that lax government control has endangered
 food safety , the ministry has tightened rice screening before
the harvest begins in eastern Japan.  Price Boost  The government ordered Fukushima and 13 nearby prefectures
to test rice samples before the harvest. Authorities will ban
shipments from areas where they find grains containing cesium
exceeding 500 becquerels a kilogram. Rice production in
Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki, Miyagi and Iwate prefectures
amounted to 1.56 million metric tons last year, out of the
country’s total of 8.5 million tons.  “If the government bans rice shipments on discovery of
tainted supplies, that will reduce supply and may boost rice
futures,” Shigemoto said.  Average prices of new-crop rice have fallen 12 percent to
12,707 yen per 60-kilogram bag in the 10 months ended June 30,
compared with 14,470 yen in the year ended Aug. 31, 2010, the
agriculture ministry said in a report July 27. Rice traded in
 Chicago  has jumped 46 percent in the past 12 months and is the
best performing grain this year as acreage in the U.S. slumps.  Japan is self-sufficient in the grain as the government
protects growers from foreign competition with a tariff of 341
yen ($4.35) a kilogram on imports.  Bourses Shrink  Resumption of rice futures comes after an income-support
program for growers was introduced last year, replacing a price
control system that ensured farm incomes. The change increased
volatility, raising the need to introduce a hedging tool for
producers and distributors.  The Tokyo Grain Exchange said the contract may help it
break even after three consecutive years of losses. Trading
volume plunged 25 percent in the year ended March 31 on reduced
participation by local investors.  The decline has been symptomatic of the industry in Japan,
where the number of raw-material bourses has dropped to three
from seven in 2005, when the government tightened regulations
covering sales of riskier financial assets to individuals,
leading to a slump in retail futures trading.  Contracts Delisted  A lack of participation from hedgers led to delisting of
commodity futures in Japan including broiler chicken, potato and
soybean meal. The Tokyo exchange will delist robusta coffee
futures and non-genetically modified soybean futures next year
on shrinking volumes.  Kansai Commodities Exchange, based in the city of  Osaka ,
will also start trading domestic rice futures today. Trading was
suspended in 1939 when the government put grain production and
distribution under its control to secure supplies during the
war.  The two exchanges will list yen-denominated contracts, with
deliverable grades including “koshihikari,” a popular rice
brand grown in Japan. Imported rice is excluded from physical
delivery at the exchanges as the government maintains control
over foreign purchasing and sales.  The Tokyo exchange selected non-glutinous brown rice
produced in the eastern prefectures of Chiba, Ibaraki and
Tochigi as the standard grade for the contracts. Deliverable
brands include rice grown in 12 other prefectures including
Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate, where cattle were contaminated with
radioactive rice hay. Beef from those animals was sold at
supermarkets nationwide.  Testing ‘Effective’  “We believe the testing program will be effective in
preventing tainted rice from entering the market,” Tatsuya
Kajishima, senior press counselor for the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, said in an interview.  Still, even if radiation is not found to have spread to
rice crops, sufficient inventories and shrinking consumption may
damp prices.  Demand for domestic food-rice is forecast at 8.05 million
tons in the year to June 30, 2012, compared with 8.19 million
tons in the previous year. Food-rice output will drop to 7.93
million tons this year, below a production plan of 7.95 million
tons, the government has said. Last year, the harvest was 8.48
million tons.  The government plans to hold 880,000 tons of domestic food-
rice in its reserve at the end of June next year, unchanged from
a year earlier.  “The Japanese rice market has been oversupplied for many
years on shrinking consumption,” said Tetsuhide Mikamo,
director at trading company Marubeni Corp.’s research institute.
“Domestic rice prices have been under downward pressure because
of oversupply. This trend is unlikely to change even if
radiation taints crops in some areas.”  The government approved rice futures trading on a trial
basis for two years and may decide to halt trading if the market
is inactive or unused by hedgers. The Tokyo Grain Exchange
trades corn, soybeans, coffee, raw sugar and so-called azuki
beans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  