-- 
Atlanta Hawks Sell NBA Franchise to Group Led by Entrepreneur Alex Meruelo

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-08T14:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/nba-s-atlanta-hawks-said-to-agree-to-sell-alex-meruelo-majority-stake.html
The owners of the  Atlanta Hawks 
agreed to sell the National Basketball Association franchise to
a group led by Los Angeles pizza franchiser Alex Meruelo, the
team said in a news release.  Financial terms of the deal, which will keep the Hawks a
long-term tenant of Philips Arena, weren’t disclosed. The
franchise has been owned by  Atlanta Spirit LLC  since 2004.  If the sale is approved by the league’s Board of Governors,
Meruelo would become the first Hispanic principal owner of an
NBA club. It’s expected to close in late 2011, according to the
release.  Meruelo is scheduled to speak at an arena news conference
this afternoon. The 48-year-old was born in New York to Cuban
parents and raised in  California , according to the Atlanta
Journal-Constitution.  “I am a lifelong basketball fan, a student of the NBA
game, and this is a dream come true for me,” Meruelo said in a
statement. “I am committed to winning and look forward to
engaging with our wonderful fans, our dedicated season-ticket
holders, our committed corporate partners and this passionate
community. I believe that both the Hawks and Philips Arena have
unlimited potential for the future. I am honored to be a part of
that future.”  The Meruelo Group  has holdings in banking and finance,
restaurants and food services, construction and engineering,
real estate, hotel and casino operations, and private equity.  Lower Value  With an operating loss of $7.3 million on sales of $105
million last season, the value of the Hawks dropped 4 percent to
$295 million, the seventh-lowest among the NBA’s 30 franchises,
Forbes magazine said in January. The club’s average home
attendance of 15,648 ranked 22nd.  The sale ends Atlanta Spirit’s involvement in major-league
sports in the Georgia city. The group sold the  National Hockey
League ’s Atlanta Thrashers in May to a company that moved the
franchise to Winnipeg and renamed it the Jets. Atlanta Spirit
purchased the Hawks, Thrashers and Philips Arena from Time
Warner Inc. for $250 million in 2004.  The Hawks, who moved to Atlanta from St. Louis in 1969,
ended last season with a 44-38 record and beat the  Orlando Magic 
in the first round of the NBA playoffs before losing to the
 Chicago Bulls . The team has reached the postseason in each of
the past four years.  The agreement comes about a month after the  Philadelphia
76ers  were sold by Comcast Corp. to a group led by  Joshua Harris , the co-founder of Apollo Global Management LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
Dex McLuskey in  Dallas   at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 