-- 
Netanyahu Says Israel Must Avoid ‘Populist Steps’ With Economy

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-07T11:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/netanyahu-says-israel-must-avoid-populist-steps-with-economy.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the government must avoid taking “populist
steps’ with the economy a day after widespread protests called
for action on rising housing and consumer prices.  More than 300,000 Israelis are estimated to have taken part
in demonstrations in  Tel Aviv  and other cities calling on the
government to address cost-of-living concerns. The protests
began last month directed initially against housing prices,
which have risen about 40 percent in the last three years,
according to the Bank of  Israel .  Some of the protesters’ claims ‘‘are justified and some are
not,” Netanyahu said at the weekly Cabinet meeting in Jerusalem
today, according to an e-mailed statement from his office. “We
must avoid irresponsible, hasty and populist steps that are
liable to cause the country to deteriorate into the situation of
certain European countries, which are on the verge of bankruptcy
and large-scale unemployment.”  Netanyahu appointed a panel of ministers and other
officials to examine cost-of-living issues and submit a plan to
the cabinet for implementation. Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz
told  Army Radio  he is willing to consider changing tax policies
to alleviate financial pressure on the middle-class, including
the current mix of direct and indirect taxation.  Netanyahu said the government is “now in the midst of a
complicated and challenging reality, both internationally and
domestically, in the face of which the government must act
responsibly and sagaciously.”  Israel’s benchmark stock index fell the most in almost
three years today after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.
credit rating and amid concern the widening sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  will stall global growth. The TA-25 Index
declined 2.9 percent to 1087.31 1:55 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  