-- 
New York City Triathlon Competitor Dies During Hudson River Swim Portion

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-08T18:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/nyc-triathlon-competitor-dies-another-is-in-critical-condition.html
A 40-year-old woman who suffered a
heart attack while competing in the swim portion of the  New York
City Triathlon  has died, the second death of a competitor in
yesterday’s race.  The death of the woman, who was part of a relay team, was
confirmed by race organizer John Korff in a telephone interview.
Her identity wasn’t disclosed.  Michael Kudryk, a 64-year-old from Freehold,  New Jersey ,
died yesterday of cardiac arrest, the New York Times said,
citing race director Bill Burke. Kudryk, who was part of a
three-person relay team competing in the event, was found
unconscious in the water about a half-mile into the swim stage,
the newspaper said.  “It’s a tragedy when something like this happens,” said
Korff, the president of Korff Enterprises Inc., a sports-event
operating company. “It’s a tragedy for the family, the
triathlon and athletic community. It’s so sad. Our hearts go out
to the families.”  The female competitor was being treated at  New York ’s
Roosevelt Hospital. Elizabeth Dowling, a hospital spokeswoman,
said in a telephone interview that the woman died at 4:43 a.m.
She said no further details were being released.  Changes were made to the start of this year’s race to
improve safety, Korff said. Competitors were sent off in small
group of 10 to 25 competitors at a time, a common practice at
the start of larger triathlons to reduce congestion in the
water.  City Investigation  Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer called today for
an comprehensive review of the triathlon safety rules and
questioned the race’s decision to go ahead even with
temperatures exceeding 90 degrees (32 degrees Celsius) and
choppy water with strong currents following rain the night
before.  “New Yorkers signed up for a triathlon -- not a game of
Russian roulette,” Stringer said in a news release. “Choosing
to compete is a decision every athlete has to make for
themselves -- but it is the obligation of the city to make sure
all potential risks are accounted for to the extent possible.”  Burke, who’s been the race director for the all 11 years of
the triathlon, said today that “the water conditions were
perfect yesterday for this event.”  “I can only tell you that on the course itself, there was
really very little rain in and around that area that morning,”
Burke, who had yet to read Stringer’s comments, said in a
telephone interview. “Water conditions were really perfect on
race morning. Water temperature was 77 degrees. I’ve seen water
temperatures much colder at this event.”  Death Rates  According to a  2010 study  in the Journal of the  American
Medical Association , the sudden-death rate for triathlon
competitors was twice as high as the rate for marathon
competitors.  “Because triathlons begin with chaotic, highly dense mass
starts involving up to 2,000 largely novice competitors entering
the water simultaneously, there is opportunity for bodily
contact and exposure to cold turbulent water,” wrote Kevin M.
Harris, a researcher on the study and a physician with the
Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation.  Between 2006 and 2008, 14 people died during triathlons,
equating to a sudden-death rate of 1.5 per 100,000 competitors,
the study found. The rate for sudden deaths in marathons over a
30-year period was 0.8, according to the study. Of the triathlon
deaths, 13 occurred during the swim portion -- one in a river,
with six in ocean swims. Seven of nine athletes autopsied were
shown to have cardiovascular abnormalities, according to the
study.  Winning Times  Participants in the New York event swim 1.5 kilometers
(0.93 miles) in the  Hudson River , cycle 40 kilometers (25 miles)
and run 10 kilometers (6 miles). Ben Collins won the men’s
professional race in a time of 1 hour, 48 minutes, 11 seconds.
Rebeccah Wassner won the women’s race in 2:03:19.  The triathlon, which began in  Southern California  in the
1970s, is one of the fastest-growing sports in the U.S.  USA Triathlon ’s membership has grown to 135,000, compared
with about 1,500 in 1982.  Because of that growth, the risk to inexperienced
competitors increases, said Charles Macintosh, who competed in
yesterday’s race and has finished more than 100 triathlons
around the world.  “It’s sad but inevitable as this becomes more popular,”
Macintosh, a mortgage-backed securities trader with Morgan
Keegan & Co. Inc., said in an e-mail.  Race On  Macintosh, 33, who said he has competed in the New York
event the last seven years, defended the decision by organizers
to stage yesterday’s race.  “There was much less current than years before,” he said.
“There was a bit more chop, but it was nothing like swimming in
true open water. Previous years have been worse with jellyfish
and heat issues. Korff does an awesome job. The race is honestly
the best run of all the races I do.”  The inaugural  New York City Ironman  is scheduled to take
place Aug. 11, 2012. The race consists of a 2.4-mile swim in the
Hudson, a 112-mile bike ride and a 26.2-mile run.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  