-- 
Oil Falls to Eight-Month Low in New York After S&P Downgrades U.S. Rating

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-08T12:55:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/oil-drops-2-8-in-new-york-after-s-p-downgrade-on-u-s-brent-future-falls.html
Oil fell in New York after  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the U.S. credit rating from the highest level,
stoking concern an economic slowdown will worsen and cut fuel
demand in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 4.9 percent to their lowest
price in more than eight months. S&P cut the U.S.’s AAA rating
to AA+ on Aug. 5 in response to a deal by President  Barack Obama 
and lawmakers to raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit. Oil pared losses after the European Central Bank was said
to have bought Italian and Spanish government bonds.  “The U.S. downgrade is pushing equities and oil lower, and
we might see a further slump until the government announces
actions to boost liquidity such as a new round of quantitative
easing,” said  Eugen Weinberg , an analyst at Commerzbank AG.
“The  European Central Bank  buying Italian and Spanish bonds
will increase confidence in markets, helping them recover.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $4.23 to
$82.65 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . That’s the lowest front-month price since Nov. 24,
when it reached $80.97. The contract was at $83.05 at 1:46 p.m.
 London  time. Prices fell 9.2 percent last week, the most in
three months, and are down 9.1 percent in 2011.  Relative Strength Index  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as $3.94, or 3.6
percent, to $105.43 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $22.90 to U.S. futures, more than the record
closing level of $22.67 on Aug. 2.  Oil in  New York  may halt its decline as its 14-day relative
strength index extends a drop below 30, a technical level that
signals the market has fallen too much and too fast, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Today’s reading of 23.87 is the
lowest since May 2010, when futures reached a 10-month low
before rebounding 16 percent in five weeks.  Group of Seven nations said they will act to stabilize
financial markets following the U.S. sovereign-rating cut as a
slump in Italian and Spanish debt intensified threats to the
global economy. The ECB said last night it will “actively
implement” its bond-purchase program, signaling it is ready to
start buying Italian and Spanish securities to counter the
sovereign-debt crisis.  ‘Painfully Slow’  “While the U.S. downgrade is dominating headlines,
troubles in  Europe  are also undermining markets,” economists at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. led by  Warren Hogan 
said in a note today. The bank estimates oil will average $100 a
barrel in the third quarter. “Progress in dealing with the
euro-zone sovereign debt remains painfully slow.”  European stocks resumed their decline after the U.S. debt
downgrade overshadowed a rally in financial shares as the
region’s central bank was said to start buying Spanish and
Italian government bonds. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index
dropped 2 percent to 234.01 as of 1:48 p.m. in London, after
earlier rallying as much as 0.8 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its 2012 forecast for
 Brent crude  to average $130 a barrel and recommended investors
hold a “long” trading position on December 2012 contracts, New
York-based analyst  David Greely  said in an e-mail today.  Hedge funds  reduced bullish bets on crude by the most in
more than six months, data showed last week. Wagers that crude
will rise in the week ended Aug. 2 decreased by 16 percent, the
most since Jan. 25, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly report. Futures dropped 5.8 percent
in New York in the period covered by the data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at   adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  