-- 
Police Say ‘Calm Is Priority’ After London Riot

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-08-07T15:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/london-rioters-clash-with-police-loot-in-tottenham-after-shooting-death.html
Police in  London  are in the process
of “restoring calm” to an area of the U.K. capital after
rioting led to 26 officers being injured and 48 arrests.  Metropolitan Police officers faced “extreme violence”
during the disturbances in Tottenham, in the north of the city,
late yesterday in which vehicles and buildings were set on fire,
Commander Adrian Hanstock said in a televised press conference
today. London Fire Brigade said it received 264 emergency calls
from the area during the riots.  Trouble flared after a peaceful protest by relatives and
friends of a man shot dead during a police operation in the area
last week was “hijacked by troublemakers,” Hanstock said.  “There was no indication that the protest would
deteriorate into the levels of criminal and violent disorder
that we saw,” Hanstock said. “We believe that certain
elements, who were not involved with the vigil, took the
opportunity to commit disorder and physically attack police
officers, verbally abuse fire brigade personnel and destroy
vehicles and buildings.”  He said the death of Mark Duggan, 29, was “regrettable”
and will be subject to an independent investigation. “It is
absolutely tragic that someone has died, but that does not give
a criminal minority the right to destroy businesses and people’s
livelihoods and steal from their local community.”  Petrol Bombs  Rioters threw petrol bombs at police and buildings, the
British Broadcasting Corp.  said . A bus and two police vehicles
were set on fire and business were looted, it reported.  London Fire Brigade said in an e-mailed statement it
attended 49 “primary” fires in the Tottenham area.  The rioting was “utterly unacceptable,” Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s office said in an e-mailed statement. “There is
no justification for the aggression the police and the public
faced, or for the damage to property.”  Home Secretary Theresa May said “disregard for public
safety and property will not be tolerated, and the Metropolitan
Police have my full support in restoring order.”  The Metropolitan Police later said it has opened a “major
investigation” into the violence, codenamed Operation Withern.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  