-- 
Orix to Invest $1 Billion in China for Water, Aircraft Leasing

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-08-08T01:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/orix-to-invest-1-billion-in-china-for-water-aircraft-leasing.html
Orix Corp. (8591) , the Japanese provider of
financial services ranging from leasing to insurance, plans to
invest as much as 80 billion yen ($1 billion) in  China  over two
years in water, machinery and renewable energy.  Through private-equity deals, Orix aims to buy stakes in
Chinese companies that provide infrastructure such as sewage
treatment and solar-power plants, President Makoto Inoue said in
an interview in Tokyo on Aug. 3. The Tokyo-based company plans
to buy aircraft and ships to expand leasing services, he said.  Orix is looking to China as growth in Asia’s biggest
economy places a strain on the environment and energy resources.
Developing nations across the region will need financing of $776
billion a year through 2020 to meet demand for power, water and
sanitation, according to the Asian Development Bank Institute.  Inoue, whose company reaped about 40 percent of pretax
income from abroad in the year ended March, said he will
“cautiously” select investment vehicles, given the recent
market volatility triggered by  Europe ’s sovereign debt woes.  Inoue said Orix is looking to invest in water-treatment
firms in China’s inland areas. The Japanese company unveiled
plans in May to buy a 14.5 percent stake in Hong Kong-based
 China Water Affairs Group Ltd. (855)   For private-equity business, “our basic strategy is to
exit within five years after our initial investment by offering
shares or selling stakes,” Inoue, 58, said. “We’d prefer to
cash in on short-term projects with a decent rate of return.”  Water Takeovers  “The overseas investment is favorable and in harmony with
the company’s overall strategy,” said Wataru Ohtsuka, an
analyst at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Mergers and acquisitions are accelerating in the global
water market. A group led by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing’s
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)  this month made a 2.4
billion pound ($3.9 billion) takeover proposal for Northumbrian
Water Group Plc in its second foray into the U.K. in a year.
Japanese trading houses such as  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  last year clinched buyout deals in Chile and Australia.  In the U.S., Orix will keep its focus on financial
institutions as the investment target, Inoue said. Last year,
Orix USA Corp. won a deal to buy a majority stake in the holding
company of Mariner Investment Group, a New York-based manager of
 hedge funds  valued at $11.7 billion.  “We don’t set a time frame for our investments because a
deadline sometimes forces you to rush and buy something you
don’t eventually want,” Inoue said. “Whenever we find a
target, we’ll get in quickly.”  Orix shares fell 2.6 percent to 7,760 yen as of 9:53 a.m.
in  Tokyo  Stock Exchange trading. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average dropped 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 