-- 
Pakistan Attractive as Growth Outweighs Violence, Atlas Says

-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i
-- 
2011-08-07T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/pakistan-attractive-as-growth-outweighs-violence-atlas-says.html
Atlas Asset Management Ltd., manager
of Pakistan’s best-performing equity fund, said  Asia ’s cheapest
stock market offers “attractive returns” as the economy grows
even with mounting terrorist attacks and political violence.  “I really don’t spend any time worrying about law and
order,” said Muhammad Abdul Samad, 40, who oversees $77 million
in Pakistani stocks and bonds as chief investment officer at
Atlas Asset in Karachi. “If you want to make returns, you have
to look at the positives: we have a huge market of 180 million
people and the economy is still growing.”  Gains in  National Refinery Ltd. (NRL) , the second-biggest oil
processor, and  Attock Petroleum Ltd. (APL) , a fuel retailer, boosted
Atlas’s top fund in the year ended June, Samad said. For the
fiscal year starting July, it’s seeking investments in banks,
oil and gas, and fertilizer industries, he said.  Pakistan’s benchmark stock index, which trades at 6.4 times
estimated earnings, the lowest in Asia, has fallen 9 percent
since the end of June as escalating violence hurt business
confidence. Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government aims
to boost economic growth to 4.2 percent in the year to June 30,
2012, from 2.4 percent in the previous 12 months.  Turmoil on global stock markets may prompt the fund to
change its  asset allocation , increasing cash holdings or
preferring defensive stocks with higher dividend yields, Samad
said on Aug. 5, when the MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled more
than 4 percent to cap its worst week since October 2008.  Foreign Selling  “Selling from foreign portfolio investors is affecting the
local market,” Samad said.  Last year, global funds bought $344 million worth of
Pakistani stocks compared with net sales of $65 million,
according to central bank data. More than 35,000 Pakistanis have
been killed in terrorist attacks since 2006 as Taliban militants
retaliate against military offensives in the northwest,
according to the government.  Samad’s 650 million rupee ($7.5 million) Atlas Stock Market
Fund outperformed all  Pakistan ’s 30 equity funds, according to
Invest Capital Markets Ltd. The fund returned 40 percent in the
12 months ended June 30 and beat the 29 percent return of the
benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index.  His top five holdings as of June 30 were Nishat Mills Ltd.,
MCB Bank Ltd., Pakistan Oilfields Ltd., United Bank Ltd. and
Allied Bank Ltd.  ‘Attractive Earnings’  “Banks are going to post attractive earnings because if
 interest rates  come down, they will lend more to the private
sector and if they don’t, they will invest in high-yielding
 government securities ,” said Samad, adding that the three banks
are among his top picks this fiscal year. “Banks are in a
comfortable position either way.”  Pakistan’s central bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark
interest rate to 13.5 percent on July 30, after holding it at 14
percent, one of the world’s highest, for four straight reviews.  In the oil and gas sector, Samad likes Pakistan Oilfields,
Pakistan Petroleum Ltd., and Attock Petroleum. Pakistan, which
imports 80 percent of its fuel needs, is increasing production
to reduce reliance on shipments from overseas. He also favors
Fauji Fertilizer Ltd., the biggest urea maker, and  Fauji
Fertilizer Bin Qasim Ltd. (FFBL) , a fertilizer producer.  Samad said investors who “select carefully” can make a
return of as much as 30 percent this year because Pakistani
stocks are “heavily undervalued.” Samad said he keeps about 4
percent of his fund “active” and may sell if a stock rises by
10 percent to 15 percent.  “We don’t go for speculation or price momentum and we
don’t churn the mix too much,” said Samad, who has an MBA from
Southeastern University in  London  and has been at the fund
management firm since 2005. “If the company is fundamentally
strong, it will definitely outperform the market.”  Timely Investment  There are 137 funds in Pakistan overseeing 250 billion
rupees as of June 30, up 25 percent from a year ago, according
to Invest Capital, equivalent to 4 percent of the 5.9 trillion
rupees sitting in the nation’s bank deposits.  “Active  fund management , timely investment and divestment,
as well as the performance of some stocks like Attock Petroleum
were main reasons for Atlas’s outperformance,” said Mazhar
Sabir, an analyst at Invest Capital Markets in Karachi.  Samad said Atlas may introduce a government bond fund this
year targeting investments of three to five years and is
considering a dividend-yield equity fund and a sector-specific
stock fund next year.  “In the short run, law and order problems definitely hurt
investors,” Samad said. “But in the long run, there’s no
impact. And we’re here for the long run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naween A. Mangi in Karachi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 