-- 
Paris Saint-Germain Soccer Team’s Qatari Era Begins With Home Loss, Booing

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-07T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/paris-st-germain-soccer-team-s-qatari-era-begins-with-1-0-home-defeat.html
The most expensively assembled team
in French soccer history lost its opening game of the season as
Paris Saint-Germain was beaten 1-0 at home by FC Lorient.  The Qatari Investment Authority in May bought 70 percent of
the French capital’s sole first division club for a reported 30
million to 40 million euros ($42.7 million-$57 million). PSG
then spent 80 million euros on new players.  A sell-out crowd of 43,000, twice the number that attended
last year’s opening match, booed the team off the field as the
game ended at the weekend while the Lorient players saluted
their visiting supporters.  The Qataris purchased their PSG stake from U.S. private
equity firm Colony Capital, which had bought the club in 2006
with plans to challenge for  Europe ’s  Champions League , only to
end up staving off relegation two seasons in a row.  “It’s become a classic scenario: a lot of media attention
on the Paris team, and then we managed to make them doubt after
the opening half hour.” Lorient coach Christian Gourcuff said.
“They clearly were feeling the pressure more than us.”  The purchase of PSG is part of a wider Qatari move into
French football. In June, Al-Jazeera television paid 90 million
euros for the right to show two French league games a week live
in the four seasons from 2012 to 2016. In May, Al-Jazeera bought
the international rights to the French league for six years for
200 million euros, elevating the Doha-based station to the No. 2
financial backer of French football behind its historic partner
Canal+, a unit of Vivendi SA.  World Cup  Venue  The Gulf emirate, holder of the world’s third-largest
natural-gas reserves, has also been active in other European
countries. The PSG deal followed the purchase of Spanish team
Malaga last year, and a 30 million-euro-a-year shirt sponsorship
agreement with European champion Barcelona.  Qatar has been linked in media reports with a possible
offer for English Premier League champion Manchester United. On
the international scene, it’s preparing to host the World Cup in
2022 after being awarded the staging rights last December.  Lorient’s goal in Paris came from Julien Quercia, who
slotted home at the far post in the 27th minute when the PSG
defense failed to cut out Yann Jouffre’s free kick. Quercia had
missed an open goal in the 11th minute.  Lorient’s Arnold Mvuemba hit the bar with a free kick in
the 68th minute, before PSG had its best chances, first Siaka
Tiene shooting just wide and then Milan Bisevac’s shot being
punched away by Fabien Audard. In the 85th minute, Audard tipped
a curling shot from Nene over.  ‘Disappointment’  “It was a huge disappointment: we were tense in defense
and took no risks in attack,” PSG coach Antoine Kombouare said.
“We totally blew the first 30 minutes. I liked our second half,
we pushed, but Lorient did well to hold on.”  PSG broke the French transfer record with the 42 million-
euro purchase of Argentine midfielder Javier Pastore from
Palermo. He didn’t play against Lorient, having just arrived in
 France  last week after playing for his country in last month’s
 Copa America .  “We have many players who arrived late, and it takes time
to create a team,” Kombouare said. “I do remind you that there
are 37 games left.”  Kombouare said Pastore is unlikely to play next weekend
away to Rennes, another Brittany team. “He’s not ready,” he
said.  French-born Mali midfielder Mohamed Sissoko, who joined
from Juventus for 7 million euros, didn’t play either because of
an injury.  Leonardo Appointed  Among new signings who did play against Lorient were French
international midfielder Jeremy Menez, who came from AS Roma for
8 million euros; French striker Kevin Gameiro, who joined from
Lorient for 11 million euros; Italian goalkeeper Salvatore
Sirigu, who came from Palermo; and French midfielder Blaise
Matuidi, a 10 million-euro signing from St. Etienne.  PSG also hired Inter Milan coach Leonardo as sporting
director. He won the World Cup as a player with  Brazil  in 1994
and later played for PSG.  Lorient’s annual budget is 35 million euros. It finished
11th of 20 teams in last year’s championship.  Colony, Butler  Capital Partners , and Morgan Stanley paid 41
million euros (then $50 million) to buy PSG in 2006. Instead of
the Champions League success they were planning on, PSG escaped
relegation in the final days of both the 2006-07 and 2007-08
seasons. Colony later bought the others out and retains 30
percent.  The team finished fourth last season, its best showing
since finishing as runner-up in 2004.  PSG was founded in 1970, with the backing of Paris city
hall, as a merger of Paris FC and Stade Saint-Germain to create
a Paris team capable of staying in the first division. The team
was promoted to the top league in 1974 where it has remained and
won championships in 1986 and 1994. Canal+ bought shares in
1991, and took control in 1997 before selling to Colony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  