-- 
Perry Uses Houston Rally to Promote Prayer as Answer to Financial Turmoil

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/perry-uses-houston-rally-to-urge-prayer-as-answer-to-turmoil.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who may
seek the Republican presidential nomination, urged Americans to
seek a personal relationship with God at a rally to pray in
response to terrorism, natural disasters and financial turmoil.  Perry read scripture and offered a prayer for the nation,
its leaders and American military personnel killed yesterday in
 Afghanistan . “We pray for our president, that you would impart
your wisdom on him, that you would guard his family,” Perry
said, without mentioning Barack Obama’s name.  The event yesterday at Houston’s Reliant Stadium included 
prayers by evangelical Christian leaders including  James Dobson , 
founder of the Focus on the Family ministry, and Tony Perkins, 
president of the Family Research Council. A  website  promoting
the rally said it aimed to “call upon Jesus to guide us through 
unprecedented struggles.”  “His agenda isn’t a political agenda; his agenda is a
salvation agenda,” Perry said at the rally that attracted more
than 30,000 people. “He’s a wise, wise God and he’s wise enough
to know not to be affiliated with any political party.”  While Perry invited other U.S. governors to attend the
rally, only  Sam Brownback , a Kansas Republican, appeared.
Florida Governor  Rick Scott , also a Republican, delivered taped
remarks by video. Perry, who got involved with rally planning
months before he began considering a run for president, believes
in the power of prayer, spokesman Mark Miner said. Perry earlier
this year urged Texans to pray for rain amid the worst drought
in decades.  ‘Miracle’ Needed  Dobson compared problems facing the U.S. to World War II’s
Battle of Dunkirk and credited prayers by citizens with helping
prompt Nazi leaders to halt their advance against the British
Army in May 1940.  “We are desperately in need of our own miracle,” Dobson
said. “Our nation is surrounded by forces we don’t control and
problems that none of our leaders can solve.  Groups including the  American Civil Liberties Union 
faulted Perry for his role and the exclusion of speakers from
non-Christian faiths.  “Perry wasn’t elected to be the preacher of the state or
the country,” said Barry Lynn, executive director of Americans
United for Separation of Church and State in  Washington .
“Organizing prayer rallies isn’t in any governor’s portfolio.”  In his comments, Perry said God “deserves not a show of
religion but a deep connection with our innermost being.” God
is “calling Americans of all walks of life to seek him, to
return to him, to seek his acceptance.”  Private groups paid for the rally, which didn’t charge
admission. Parking at the stadium, which is home to the
 National Football League ’s Houston Texans and can seat
71,500, was $15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 