-- 
From Phallic Symbol to Saint Slayer, Swords in Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-08-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/phallic-symbol-to-saint-slayer-swords-intrigue-in-paris-jorg-von-uthmann.html
It’s the ultimate phallic symbol.  When Siegmund (in Act I of Wagner’s opera “Die Walkure”)
pulls the sword from the tree and ecstatically embraces his
twin sister we know that incest is just around the corner.  “The Sword -- Uses, Myths and Symbols,” a show at the
 Musee de Cluny  in Paris, includes the weapon that allegedly
belonged to Jeanne d’Arc. It’s the exception that confirms the
rule: The sword was emblematic of an all-male universe.  The 120 or so exhibits trace its history throughout the
Middle Ages with digressions into more recent times.  It was the Vikings who, in the sixth century, gave the
sword its definitive form, characterized by four components --
the pommel, the grip, the hilt and the blade. The Vikings were
also the first to forge the blade from carbonized iron.  Before guns made them obsolete, swords were an essential
part of a knight’s equipment. The higher his rank, the more he
insisted on decoration and elegant shape.  There are some remarkable specimens in the show, such as
the hunting rapier of Rene d’Anjou, King of Naples (1409-80),
or the sword of Philip the Fair (1478-1506), the first
Habsburg king of Castile and father of Charles V.  The symbolic use is even more telling. In the rituals of
European monarchies, the sword played an essential role. The
most important piece in the exhibition is “Joyeuse,” also
called “Charlemagne’s Sword,” which was used during the
coronation of French kings up to the 19th century.  Dragon Slayer  The third part of the show is devoted to the role of
swords in Christian legend and national mythology. Here is
Durendal, the weapon of the hero of the “Chanson de Roland,”
who died in a battle against the Saracens, and the sword with
which George,  England ’s patron saint, killed the dragon.  Neither, of course, is a historical character.  In the case of Cosmas and Damian, the patron saints of
physicians, the sword that is attributed to them symbolizes
their martyrdom: They were beheaded during the persecution of
Christians under Emperor Diocletian.  The violent death of another martyr, Thomas Becket, is
depicted on an enameled reliquary from the 13th century. An ink
drawing from a manual for young nuns is more fun. It portrays
“Humility piercing the belly of Pride.”  Two executioners’ swords from  Germany  remind you of the
fact that beheadings didn’t vanish with the  Roman Empire .
Before the arrival of the guillotine, the sword vied with the
ax for precedence:  Anne Boleyn  was decapitated with a sword,
Mary Stuart with an ax.  “L’Epee -- Usages, Mythes et Symboles” is at the Musee
de Cluny, 6 Place Paul Painleve, through Sept. 26.
Information:  http://www.musee-moyenage.fr .  If the exhibition has whetted your appetite, you can find
two dozen swords from the Renaissance at the Chateau d’Ecouen,
20 kilometers north of Paris. That show also runs through
Sept. 26. Information:  http://www.musee-renaissance.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 