-- 
Playboy Club Has Spicy Food, Morgan Stanley Woman Turned Chef

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/playboy-club-has-spicy-dishes-morgan-stanley-woman-as-chef-london-dining.html
What’s hot at the Playboy Club in
 London ? The food, of course.  Hugh Hefner ’s gambling establishment closed in the 1980s,
when Bunnies already appeared passe. The new incarnation,
which opened in May, seeks to evoke the glamour of the
original, which drew celebrities when it was founded in 1966.  There’s a lot of interest in the club, even with its
cost: 1,000 pounds ($1,600) to join, plus 1,200 pounds a year.  The food side is headed by Judy Joo, a Columbia graduate
who worked for Morgan Stanley in New York and  San Francisco 
before training to become a chef at the French Culinary
Institute in New York. She later worked for  Gordon Ramsay  at
his flagship restaurant before cooking on “Iron Chef” in the
U.K. She’s now a judge on that television program in the U.S.  The club is on two floors. At ground level is
Salvatore’s, a bar hosted by  Salvatore Calabrese , one of the
big names in European cocktails. He was previously at
Salvatore at Fifty St. James and you’re in good hands if he is
taking care of you.  Next door is the Cottontail Lounge, “where the Bunnies
come out to play,” according to the  website . This is a plush
dark room, where DJs spin and there’s a tiny stage on which
Bunnies are occasionally moved to dance. The design aims to
recall memories of the original club in the 1960s and ‘70s.  (My memories are different: I was one of the minority of
men on the first women’s studies course -- Sociology of Sex
and Gender -- at the  London School of Economics  in the mid-
1970s. If I’d gone near the club it would have been to
protest, a thought that occurred to me when I sheepishly
passed demonstrators on my way to the opening party in May.)  Bunny Hierarchy  Upstairs is where the gaming happens, with Bunnies raking
in the cash from punters at a row of tables. (There’s a
hierarchy in the Bunny world: The regulars wear red, while the
croupier/hostess Bunnies are in black.) Outside is a terrace
and there’s a barber shop next door to the restaurant.  Joo’s menu at the club is mainly American, with Caesar
salad, oysters, lobster roll, steaks and a macaroni & cheese
with truffle and ceps. There are more intriguing options, such
as a side of duck disco fries (French fries with confit duck
meat, jus and crackling, artisan cheese curd) and a couple of
starters that mark Joo’s Korean heritage.  Best are tacos are filled with bulgogi and kimchi, while
the noodle dish is Jap Chae, with soy, garlic and sesame
dressing. A fun dessert is Snickers: peanut parfait, salted
butter caramel, chocolate mousse, praline.  New York  Style
Cheesecake comes with English rhubarb. Joo started her cooking
career as a pastry chef, and it shows.  Bunnies, Burgers  Most starters are close to 10 pounds and the main courses
more than 25 pounds. On the other hand, you probably won’t eat
here if money is an issue and some diners probably will reckon
it’s worth it as you can watch the Bunnies. Most of the
waiters are men. If you lose on the tables, a burger is just
12 pounds. The wine list offers exceptional value.  London chefs have had limited success with U.S. cuisine.
Joo is an exception: The ingredients and cooking are good, the
dishes are imaginative and the menu is familiar enough to be
comforting yet sufficiently quirky to be intriguing.  Just as people read Playboy for the interviews, I’d visit
the club for the food. In other words, you don’t need pointy
ears to appreciate this restaurant. Live long and prosper.  Playboy Club, 14 Old Park Lane, Mayfair, W1K 1ND.
Information: Tel. +4420-7491-8586;
 http://www.playboyclublondon.com/home/ .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 2,200 pounds.  Sound level? At 75 decibels, you can hear the chips fall.  Inside tip? Don’t bother the bunnies.  Special feature? Women dressed as rabbits.  Will I be back? In my dreams.  Date place? There are too many distractions.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 