-- 
Buffett Offers $3.25 Billion For Transatlantic as Rivals’ Bids Lose Value

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-08-07T21:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/transatlantic-confirms-acquisition-offer-from-national-indemnity.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  offered $3.25 billion for reinsurer  Transatlantic Holdings
Inc. (TRH) , seeking to top rival bids that dropped in value with the
stock market plunge.  Ajit Jain, Buffett’s reinsurance lieutenant, gave
Transatlantic until the close of business tomorrow to accept or
reject the unsolicited proposal. Transatlantic shares have
dropped 10 of the last 11 trading days.  “With your  stock trading  at $45.83, I have to believe that
you will find our offer to buy all of Transatlantic shares
outstanding at $52 per share to be an attractive offer,” Jain
said in an Aug. 5 letter to Transatlantic that the target
company released in a statement today. New York-based
Transatlantic, the reinsurer previously owned by  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , closed at $45.24 that day.  Transatlantic struck a deal in June to sell itself to
Zug, Switzerland-based Allied World Assurance Company Holdings
AG, which agreed to exchange 0.88 of a share for each
Transatlantic share. The transaction was valued at $3.2 billion
based on prices at the time. Bermuda-based Validus Holdings Ltd.
made an unsolicited cash-and-stock offer last month that was
valued at about $3.5 billion, before equity markets plunged.  Transatlantic’s board will “carefully consider and
evaluate” the Berkshire offer, the company said in a statement
today. There were about 62.5 million Transatlantic shares
outstanding as of June 30.  ‘Right to Choose’  Validus said its offer of 1.56 shares and $8 in cash for
each Transatlantic share gives owners of the target company’s
stock the chance to benefit from gains by a combined entity. The
offer from Berkshire’s National Indemnity unit is also better
than Allied’s, Validus Chief Executive Officer Ed Noonan said
today in a statement.  “Transatlantic stockholders deserve the right to choose
for themselves between an offer that provides greater potential
future value or a fixed price today,” Noonan said. “While the
National Indemnity offer acknowledges the value of the
Transatlantic franchise, it fails to provide Transatlantic
stockholders with any participation in the upside of the
combined company.”  Allied today reaffirmed its commitment to its deal.  ‘At Best, Opportunistic’  The agreement provides “the opportunity for shareholders
of both of our companies to participate in the considerable
upside potential of the combined company,” Allied CEO Scott Carmilani said in a statement. “National Indemnity’s proposal
is, at best, opportunistic and seeks to acquire Transatlantic
for cash at a significant discount to book value, leaving
Transatlantic shareholders no upside potential.”  Allied shares have dropped about 13 percent since the last
trading day before its deal was announced. Validus fell 20
percent since it announced its bid on July 12. Transatlantic
closed at $44.01 the last day before the Allied agreement.  Berkshire is the largest U.S.-based seller of reinsurance,
which is coverage for primary carriers. Buffett’s firm had more
than $47 billion in cash as of June 30.  “Any time they have an opportunity to expand at the right
price, I think they would,” said  Michael Yoshikami , an
investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, a wealth management
firm in Walnut Creek,  California . “They like the business, they
understand the business and if they can get it at a good
multiple, they’re going to grab the  cash flow .”  Shareholder Opposition  Transatlantic traded Aug. 5 at about 67 percent of its book
value, a measure of assets minus liabilities. The company’s
biggest shareholder, Davis Selected Advisers LP, said on June 14
it may oppose the Allied deal and approach other companies about
alternatives. Davis didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Transatlantic said last week that it is facing lawsuits
from shareholders challenging the Allied deal without naming the
investors. Transatlantic has said it has to pay a breakup fee of
$115 million if its board backs out of the Allied deal and as
much as $70 million if it fails to win approval of its
shareholders.  Validus is getting financial advice from Greenhill & Co.
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis &
Co. are financial advisers to Transatlantic and Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP is acting as legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank AG acted as financial adviser to Allied, and
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided U.S.
and Swiss legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 