-- 
Red Sox Defeat Yankees 10-4 to Share AL East Lead; Mets Beat Braves 11-7

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-07T04:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/red-sox-defeat-yankees-10-4-to-share-al-east-lead-mets-beat-braves-11-7.html
Jacoby Ellsbury hit a three-run homer
and drove in a career-high six runs to help the Boston  Red Sox 
beat the Yankees 10-4 and move back into a tie with  New York  in
the American League East division.  Ellsbury hit a sacrifice fly in the first inning last
night to score Carl Crawford for a 1-0 lead, followed by his
home run in the fourth that put the Red Sox ahead 7-2. The
centerfielder hit a two-run single in the eighth as Boston
snapped New York’s eight-game winning streak.  “To get wins against guys like that, you try not to think
about it too much,” said Crawford, who had four hits. “You try
to just take it.”  Mark Teixeira  hit a solo homer in the eighth inning to
score the final run for the Yankees at Fenway Park in  Boston .  John Lackey (10-8) gave up six hits and three runs in six
innings while striking out five for Boston (69-43).  CC Sabathia (16-6) surrendered nine hits and seven runs in
six innings. He struck out six for the Yankees, who have split
the first two games of the three-game series with the Red Sox.  “It’s a good ballclub. They have a good lineup,” Sabathia
told reporters. “Like today, they wear on you.”  In other American League games, it was Baltimore 6, Toronto
2; Cleveland 7, Texas 5; Seattle 5, the Los Angeles Angels 1;
Detroit 4, Kansas City 3; the Chicago White Sox 6, Minnesota 1;
and Oakland 8, Tampa Bay 0.  National League  In the National League, the  Philadelphia Phillies , who own
the best record in  Major League Baseball , won their ninth
straight game with a 2-1 victory over the  San Francisco Giants .  Cole Hamels  (13-6) pitched a complete game, throwing a
seven-hitter including a home run to Pablo Sandoval in the ninth
inning. He struck out five batters for the Phillies, who are
nine games ahead of second-place Atlanta in the NL East.  In other National League games, it was the Chicago Cubs 11,
Cincinnati 4; Milwaukee 7, Houston 5; San Diego 13, Pittsburgh 2;
St. Louis 2, Florida 1; the Los Angeles Dodgers 5, Arizona 3;
New York Mets 11, Atlanta 7; and Colorado 15, Washington 7.  Colorado Rockies pitcher Juan Nicasio, who was taken off
the field on a stretcher two days ago after he was hit with a
line drive, underwent surgery yesterday for a fractured
vertebrae in his neck at a Denver hospital, the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  