-- 
Reliance’s July Fuel Exports at 1.3 Million Tons, Ship Data Show

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-08-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/reliance-s-july-fuel-exports-at-1-3-million-tons-ship-data-show.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s biggest refining complex, exported at least 1.3
million metric tons of oil products last month, shipping data
show.  Mumbai-based Reliance, India’s largest listed company,
exported the products from its Jamnagar facility in western
India to destinations including the U.S., Brazil, Singapore and
the  Middle East , according ship transmissions and vessel
chartering tracked by Bloomberg and data from  Clarkson Research 
Services Ltd.  In June, the company’s oil-product exports were at least
1.6 million tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to report charters, so the scope of
data capture can vary from month to month. All figures from
Clarkson are for single-voyage bookings and exclude long-term
charters.  Reliance exported at least 443,000 tons of gasoil, or
diesel, in July, with about 61 percent of that going to Brazil,
according to transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg and
data from Clarkson Research, a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. The company does not
disclose details of its oil-product exports.  Cape Endurance  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, hired the NS  Asia  to transport 90,000 tons of gasoil
from the port of Sikka near Jamnagar, vessel-charter data show.
The ship left the Indian port in early July and was last tracked
off Brazil’s east coast near  Sao Paolo , according to
transmissions captured by Bloomberg.  Reliance’s gasoline shipments totaled at least 245,000 tons
in July, and were sent to destinations including the U.S. and
Singapore. The company hired the Cape Endurance to ship 90,000
tons of the fuel to the U.S., and transmissions show the vessel
in the Mediterranean Sea sailing towards the Strait of Gibraltar
after sailing from Sikka through the  Suez Canal .  Reliance also shipped at least 190,000 tons of jet fuel and
110,000 tons of naphtha to destinations including Japan and
 Europe , according to the data. The type of product could not be
determined for 265,000 tons of fuels that left Sikka during
July.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , runs two
refineries in Gujarat state. They can process heavy grades of
crude and have a throughput of as much as 1.24 million barrels a
day, accounting for about 1.6 percent of global refining
capacity, according to the company’s  website .  The company exports more products from its plants than
state-owned rivals including Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat
Petroleum Corp., which sell most of their fuels domestically.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  