-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Increased in July as Auto Demand Rebounded

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-07T04:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/retail-sales-probably-rose-on-auto-demand-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
increased in July by the most in four months as automobile 
purchases rebounded, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.5 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.1 percent increase in June, according to the median forecast
of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Commerce
Department figures on Aug. 12. A report the day before may show
the trade deficit narrowed.  A pickup in hiring and earnings last month may keep giving
consumers the confidence to visit car dealer showrooms and shop
at stores like Macy’s Inc., providing a boost for the biggest
part of the economy. Federal Reserve policy makers will meet
this week to debate what to do next following recent signs of a
more pronounced U.S. economic slowdown and European debt woes
that battered the stock market.  “We saw a modest pickup in July auto sales, gasoline
prices have retreated from their peaks and things are a touch
better for retailers, which should make sales perk up,” said
 Ken Mayland , president of ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper
Pike ,  Ohio . “To really reinvigorate  consumer spending , we have
to get more jobs.”  Cars and light trucks sold at a seasonally adjusted pace of
12.2 million in July, up from 11.4 million in June and higher
than analysts’ estimates. Deliveries at Detroit-based General
Motors Co. climbed 7.6 percent from the same month in 2010 to
214,915.  Losing Momentum  “Although the economy has clearly lost some momentum, we
do believe that it will continue to recover, but more gradually
than we had originally anticipated as we move through the second
half of the year,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S.
sales, said on an Aug. 2 conference call. Moderating gas prices
have “provided some needed relief to consumers.”  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter of 2011, less than forecast, from a 0.4 percent
pace in the first three months of the year, Commerce Department
figures showed. Household spending rose at 0.1 percent pace in
the second quarter, the weakest since the same period in 2009.  Fed policy makers may address chances of further slowdown
when the  Federal Open Market Committee  releases a statement on
Aug. 9. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on July 14 that
central bank officials want to see if the economy rebounds as
anticipated in the coming months, and that they are keeping a
close eye on inflation.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index suffered its worst weekly
slump since 2008, falling 7.2 percent. Investors fretted that
the world’s largest economy was at risk of falling back into a
recession.  More Hiring  Employment prospects that brightened in July may support
the Fed’s view that the economy will improve. Payrolls grew by
117,000 last month after increasing a revised 46,000 in June,
the Labor Department reported on Aug. 5. The jobless rate fell
to 9.1 percent in July from 9.2 percent, the first decrease in
four months, a separate survey of households showed.  Excluding automobiles and service stations, the retail
report may also show sales rose 0.2 percent for a fourth
straight month in July, economists said.  Retailers, including Macy’s and Limited Brands Inc.,
reported July sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Purchases
at Macy’s rose 5 percent, surpassing the 4.4 percent average
projection compiled by Retail Metrics Inc. Limited, operator of
the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted a gain of 6 percent.  Export growth may also support American companies as a weak
dollar makes U.S.-made goods more attractive to overseas buyers.
The  trade gap  shrank in June to $48 billion from the $50.2
billion deficit the prior month that was the widest since
October 2008, according to economists’ median estimate ahead of
the Commerce Department figures due Aug. 11.  The U.S. currency dropped 7.4 percent in the 12-months
ended July against a weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  