-- 
Trichet Draws ECB ’Bazooka’ in Bond Purchases

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-08T13:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/trichet-draws-ecb-bazooka-to-stem-contagion.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet started buying Italian and Spanish assets today
in his riskiest attempt yet to tame the sovereign debt crisis.  Italian and Spanish bonds surged as the ECB entered the
market, sending yields down the most since the euro began in
1999. The single currency, which initially climbed on the news,
gave up its gains and fell to $1.4172 at 3 p.m. in  Frankfurt 
from $1.4277 at the close of European trading on Friday.  With governments failing to act swiftly enough to stop
contagion from  Greece ’s fiscal meltdown, it has fallen to the
ECB to battle a crisis that’s now threatening the survival of
the euro. Buying Italian and Spanish debt may require the ECB to
massively expand its balance sheet and open it to accusations of
bailing out profligate nations, breaching a key principle in the
euro’s founding treaty and undermining its credibility.
 Germany ’s Bundesbank opposes the move.  “The ECB’s credibility unfortunately has taken a real
battering and it is now at the mercy of governments,” said
Tobias Blattner, a former ECB economist now at Daiwa Capital
Markets  Europe  in  London . He estimates the central bank will
have to buy about 200 billion euros ($287 billion) of Italian
bonds and 60 billion euros of Spanish securities to make an
impact.  Yields Plunge  Italy has 1.8 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion) in outstanding
debt. The ECB bought Italian and Spanish bonds this morning,
according to five people with knowledge of the transactions,
driving their 10-year yields down to 5.39 percent and 5.30
percent respectively from above 6 percent on Friday. Both
reached euro-era records last week.  European stocks declined, with the benchmark Stoxx Europe
600 Index falling 2 percent. U.S. futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index retreated 2.4 percent.  ECB policy makers were forced to step up their response to
the debt crisis after a failure to enter the Italian and Spanish
bond markets last week helped fuel a global rout.  “It looks like the ECB has decided to bring out the
bazooka,” said Douglas Borthwick, head of foreign-exchange
trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading.  Fears of a further slump when markets opened this week were
compounded by  Standard & Poor’s  decision on Friday to strip the
U.S. of its AAA credit rating for the first time.  Asian stocks dropped today, extending the worst global
slump since the  bull market  began in 2009.  G-7 Statement  The Group of Seven nations issued a statement this morning
saying it will take “all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth.”  In a statement issued in the name of the ECB president
after an emergency Governing Council conference call last night,
the Frankfurt-based central bank welcomed Italy and  Spain ’s
efforts to reduce their budget deficits and said it will
“actively implement” its bond-purchase program.  Since starting its bond purchases in May last year, the ECB
has bought about 74 billion euros of assets to help stabilize
Greek, Irish and Portuguese markets -- the three countries of
the euro area to have received bailouts from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund .  Four months ago, the ECB ceased bond purchases and put the
onus on governments to find a solution to their debt woes as it
turned its attention to raising  interest rates  to curb
inflation. Now it finds itself once again in the vanguard of
efforts to overcome the crisis.  Sterilization  Because the ECB will have to spend considerably more to
have an impact on the bond markets of the euro area’s third- and
fourth-largest economies, it may not be able to continue to
sterilize its purchases by absorbing the equivalent amount from
banks via term deposits, said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist
at ING Belgium in Brussels.  That would amount to swelling the  money supply , or
quantitative easing, which may in turn fuel inflation.  “I don’t think that very large volumes -- like 50 billion
a week -- can be sterilized,” Brzeski said. “Then they risk
throwing their very last principle overboard.”  The ECB, which is also lending banks unlimited amounts of
cash at its benchmark rate of 1.5 percent, has always said its
so-called non-standard measures are “temporary.”  Last night it reiterated that the bond program aims to help
restore “a better transmission of our monetary policy” and
“therefore to ensure  price stability  in the euro area.”  EFSF Purchases  It also called on all euro-area governments to follow
through on the steps they agreed to July 21, including allowing
the European Financial Stability Facility to purchase bonds on
the secondary market.  Jacques Cailloux , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, said he expects the ECB to buy on average around 2.5
billion euros of bonds a day, which would amount to about 600
billion euros if maintained over a year. While the ECB may be
playing for time until the EFSF is ready to take over bond
purchases, between them they may be forced to hold “close to
half of the traded Italian and Spanish debt, or around 850
billion euros,” Cailloux said.  While ECB bond purchases could act as a “circuit
breaker,” they are not a solution, said Michala Marcussen, head
of global economics at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  Fiscal Union  “The real solution is for the euro area to move to some
form of fiscal union,” Marcussen wrote in a note to clients
today. “We see the next step in this process to increase the
size of the EFSF to at least 1.5 trillion euros. This will be
politically difficult, and all the more so at a time when the
most recent adjustments to the EFSF are still pending
ratification by national parliaments.”  The 440 billion-euro rescue fund currently has about 323
billion euros left at its disposal.  In a joint statement yesterday, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  called  Italy ’s
decision to balance its budget in 2013, a year ahead of
schedule, of  “fundamental importance.” They also called for
their parliaments to approve the strengthening of the EFSF by
the end of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  