-- 
Rio Says Rising Labor Costs, Australian Dollar Put Pressure on Expansion

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-07T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/rio-says-rising-labor-costs-aussie-to-put-pressure-on-expansion.html
Rio Tinto  Group said rising labor
costs and the Australian dollar are hurting earnings and put
pressure on expansion plans by the world’s second-largest mining
company.  “This is a challenge we’re going to face, not just this
year, but in the coming years,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said in an interview on Australian Broadcasting Corp’s
“Inside Business” program yesterday. “We’re going to be
suffering the dual effects of rising costs, rising labor rates
and a strong currency, and that’s going to affect not only
operations but also the pace and the expense on capital
projects.”  Global mining companies are battling rising wages, raw
material and energy bills as well as currency gains in producing
countries that drive up their costs. The Australian dollar,
known as the Aussie, has gained 14 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months, making it the third-best performer
among the major global currencies.  London-based Rio Tinto said currency gains and costs curbed
earnings as it reported first-half profit last week that missed
analyst estimates.  Higher costs associated with project expansions cut
earnings by $353 million while other production-related expenses
including maintenance and additional labor costs reduced
earnings by $182 million, Rio said on Aug. 4. Gains in the
Australian dollar drove the cost of existing  iron ore  and
alumina expansion projects $2.4 billion higher, the company said.  Tight Market  Albanese said the iron ore market will remain tight as
global suppliers are under pressure to meet demand from  China 
for the steelmaking material.  China’s economy  is estimated to
expand by close to 9.5 percent this year, driving global growth
to 3 percent to 3.5 percent in 2011, he said.  “Many producers around the world are struggling, too, with
their own supply and their own growth and that’s continuing to
keep tight conditions and higher prices” for iron ore, Albanese
said. Rio Tinto will look for acquisitions opportunities “from
time to time” while continuing to focus on expanding its own
projects to boost production.  Bigger rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said in June the cost of
expanding its Worsley aluminum project in Western Australia
state increased by more than half to $3 billion and completion
has been delayed by at least six months.  Australia’s plan to introduce a carbon tax in 2012 will add
pressure to Rio’s costs, Albanese said yesterday. The
government’s decision to charge companies an initial A$23 a ton
of carbon dioxide from July next year before moving to an
emissions-trading system by 2015 may reduce the value of the
coal industry by about A$8 billion, research group Wood
Mackenzie Ltd. said in a report on July 25.  ‘Not the Time’  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia , which has cut the nation’s
2011 economic growth outlook to 2 percent from 3.5 percent, said
Aug. 5 the carbon price will add 0.7 percent “to the general
price level.”  The tax “as it’s currently being envisioned will just add
to those cost pressures and will create more competitive
challenges,” Albanese said. “Our position is that in terms of
coming up with a price for carbon, our suggestion, our
engagement would be that it should be gradual, it should be
tested over time to make sure it’s not having a negative effect.
This is not the time to experiment with an economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  