-- 
RPC Oil-Services Firm Said to Consider Sale, Hire Goldman

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-08T20:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/rpc-oil-services-firm-is-said-to-weigh-sale-work-with-goldman.html
RPC Inc. (RES) , a provider of oilfield
services such as pressure pumping, has been considering selling
itself and hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for advice, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  RPC picked Goldman Sachs after interviewing several
investment banks in the past few weeks, said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
private. The company, based in Atlanta, has a market
capitalization of $2.87 billion.  A sale would help brothers Randall and Gary Rollins, who
together own more than half of the stock, profit from surging
demand for services that help drillers unlock natural gas and
oil trapped in shale rock formations. RPC shares have more than
quintupled since February 2009.  The company may be attractive because of its work in such
shale formations as the Marcellus and  Eagle Ford , John Lawrence,
a vice president at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC in Houston,
said in a telephone interview.  “If you want to add presence to  North America , it’s
already pretty well established,” said Lawrence, who has an
“accumulate” rating on RPC shares and doesn’t own any.  Sharon Lennon, RPC’s head of  investor relations  and
corporate communications, said in an e-mail that she declined to
comment because the company’s policy is not to respond to market
rumors. A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman declined to comment.  Recoverable Resources  Global companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  are expanding their holdings in U.S. shale formations,
buying companies that drill using a new combination of
techniques to exploit deposits that were previously thought to
be unrecoverable.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates the
country has 2,543 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas
resources, an increase of more than 50 percent from the estimate
a decade ago, because of projected increases in shale
formations.  RPC gets about half its sales from pressure pumping,
including from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. In fracking,
companies inject water, chemicals and sand under high pressure
to release the gas from shale. The company had record revenue of
$1.1 billion in 2010 and will more than double that amount by
2012, according to the average of 9 analysts’ sales estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Seeking Shale  RPC’s work also includes rental tool operations and a
coiled tubing business used in well maintenance. Potential
buyers may include a large company such as  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  or
smaller ones such as  Patterson-UTI Energy Inc. (PTEN)  or  Complete
Production Services Inc. (CPX) , Lawrence said. Foreign buyers such as
Archer Ltd. or Asian companies also may be interested, he said.  The scramble for shale is driving many of the industry’s
biggest takeovers, including Exxon Mobil’s $31 billion takeover
of XTO Energy Inc. last year and BHP’s pending deal to buy
 Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  for $12.1 billion. Both those sellers
have holdings in U.S. shale formations and expertise on how to
develop them.  Services companies are also combining to meet the demand.
In 2010,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s third-largest oil
services company, bought BJ Services Co. for $5.5 billion to
expand in pressure pumping.  In the last major purchase of a services company, a group
led by Temasek Holdings Pte.,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, agreed in April to buy a 70 percent stake in Cisco,
Texas-based Frac Tech Services Inc., controlled by brothers Dan
and Farris Wilks. The group paid $3.5 billion for the stake, the
Wall Street Journal reported in May.  Rollins Inc. (ROL)   RPC was once part of Rollins Inc., founded by O. Wayne Rollins, the father of Randall and Gary. Rollins spun off RPC in
1984 and is now focused on pest control, including through its
Orkin subsidiary.  Randall Rollins, whose age was given as 79 in a proxy
filing earlier this year, is chairman of both companies. The
brothers have a controlling stake in both.  RPC fell 8 cents $19.37 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The New York Stock Exchange Energy
Index fell 8.1 percent, the largest drop since Dec. 1, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  