-- 
Russia RTS-Index Futures Rise on Italian Financial Reform Plan

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-07T20:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/russia-rts-index-futures-rise-on-italian-financial-reform-plan.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures rose
after Italian officials said they will speed up austerity
measures amid speculation the  European Central Bank  may buy
Italian and Spanish bonds in an effort to halt the spread of the
region’s debt crisis.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September gained 0.3 percent on Aug. 5, marking its first
advance in five trading sessions. Contracts on OAO Rosneft,
Russia’s biggest oil producer, added 0.7 percent and those on
OAO Lukoil, the second biggest, gained 0.3 percent. Futures on
OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, rose 0.2 percent.  Futures reversed an earlier 1.9 percent decline after
Reuters reported that the European Central Bank was pressuring
Italy to make reforms in return for buying the nation’s bonds.
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Finance Minister Giulio
Tremonti said the country will adopt a balanced-budget
amendment, liberalize its labor market, and speed asset sales.  “RTS Futures trended higher on the news that ECB may buy
Italian and Spanish debt,”  Luis Saenz , chief executive officer
of Otkritie Capital’s U.S. unit, wrote in an e-mail from London.
“Investors begin to see some light at the end of the tunnel
with the efforts by the ECB to stabilize the situation.”  Crude for September delivery advanced 0.3 percent to settle
at $86.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , its
first gain in six trading sessions. The euro strengthened 1.4
percent against the dollar, rising to 1.4287 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York.  Most U.S. stocks fell Aug. 5, completing the worst weekly
slump for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 2008. The 30-
stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 2 percent to 1,588.50 in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  