-- 
S&P Affirming U.S. Short-Term Rating May Prop Money Markets

-- B y   R o b e r t   B u r g e s s
-- 
2011-08-08T17:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/s-p-affirming-u-s-short-term-debt-ratings-may-keep-money-markets-in-check.html
The decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to
affirm the U.S.’s short-term rating at the top A-1+ level even
as it cut the long-term grade from AAA may help to stabilize
money markets, according to strategists and economists.  The move means  money market funds  won’t be forced to sell
Treasuries, said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, the Singapore-based chief
currency strategist at UBS AG. The “impact” on money funds
“appears to be limited,”  Philip Marey , the senior U.S.
strategist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht,  Netherlands , wrote in a
report to clients.  While S&P has warned since mid-July that a downgrade was
likely, measures of distress in short-term funding markets have
declined since then, signaling that traders expect little
disruption. Two-year interest-rate swap spreads are trading at
about one-third of the levels reached in May 2010 as the extent
of Greece’s fiscal troubles came to light and one quarter of
that in the weeks before  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. collapsed
in September 2008.  “The long-term downgrade shows that this is much more of a
symbolic downgrade, and a warning that the U.S. needs to get its
house in order, but by leaving the short-term rating unchanged,
that is an important message because of the money-market
implications,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .  General-Collateral Rates  Treasuries are pledged as collateral by borrowers in the $4
trillion repurchase market, where banks, companies and investors
come together for short-term funding, Marey said. The concern is
that lenders may demand a higher amount of Treasuries as
collateral for the same amount of cash.  Overnight general-collateral Treasury repurchase-agreement
rates averaged 0.2 percent on Aug. 5, according to ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker, down from 0.32 percent on
Aug. 1 and versus the 0.13 percent level in mid-July when S&P
warned that a downgrade may be coming. The average this year is
0.102 percent.  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term rating one level to AA+
after the markets closed on Aug. 5 while keeping the outlook at
“negative” as it becomes less confident Congress will end
Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. The rating may be
reduced to AA within two years if spending reductions are lower
than agreed to, interest rates rise or “new fiscal pressures”
result in higher general government debt, the New York-based
firm said.  ‘Falls Short’  “The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal
consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently
agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics,” S&P
said in a report.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill that ended the $14.3 trillion debt-ceiling impasse
that pushed the Treasury to the edge of default. Moody’s and
Fitch also said that downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail
to enact debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  In the weeks before S&P’s move, Wall Street’s fixed-income
trading units prepared for a potential U.S. downgrade,
minimizing their inventory positions, Brad Hintz, a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst, wrote in an Aug. 1 note to clients.  Revenue Crimp  New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley’s fixed-income trading revenue may be crimped anyway, if
a downgrade results in changing rates, currency-market
volatility and widening credit spreads, Hintz wrote.  At Goldman Sachs, senior executives viewed a U.S. downgrade
as “manageable,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Keith Horowitz 
wrote in a July 28 note to investors. The analysts said they met
with Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar, Co-
Head of Securities Harvey M. Schwartz, and Co-Head of Investment
Banking David M. Solomon.  “Management noted that they have run through various
scenarios,” the Citigroup analysts wrote. Still, “there is
always the possibility of more severe knock-on effects.”  A gauge of fear in the short-term debt markets has been
relatively muted even as the prospect of a downgrade of the U.S.
rose in recent weeks.  The difference, or spread, between the two-year swap rate
and the comparable-maturity Treasury note yield was at 27 basis
points, or 0.27 percentage point, today in  New York . The measure
has ranged during the past three months from 15.5 on May 12 to
33.81 on July 12. The three-month Libor rate rose to 0.275
percent, the highest since April, according to Bloomberg data.  Swap Spreads  Current spread levels compare with intra-day highs of 64.21
in May 2010 as the extent of  Greece ’s fiscal crisis came to
light, and 167.25 in October 2008 following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers as credit markets froze. The inability to obtain
short-term funding is one of the reasons Lehman filed for
bankruptcy, and why Bear Stearns Cos. almost failed before being
sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co. earlier in 2008.  “Many repo agreements stipulate triple-A collateral and
there could be some confusion to be sorted out,”  Chris Low , the
chief economist at FTN Financial in New York, said in a note to
clients. “Because two of the three  ratings agencies  confirmed
the triple-A rating, however, the contracts should still be
valid even with Treasury and Agency collateral.”  Concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is worsening may weigh
on short-term funding markets as speculation rises that banks
may need to take bigger losses on their sovereign-debt holdings
as yields on Italian and Spanish bonds rise to euro-era records
relative to bunds.  Europe Concern  “We would not be surprised if the downgrade increases the
sense of panic in European credit markets,” Low said in the
note.  S&P’s downgrade won’t affect the capital positions of U.S.
banks, regulators said. Banks, which hold Treasuries as a form
of capital, won’t need to build larger cushions to protect
against possible losses, a group of banking regulators,
including the Fed and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said
in a statement in  Washington  late on Aug. 5.  “For risk-based capital purposes, the risk weights for
 Treasury securities  and other securities issued or guaranteed by
the U.S. government, government agencies and government-
sponsored enterprises will not change,” the regulators said.  Fed Watch  One of the missions of the Fed is to ensure the safety and
soundness of the U.S. banking system. During the 2008 financial
crisis, the Fed required the biggest banks to undergo “stress
tests” and ordered some of them, including Citigroup Inc. and
Bank of America Corp., to enlarge their capital buffers.  Lending through the discount window surged to a high of
$110 billion a day during the height of the financial crisis in
the fall of 2008 following the collapse of Lehman. At the time,
banks turned to the Fed as a lender of last resort because their
sources of credit were frozen. Fed lending through the discount
window was down to $10 million for the week ending Aug. 3.  The Fed official also said that S&P’s decision would have
no implications on its ability to influence  interest rates 
through open-market operations. The Fed in June completed a $600
billion Treasury bond-purchase program aimed at bolstering the
economy.  “In our view, this ratings action should not have a
material impact on short-term markets,” said  Alex Roever , the
head of short-term fixed-income strategy JPMorgan Chase, ranked
the No. 1 ranked debt research firm by Institutional Investor
magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Burgess in New York at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  