-- 
S&P-Induced Selloff in U.S. Bonds, Dollar May Be Short-Lived, Dealers Say

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-08-08T10:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/s-p-induced-u-s-bonds-selloff-may-be-short-lived-dealers-say.html
Any selloff in Treasuries and the
dollar following Standard & Poor’s first ever downgrade of the
U.S. from AAA is likely to be short-lived amid slowing economic
growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis, according to Wall Street banks.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said a drop in Treasuries from the
ratings cut is unlikely to be “sustained,” while Citigroup
Inc. said dollar selling isn’t forecast to be entrenched.
Barclays Plc said the downgrade shouldn’t be “significant,”
and UBS AG said the top ranking for U.S. short-term debt will
prevent money funds from being forced to react.  For all the handwringing over the credit-rating cut, bond
investors from Wall Street banks that trade directly with the
 Federal Reserve  to policy makers in  China  and Russia are likely
to retain their holding of Treasuries as they see few
alternatives to the world’s deepest and most liquid market. The
dollar remains the world’s  reserve currency  even as S&P cut the
U.S. one level to AA+ while keeping the outlook at “negative”
on Aug. 5, citing the political failure to reduce record
deficits while Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. on Aug. 2.  “The markets are pretty-well braced and have priced this
in,” said Laura LaRosa, director of fixed income at
Philadelphia-based Glenmede, which oversees $20 billion.
“Certainty, we would not cut our Treasury holdings on the S&P
downgrade. We don’t think there’s going to be a huge violent
swing.”  Buffett, Greenspan  Billionaire Warren Buffett said in an interview with Betty Liu at Bloomberg Television that S&P erred when it lowered the
U.S. credit rating and reiterated his view that the economy will
avoid its second recession in three years. The nation merits a
“quadruple A” rating, Buffett, 80, said Aug. 6.  Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan , speaking on NBC’s
“Meet the Press,” said that U.S. government bonds are safe
investments. “Very much so,” he said Aug. 7.  The cost to insure U.S. debt against default is less than
that of AAA rated Germany,  France , Australia and the U.K.,
according to data provided by CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Default Protection  Credit-default swaps that protect against default on U.S.
notes for five years fell 11 percent last week to 55 basis
points, before rising to 58.5 basis points today, CMA data show.
That compares with an increase last week of 15.6 percent to 74
for swaps linked to  Germany , an 18.2 percent climb to 144 for
France, a 21.5 percent rise to 69 for Australia and a 4.5
percent weekly increase to 77 for U.K. government securities.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes dropped 24 basis points
last week or 0.24 percentage point, to 2.56 percent after
falling as low as 2.33 percent on Aug. 5, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices amid signs of stalled economic growth and a
widening sovereign-debt crisis in Europe. The yield was at 2.48
percent today.  The two-year U.S. note yield dropped seven basis points to
0.29 percent last week and was at 0.25 percent today. It touched
a record 0.2527 percent on Aug. 4.  Treasuries have returned 5.29 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, outperforming the 4.63
percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  JPMorgan said 10-Treasury yields will likely increase to 3
percent by the end of the year, compared with an earlier
forecast of 3.5 percent, on a “poorer growth outlook,”
according to an Aug. 5 report from analysts led by Terry Belton,
global head of fixed-income and foreign-exchange research.  Investor Comfort  “We do not anticipate forced selling of U.S. Treasuries
from any significant investor base,” Barclays analysts Ajay Rajadhyaksha and Anshul Pradhan wrote Aug. 6 in a research
report. “U.S. Treasuries remain the flight-to-quality asset
class of choice, and we do not believe S&P’s action will change
that in investors’ minds.”  S&P lowered the U.S. rating as it becomes less confident
Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. The
ranking may be cut to AA within two years if spending reductions
are lower than agreed to,  interest rates  rise or “new fiscal
pressures” result in higher general government debt, the New
York-based firm said.  “The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal
consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently
agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary
to stabilize the government’s medium-term debt dynamics,” S&P
said in a statement late on Aug. 5 after markets closed.  Ratings Review  While Moody’s and Fitch affirmed the top AAA rating for the
U.S., they said downgrades are possible if lawmakers fail to
enact debt reduction measures and the economy weakens.  Lawmakers agreed on Aug. 2 to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4
trillion in spending reductions over the next 10 years, less
than the $4 trillion S&P had said it preferred.  On a conference call on Aug. 6 with reporters, S&P analysts
David Beers and John Chambers said that in their analysis, the
“extremely difficult” political discussions in  Washington  over
how to reduce the more than $1 trillion  budget deficit  carried
more weight in their decision than the nation’s outstanding
debt. It said the talks weren’t “consistent” with a AAA
rating.  Long-Term View  There may be “long-term implications” if the markets
agree with S&P that the U.S. has become less creditworthy,
eroding its role as the world’s reserve currency, Barclays said.
Borrowing costs may rise about 25 basis points and spur
investors to “increase diversification away” from the dollar.  Asian investors are likely to retain their Treasuries
holdings for now, with options limited by the region’s foreign-
exchange rate policies.  Japan , the second-largest international
investor in American government debt, sees no problem with trust
in the securities, a Japanese government official said on
condition of anonymity.  Russia  said the one-step cut “can be
ignored.”  Policy makers from China to Japan to Southeast Asia are
lured to Treasuries as a result of efforts to stem gains in
their currencies against the dollar, which would impair export
competitiveness. China has accumulated $1.16 trillion in the
securities and the nation’s official Xinhua News Agency said in
a commentary that the U.S. must cure its “addiction” to
borrowing.  No Sale  “Foreign official institutions are likely to be
particularly loath to sell Treasuries,” Citigroup analysts  Todd Elmer , Steve Englander and Greg Anderson wrote in a report.
“Foreign official institutions represent the single largest
holders of Treasuries, which means they are most exposed to the
ratings downgrade, but politically they are unlikely to want to
introduce additional volatility into the market and it would be
difficult for them to join in with private sector sellers of
U.S. securities.”  The dollar rallied last week versus 15 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as concern the world’s largest economy is
stalling and Europe’s debt crisis is worsening damped demand for
higher-risk assets. The greenback was up versus 12 of its 16
today.  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi vowed the nation
will accelerate financial reforms. The move came before the
 European Central Bank  was said to be buying Italian and Spanish
government bonds today to help stave off the debt crisis.  The committee of bond dealers and investors that advises
the U.S. Treasury  said  the dollar’s status as the world’s
reserve currency “appears to be slipping” in quarterly
feedback presented to the government on Aug. 3.  Reserve Currency  The U.S. currency’s portion of global currency reserves
dropped to 60.7 percent in the period ended March 31, from a
peak of 72.7 percent in 2001, data from the  International
Monetary Fund  in Washington show.  “The idea of a reserve currency is that it is built on
strength, not typically that it is ‘best among poor choices’,”
page 35 of the presentation made by one member of the Treasury
Borrowing Advisory Committee, which  includes  representatives
from firms ranging from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Pacific
Investment Management Co. “The fact that there are not
currently viable alternatives to the  U.S. dollar  is a hollow
victory and perhaps portends a deteriorating fate.”  Members of the TBAC, as the committee is known, which met
Aug. 2 in Washington, also discussed the implications of a
downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating. “None of the
members thought that a downgrade was imminent,” according to
 minutes  of the meeting released by the Treasury.  S&P Top  S&P gives 18 sovereign entities its top ranking, including
 Australia ,  Hong Kong  and the Isle of Man, according to a July
report. The U.K. which is estimated to have debt to GDP this
year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the U.S.,
also has the top credit grade. In contrast with the U.S., its
net public debt is forecast to decline either before or by 2015,
S&P said in the statement yesterday.  New Zealand  is the only country other than the U.S. that
has a AA+ rating from S&P and an Aaa grade from Moody’s.  Belgium 
has an equivalent AA+ grade from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  The downgrade by S&P “may well raise questions about other
members of the dwindling AAA club,” Mohamed El-Erian, the
Newport Beach, California-based chief executive officer and co-
chief investment officer at Pimco, the world’s largest manager
of bond funds, wrote in an e-mail.  “Investors should be cautiously positioned as the global
economy and markets face major uncertainties,” El-Erian wrote.
“The downgrade will be a further headwind to growth and job
creation in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  