-- 
SAP’s Hana Analytics May Pay Off as Software Trumps Hardware

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-08T08:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/sap-s-hana-analytics-may-pay-off-as-software-trumps-hardware.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the German software maker
whose sales outpaced those of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  last quarter for the
first time in 2 1/2 years, has a new weapon to defend its
decision not to add hardware to its mainstay business.  At the heart of the newly found momentum is SAP’s Hana
offering, which allows clients including BASF SE and Colgate-
Palmolive Co. to speed up the analysis of business data. The
amount of prospective sales for Hana is “very, very large and
growing very, very quickly,” Chief Technology Officer Vishal Sikka said in an interview. “We have never seen anything of
this kind of growth before.”  The 400 million-euro ($571 million) pipeline for Hana,
which was officially released in June, is the biggest in the
history of Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, the largest maker of
business-management software. It’s growing by 10 million euros a
week, co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said last month.  Hana, which stands for High-Performance Analytic Appliance,
fits SAP’s strategy to focus on developing its own software
without adding hardware offerings through acquisitions. That
approach may pay off as clients are increasingly seeking
integrated software to analyze and manage business data without
complicated hardware add-ons, said Peter Russo, a managing
director for  Pierre Audoin Consultants Inc.  in  Washington .  “There is this push to narrow down what you’re spending on
hardware and services,” Russo said in an interview. Software
customers are more interested to “put more resources into the
actual enterprise software application.”  Test Programs  BASF, the world’s largest chemical company, has been able
to analyze commodity sales 120 times faster with Hana, it said
last month. Russian oil producer OAO Surgutneftegas, which has
been using Hana in test programs since February, said the
analysis of raw data directly from the operational system made
additional data warehouse obsolete.  Colgate, the world’s largest toothpaste maker, and  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992) ,  China ’s biggest computer maker, started using the
Hana in-memory technology in December.  On July 26, SAP said it will reach the top end of its
profit forecasts this year after winning market share in the
second quarter because of demand for mobile and data-analysis
offerings. Last quarter, SAP won the U.S. National Hockey League
team San Jose Sharks as a user of its on-demand software
Business ByDesign.  “We think this is a fundamental shift in market dynamics,
where companies are investing more in the software part and less
in commodity infrastructure,” SAP co-Chief Executive Officer
Jim Hagemann Snabe said last month.  Profitability  SAP’s profitability has trailed that of Oracle over the
last five years, at an average operating margin of 26.5 percent
compared with Oracle’s 35.8 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Total sales grew an average 8.3 percent a year
against Oracle’s 20 percent.  In the quarter ended May 31, Oracle’s hardware product
sales fell 6 percent, fuelling concern that the top maker of
 database software  may not be benefiting as much as predicted
from its acquisition of Sun Microsystems Inc. last year.  While  Redwood City , California-based Oracle has amassed
more than $42 billion in acquisitions since 2005, SAP made only
two large takeovers in its 39-year history: mobile-computing
software maker Sybase Inc., which SAP bought last year for $5.8
billion, and business-intelligence company Business Objects SA,
acquired in 2007.  IBM, Cisco  The Hana technology comes on servers from companies such
as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   SAP needs traction on its new offerings fast. The company
forecasts Hana and other new products will contribute a quarter
of a targeted 20 billion euros in sales by 2015, up from 12.5
billion euros in 2010. SAP declined to comment on Hana’s
pricing.  “SAP could have 100 Hana customers by the end of the
year,” said Andreas Wolf, an analyst with Warburg Research GmbH
in Hamburg. Wolf, who has a “buy” rating on SAP shares,
estimates that each client might pay 1 million euros for Hana as
an initial installation fee.  SAP dropped 1.5 percent to 38.70 euros in Frankfurt trading
as of 10:14 a.m., valuing the company at 47.5 billion euros.
Oracle on Friday dropped 1.8 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading, giving the company a market value of $144 billion.  Too Early?  While the initial demand may be encouraging, it’s still too
early to say whether Hana will have the desired long-term
impact, said Pierre Audoin Consultants’ Russo. Most customers
may wait up to two years to see the results of early test cases
before making their own purchase decisions, he said.  Donald Feinberg, a  Gartner Inc. (IT)  analyst based in  Sao Paolo ,
says SAP has to hurry up to keep its current advantage.  “I have to believe that other vendors are working on doing
the same type of thing” as SAP, he said.  For SAP, Hana represents SAP’s attempt to “completely
transform itself” and the most successful product in SAP’s
line-up since the flagship software  R/3  and its successor, the
enterprise resource planning system, which is used by almost
half of SAP’s customers today, according to Sikka.  “We had tremendous success with R3 and wave after wave of
innovation at SAP did not quite reach that point where we could
renew the company around it,” Sikka said. “Until Hana.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  