-- 
Saudis Recall Ambassador to Syria as Weekend Death Toll Rises

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-07T22:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/saudis-recall-ambassador-to-syria-as-weekend-death-toll-rises.html
King Abdullah  of Saudi Arabia, a U.S.
ally in the  Middle East , recalled the kingdom’s ambassador to
Syria today, saying the violence in that country is
unacceptable.  King Abdullah said Syria has “two options, either wisdom
or chaos.” His written statement was read on Al Arabiya
television.  At least 100 anti-government protesters were killed in
Syria yesterday and hundreds of others arrested, including
journalists and activists,  Ammar Qurabi , of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria, said in a telephone
interview.  The killings took place in the eastern city of Deir al-
Zour, in Homs province in central Syria, and in the northern
province of Idlib, Qurabi said. Syrian forces began the raids
Aug. 7. Heavy gunfire was heard in the Al-Maidan area of
Damascus,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing unidentified activists.  The increased violence by government forces in the almost
five-month revolt began July 31 on the eve of the holy Muslim
month of Ramadan as protesters vowed to enlarge their rallies
against the rule of President Bashar al-Assad during the period
of fasting and prayer.  Khalid Rashid, a witness from Deir al-Zour, told Al Jazeera
in a telephone interview that tanks shelled mosques and houses
and opened fire randomly in the city, and that snipers shot at
any moving object in the streets. He said the number of dead
there rose to 65.  Syrian Police  Syrian police also fired at people demonstrating after dark
yesterday in the Damascus suburb of Kisweh and began raiding
homes in the capital city’s Asali neighborhood, Al Jazeera
reported, citing activists.  Al Arabiya  reported that government
forces shot at demonstrators in the Qabun area of Damascus and
used sound bombs to break up the protests.  Thousands went out after evening prayers in the town of
Sanamin, near Daraa in southern Syria, Al Arabiya reported,
citing witnesses. Syrian security forces dispersed the crowd
with live bullets and tear gas, according to an Al Arabiya
report that cited activists. Protesters in the port city of
Latakia were also fired upon, Al Jazeera reported.  Demonstrating After Dark  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi urged Syrian
authorities to immediately end their crackdown to spare the
lives of civilians and military personnel,  Egypt ’s state-run
Middle East News Agency reported yesterday.  He also called on Assad to meet his people’s demands for
political change, and said the government should set up a
judicial committee to investigate reports of human rights
abuses, MENA reported.  The Gulf Cooperation Council issued a statement Aug. 6 that
condemned the Syrian government for “excessive use of force,
which has caused many deaths and wounded among the Syrian
people.” The GCC, comprising  Saudi Arabia , Bahrain, Qatar,
Oman,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates , called for “an
immediate cessation to all acts of violence” in a statement
posted on its website.  The  United Nations  issued a statement Aug. 3 expressing
“grave concern” at the deaths and alleged human rights abuses.
Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed anti-government
protests on foreign-inspired plots, while acknowledging that the
demonstrators have some legitimate demands. He issued a decree
last week easing curbs on political parties and setting up a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections.  March Uprisings  Protests against Assad began in March after uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt. At least 2,310 protesters
have been killed in  Syria  since then, Al Arabiya television
reported yesterday, citing activists.  More than 500 members of the security forces have also been
killed, Deputy Foreign Minister Fayssal Mekdad told  India’s News
X channel . Most foreign journalists have been banned since the
start of the revolt.  Syrian forces are “using tanks, machine guns and armored
vehicles as they storm the city,” Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a telephone
interview from Damascus, referring to the assault on Deir al-
Zour. “It looks like the regime has ignored the GCC statement
because it wants to resolve the crisis militarily.”  “The Syrian government does not tell the truth,”  Robert Ford , U.S. ambassador to Syria, said in a recorded interview
broadcast yesterday on ABC’s “Meet the Press.”  “We are going to try to ratchet up the pressure,” Ford
said, calling the Syrian government’s attacks on protestors
“grotesque” and “abhorrent,” not just to the U.S. but to
“the entire international community.”  Ford, who has angered the Syrian government by meeting with
protestors in Hama, said the U.S. is “looking at additional
unilateral measures” as well as measures “that we can work
with partners to get the Syrian government to stop shooting
protestors, to release political prisoners, and to stop these
arrest campaigns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in  Washington  at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  