-- 
Scott Leads Day, Ishikawa by One at Bridgestone Golf as Woods Falters

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-07T04:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/scott-leads-day-ishikawa-by-one-at-bridgestone-golf-as-woods-falters.html
Adam Scott  shot 4-under-par 66 to
hold a one-shot lead over fellow Australian Jason Day and
Japan’s Ryo Ishikawa after three rounds of golf’s  Bridgestone
Invitational .  Scott, who shared the lead with three others after two
rounds, birdied four of his final seven holes yesterday at
Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio, to get to 12-under for
the tournament.  Tiger Woods , making his return to the golf tour after an
almost four-month layoff caused by knee and Achilles tendon
injuries, shot 2-over-par 72 and trails Scott by 13 strokes.  “I’ve just got to put together a good round and let it
build,” Woods told reporters yesterday. “Unfortunately, I’m
not there battling with a chance to win, but I can still post a
good round tomorrow.”  Ishikawa tied for the day’s lowest round with 64 to move up
the leader board. The 19-year-old has 11 wins outside the U.S.
though only one top-10 finish in 24 prior  PGA Tour  events.  “I think it’s a little too early to think about winning
this whole thing as of now,” Ishikawa told reporters through a
translator. “But I do feel that I was able to play at a pretty
good level, pretty high level today. Actually I am a little bit
surprised of how I performed out there.”  Day briefly took the lead early after an eagle on the par-5
second hole. After back-to-back bogeys to start the back nine,
he finished with three birdies over the final four holes.  American Keegan Bradley and Scotland’s Martin Laird are
tied for fourth place at 10-under. England’s  Luke Donald , No. 1
in the  Official World Golf Ranking , matched Ishikawa’s 64 and is
tied with  Sweden ’s Fredrik Jacobson and Rickie Fowler of the U.S.
at 9-under.  Opens With Bogey  Woods opened his round with a bogey and added a second on
the eighth before a birdie at No. 9. After another birdie at No.
15, he bogeyed two of the final three holes for his second
straight over-par round.  Woods’s last competitive round before this week was May 12,
when he pulled out of the  Players Championship  after nine holes.
The former No. 1-ranked player dropped to 28th in world ranking
during his absence from the U.S. PGA Tour.  He is playing with childhood friend Bryon Bell as his
caddie after firing  Steve Williams  last month. Williams now is
working for Scott.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 