-- 
Al-Shabaab’s Mogadishu Retreat May Bring Some Respite to Starving Somalis

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-08T06:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/somali-insurgents-exit-may-bring-respite-for-starving-citizens.html
The withdrawal by rebel forces from
Somalia’s capital may offer residents of the war-torn country
some respite from a famine that threatens almost half its 7.5
million people.  Al-Shabaab, which has pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda, quit
Mogadishu on Aug. 6 following a series of military defeats,
according to Abdiweli Mohamed Ali, prime minister of the
Western-backed transitional federal government. The militant
group confirmed the pull-back.  The withdrawal “shows the death of al-Shabaab as we know
it,” Bronwyn Bruton, a Somalia researcher and former fellow at
the  Council on Foreign Relations , said in a phone interview from
Washington Aug. 6. “They’ve been beaten down militarily and now
have no ideological cohesion. They are short of cash, they don’t
have the ability to launch a large-scale offensive any longer.”  Somalia’s two-decade-long civil war has compounded the
effects of a drought in the Horn of  Africa  that the  United
Nations  says is the worst in 60 years. A cessation of
hostilities in Mogadishu will make it easier and cheaper to ship
aid to the port city, which has seen an influx of about 100,000
people seeking food, water and shelter over the past two months,
according to the UN.  Al-Shabaab has banned the  World Food Programme  and other
aid agencies from working in areas under its control, causing
the mass migration of people into the capital and refugee camps
in neighboring countries. Its forces still control most of
southern and central Somalia.  ‘Bad Record’  The withdrawal “is a glimmer of hope,” Ben Rawlence,  Human
Rights Watch ’s team leader in the Horn of Africa, said in a
telephone interview from  London  on Aug. 6. “At a minimum it
should mean more people can get assistance. Al-Shabaab clearly
has very bad record on human rights on areas under its control.”  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central government since
the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s administration, backed by  African Union 
peacekeepers, has been fighting to oust al-Shabaab from
Mogadishu for the past four years. African Union forces captured
three strategic locations to protect aid workers last week,
helping sway the balance of power in the capital.  Al-Shabaab’s withdrawal won’t bring an end to Somalia’s
woes, with the famine expected to last until at least the end of
the year and the militia showing no signs of laying down arms.  ‘Tactical’ Decision  Al-Shabaab spokesman Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage told
Mogadishu-based broadcaster  Holy Quran Radio  on Aug. 6 that the
militia regards its withdrawal as a “tactical” move and it
plans to win control of other government-controlled territory.  The UN Refugee Agency plans to fly to Mogadishu today to
deliver its first shipment of emergency supplies in five years.
The aid includes sleeping mats, plastic sheeting for shelter and
jerrycans for water to Mogadishu.  The latest developments in Mogadishu are a “step in the
right direction,”  Augustine Mahiga , UN Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon’s envoy to Somalia, said in an e-mailed statement on Aug.
6. “Real security risks, including from terrorist attacks,
remain and must not be underestimated.”  Al-Shabaab may regroup and launch a new assault on the
capital or redeploy its troops to other regions where they face
less of a threat of being surrounded and destroyed, said Pierre
Beaudet, a professor of international development at the
 University of Ottawa .  ‘Angry People’  Al-Shabaab is “not just a small group of people with a
mandate from al-Qaeda,” he said in a telephone interview from
 Montreal . “It’s much broader. There are a lot of young, angry
people within it. They have legitimacy in the eyes of many
people. They can remain having a presence in Mogadishu and do
exactly what they were doing before: hit-and-run tactics.”  Joseph Lake, a New York-based analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit, sees a decline in support for al-Shabaab as a
result of the famine and signs of a rift among its leaders that
may be compounded by the loss of its foothold in Mogadishu.  “Al-Shabaab’s unity against a divided transition federal
government has been one of its biggest advantages,” he said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “If this is starting to
crack, it could represent a turning point in this bitterly sad
conflict.”  The government says that now it has secured control of
Mogadishu, it intends to step up efforts to eradicate al-Shabaab
from the rest of the country.  “Rome was not built in one day and Mogadishu will not
stabilize in one day, but this represents” a step forward in
ending the conflict, government spokesman Abdirahman Omar Osman
said in an Aug. 6 interview from Mogadishu. “This is the
beginning of peace and development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 