-- 
S. Africa’s Ramaphosa Blames Companies for Mine Grab Debate

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-07T14:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/south-africa-s-ramaphosa-blames-companies-for-mine-nationalization-debate.html
Business leaders must bear part of
the blame for a call to nationalize  South Africa ’s mines, the
deputy chairman of the National Planning Commission said.  “The mining companies got together with the ministry and
agreed on a transformation charter,”  Cyril Ramaphosa , said in
an address at the Gordon Institute of Business Science in
Johannesburg, which was broadcast on the  polity.org.za  website.
“Nearly all of them have not lived up to that transformation
agenda. They planted seeds of dissension for the future. It is
only now that the  mining industry  is waking up and saying: ‘Wow,
maybe we should have done certain things to forestall this’.”  Calls for the government to seize mines, banks and land
are being made by the ruling African National Congress’ youth
wing, which says the country’s black majority still doesn’t have
an adequate stake in  Africa ’s largest economy 17 years after the
end of white-minority rule. The ANC agreed in November to an
independent study of whether nationalization is viable and to
debate the findings next year.  The nationalization drive stems from “a measure of deep
frustration by young people, who are unemployed,” said
Ramaphosa. “They see these big corporations raking in a lot of
money, and they also see that these corporations are not
transforming in the way that was agreed.”  Executive Committee  A lawyer and former labor-union leader, Ramaphosa is a
member of the ANC’s national executive committee. He is also the
chairman of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest mobile-phone
operator, and co-chairman of Mondi Plc,  Europe ’s largest maker
of office paper. His family trust is the largest shareholder in
the Shanduka Group, which has interests in mining, financial
services, property and energy businesses.  “There are very sound arguments against nationalization as
an effective means to achieve sustainable growth and
redistribution of wealth,” Ramaphosa wrote in a column
published in Johannesburg’s Sunday Times newspaper today. “In
fact, nationalization has the potential to have precisely the
opposite effect. We should learn from many countries that have
tried this option and failed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 