-- 
Swaps Show Interest Rate Rises May Slow as Inflation Holds: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-08T03:44:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/swaps-show-rate-rises-may-slow-as-inflation-holds-china-credit.html
China  will slow the pace of interest-
rate increases and yuan gains as inflation levels off and the
faltering expansion in the U.S. and Europe threatens export
growth, derivatives contracts show.  Swap contracts based on the one-year deposit rate reflect
expectations borrowing costs will rise no more than once in the
coming year, after five increases in the past 10 months. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards for the yuan ended last week at a
0.8 percent premium to the spot rate, the smallest gap since a
two-year currency peg ended in June 2010.  Consumer-price gains in China held at 6.4 percent in July,
the fastest rate in three years, according to the median
forecast of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before data
tomorrow. Should growth in food costs wane, the People’s Bank of
China may be able to limit further increases in borrowing costs
as traders are predicting for  Brazil  and Russia, where the
latest data show inflation abating.  “The government doesn’t want to shock the economy with too
many interest-rate increases,” said Sun Chi, a China economist
with Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong who previously worked for
the  U.S. Treasury  in Beijing. “With the external market quite
weak, you don’t really want to destroy your growth momentum.”  Chinese policy makers last raised benchmark rates on July 6
by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point. The one-year
deposit rate is 3.5 percent and the one-year lending rate is
6.56 percent.  BRIC Inflation  Stocks in China fell today, dragging the benchmark index
down 20 percent from a Nov. 8 high, after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S.’s debt rating fueled concern global growth
will slow. The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index slumped 3.7
percent to 2,529.88 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  Inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major economy is
lower than the 6.87 percent rate in Brazil, 9 percent in Russia
and 9.44 percent in  India . Russian weekly inflation decelerated
in the week to Aug. 1 for the first time in two years. Brazilian
monthly consumer prices climbed less than forecast in July.  While the  Reserve Bank  of India raised its repurchase rate
by 50 basis points to 8 percent on July 27, the 11th increase
since the start of last year,  Russia  last increased benchmark
rates in May. Traders are pricing in the possibility Brazil’s
central bank, which raised  interest rates  five times this year,
may lower borrowing costs by the end of December.  Inflation Beats Target  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said at the end of June that
there would be “difficulties” keeping inflation within the
government’s 4 percent ceiling this year after the rate exceeded
that level every month in the first half. Price increases may be
kept below 5 percent after the government raised interest rates,
curbed credit, imposed caps on increases in some consumer-goods
prices and restricted property development and home purchases,
he said.  Economists at Nomura, Capital Economics Ltd. and Credit
Agricole CIB estimate inflation for the year will average more
than 5 percent.  Nomura’s Sun estimates the central bank will need to raise
benchmark interest rates once in the third quarter, the last
move this year, as consumer-price increases “remain elevated”
even as the pace of monthly gains slows. A rate increase is
possible this month should July inflation come in at 6.5 percent,
Citigroup Inc.’s Hong Kong-based economists Ding Shuang and Shen Minggao said in an Aug. 2 note.  “Given persistent inflation, we believe the government
cannot change the tightening bias toward liquidity and credit
control,”  Wang Tao , UBS AG’s China economist, said in an Aug. 1
note. “However, concerns about the global recovery will limit
any further tightening measures.”  Yuan Bonds  Yuan-denominated  government bonds  are delivering a loss
this quarter, with the securities losing 0.5 percent in dollar
terms, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. That compares
with a loss of 0.7 percent on Russian ruble notes, and returns
of 2 percent on Brazilian real bonds, and 0.8 percent for debt
denominated in Indian rupees.  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year bond was little
changed at 4.05 percent last week, Chinabond data show. Five-
year credit-default swaps on China’s sovereign bonds rose three
basis points to 98 basis points on Aug. 5, the highest level
since May 2010, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The contracts insure debt against non-payment, and traders
use them to speculate on  credit quality . An increase suggests
deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and a drop shows
improvement.  Growth Concerns  China’s two-year interest-rate swaps that exchange the one-
year official savings rate for a fixed payment have risen 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.6552 percent since
the PBOC last raised rates on July 6. The swaps were little
changed at 3.6626 percent at 11:23 a.m. local time.  Buyers of the swaps receive the deposit rate for one year,
after which the floating payment is reset for the second year at
the prevailing deposit rate. The current level shows traders are
betting on a rate of 3.81 percent in a year’s time.  Concern economic growth is stalling in the U.S. and  Europe 
sparked a global rout in equities last week. Standard & Poor’s
cut the U.S.’ credit rating late on Aug. 5 by one level from the
highest grade of AAA to AA+ citing concern the nation doesn’t
have a “credible” plan to lower its deficits.  Manufacturing in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy,
grew at the weakest pace in two years in July and service
industries expanded the least since February 2010. Services and
manufacturing growth last month in the euro region, which is
grappling with a deepening sovereign debt crisis, was the
slowest in almost two years.  Import Growth  Expansion in overseas shipments from China, the world’s
biggest exporter, may have moderated to 17 percent in July from
17.9 percent the previous month, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. The increase
would be the smallest gain in 20 months excluding distortions
caused by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday.  Import growth probably rebounded to 22 percent from 19.3
percent the previous month, while the  trade surplus  widened to
$27.4 billion from $22.3 billion, separate surveys showed. The
data is scheduled to be published on Aug. 10.  “The bulk of  Asia ’s exports, including those from China,
continue to be consumed by developed markets,” said  Sun Mingchun , a Hong Kong-based economist with Daiwa Capital Markets
 Hong Kong  Ltd. “As such, weakness in these markets is bound to
be felt directly.”  Slowing Yuan Gains  Growth in China’s industrial output probably eased to 14.6
percent in July from 15.1 percent the previous month and retail
sales growth was 17.7 percent, Bloomberg surveys show. Fixed-
asset investment excluding rural households climbed 25.5 percent
in the first seven months from a year earlier, based on another
poll. The government will release the data tomorrow.  Moderating production and export growth and falling
commodity prices may prompt the central bank to slow yuan gains
as pressure from imported inflation eases and companies struggle
to maintain overseas sales.  The yuan appreciated 0.43 percent versus the dollar in July,
the most in three months, before retreating 0.06 percent last
week to 6.4404 per dollar in Shanghai. It has strengthened 2.3
percent this year and, based on the median estimate of 31
analysts in a Bloomberg survey, will strengthen 2.2 percent to
6.30 per dollar by the end of December.  The currency gained the most since April today after the
PBOC set its daily fixing 0.23 percent stronger, the biggest
advance since November 2010. The yuan was trading 0.21 percent
higher at 6.4267 per dollar at 11:10 a.m. in Shanghai, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Record Reserve Requirements  The price of crude oil tumbled 12 percent last week to
$84.69 a barrel by 11:56 a.m. in  New York  on Aug. 5. The price
sank as low as $82.87, the lowest level since November. This
year’s high was $114.83 on May 2.  Monetary tightening policies by China’s central bank have
included nine increases in lenders’ reserve requirements since
November to a record 21.5 percent for the biggest lenders. Those
increases, totaling 450 basis points, have curbed lending and
withdrawn 3.3 trillion yuan ($513 billion) from the banking
system, according to Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist
with  Barclays Capital .  The latest move, announced on June 14, triggered a
liquidity shortage that led to a doubling of the seven-day
repurchase rate to 9.04 percent on June 23, the highest level
since October 2007. The repo rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped to 3.02 percent last week as the
central bank added funds to the financial system, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  Banks’ new yuan loans likely fell to 550 billion yuan in
July from 634 billion yuan in June, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey. Expansion in M2, the broadest measure of  money
supply , was probably little changed at 15.8 percent. The central
bank may release the data around Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  