-- 
Syrian Forces Attack Cities Again; At Least 50 Dead as Condemnations Mount

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-08-07T15:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/syrians-rally-against-assad-s-rule-as-security-forces-attack-protesters.html
Syrian forces launched raids on the
eastern city of Deir al-Zour and the central town of Houla,
killing at least 50 people, as Gulf states and the head of the
 Arab League  condemned the violence.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi urged Syrian
authorities to immediately end their crackdown to spare the
lives of civilians and military personnel,  Egypt ’s state-run
Middle East News Agency reported today. He also called on
President Bashar al-Assad to meet his people’s demands for
political change, and said the government should set up a
judicial committee to investigate reports of human rights
abuses, MENA reported.  The Gulf Cooperation Council yesterday issued a statement
that condemned the Syrian government for “excessive use of
force, which has caused many deaths and wounded among the Syrian
people.” The GCC, comprising  Saudi Arabia , Bahrain, Qatar,
Oman,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates , called for “an
immediate cessation to all acts of violence,” in a statement
posted on its website.  The  United Nations  issued a statement Aug. 3 expressing
“grave concern” at the deaths and alleged human rights abuses.
Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed anti-government
protests on foreign-inspired plots, while acknowledging that the
demonstrators have some legitimate demands. He issued a decree
last week easing curbs on political parties and setting up a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections.  Rising Death Toll  Protests against Assad began in March after uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt. About 2,200 protesters
have been killed in  Syria  since then, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights. More than
500 members of the security forces have also been killed, Deputy
Foreign Minister Fayssal Mekdad told  India’s News X channel .
Most foreign journalists have been banned since the start of the
revolt.  Merhi said 40 people were killed today in Deir al-Zour, 10
in Houla in Homs province and several more in Idlib. He said the
witnesses who gave him the information have not provided him
with the names of the casualties. Qurabi said in a statement on
his website that the death toll from the three places could be
at least 68.  Syrian forces are “using tanks, machine guns and armored
vehicles as they storm the city,” Merhi said in a telephone
interview from Damascus, referring to the assault on Deir al-
Zour. “It looks like the regime has ignored the GCC statement
because it wants to resolve the crisis militarily.”  Tank Assault  Yesterday, tanks assaulted residential areas in Hama, the
country’s fourth-largest city, which has been a center of
protests against Assad. One civilian was killed in the shelling,
 Al Jazeera  television said, citing activists. Syrian forces also
targeted demonstrators in the Damascus suburb of Al-Muadamiya,
in the northern province of Idlib, and in the port city of
Latakia, it reported. Troops carried out arrests in several
parts of the country, including in Darayya and the outskirts of
Damascus, Merhi said.  At least 300 people have been killed in Hama since July 30,
according to Al Jazeera. Twenty-nine died Aug. 5 on the first
Friday of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, Qurabi said
yesterday. The city has drawn the most force from the regime. It
was the center of an uprising almost 30 years ago against
Assad’s father, Hafez, which was crushed, with a death toll of
10,000, according to  Human Rights Watch .  The UN Security Council hasn’t issued the resolution
condemning violence in Syria that the U.S. and European allies
have sought. U.S. President  Barack Obama , French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed two
days ago to consider additional steps to pressure the Assad
regime and support the Syrian people, according to the White
House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Riyadh  at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net  or
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 