-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as S&P 500 Has Biggest Slump Since November ’08

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-08T16:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/u-s-stock-futures-fall-amid-concern-s-p-cut-may-worsen-economic-slowdown.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its worst slump since November 2008,
amid concern that a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating by
S&P may worsen an economic slowdown.  The 10 groups in the S&P 500 fell between 1.7 percent and
5.6 percent.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  slumped at least 5.1 percent, pacing losses in stocks most-
tied to the economy.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  tumbled 15 percent to
lead a gauge of financial companies lower. Energy shares had the
second-biggest decline in the S&P 500, sinking 4.4 percent as
oil fell to an eight-month low.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  rallied 4.9
percent after gold climbed to a record.  The S&P 500 fell 3.7 percent to 1,154.64 at 12:29 p.m. in
New York. The gauge slumped 8.5 percent in three days, the most
since November 2008, and fell to the lowest since Oct. 4, on a
closing basis. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 339.33
points, or 3 percent, to 11,105.28. Equity indexes extended
losses after S&P changed the outlook for Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  to "negative" from "stable."  “There’s no reason to get in front of this train,”  Keith Wirtz , Cincinnati-based chief investment officer at Fifth Third
Asset Management, which oversees $16.7 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Yes, there’s cheapness in the stock
market, but right now emotions are high. There’s enough
uncertainty out there. People are moving towards no risk. That
includes Treasuries, which is ironic.”  Wiped Out  The downgrade extended a rout that had wiped out $1.94
trillion in market value from the country’s stocks as
manufacturing and consumer spending data showed the world’s
largest economy is slowing. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against declines in the  S&P 500 , soared 19 percent to
38.07, the highest since May 2010, on a closing basis.  S&P lowered the U.S. long-term rating one level to AA+
after markets closed on Aug. 5, while keeping the outlook at
“negative” as the company becomes less confident that Congress
will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements. S&P also said
the U.S. rating may be reduced to AA within two years if
spending reductions are lower than agreed to,  interest rates 
rise or “new fiscal pressures” result in higher general
government debt.  Equities extended losses today as S&P also lowered credit
ratings on Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  and other lenders with a
“direct reliance on the U.S. government,” spurring concern
over the ripple effects of the loss of America’s AAA rating.  Treasuries Rally  Treasuries rose today. Two-year yields fell to a record low
after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said U.S.
Treasuries were attractive. Group of Seven nations said they
will take every action necessary to stabilize financial markets
after the U.S. credit rating downgrade.  “The U.S. Treasury no longer has, according to S&P, a gold
star,” Nick Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort Washington
Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees more than $38 billion. “Still, if
you’re an investor and you say -- I’m worried about what’s going
on in the world, I’m worried about liquidity and safety, you
basically have no place to go other than the Treasury market.”  Barton Biggs , who last week called U.S. equities a "strong
buy," said he cut risk in his Traxis Partners LP hedge fund.
“I’ve taken some risk off, and I hate to do it, I think it’s
probably the wrong thing to be doing,” Biggs, who helps manage
$1.4 billion as managing partner and co-founder of Traxis, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “But I’m a fiduciary to a
certain extent, and I’ve got to protect my capital.”  Ford, Caterpillar  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of 30 stocks tumbled 4.8
percent. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, which is also a
proxy for the economy, retreated 4 percent. Ford sank 6.8
percent to $10.10. Dow Chemical fell 7 percent to $28.10.
Caterpillar decreased 5.1 percent to $86.33.  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks slumped 5.7 percent. Bank
of America dropped 15 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$6.98.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  disclosed plans to sue
the largest U.S. lender by assets over allegedly faulty
mortgages.  “The bias that exists, and that is gaining credibility, is
that a double dip is ahead of us,” said Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New York. “If that’s the
case, then something like Bank of America is going to have to
raise substantial equity externally.”  The U.S. downgrade will “reinforce this really uncertain
financial market climate that we are confronting right now,”
David Rosenberg, the chief economist for Gluskin Sheff &
Associates Inc., in Toronto, said in a telephone interview Aug.
6. “You’re probably going to see investors becoming more
defensive. That means that they are moving to Treasuries or to
cash or to gold.”  Gold Climbs  Gold climbed to more than $1,700 an ounce for the first
time amid concern that the global economy is slowing. Oil and
copper tumbled. Exxon Mobil dropped 2.6 percent to $72.89.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  decreased 3.8 percent to $93.93. Newmont Mining
rallied 4.9 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to $57.08.  Only four other stocks in the S&P 500 advanced.  O’Reilly
Automotive Inc. (ORLY) , an auto-parts retailer, gained 0.7 percent to
$58.78.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-
products company, rose 0.5 percent to $60.90, and was also the
only gainer in the Dow. Hershey Co., the maker of chocolate
Kisses and Reese’s candies, and National Semiconductor Corp.
added less than 0.1 percent.  Strategists  The downgrade may spook investors, causing sentiment to
grow more bearish in the short term, but corporate fundamentals,
including balance sheets with more cash than debt and earnings
growth, will continue to push the S&P 500 higher by the end of
the year, strategists at Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said. While Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its year-end target for the S&P 500 to 1,400, Barclays held its
1,450 estimate.  “The medium to long-term effects of the U.S. sovereign
downgrade are minimal, even as the short impact could be
turbulent,” Thomas Lee, JPMorgan’s equity strategist in  New
York , wrote in an e-mailed note.  The S&P 500 retreated 11 percent from July 22 through Aug 5
amid concern about an economic slowdown. The benchmark gauge for
American equities was still up 77 percent from a 12-year low
through Aug. 5 following government stimulus measures and
higher-than-estimated corporate earnings.  Earnings Season  Per-share earnings increased 18 percent among the S&P 500
companies that have released quarterly results since July 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About three-quarters of
the companies have topped the average analyst profit forecast,
the data show. Sales rose 13 percent during that period.  “We had a terrific earnings season,”  Jeffrey Saut , chief
investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in  St.
Petersburg , Florida, said in a telephone interview. His firm
manages $275 billion. “We’re not going into a recession. Now is
not the time to panic. This is where you start to put cash back
to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  