-- 
Stocks Tumble Most Since 2008 as Treasuries, Gold Surge on S&P Rating Cut

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-08T20:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/u-s-stock-futures-oil-plunges-on-rating-downgrade-n-z-index-declines.html
U.S. stocks sank the most since
December 2008, while Treasuries rallied and gold surged to a
record, as  Standard & Poor’s  reduction of the nation’s credit
rating fueled concern the economic slowdown will worsen. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  plunged 634.76 points as approximately
$2.5 trillion was erased from global equities.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  lost 6.7 percent to 1,119.46 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its lowest level since September, as all 500 stocks
fell for the first time since Bloomberg began tracking the data
in 1996. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 4.1 percent to extend a
drop from its 2011 high to 21 percent. A surge in Treasuries,
benchmarks of the nation’s $34 trillion debt market that is more
than twice the value of American equities, sent the 10-year note
yield down 22 basis points to 2.34 percent, the lowest since
January 2009, and the two-year rate slid to a record low. The
S&P GSCI commodities index lost 3.9 percent.  Equities extended losses after the ratings cut prompted S&P
to also lower debt rankings on  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and other
lenders backed by the government and reduce the credit outlook
on Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to negative.
President Barack Obama, breaking his silence on the downgrade,
said the main obstacle facing the U.S. is “lack of political
will in  Washington ” to solve the country’s problems.  “If you’re an investor and you say ‘I’m worried about
what’s going on in the world, I’m worried about liquidity and
safety,’ you basically have no place to go other than the
Treasury market,” Nick Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort
Washington Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversees more than $38 billion.
“As for stocks,” he said, “you don’t want to catch a falling
knife. But if we see value, we might be using this as an
opportunity to add to specific positions.”  Flight From Risk  On the first trading day after the S&P downgrade, investors
retreated from riskier assets on concern the global economy will
slow further. They poured money into haven assets such as
Treasuries, gold, and the Swiss franc, while benchmark equity
indexes for Europe,  Australia ,  China  and smaller U.S. companies
extended losses to more than 20 percent from recent peaks, the
level some investors consider a bear market.  Spanish and Italian bonds were exceptions as yields on 10-
year notes slid after the  European Central Bank  bought the debt
to help stem the spread of the region’s government-debt crisis.  The  S&P 500 ’s three-day slide of 11 percent is the worst
since November 2008 when the market was still reeling from the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The gauge has
plunged about 17 percent since July 22 to mark the worst drop in
the same length of time since March 2009, during the final days
of the bear market that dragged the index to a 12-year low.  ‘Fear and Panic’  More than 30 stocks fell for each that rose on U.S.
exchanges in the broadest selloff since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in 2004. Almost 18 billion shares changed hands on the
nation’s bourses, the most since the market crash of May 6,
2010, when more than $860 billion of equity value was wiped out
in 20 minutes before stocks pared losses.  “This is fear and panic,”  Don Wordell , a fund manager for
Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital Management, said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees about $48 billion. “I don’t feel
like the economy is falling off as quick as the stock market is.
Still, you’re going to have to be patient. The short-term rating
of the U.S. government was not changed. Long-term ratings were.
There’s no liquidity issue. I don’t think this is a flash
crash.”  Financials Plunge  An index of financial companies in the S&P 500 tumbled 10
percent, plunging the most since April 2009 and reaching the 
lowest level in two years. Bank of America Corp., Citigroup 
Inc., Morgan Stanley, SLM Corp. and Genworth Financial
Inc. lost more than 14 percent to lead the declines.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sank 6 percent to $117.66, below the firm’s
tangible book value of $121.60 per share as of June 30.  Berkshire Hathaway’s Class B shares fell 6.5 percent to
$66.65, the most since 2008. Buffett’s company is among firms
that may be downgraded by S&P as the ratings company reviews
insurers following its reduction of the U.S. rating.  “Our view of these companies’ fundamental credit
characteristics has not changed,” S&P said in a statement today
as it cut the outlook to “negative” on Berkshire. “Rather,
the rating actions reflect the application of criteria and our
view that the link between the ratings on these entities and the
sovereign credit ratings on the U.S. could lead to a decline in
the insurers’ financial strength.”  ‘Quadruple A’  Buffett said S&P erred when it lowered the U.S. credit
rating and reiterated his view that the economy will avoid its
second recession in three years. The U.S. merits a “quadruple
A” rating, Buffett, 80, chairman and chief executive officer of
Berkshire, said in an Aug. 6 interview with Betty Liu on
Bloomberg Television.  The U.S. Treasury Department said there is “no justifiable
rationale” for S&P’s move. Officials from the ratings company
stood by their decision and laid blame on a political system
that failed to adequately address deficit reduction in the
compromise law that Obama signed Aug. 2 to avert a default.  Yields on the home-loan bonds of the biggest U.S. mortgage
companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac jumped to the highest
relative to U.S. Treasuries in more than two years. Fannie Mae’s
current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities
rose 0.03 percentage point to about 1.11 percentage point more
than 10-year U.S. government debt as of 12:15 p.m. in  New York ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P plans to release later today reports on asset classes,
including municipal bonds, affected by the U.S. downgrade, said
John Chambers, head of S&P’s sovereign ratings committee.  Strategist Calls  The loss of America’s AAA rating at S&P may spook investors
and cause sentiment to grow more bearish in the short term
before corporate fundamentals, including balance sheets with
more cash than debt, and earnings growth continue to push the
S&P 500 higher by the end of the year, strategists at Barclays
Plc, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in reports to
clients. While Goldman Sachs cut its year-end estimate for the
S&P 500 to 1,400, Barclays held its 1,450 estimate.  “The medium to long-term effects of the U.S. sovereign
downgrade are minimal, even as the short impact could be
turbulent,” Thomas Lee, JPMorgan’s equity strategist in New
York, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Volatility Surges  Demand for equity options to protect against further losses
soared. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, surged 50 percent 48, the biggest
jump since 2007 and the highest level since the day the S&P 500
bottomed on March 9, 2009.  Europe ’s volatility index rose for a
record ninth straight day. Hong Kong’s HSI Volatility Index
advanced 6.1 percent to the highest since May 2010. Kospi 200
Volatility Index surged as much as 59 percent for a record
intraday gain.  The downgrade of the U.S. to AA+, the first time the
country lost its AAA status at S&P, leaves its debt rated two
steps higher than Japan and China.   Fitch Ratings  last week
affirmed its AAA U.S. ratings. Japanese Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said U.S. Treasuries were still attractive.  Moody’s Investors Service reiterated today that it affirmed
the U.S. government’s top Aaa ranking because the dollar’s
status as the main reserve currency allows it to  support higher
debt levels than other countries, the rating firm said today in
a report.  Treasuries, Dollar  The two-year yield fell as much as six basis points to a
record low 0.2283 percent before trimming its decline and ending
at 0.26 percent. The five-year Treasury yield slipped 16 basis
points to 1.09 percent. While Treasuries rallied, credit-default
swaps insuring U.S. debt for five years rose one basis points to
56.36, according to data provider CMA, compared with a more than
two-year high of 64 on July 28.  The dollar depreciated 1.7 percent against the Swiss franc
and earlier weakened as much as 2.5 percent to a record 74.83
centimes. The dollar dropped 1 percent against the yen, which
strengthened against all 16 peers except the franc. The
currencies of Australia and  New Zealand  declined against most
peers.  Industrial and banking shares led losses in Europe, with 34
shares falling for each that rose in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Bank bonds in Europe are the riskiest ever as the ECB was said
to be snapping up Italian and Spanish government debt whose
soaring yields hurt lenders already nursing Greek writedowns. A
benchmark index of credit-default swaps on European banks and
insurers jumped to a record 219 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Spain’s 10-year note yield slid 88 basis points to 5.16
percent. Greece’s yield decreased 15 basis points, with the
similar-maturity Irish yield retreating seven basis points. The
cost of protecting western European government debt against
default fell 6 basis points to 280, according to the  Markit
iTraxx index  of credit swaps.  ECB Moves  The ECB said it welcomed efforts by Spain and Italy to
reduce their budget deficits and said it will “actively
implement” its bond-purchase program, according to a statement
issued in the name of the ECB president after an emergency
Governing Council conference call last night. The ECB bought
Italian and Spanish bonds, according to five people with
knowledge of the transactions.  “The ECB buying the bonds of Italy and Spain seems to be
the new great hope for the politicians and markets generally,”
 Gary Jenkins , a strategist at Evolution Securities in  London ,
wrote in a research note. “They will have to be prepared to buy
an awful lot of them. And the trick is to buy enough to show
such a commitment to a certain yield level that investors feel
comfortable buying alongside.”  Emerging Markets Slump  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 5.3 percent, the
most since November 2008. The gauge has dropped 14 percent since
Aug. 1, its biggest five-day decline since 2008. Brazil's 
Bovespa index plunged 8.1 percent to a more-than two-year low, 
while China’s Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 3.8 percent and
 India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 1.8 percent.
Russia’s Micex Index fell 5.5 percent.  Gold futures climbed as much 4.3 percent to a record
$1,723.40 an ounce and silver jumped as much as 5.3 percent to
$40.39 an ounce. Goldman Sachs raised its forecasts for gold
futures to $1,645 an ounce, $1,730 and $1,860 on a three-month,
six-month and 12-month horizon as it expects real U.S. interest
rates to stay lower for longer.  Oil declined 6.4 percent to an eight-month low of $81.31 a
barrel in New York. Zinc, nickel, lead and wheat also lost at
least 3.9 percent to helplead declines in the S&P GSCI. Of 24
materials tracked by the index, only gold, silver and natural
gas advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  