-- 
Hugh Carey, Governor Who Helped New York City Avoid Default, Dies at 92

-- B y   I l i n   C h e n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-08-08T04:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/hugh-carey-new-york-governor-who-helped-city-avoid-default-dies-aged-92.html
Hugh Carey, the two-term  New York 
governor who helped New York City avert bankruptcy in 1975 by
imposing financial controls and made tough choices on the state
level to cut taxes and balance the budget, has died. He was 92.  He died early yesterday at his summer home on New York’s
Shelter Island, according to a statement from his family
 released  by New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s office.  “Governor Carey led our state during a time of great
financial turmoil and pulled us back from the brink of
bankruptcy and economic ruin,” Cuomo said in a  statement .  A Democrat who served in Congress as a representative from
the New York borough of Brooklyn, Carey made financial
discipline a priority from his first days after taking over as
governor in 1975. Declaring that New York state had been
“living far beyond our means,” he told the legislature in his
first State of the State speech that “the days of wine and
roses are over.”  By then, New York City was already in a fiscal crisis.
Within months, banks cut off the city’s access to credit because
it had run up a $5 billion deficit by borrowing to pay operating
expenses and loans.  Recruited Rohatyn  With his hand-picked partner from  Wall Street , financier
 Felix Rohatyn , Carey oversaw the effort that rescued the city
from a bond default.  He lent state money to the city and, with the legislature,
created a new agency to try to sell its bonds. He recruited
Rohatyn, an investment banker from  Lazard Freres & Co.,  to chair
that agency, the Municipal Assistance Corp., which was also
given control over the city’s sales-tax revenue to repay
lenders.  The governor and lawmakers also created the Emergency
Financial Control Board, which assumed power over the city
budget and labor contracts. Unions were cajoled into making
concessions.  The governor came to agree with bankers that deep spending
cuts would be required by the city, which had seen its payroll
grow to 338,000 from 266,000 in 10 years. “This was my sign to
 Washington  that the state was taking over,” Carey told the New
York Times in a 1985 interview.  Ultimately, U.S. government help was needed to save the
city -- and its last-resort lender, the state -- from default.  “He was responsible for solving and pulling the pieces
together of the fiscal crisis,” said Stephen Berger, the former
head of the state Emergency Financial Control Board, a panel
Carey formed to oversee city spending. “He was a strong leader
with a clear vision.”  ‘Courageous Leadership’  Rohatyn, in a 1985 column in the Times, said Carey
“decided bankruptcy was unacceptable and took responsibility
for painful actions that had to be taken all along the way.”  Carey was widely described as cold and difficult to work
with, lacking the calculated bonhomie found in many politicians.
His remaining years in office, until 1983, were marked by
conflict with the legislature, which handed him the first
override of a gubernatorial veto in 104 years during a budget
battle, and distracting stories about his personal life,
including a marriage that flamed out in spectacular fashion.  “Sometimes, he did some politically stupid things,
sometimes spaced out and retired unto himself,” said Daniel
Kramer, author of a 1997 book on Carey’s administration,  “The
Days of Wine and Roses Are Over.”   Born in  Brooklyn   Among his other accomplishments was the development of the
Battery Park City planned community in lower Manhattan. In 1999,
the agency that operates the complex was renamed the Hugh L.
Carey Battery Park City Authority.  Hugh Leo Carey  was born in Brooklyn on April 11, 1919, the
third of six boys. His parents, Dennis and Margaret, ran an oil
and kerosene distributor.  World War II interrupted Carey’s studies at  St. John’s 
University in Queens. He joined the New York National Guard and
fought in northern  Europe  with the 104th (Timberwolf) Infantry
Division, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He was
awarded the Bronze Star and the French Croix de Guerre.  After the war, Carey joined his family’s business. He
graduated from St. John’s and its law school and was admitted to
the bar in 1951.  Seven House Terms  In 1960, he was elected to the first of seven terms in the
U.S. House.  He sought the governorship in 1974 at the urging of his
wife, Helen, who was battling cancer. She died 18 days before he
announced his candidacy. Carey defeated Republican Malcolm
Wilson, who had become governor when Nelson Rockefeller resigned
in 1973 to start a think tank.  As Carey took office at the start of 1975,  New York City ’s
mayor, Abraham Beame, had ordered the first layoffs of municipal
employees since the Great Depression and bankers were warning of
a credit cutoff. The fiscal crisis dominated Carey’s first year
in office.  Though President  Gerald Ford  that October said he would
veto a “bailout” -- prompting the famous New York Daily News
headline, “Ford to City: Drop Dead” -- the city won $2.3
billion in federal loans in December. Six more years passed
before the city could sell general obligation bonds on its own.  ‘Litter Case’  “New York City was carried like a litter case by New York
State until it became ambulatory,” Carey told an academic forum
in 1985.  Declining popularity marked Carey’s second term after he
defeated Republican Perry Duryea in 1978. Voter approval of his
job performance fell below 25 percent in a New York Times poll.  He drew ridicule in 1981 when he offered to drink a glass
of toxic PCBs -- polychlorinated biphenyls -- from a
contaminated state office building in Binghamton, a remark Carey
later said he regretted as “reckless.” He also took a public
hit for a state seizure of land to prevent a dentist from
building a summer home next to his on Shelter Island.  Carey married real estate developer Evangeline Gouletas in
April 1981. She had introduced herself to the governor as a
widow. It wasn’t until after their wedding that Carey discovered
she had three previous husbands, very much alive. The marriage
ended in divorce.  Harris Beach  After leaving office, Carey resumed practicing law at
Harris Beach, a firm with offices in  Albany  in  Manhattan . He
also headed W.R. Grace and Co.’s government relations office in
Washington, retiring in 1995.  In 2005, he was honored by the  Justice Project , a
Washington-based advocacy organization, for his staunch
opposition to the death penalty, which cost him some public
support when he was governor. Carey grounded this stance in his
memories of a Nazi concentration camp he saw firsthand as an
Army lieutenant colonel. Thereafter, he believed that
governments shouldn’t be given the authority to end human life.  Asked once how he hoped to be remembered, he said, “As a
man who loved the people of New York as much as he loved his own
family.”  13 Children  Carey had 13 children with wife Helen and also helped raise
her daughter from an earlier marriage, which had left her
widowed.  Two of their sons, Peter and Hugh, died in a car accident
on Shelter Island in 1969. Another son, Paul, a commissioner for
the  Securities Exchange Commission , died of cancer in 2001.  Carey underwent cardiac bypass surgery on March 4, 2010,
after reporting shortness of breath while exercising. According
to his family, he said before his heart surgery that being the
father of 14 and grandfather of 25 “helped condition me for
this battle.”  The family also said that, during the flight to New York
City on an air ambulance from his winter home in  Florida , he
serenaded his flight crew by singing “New York, New York.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  