-- 
S&P Cuts AAA Ratings on Thousands of Municipal Bonds After U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/muni-market-prepares-for-loss-of-aaa-ratings-as-s-p-downgrades-u-s-credit.html
Standard & Poor’s  lowered the AAA
ratings of thousands of municipal bonds tied to the federal
government, including housing securities and debt backed by
leases, following its Aug. 5 downgrade of the U.S.  The rating company assigned AA+ scores to securities in the
$2.9 trillion municipal bond market including school-
construction bonds in Irving,  Texas ; debt backed by a federal
lease in Miami; and a bond series for multifamily housing in
Oceanside,  California . Olayinka Fadahunsi, an S&P spokesman,
said he couldn’t provide a dollar figure on the affected debt.  S&P also cut ratings on securities backed by  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , prerefunded issues and munis repaid by using
federal assets, also known as defeased or escrow bonds. No state
general-obligation ratings were affected and the company said
some may remain unchanged.  “It’s expected, but nobody is happy about it,” Bud Byrnes, chief executive officer of Encino, California-based RH
Investment Corp., said in a telephone interview. “No one that I
know thinks it was justified to cut the U.S. bonds to AA+. Once
that happened, you knew that any prerefunded bonds or escrowed
bonds would be downgraded too. It’s a domino effect.”  Byrnes said funds required to invest in AAA bonds would be
most affected by the downgrades and may be forced to liquidate
some holdings. “They will have a hard time replacing that
yield,” he said.  ‘Logical and Coherent’  Chris Mier, a managing director at Loop Capital Markets LLC
in  Chicago  who follows the municipal  bond market , said the
downgrades made sense, given the federal rating cut.  “In order to keep the system logical and coherent, there
are going to be a lot of downgrades,” Mier said in a conference
call with reporters and clients.  Matt Fabian, a managing director of Concord, Massachusetts-
based Municipal Market Advisors, a financial research company,
said in a telephone interview that he expected “hundreds and
hundreds of municipal downgrades,” which may hurt investor
confidence.  “Treasuries may be able to shake off a real impact from
the downgrade,” he said. “Munis, I’m less sure about.”  S&P cited politics in negotiations to increase the debt
ceiling and said lawmakers failed to reduce spending enough.  ‘Least Disruptive’  The company said on July 21 that a U.S. downgrade based on
a failure to come up with a “realistic and credible” plan to
reduce the  budget deficit  would be the “least disruptive”
scenario for municipal ratings. That’s because it would mean
Congress avoided making significant cuts to the funding of
municipal credits not directly linked to the federal government,
S&P said.  Top-rated state and local governments wouldn’t
automatically lose their top scores, the company said. It rates
the general-obligation debt of nine states AAA. The country’s
“decentralized governmental structure” calls for an
independent review of state and local government credits, 3.9
percent of which have AAA ratings, S&P said in a report.  State and municipal governments that depend less on the
national government for revenue and that manage their own books
well enough to weather declines in federal funding may retain
AAA ratings, S&P said. The company didn’t name such states or
municipal governments in the report.  Issuance Slows  Municipal issuance has fallen amid the U.S. debt-ceiling
impasse. The slump and signs of a slowing economy helped drive
tax-exempt yields to the lowest this year. Scheduled debt sales
total about $2.8 billion this week, the slowest August week
since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For the municipal market, “the key is supply and demand,”
more than ratings downgrades, said Ed Reinoso, chief executive
officer of Castleton Partners in New York, which manages about
$250 million for individuals.  The S&P action itself “was almost cosmetic,” he said in a
telephone interview. “It doesn’t seem to have much impact.”  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt fell to 2.39
percent, the lowest since October, according to a Bloomberg
Valuation index.  S&P, in lowering the U.S. from AAA on Aug. 5, cited the
nation’s political process and said lawmakers failed to reduce
spending enough in their deal to raise the debt ceiling. Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their top ratings
on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed the bill
raising the debt ceiling and avoiding a default.  Similar to Moody’s  Any state and local government downgrades from S&P may be
similar to potential rating cuts Moody’s mapped out last month,
DeGroot said in his report. Moody’s on July 13 said a possible
U.S. downgrade would affect 7,000 municipal credits totaling
$130 billion that are directly linked to U.S. credit.  Moody’s also said it would review indirectly linked debt and
last month said it may downgrade five of the 15 states it ranks
Aaa because of their vulnerability to cuts in federal spending.
The company wound up reaffirming those top ratings last week,
assigning a negative outlook.  Officials in  Maryland  and  Virginia , two states with
economies tightly bound to the federal government, said they
hadn’t heard from S&P since the U.S. downgrade and didn’t think
any moves were imminent.  Patti Konrad, the director of debt management for Maryland,
said it’s unclear what risks any federal budget cuts would deal
to her state’s economy.  “I would think S&P would want to take some time,” she
said. “We haven’t heard anything from them.”  Ric Brown, Virginia’s finance secretary, said his office
hasn’t spoken to S&P in the wake of the U.S. credit rating cut.
He said he anticipates that any move affecting the state would
be based on how federal budget cuts would ripple through the
economy, rather than any automatic triggers.  “It’s probably going to take a little bit of a while until
they know specifically what’s on the table to assess that,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  