-- 
Venezuela’s Chavez Cried After Informed of His Cancer by Castro

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-08-07T17:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/venezuela-s-chavez-cried-after-informed-of-his-cancer-by-castro.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
he cried alone on June 18 after being told he had cancer by
former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro .  “I cried for my children,” Chavez, who is divorced with
four children, said in an interview on the  Televen  network.
“After I cried in the bathroom, I told myself, ‘this is nothing
I can’t handle,’ and I accepted it.”  The ruler said cancer has been like a rebirth, giving life
to a “new Chavez.” He said he ignored the pain he began
feeling at the end of last year, desperately wanting to
celebrate Venezuela’s bicentennial and a summit of Latin
American and Caribbean leaders July 5 before submitting to
medical care.  Castro told the South American leader he would survive the
cancer just as he had overcome an attempted coup in 2002, Chavez
said.  Chavez, a 57-year-old former paratrooper, has ruled  South
America ’s largest oil-producing country since 1999. He has vowed
to run for re-election next year and win another six-year term,
which would end in 2019. Chavez was operated on to remove a
“baseball-sized” tumor from his pelvis on June 20. The
government has declined to release further details on his
health, including what kind of cancer he is fighting.  Chavez flew to Cuba yesterday for a second round of
chemotherapy and said he’d be away from Venezuela for at least a
week. Chavez said he planned to undergo a medical exam today and
begin chemotherapy tomorrow. He received a first round of
chemotherapy there last month.  Surprise Return  Chavez made a surprise return from Cuba July 4 in time for
his country’s bicentennial the following day.  “I was told there were rumors of a coup by the vice
president and the defense minister,” Chavez said.  Chavez dismissed those rumors in the interview, saying
 Venezuela  remains stable. He also said his supporters must stay
alert because of a permanent U.S. threat against his government.  Asked by former Venezuelan Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel, the journalist interviewing him, how he would like to
die, Chavez said, “I wouldn’t like to die.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  