-- 
Verizon Unions Strike for Second Day as Contract Talks Stall

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-08T20:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/verizon-says-contract-talks-broke-down-unions-to-call-strike.html
A strike of about 45,000  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  workers continued for a second day as the
New York-based phone company struggled to make progress in talks
with labor unions, signaling a standoff may be prolonged.  The strike, the first at the second-largest U.S. phone
carrier in 11 years, may delay service calls and disrupt
installations for phone and Web service. Verizon said it has
trained more than 40,000 managers and contractors to step into
the roles of union workers.  The striking employees, about a quarter of Verizon’s staff,
work for the company’s traditional landline business, which is
losing customers to cable-TV carriers’ calling plans and mobile
phones. Verizon Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam said the
company needs concessions from unions because of the division’s
customer losses and eroding profitability.  “It is clear that some of the existing contract
provisions, negotiated initially when Verizon was under far less
competitive pressure, are not in line with the economic
realities of business today,” McAdam said yesterday in a
 statement . “In fact, under these contracts, benefit costs have
risen consistently even as the wireline business has shrunk.”  Verizon began negotiating with the  Communications Workers
of America  and the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers in July over terms of a contract to replace one that
expired midnight Aug. 6. A proposal to change health-care
benefits is one of the issues to be resolved, with Verizon and
unions remaining sharply divided.  ‘Attack’ on Unions  While the parties are continuing talks in New York and
Philadelphia, they aren’t close to agreement, Bill Huber, a
business manager for the IBEW, said in an interview yesterday.  “These aren’t negotiations, they’re an insult,” Huber
said. “This is a clear attack on our unions.”  The CWA said in a statement workers are prepared to
“continue the fight” until the two sides reach an agreement.
AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, said Verizon’s
demand would hurt unionized employees’ wages, benefits and
working conditions. The unions have called for rallies in more
than 100 locations in  New York  and  New Jersey  today.  McAdam, who took over as CEO from  Ivan Seidenberg  on Aug.
1, had run  Verizon Wireless  for more than three years before
becoming president of Verizon Communications last year. He said
he wants to bring the competitive culture of the mobile-phone
business to the parent company. In an interview last month,
McAdam, 57, said changing the union contract would benefit
workers because lower costs would help the business compete.  “If we do that, I think the union will have a much
stronger future because the company will be stronger,” he said.  Stock Impact?  Verizon’s stock may drop during the strike, though it may
recover once the action is over and therefore not be harmed in
the long term, based on its pattern during a previous labor
dispute in 2000, said Jonathan Atkin, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  San Francisco . He rates Verizon shares
“outperform.”  Verizon, whose larger and more profitable wireless unit is
unaffected by the strike, fell $1.93, or 5.5 percent, to $33.12
at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It
was the stock’s biggest drop since January 2009 as stock markets
tumbled. The shares have lost 7.4 percent this year.  Verizon’s revenue and profit fell last year as declines in
the landline business offset growth in wireless. The number of
fixed lines, including residential and business customers, slid
8.2 percent to 26 million at the end of last year, extending
declines since 2003. Over the same period, wireless subscribers
more than doubled to 94.1 million.  ‘Painful Positive’  “Overall macro pressures in the enterprise and wholesale
divisions only add to the need for a more rational cost
structure,” Michael McCormack, an analyst at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, said in a note today. McCormack,
who rates the shares “neutral,” called the contract talks
“likely a painful positive over time” for the company.  Verizon’s competitors include  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest U.S.
phone carrier and second-largest wireless operator. AT&T has
proposed acquiring Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA, allowing
it to surpass Verizon Wireless as the No. 1 U.S. mobile carrier.  In his statement yesterday, McAdam also cited the
competitive threat from cable-TV providers, saying they don’t
have similar “contract constraints, enabling them to be more
nimble and flexible meeting customer needs.”  Though Verizon’s unions authorized strikes in 2008 and
2003, they haven’t gone out on strike since 2000. That 18-day
standoff affected 28 million customers and cost Verizon $40
million in revenue. The company settled the dispute by agreeing
to a 12 percent wage increase over three years.  ‘Radical Change’  This time around, Verizon wants workers to contribute more
for health insurance, including paying monthly premiums for the
first time, while the unions say their members can’t accept the
financial burden, given the current economy.  “We’re looking to bring our union more in line with what
the rest of the workers pay,” said Rich Young, a Verizon
spokesman, adding that about 135,000 of Verizon’s about 196,000
employees already contribute to health-insurance premiums. The
company also wants to increase co-payments and deductibles for
union workers.  “Some of our health-care proposals offer health-care plans
for as little as $100 a month,” Young said.  Ron Collins, the CWA’s chief of staff, last month called
the proposal a “radical change.” Verizon is a profitable
company that pays senior executives well and isn’t in danger of
going out of business, said Bob Master, a legislative and
political director for the CWA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  