-- 
Zaheer Khan to Miss Rest of India’s Cricket Tour of England After Injury

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-08-07T13:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-07/zaheer-khan-to-miss-rest-of-india-s-cricket-tour-of-england-after-injury.html
India will be without  Zaheer Khan  for
the remainder of its tour of England as it attempts to retain
the top ranking in Test cricket, with the pace bowler requiring
ankle surgery.  Zaheer, 32, needs “surgery for his ankle, followed by
intensive rehabilitation for both the ankle and hamstring,” the
Board of Control for Cricket in India said in a  statement . “He
will need at least 14-16 weeks to recover completely.”  India has lost the first two games in the four-Test series,
which resumes Aug. 10 at Edgbaston in Birmingham. England can
replace India as No. 1 in the  International Cricket Council
rankings  with another victory or by drawing the final two
matches.  India batsman Yuvraj Singh and spin bowler  Harbhajan Singh 
had already been ruled out of the rest of the Test series with
injuries. They have been replaced respectively by Virat Kohli
and Pragyan Ojha.  RP Singh today was added to the squads for the Test,
Twenty20 and one-day series in place of Zaheer, according to the
BCCI statement on the website of the ICC.  Zaheer, who missed the last Test after his injury in the
first match, is India’s highest-ranked Test bowler, at No. 5 in
the ICC list. He has taken  273 Test wickets  at an average of
31.78.  The final Test is Aug. 18-22 at the Oval in London. The
teams will also play one Twenty20 match and five one-day
international games.  Yesterday,  England  named batsman  Ravi Bopara  in its squad
for Edgbaston after Jonathan Trott suffered a shoulder injury in
the last match.  Chris Tremlett , who missed the last game through
injury, is again included, with  Steven Finn  added as an extra
bowling option.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 