-- ’Rebecca’ Canceled Because of Mean E-Mail, Say Producers
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/-rebecca-canceled-because-of-mean-e-mail-say-producers.html
In a move that surprised no one who
has been following Broadway’s latest backstage soap opera, the
producers of “Rebecca” have canceled the opening this season
of the $12 million musical, while vowing to return someday,
somewhere.  The producers, Ben Sprecher and Louise Forlenza, blamed a
mean e-mail for scaring off a last-minute investor, leaving them
“with no option but to postpone the show,” according to a
statement released by the show’s publicist, Marc Thibodeau.  The statement didn’t identify the new investor, who
remained as elusive as the previous would-be savior of the show.  “I wish I knew what happened, but I haven’t been able to
get Ben to return my call,” said a key investor in the show,
who requested anonymity while holding out hope that “Rebecca”
may yet rise from the ashes.  In the wide-ranging statement, the producers noted an
earlier reprieve: “After Paul Abrams, a major investor, passed
away in  London , on August 5th, 2012, and who, with three other
colleagues, represented the last portion of $4.5 million of the
full capitalization for the production, the Shubert Organization
generously granted a delay and rehearsals were postponed for
several weeks.”  Paul Dead?  Reporters have been unable to verify the existence -- or
the demise, reputedly from malaria contracted in  Africa  -- of
Paul Abrams. Sprecher has said that he never met him.  “Sprecher and Forlenza had subsequently managed to
virtually fill in the missing gap during the last three weeks,
primarily from a new investor, their own funds and an additional
commitment from an investor who had already made a substantial
investment,” the statement said.  Last Friday, however, “at approximately 1 p.m., Sprecher
and Forlenza were informed that an extremely malicious e-mail,
filled with lies and innuendo, had been sent directly to the new
investor that morning from an anonymous third party. The e-mail
was designed to scare this investor away and it succeeded. The
investor withdrew.”  Sprecher himself was quoted in the statement as saying that
he was “having a terrible time grasping” why anyone would do
such a thing (malicious gossip being as rare on Broadway as
gambling in Rick’s Cafe).  Earlier Cancellation  The cancellation leaves little hope that the show, directed
by Francesca Zambello with an assist from Michael Blakemore,
will ever see the light of day in  New York .  A planned opening last spring was canceled when Sprecher
and Forlenza were still searching for investors after the
marquee had gone up.  Shubert, for whom Sprecher once worked as a theater
manager, owns the Broadhurst Theatre, a choice Broadway venue
where “Rebecca” was to have opened.  Though patient with his former partner, Shubert Chairman
Philip J. Smith, also joining the released statement’s rich
chorus, said that the company wishes “Ben Sprecher and Louise
Forlenza success in bringing this show to Broadway in the
future,” a none-too-subtle hint that they would have to peddle
their goods elsewhere in the future.  Shubert will have no problem finding another tenant for the
Broadhurst. With long runs like “The Phantom of the Opera” and
“ Mamma Mia !” tying up Broadway’s best theaters for multiyear
runs, producers watch venues housing shows in trouble like hawks
circling for the kill.  Among the many strikes against “Rebecca” was the fact
that while it had extended runs in various European cities,
including Vienna, Budapest, Helsinki and Bucharest, it lacked
the imprimatur of a London or prestigious U.S. pre-Broadway
outing. Blakemore, the respected director of “Copenhagen”
among other hits, had been signed to provide luster to the
producing team.  Other shows in that category, including “Cyrano the
Musical” and “Metro,” met terrible fates in the time before
nasty e-mails could purportedly stop a show dead in its tracks.  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer of this story:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 