-- 3M to Buy Ceradyne in New CEO’s Largest Deal
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-01T20:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/3m-to-buy-ceradyne-for-860-million-in-new-ceo-s-largest-deal.html
3M Co. (MMM) , the manufacturer whose new
chief executive officer has said he’s considering larger deals,
agreed to buy  Ceradyne Inc. (CRDN)  for $860 million to expand into
ceramics used in energy, aerospace and defense industries.  3M agreed to pay $35 a share and plans to complete the
transaction by the end of the year, according to a statement
today. The board of  Costa Mesa , California-based Ceradyne has
recommended shareholders accept the offer, which is 43 percent
higher than the closing price on Sept. 28.  The purchase, the biggest announced by  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based 3M this year, will help the company expand into ceramics
as the material becomes more popular across several industries.
Ceramics are more frequently used because they are more heat-
resistant and harder than metal, said  Nick Heymann , an analyst
with William Blair & Co. in  New York .  “For 3M, this is basically a way to participate in one of
the highest growth materials segment across the broadest swath
of industries,” said Heymann, who rates the shares market
perform. “You’re buying a high value-added supplier of unique
technology in an above-average growth market, so you’re going to
pay up for that.”  3M agreed to pay about 6 times Ceradyne’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s close to the 5.3 ratio of
similar deals.  Ceradyne rose 43 percent to $34.97 at the close of trading
in New York. The stock had declined 8.8 percent through Sept.
28. 3M rose 0.9 percent to $93.29.  Avery Deal  3M CEO Inge Thulin, who succeeded  George Buckley  in
February, said in a Sept. 19 presentation that the company’s
deals pipeline looked good and acquisitions would potentially be
“more sizable” than in the past.  The company, the maker of Post-it Notes, is still fighting
to keep alive an agreement to buy the office-products unit of
 Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY)  for $550 million announced in January. The
 Department of Justice  said last month it would move to block the
deal. 3M and Avery have said they would try to work with the
department to gain regulatory approval.  3M needs acquisitions to spur growth amid weak European
markets and China’s slowdown, Heymann said.  “It underscores the fact that the organic-growth
environment for them right now is simply not ultra-strong,” he
said. “They are prudently trying to supplement that weaker
environment.”  Ceramic Materials  The Ceradyne acquisition will reduce earnings by about 5
cents a share in the first year. Excluding integration costs and
accounting adjustments, the deal will add about 1 cent a share
in the same period, 3M said. The acquisition is valued at $670
million including cash and debt, 3M said in the statement.  Ceradyne has diversified its ceramic materials customers
away from defense, which accounted for 39 percent of sales in
2011, down from 74 percent of sales in 2007, according to a
company  presentation  on its website.  During the same period, sales to the  energy industry  jumped
to 23 percent from 3 percent, and industrial sales rose to 29
percent from 17 percent. The company makes products ranging from
thrust bearings for the oil and gas industries to military
helmets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  