-- Mail.ru Said to Seek VKontakte Control After Scrapped IPO
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2012-10-01T11:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/mail-ru-said-to-seek-vkontakte-control-after-scrapped-ipo.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov ’s Web company, is seeking a controlling stake in
VKontakte to cement its leadership in the Russian social-
networking market and thwart expansion by  Facebook Inc. (FB) , said
two people familiar with the matter.  Usmanov’s representatives have approached VKontakte
shareholders including the Mirilashvili family which owns 40
percent, a stake the same size as Moscow-based Mail.ru holds in
the social network, said the people, who declined to be
identified as the discussions are private.  VKontakte was valued at $1.5 billion based on Mail.ru’s
purchase of 7.44 percent of the company for $112 million last
year. The St. Petersburg-based social networking site shelved a
planned initial public offering in May after Facebook shares
 plunged  following its IPO. Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark
Zuckerberg  is visiting Russia this week to get local programmers
develop more applications for Facebook instead of VKontakte.  “Mail.ru clearly needs more of an operating business,”
said Konstantin Belov, an analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow.
“Now it’s pretty much perceived as a fund with a portfolio of
stakes in different Internet projects, while investors could
better off buying shares in these projects directly.”  Three Networks  Mail.ru, which makes its money on advertising and virtual
gifts and services for online gamers and users of social
networks, owned 1.34 percent in Facebook, 4.11 percent in
 Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and 1.15 percent in  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  as of July 30,
according to its first-half report. These stakes are now worth
about $800 million, while Mail.ru’s market value is $7 billion.  Matthew Hammond, Mail.ru’s managing director, declined to
comment on “market speculations.”  It makes “perfect sense” for Mail.ru to increase its
holding in VKontakte, said Anastasia Obukhova, an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow. “If it succeeds doing so, it will control
three Russian major social networks and have no major
competitors in the country other than Facebook.”  VKontakte had an average of 22 million daily users in
Russia in August, according to TNS Global. That compares with
15.9 million users for Odnoklassniki, a social network
controlled by Mail.ru, and 3.5 million for Facebook. Mail.ru
also owns a smaller network Moi Mir.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, is hosting an
event for software developers in Russia starting today.  Medvedev Meeting  “I just encourage and help them to build things on top of
the Facebook and build some great companies here,” Zuckerberg
said during a meeting with Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in
Moscow today. “If they can do that than this will be great for
Russian Facebook users as well as people who want to use all
these other products which people are building.”  Shares of Mail.ru climbed 1 cent to $33.40 at 12:43 p.m. in
London. The stock has gained 28 percent this year.  Mail.ru potentially boosting stake in VKontakte is an
“absurd rumor,” VKontakte CEO Pavel Durov, who owns 12 percent
of the social network, said in remarks via his press office. The
only reason for such rumors could be some Mail.ru shareholders
trying “to inflate value of their shares before selling,” he
said.  In April, Usmanov said that Mail.Ru was considering giving
 voting rights  in VKontakte to Durov to ease potential tensions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  