-- Algeta Surges After Positive Alpharadin Studies: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-10-01T15:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/algeta-surges-after-positive-alpharadin-studies-oslo-mover.html
Algeta ASA (ALGETA) , the Norwegian drugmaker
developing a treatment for prostate cancer with  Bayer AG (BAYN) , rose
the most in seven months after a study indicated the drug may
receive a wider approval from regulators.  Algeta rose 6 percent, the most since Feb. 15, in Oslo,
making it the  biggest mover  on the OBX index. It has risen 2.8 
percent  so far this year.  “It improves confidence in the company’s ability to gain a
broad approval,” Richard Parkes, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG, said by phone. The analysis may lead regulators to grant an
approval that covers patients for whom the widely administered
Taxotere drug, owned by  France ’s largest drugmaker Sanofi, has
failed to yield results as well as for those who are
ineligible to use it, he said.  Administering chemotherapy after Alpharadin, or radium-223
dichloride, had no deleterious effect on patients overall
survival, according to the study presented by Doctor Oliver
Sartor, Medical Director at the Tulate Cancer Center, at the
ESMO 2012 Congress.  “This is not a question as to whether the drug gets
approved, it’s about how broad the label is,” said Parkes, who
has a buy recommendation on the stock. “Whether the regulators
allow that label to encompass just patients that have failed
other therapies, like Taxotere, or the ineligible/refuser
patient population.”  Algeta and Bayer have said they see “blockbuster”
potential for Alpharadin and plan to submit the drug to
regulatory authorities in the U.S. and  Europe  in the second half
of this year. Alpharadin is designed to treat bone metastases
resulting from prostate cancer, which can lead to spinal-cord
compression, paralysis and bladder dysfunction.  Build Confidence  “These new analyses continue to build our confidence in
radium-223 dichloride’s potential,” Algeta Chief Medical
Officer Doctor Gillies O’Bryan-Tear said in a statement.  The treatment also exhibited “significantly better”
preserved quality of life versus a placebo in a phase 3 double-
blind, randomized, multinational study, according to a
presentation at the congress by Doctor Christopher Parker,
Consultant Clinical Oncologist at the U.K.’s Royal Marsden
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.  The Norwegian company said on April 12 that it exercised an
option to split potential profit from Alpharadin in the U.S.
with Bayer, with each partner bearing half the cost of selling
and marketing the drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  