-- Allscripts Sale Talks Follow Shareholder, Board Battles
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-01T22:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/allscripts-sale-talks-follow-shareholder-board-battles.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX) ’s decision to explore a sale was preceded by a board
upheaval and shareholder lawsuit that questioned the leadership
of the electronic medical-records company.  HealthCor Management LP, a $2 billion asset manager that
invests in health and life-sciences companies, filed the lawsuit
May 21, criticizing the firing of Allscripts Chairman Phil Pead
and protesting the process for filling three seats vacated by
directors who didn’t support Pead’s removal. Less than two weeks
later, HealthCor withdrew its lawsuit after Allscripts agreed to
nominate three independent directors to the board. On Sept. 27,
the company lost a bid for a $302 million contract in New York
City’s public hospitals.  Now Chicago-based Allscripts has hired Citigroup Inc. to
advise the company in talks with private equity buyers, people
familiar with the matter said last week. HealthCor and the new
board members probably are driving exploration of a sale, said
Bret Jones, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York .  “You’ve got a large shareholder, the number two
shareholder, that’s clearly pushing for change,” Jones said in
a telephone interview. “Selling the company would be one way
for them to exit the position.”  Allscripts, the  worst performer  in the Standard and Poor’s
Midcap Health Care Index this year, climbed 14 percent Sept. 28
after  Bloomberg News  reported the possibility of a sale. It rose
3.4 percent today to $12.84. HealthCor  held  7.4 percent of
shares outstanding on June 30, and Allscripts is the firm’s
third-biggest holding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HealthCor General Counsel John Coghlin, didn’t return a
telephone message today seeking comment about Allscripts’
future. The firm’s two co-founders, Joe Healey and Arthur Cohen,
didn’t return phone messages and e-mails sent Sept. 28.  Eclipsys Deal  Some of the company’s challenges can be traced to its
acquisition of Eclipsys Corp. in 2010. Allscripts, which
specialized in  information systems  for doctors’ offices, bought
Eclipsys to expand into software for hospitals and health-care
networks. The combination promised to be lucrative as a 2009
U.S. economic stimulus plan allotted $27.4 billion to help
health-care providers buy and maintain electronic systems to
collect and share medical records.  Instead, Allscripts in April said customers had “delayed
commitments as they wait for us to introduce new releases and
demonstrate more robust integration” of Eclipsys. At least 11
analysts in the past two months have cut their forecasts for
full-year operating profit and the projections for  sales growth 
would be the slowest since Allscripts went public in 1999.  Hospital Contract  The  New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation  board
voted Sept. 27 to authorize the agency to negotiate a contract
worth as much as $302 million with closely held Epic Systems
Corp. of Verona,  Wisconsin . The company will install its
electronic records system in the New York system’s 11 hospitals,
four long-term care centers and more than 70 community clinics.
Allscripts, the losing finalist for the contract, has protested
the decision, said Ian Michaels, a spokesman for the Health and
Hospitals Corporation.  “Epic is the preferred vendor,” he said in a phone
interview, and the agency believes Allscripts’ protest “is
without merit.”  Contract Fallout  The New York loss may have increased pressure to take the
company private, said Leo Carpio, an analyst with Caris & Co. in
New York. Allscripts serves many of New York’s private
hospitals, including New York-Presbyterian, Montefiore Medical
Center and the Mount Sinai Medical Center, he said in a
telephone interview.  “Now you’ve got Epic Systems winning a major contract
here,” Carpio said. “It shows that competition is tough. I’m
thinking it’s that that drove them to go private -- that they
need to do a lot of changes to their organization without facing
the scrutiny of being a public company.”  Eric Coldwell, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in
 Chicago , agreed.  “Accelerating investments and realignment initiatives
behind the scenes would not be an unwise consideration,”
Coldwell said in a Sept. 28 note to clients. “Being privately
held might actually be a competitive advantage at this point.”  Ariana Nikitas, a spokeswoman for Allscripts, said in an e-
mail today that HealthCor’s lawsuit “was withdrawn and the
matter resolved.” She said Allscripts wouldn’t comment on
“rumors or speculation” about its sale, and that the contract
process for  New York City ’s hospitals “has not concluded.”  Shares Decline  Allscripts  shares  had tumbled almost 9 percent from the day
it completed the Eclipsys acquisition in August 2010 through
April 25, 2012, the day before the company revealed a board
dispute that resulted in the firing of its chairman and the
departure of three directors. The shares tumbled 36 percent the
day after that announcement and have yet to recover.  Pead and the two of the three directors who left -- Eugene V. Fife and Edward A. Kangas -- had been board members of
Eclipsys before the Allscripts acquisition. HealthCor said in
its complaint that it had favored the acquisition “because of
the counterbalance that Eclipsys management” would provide to
Chief Executive Officer Glen Tullman.  Chief Financial Officer Bill Davis also left in May to take
the same job with educational software company Blackboard Inc.  ‘Meaningful Dialogue’  The day after Allscripts’ April 26 announcement of the
board shakeup, HealthCor said it wrote the company’s management
seeking an explanation and “meaningful dialogue about the
company’s future.” Allscripts’ board responded by adopting a
poison pill measure that effectively prevented new shareholders
from obtaining 10 percent or more of the stock and freezing the
ownership of existing shareholders already with more than 10
percent, according to HealthCor’s complaint.  Allscripts’ largest shareholder is Manning & Napier, an
investment firm in Rochester, New York, that holds 9.3 percent
of the shares  outstanding , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A spokeswoman for Manning & Napier, Shannon Lappin,
said in an e-mail on Sept. 28 that the firm wouldn’t comment on
news that Allscripts sought a sale.  Allscripts refused to let HealthCor nominate a slate of
directors after Pead’s departure, HealthCor said in its
complaint. It filed its lawsuit on May 21, alleging Allscripts’
board had breached its fiduciary duty to shareholders.  HealthCor withdrew its lawsuit after Allscripts said June 1
that it would nominate three independent directors to the board:
Stuart Bascomb, chairman and chief executive of closely held
QualSight Inc. and a founder of pharmacy benefit manager  Express
Scripts  Holding Co.;  David Stevens , a former executive at Medco
Health Solutions Inc., a pharmacy benefits manager acquired by
Express Scripts this year; and Randy Thurman, an adviser and
operating partner at New York-based New Mountain Capital.  Shareholders approved the slate later that month.  Stevens declined to comment through an assistant who
wouldn’t identify herself. Bascomb and Thurman didn’t
immediately respond to messages left with intermediaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  