-- AMC Seeks $2.4 Billion From Dish Over Canceled HD Deal
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-01T22:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/amc-seeks-2-4-billion-from-dish-over-canceled-hd-deal.html
Charles Dolan, founder of  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC) , told a jury there’s “no question” its high-
definition television service would have made money if  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  hadn’t terminated their deal to broadcast it.  Dolan, 85, who is also chairman of Cablevision and  AMC
Networks Inc. (AMCX) , was the first witness in the trial of a lawsuit
in which AMC claims Dish wrongfully ended their TV programming
contract after two years, leaving it with “massive” losses.  Cablevision, AMC’s former owner, sued Dish in 2008 over the
now-defunct HD satellite-TV service called Voom, claiming Dish
breached their 15-year contract to offer the service to its
subscribers. AMC seeks $2.4 billion in damages from Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish, which was founded by Charles Ergen and
formerly known as EchoStar.  “Charlie was always enthusiastic about the service,”
Dolan testified today in  New York  State Supreme Court in
Manhattan. “We could anticipate a large number of his 12
million customers would buy that HD service, and that was
rapidly coming to pass.” Dolan said other cable channels he had
developed, such as Home Box Office and Bravo, took years to
become profitable.  Satellite Subscribers  Dish, the third-largest U.S. pay-TV company, contends that
it terminated the Voom contract because Cablevision didn’t spend
the required $100 million a year on programming. Dish now has 14
million U.S. satellite subscribers.  “EchoStar was concerned that money be spent on the
programming,” James Bennett, a lawyer for Dish, said in his
opening statement to the jury on Sept. 28. “This case is about
Voom’s failure to fulfill that commitment,” he said. “They
spent $100 million on the business. Not on the programming.”  Orin Snyder, a lawyer for AMC, told the eight jurors in his
opening remarks that Dish wanted to get out of the contract
because a large competitor, satellite TV provider  DirecTV (DTV) , was
offering more HD channels at a lower price to subscribers. Cable
networks such as CNN and ESPN were beginning to offer HD
programming at no extra cost to TV distributors like Dish and
DirecTV, he said. Dish was paying AMC about $3.25 a month for
each subscriber in the first year of the contract, with 5
percent increases in the fee each year.  “They could obtain HD from other sources without paying
for it,” Dolan said today.  Monsters, Kung Fu  After Dish terminated the contract, Cablevision shut down
Voom, which had supplied 15 HD channels to Dish, including
Monsters, Rave, Kung Fu and Gallery.  “EchoStar was our anchor,” Joshua Sapan, AMC’s chief
executive, told the jurors today. “EchoStar is a national
platform. We lost the ability to gain popularity across the
 United States .”  The case centers on the meaning of what constitutes
spending “on the service,” as described in the contract. AMC
and Cablevision argued in their court filings that an audit
found Voom spent almost $103 million in 2006. Dish counters that
this sum included corporate overhead expenses of at least $12
million, while the contract required the money to be spent on
programming.  Bennett told the jurors in his opening statement that Voom
spent only about $59 million on programming in one year.  Four Networks  The lawsuit’s implications go beyond any damages award. The
trial may determine whether Dish viewers will again see AMC
shows such as “Mad Men” and “Breaking Bad.” Dish dropped
AMC’s four networks from its system in July, saying its programs
didn’t deliver the ratings to justify their price.  AMC claims the removal was because of the lawsuit.  “We’ve been off the platform for a couple of months now
and we think we’re off because of litigation and not because of
anything related to what our prices are for programming,” Sapan
said at an investor conference in  Manhattan  Sept. 12.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, said the decision to drop
AMC was “an entirely separate matter” from the lawsuit.  “The channels were essentially a handful of popular
shows,” Toevs said in an interview. “For us, the equation
didn’t work.”  The trial, before Justice Richard Lowe, may last four
weeks, lawyers said during jury selection.  E-Mails Deleted  Before the jurors deliberate, Lowe will instruct them about
Dish’s destruction of e-mails before and after the lawsuit was
filed. Lowe granted AMC’s motion for sanctions, saying Dish
should have anticipated a lawsuit and begun saving e-mails when
it notified Voom it might terminate the contract. Dish said the
e-mails were automatically deleted.  When the jurors were out of the courtroom today, lawyers
for both sides argued about other Dish documents. AMC’s Snyder
said he was “suspicious” that Dish was hiding evidence again.
Dish’s lawyer, Charles Kerr, said these communications shouldn’t
be shown to the jury because they represented attorney-client
discussions.  “Considering the track record of your company,” Lowe said
to Dish’s lawyer, “you sort of lack credibility.” The judge
ordered that the documents be presented to him.  Cable provider  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and DirecTV are the largest
U.S. pay-TV companies.  The case is Voom HD Holdings LLC v. EchoStar Satellite LLC,
600292-2008, State Supreme Court of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  