-- American Express to Pay $112.5 Million Over Credit-Card A
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-01T18:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/american-express-to-pay-112-5-million-over-credit-card-a.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, will pay $112.5 million to
settle claims it violated consumer safeguards from marketing to
collections in products sold to about 250,000 customers.  “Several American Express companies violated  consumer
protection laws  and those laws were violated at all stages of
the game -- from the moment a consumer shopped for a card to the
moment the consumer got a phone call about long overdue debt,”
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director  Richard Cordray 
said today in a statement announcing the settlement.  Units of American Express, which is led by Chief Executive
Officer Kenneth I. Chenault, deceived customers who signed up
for a particular card, leading them to believe they would get
$300 and bonus points, according to the statement. The New York-
based firm also charged illegal late fees, discriminated against
some older applicants and failed to report consumer disputes to
credit-reporting companies, regulators said.  The settlement involves state regulators from  Utah , where
American Express owns banks, and four federal agencies,
according to statements from CFPB and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the  Federal Reserve  and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Under the agreement, the company will
refund about $85 million to customers and pay civil penalties
totaling $27.5 million to the four federal regulators, with
$14.1 million going to the consumer bureau.  American Express neither admitted nor denied regulators’
accusations in today’s settlement, which its board approved on
Sept. 24, according to the Fed’s consent order.  ‘Industrywide Review’  “Reserves were established in previous quarters for a
substantial portion of these fines and the estimated customer
refunds,”  Michael O’Neill , an American Express spokesman, said
in a statement. “Separately, the company is continuing its own
internal reviews and cooperating with regulators in their
ongoing regulatory examination of add-on products in accordance
with the industrywide review.”  The settlement is the third involving the consumer bureau,
which was created by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. The agency
previously resolved claims against card issuers  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  over sales of
add-on products such as credit monitoring and debt protection.  Kent Markus, CFPB’s assistant director for enforcement,
said the credit-card industry has drawn the agency’s attention
as it looks where to focus early on.  “This is an area where there is substantial consumer harm
or risk of consumer harm,” he said today in a conference call
with reporters.  Consumer Complaints  The case stems from practices at American Express from 2003
to this year, according to the CFPB. Mark Pearce, director of
the FDIC’s depositor and consumer protection unit, said the
investigation originated in an examination of American Express
banks, partly in response to consumer complaints.  Some complaints related to the Blue Sky card that AmEx
offered in exchange for a $300 payment that some consumers never
got, Pearce said. The CFPB started work in July 2011 and the
agency and other regulators uncovered more violations.  “We have been troubled by the range of problems we
discovered,” Markus said.  The banks charged late fees to some customers based on a
percentage of the debt owed, violating a ban in the Credit Card
Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009,
according to legal documents.  Some applicants for cards over the age of 35 may have faced
discrimination because the bank didn’t fully implement its
credit-scoring system.  Old Debts  American Express also deceived some customers into
believing there were benefits to paying off old debts,
regulators said. Consumers were wrongly told paying them off
would improve their credit scores, and the companies weren’t
reporting the information to credit-reporting firms.  The Fed, FDIC and OCC also pursued coordinated actions
against the company’s banking operations, including American
Express Centurion Bank, American Express Bank FSB and American
Express Travel Related Services.  The company agreed to improve its compliance systems, which
“failed to adequately identify, monitor, and control risks
associated with the services provided,” according to the Fed’s
order. American Express has 90 days to submit a plan to the Fed
for enhancing firm-wide compliance in addition to the central
bank’s $9 million penalty.  Under the OCC settlement, American Express will pay $6
million in restitution to about 17,000 customers of the federal
savings bank for the company’s failure to manage vendors
involved in deceptive practices. The regulator also ordered the
bank to fix its oversight of vendors.  American Express shares rose $1.14 to $58 at 2:25 p.m. The
stock has climbed 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  