-- American Airlines Asks Appeals Court to Block Union Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-10-01T18:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/american-airlines-asks-appeals-court-to-block-union-vote.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , the
bankrupt airline that is cutting labor costs, faced sharp
questioning from a federal appeals court over its effort to
block an employee group’s union vote.  American argues that a union representation election among
passenger service employees can’t move forward because the
 National Mediation Board  used an outdated standard when it
authorized a vote.  Judges for the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans today
said the standard changed after the  Communications Workers of
America  applied to represent the workers.  “You are basically moving the goal posts in the middle of
the game,” Judge Catharina Haynes told American’s lawyer.  The carrier sued the Mediation Board in May after it
authorized the vote. The board “grossly exceeded” its
authority by basing the decision on a “showing of interest”
among 35 percent of the employees instead of the new 50 percent
standard, American said in papers filed with the appeals court.  “You already have ongoing proceedings,” Judge Patrick Higginbotham told the airline’s attorney. “It’s a done deal.
Now it’s a question of who is going to vote for it.”  Company Arguments  The agency argued that its decision to apply the lower
standard was a “permissible interpretation” of the law that
shouldn’t trigger judicial review. The district court
“improperly intruded into the NMB’s sphere,” the mediation
board said in papers filed with the appeals court.  U.S. District Judge Terry Means in  Fort Worth , Texas, in
June sided with American. Means ruled that the 50 percent
standard applied because, while the application was submitted
under the old law, the board approved the election after the new
one went into effect. The board and the CWA appealed.  The Fort Worth-based airline, which blamed its bankruptcy
on high labor costs, has negotiated cost-cutting deals with
unions representing flights attendants, mechanics and other
workers. It won bankruptcy court approval to impose cuts on
pilots, who rejected a contract offer.  Marianne Auld , an attorney for American, told the three-
judge panel that a ruling in favor of the board and union would
hurt the airline.  Holding an election after the district court ruled in
American’s favor “adds uncertainty” to the carrier’s future,
affects “public perception” and the airline’s relationship
with its employees, Auld said.  The panel didn’t indicate when it will rule.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-10680, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  