-- Man Charged in $11 Million Fraud Misses Plea Hearing
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-02T23:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/man-charged-in-11-million-fraud-misses-plea-hearing.html
(Corrects relationship of Ann Mattera in fifth paragraph
of story published Oct. 1.)  A South Florida man charged with
running an $11 million scam involving non-existent shares in
companies including Facebook Inc. and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  failed to
show up at a hearing where he was to plead guilty.  John Mattera, who operated the Praetorian Global Fund Ltd.,
told his lawyer that he accidentally locked himself out of his
home this morning and missed the flight they were to take
together from Fort Lauderdale to New York, the lawyer, Carl Schoeppl, told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan 
federal court today.  Mattera was charged last year with a two-year scheme to
sell shares in special-purpose vehicles set up to hold stock in
non-public companies that were expected to make initial public
offerings. He has signed a plea agreement with prosecutors and
is set to plead guilty to charges of conspiracy,  wire fraud ,
 securities fraud  and  money laundering .  Sullivan, who called Mattera’s excuse for missing the
hearing “pretty pathetic,” rescheduled it for tomorrow
morning.  Last week the judge in a suit filed by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission against Mattera found him and his
mother, Ann Mattera, in contempt of court for violating an order
freezing their assets.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel found that Mattera sold a
Lamborghini automobile for $28,000, which he passed to his
mother, in violation of the freeze. Mattera also borrowed
$114,000 and transferred money to his mother to pay his
expenses, Castel said.  Mattera faces as long as five years in prison on the
conspiracy charge and up to 20 years on each of the other
charges.  The case is U.S. v. Mattera, 11-CR-2947, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  