-- Anatomy of an Online Flash Sale Addict
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-10-01T18:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/anatomy-of-an-online-flash-sale-addict.html
Mary DeRosier had a choice. This summer, during one of the
worst heat waves in Chicago’s history, the 60-year-old music
teacher had to decide whether to go on vacation to someplace
cooler or stay at home and buy antiques from home shopping
website One Kings Lane. She chose the latter. “I didn’t want
to go on a trip because I didn’t want to get bed bugs and I
didn’t want to get yelled at by some flight attendant,” she
says. “I decided I’m going to spend my vacation money on
shopping instead. And I’m telling you I had plenty of fun.”  DeRosier jokingly calls checking the site every day for
deals “my biggest problem and my biggest joy” and “part of my
midlife crisis.” She’s not alone. Some 15 million Americans
suffer from shopping addiction, according to the American
Psychological Association. “Research suggests the Internet is
a really fertile ground for the development and maintenance of
compulsive buying disorder,” says Dr. April Benson, a
psychologist in New York and author of To Buy or Not to Buy:
Why We Overshop and How to Stop. “The ease, the 24-7-ness of
it, the anonymity and the vast array of products—all of those
factor into the disorder.”  Flash sale fixations  Flash sale sites such as One Kings
Lane, Gilt, ideeli, Haute Look and Rue La La make the shopping
experience all the more enticing. Part of their addictive
quality lies in the “flash” aspect of sales that last often
only 24 to 72 hours. “I’ve had clients who’ve found flash sale
sites almost like crack cocaine,” says Terrence
Shulman, founder of the Shulman Center for Compulsive
Theft, Spending & Hoarding in Franklin, Michigan. “Many
clients are overshopping at traditional sites, but what makes
these flash sale ones unique is they offer high-end or rare
items that go quickly. So they intensify the adrenaline, and
the hunt and the feeling of euphoria when people are able to
snap up a deal. It’s almost like gambling, in a way.”  Although neither Benson nor Shulman will disclose the names
of clients, Benson says she has ones who have been as much as
$100,000 in debt because of flash sale sites. “Something about
the scarcity and the need to do it right now really interferes
with people’s judgment,” says Benson.  Another draw is the exclusivity of the sites, as one has to
sign up to be a member to receive information about the deals.
DeRosier says that isn't the reason for her interest in One
Kings Lane, but later she said she was jealous that a designer
friend started selling her goods on the site. “I felt like
she’d stolen my secret,” DeRosier says. “I was disappointed
because I was pretending the site was private.”  'Aspirational shopping'  One Kings Lane has north of 5 million members, but the fact
that DeRosier feels special using it is no accident. Chief
Executive Doug Mack cites “aspirational shopping,” in which a
person gets access to a class of goods and people they would
normally never associate with, as the key to the site’s
allure. “That’s probably more to the core of One Kings Lane
than any other new commerce site on the Web,” says Mack. “For
example, Michael Smith is a famous interior designer for the
Obamas. He runs sales of products from his private warehouse
on One Kings Lane. Another one of our designers -- Martyn
Lawrence Bullard -- also has done work for Elton John and
Cher. Entry to this world you could never crack from a money
or access perspective is a huge part of our appeal.”  It is precisely such fantasies of an affluent celebrity
lifestyle that compel most shopaholics. “One of the real
drivers of compulsive buying disorder is when there is a big
discrepancy in who someone feels themselves to be and who they
would like to be and how they would like to be seen,” says
Benson. “So buying luxurious goods and belonging to an ‘in’
website is an attempt to make up for some of what we
psychologists call the ‘self-discrepancy’ gap.”  Divorced, DeRosier lives alone with her two pit-bull mixes
in a condo crowded with so many purchases she says the
“neighbors have started to comment.” Although she won’t
disclose how much she has spent, during the summer she
purchased numerous lamps, vases, paintings of dogs --
including her favorite of a five-legged one she deems
“outsider art” -- and a 9½-foot-tall bookcase by interior
designer Alessandra Branca that was so big it had to be
disassembled to get in her door.  'Kindred spirits'  DeRosier feels both shame and pride in her purchases. “My
sisters are going to disown me if they find out how much I
buy,” she says. But One Kings Lane helps define her identity.
“I’ve spent my life searching for people like me, and they’re
hard to find, but they’re there -- kindred spirits,” she says.
“I’ve searched my life for things that are me, and it’s not
always easy to find because I think I’m different. I can’t
tell you how much time I spent in antique stores. Now all of a
sudden I can just sit in front of the computer and think, ‘Oh
cool’ and try to figure out which things I’ll buy.”  Some of DeRosier's kindred spirits have been the site’s
salespeople, including her favorite, Eric, whom she spoke with
on the phone for an hour and a half when she needed to replace
a broken item and with whom she has often spoken since. “I’ve
never been treated so nicely by a corporation,” she says.  Beautiful haute couture design, superlative service, fancy
wrapping, and “white glove” delivery are all part of the image
flash sales sites seek to present. It's the sense of entering
a high-end department store where the displays are designed to
surprise and delight and the clerks are at your every beck and
call. “I love Amazon.com, but I’ve never been excited to shop
there,” says Ben Fischman, chief executive officer of Rue La
La, a Boston flash sale site with 6.5 million members. “Great
retail is exciting. When you walk into the first floor of
Bloomingdale's in New York, it’s an experience. I believe when
a member comes at 11 a.m. to Rue La La for a sale, it’s an
experience. Everyday there’s something new, different and
fresh to buy.”  Discount doubts  The lure of any flash sale is also how deeply discounted
the prices are supposed to be from retail. And it seems that
on mass-produced items, the price isn’t always right. For
instance, on September 7 One Kings Lane had a sale from
Rizzoli Books, a chi-chi Manhattan book store. Alberto Pinto:
Table Settings, a book by a famous French interior
designer, had a retail price of $60, and the site was selling
it for $39, plus $6.95 for shipping and handling. The same
book can be found at Amazon.com for $37.80, with free
shipping. Moreover, there’s no time limit to buy at Amazon.  On the same date, a Prada python skin tote bag sold out
quickly on Rue La La for $2,999, even though a
similar, although not identical, python tote could be found on
the Neiman Marcus site for $1,980. Both sites claimed the
retail price was much higher, but in today’s distressed
economy, who actually pays retail for anything?  Savvy shoppers know to compare different sites for the best
deals. “Certainly flash sale prices are good, but whenever I
buy something I open up another window and check on Google and
Amazon.com what it retails for elsewhere,” says Dawn
Lehmann, an interior designer in Manhattan. She shops at One
Kings Lane and Gilt for both work and pleasure and buys only
items she would’ve bought anyway, even if they weren’t on
sale.  Lehmann says that 80 percent of the time, One Kings Lane
offers the best price, especially on higher-end items, but
books, in particular, and other lower-end products can be
found cheaper elsewhere. Most of its sales are for a limited
run or one-of-a-kind items, says One Kings Lane's Mack. "We
offer a Cuisinart or other mainstream brands occasionally to
help consumers. We do that because consumers want to be able
to buy everything for the home front at our site."  Thrill of the hunt  Even savvy shoppers feel the thrill of the hunt on flash
sites, though. "I'm  more educated about fashion than the
average person, so I know what the price points are," says
Elizabeth Fenner, former fashion editor at People and the
current editor-in-chief of Chicago Magazine. Yet Fenner admits
she also loves the fun of competitive shopping. "There's a
rush of adrenaline, a competition thing that kicks in," she
says. "Flash sale sites are very smart about that. They have
engineered them to have that sense of scarcity, and it works.
I definitely, when I get something, say, 'Yeah, I got it!'"  Meanwhile, DeRosier is managing to restrain herself now
that school has started again. “I draw a real clear line,” she
says. “I will not shop at work. I’d love to look at the site
when the sales go live at 10 a.m. here. But I don’t want to
jeopardize anything.” She teaches 10 classes a day to pay her
bills but still has debt from her purchases. “When you shop
like I do, your credit card becomes your best friend,” she
says. If a best friend draws you into debt, though, some might
say frenemy's a better word.
 