-- Arby’s Seeks to Drop Fast-Food Image in New Ad Campaign
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/arby-s-seeks-to-drop-fast-food-image-in-new-ad-campaign.html
Arby’s Restaurant Group Inc. is
introducing a new advertising campaign aimed at drawing
customers away from the Subway sandwich chain and convincing
diners it is a destination for fresh food.  The campaign, which debuted last night with a spot
featuring celebrity private investigator Bo Dietl, attempts to
shed Arby’s image as a fast-food joint and get consumers to
associate it with freshness by pointing out that Arby’s slices
its meat in its stores.  “We see ourselves as a sandwich shop, but we don’t always
get credit for that from the consumer,” said Andrew Keller,
chief executive officer at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, the agency
behind the ad.  The campaign is the latest attempt by Arby’s, once owned by
 Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , to reinvent its almost 50 year-old brand. Arby’s in
2001 introduced the Market Fresh line of sandwiches and salads,
which are still part of the menu. The company’s last rebranding
was in February 2011 with its “Good Mood Food” campaign.  The restaurant chain is now owned by Atlanta-based private-
equity firm Roark Capital Group, which bought about 82 percent
of the company from Wendy’s in a deal valued at $430 million in
July 2011.  The campaign targets the 20 percent of Arby’s customers who
account for two-thirds of its total transactions, Chief
Marketing Officer Russ Klein said. Those customers dine out
about 50 times a month, yet Arby’s makes up only six of those
visits, Klein said in an interview.  New Products  Arby’s also plans to add as many as 12 new products to keep
their attention, Klein said. The chain introduced a hot turkey
sandwich this month and has plans for a peppermint milk shake, a
molten lava cake and miniature sandwiches.  “Ninety percent of their out-of-home food decisions
represent an opportunity for us to garner an extra visit from
them because of the expanded variety,” he said.  The brand overhaul also will include a new logo, packaging
and menu boards that will be in place by February. The company
is planning a $12 million renovation of company-owned
restaurants that will start in test markets at the end of the
year. The company won’t require franchisees to renovate unless
they already were planning to remodel, Klein said.  Arby’s has more than 3,500 restaurants globally while
Subway has 34,000. Arby’s was ranked as the second-worst
sandwich chain out of 13 in a survey with more than 5,000
responses published by Restaurant News in August. Subway ranked
seventh.  Arby’s decor, menus and service will need to be made over
if the chain is going to attract loyal new customers, said Tim
Calkins, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Management in Evanston,  Illinois .  “You don’t want to start bringing in lots of people until
the store experience is going to delight them,” Calkins said in
an interview. “The worst thing you could do is start bringing
in lots of people into Arby’s and have them say this is exactly
the Arby’s I used to know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  