-- Arrium Rejects A$1.01 Billion Takeover Bid From Noble, Posco
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-10-02T06:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/arrium-rejects-a-1-01-billion-takeover-bid-from-noble-posco.html
Arrium Ltd. (ARI)  rebuffed a A$1.01 billion
($1.05 billion) offer from  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  and South Korean
investors, the biggest bid for an Australian  iron ore  asset
since the government declared the mining boom over.  Arrium, the Sydney-based producer previously known as
OneSteel Ltd., rejected the offer from the group that also
included Posco  Australia  Pty, National Pension Service of  Korea ,
Korea Investment Corp. and Korea Finance Corp., saying it was
too low and conditional. The bidders, grouped under Steelmakers
Australia, remain interested in developing the proposal to
secure a deal, they said separately.  Steelmakers Australia joins companies including  China ’s
Meijin Energy Group Co. in bidding for Australian resources
companies as a slump in commodity prices eroded valuations. Iron
ore fell 25 percent this year on concern about slowing demand
from China, prompting Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  in
August to declare an end to the nation’s mining boom.  “We’re going to see more M&A activities in the resources
sector because conditions are conducive,” said  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in  Melbourne . “We’re at a new stage where the strong companies
grow stronger and the weak ones perish.”  Largest Asset  The attempted acquisition would be the largest of an iron
and steel asset in Australia since  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  agreed to pay
A$1.5 billion for a share of billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Roy
Hill project in March, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Marubeni
joined Posco, and South Korea’s STX Corp. in investing in the
mine, which is controlled by closely held Rinehart’s Hancock
Prospecting Pty.  Acquirers have announced $6.23 billion of Australian iron
and steel asset purchases in the past year, with more than 99
percent of the spending by overseas buyers, the data show. In
the past five years, about $11 billion of deals have been
announced, with buyers led by Japanese companies announcing $2.4
billion worth of deals, the data show.  Meijin’s A$435 million bid for Adelaide-based  Western
Desert Resources Ltd. (WDR)  is subject to government and regulatory
approvals in Australia and China, the companies said Sept. 18.  Declining Prices  The bid from Noble and the South Korean companies came
after Arrium, also Australia’s second-biggest steelmaker,
plunged 22 percent this year through Sept. 28.  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  yesterday lowered its iron ore
estimate for the fourth quarter to $110 a metric ton from $135 a
ton, citing oversupply in China.  Iron ore , which fell to a near
three-year low of $86.70 last month, traded at $104.20 a ton
yesterday, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  “Posco needs a supplier of the raw material,” said Bang
Minjin, an analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul ,
who has a buy recommendation on  Posco. (005490)  “As a bunch of good
targets are put up for sale in Australia. Posco may continue to
tap targets if Arrium rejects its bid.”  Spokespeople at Posco, Korea Investment, Korea Finance and
National Pension Service, declined to comment.  “The proposal was stated to be conditional, incomplete and
non-binding,” Arrium said yesterday in a statement. “The board
believes that the proposal undervalues Arrium in the context of
a change of control transaction.”  Arrium rose for a second day, up 5.2 percent at 71.5 cents
at the close in Sydney, trading below the offer price of 75
cents. The  stock  jumped a record 25 percent yesterday.  Double Output  The company plans to almost double iron ore output to 11
million metric tons after June 2013 from its mines in  South
Australia , Arrium said in February. It’s also expanding capacity
at its port in the state to 12 million tons a year, it said in
its annual report last week.  Iron ore  accounted for more than half Arrium’s earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the year
ended June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Full-
year net income fell to A$58 million from A$230 million a year
earlier, the data shows.  “The difficulty is by rejecting an opportunistic bid it
doesn’t alleviate pressure on the board to improve its earnings
and the balance sheet,” Pengana’s Schroeders said. The proposal
“will have a long way to play out,” he said.  UBS AG is Arrium’s financial adviser and Allens Linklaters
is its legal adviser, Arrium said.  Name Change  The company changed its name to Arrium from OneSteel in
July as it shifts focus to iron ore production from steel-
making. The company’s steel manufacturing, distribution and
recycling  units  are located mainly in Whyalla, South Australia.
OneSteel was spun off from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in 2000.  “Arrium’s board must carefully consider the possibility of
extracting a superior offer from the consortium in exchange for
due diligence rights,” Credit Suisse Group AG  analysts   Michael
Slifirski  and Sam Webb wrote in a report yesterday.  “This
needs to be balanced against the risk of iron ore prices that
force the company to sell assets below future realizable values
or raise equity at a deeply discounted share price to reduced
debt and interest to meet covenant tests.”  The offer from Steelmakers Australia was conditional on the
bidders arranging debt financing, completing a study of the
target’s books and regulatory approvals in Australia and Korea,
Arrium said yesterday. The company said on Sept. 28 its net
debt, including hedging, stood at A$2.2 billion as of June 30.  “The consortium partners believe they have the capacity to
advance the development of Arrium’s businesses over the long
term by securing iron ore exports from South Australia and
ensuring a future as an Australian steel producer that is
globally competitive,” William Randall, director at Steelmakers
Australia, said yesterday in a statement.  Global Takeovers  Arrium’s biggest  shareholder  is Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. with a 6.06 percent stake, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. It also has a 5.15 percent stake in
 BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s largest steelmaker.  Twenty-seven global takeovers of iron and steel companies
announced in the past five years, valued the targets at 9.8
times earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and
amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At 75 cents a share, Arrium would have an enterprise value
of A$3.2 billion, or 5.5 times its earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of A$581 million in the year
through June, the data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  