-- Stocks Gain on U.S. Manufacturing; Euro, Spain Bonds Rise
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-10-01T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/asian-stocks-decline-with-euro-and-commodities-on-growth-concern.html
Stocks (SXXP)  climbed, rebounding from the
worst weekly drop in four months, as U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly expanded. Spanish bonds gained with the euro as
stress-test results bolstered confidence in Spain’s banking
system. Gold touched the highest price since November.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York, trimming earlier gains as Apple Inc. slumped.
Spanish 10-year yields declined for a third day, slipping six
basis points to 5.88 percent. The euro advanced against all 16
major peers. The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities added 0.2 percent
as natural gas and sugar led gains. Gold futures pared gains
after rising as much as 1.2 percent to $1,794.40. Treasury
yields traded near three-week lows.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 a month earlier, surpassing
the median economist estimate and the level of 50 that signals
growth. Banks helped lead gains in Europe after Spanish stress
tests revealed a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros ($76
billion), less than the 100 billion-euro bailout the country was
awarded to shore up its banks.  “The fact that manufacturing is beginning to recover will
significantly reduce fears of a potential U.S. recession,” said
 James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-
based Wells Capital Management. His firm oversees about $325
billion. “Fears regarding the  euro zone  have been diminishing
in recent months and today represents another positive move in
that direction.”  Economic Reports  Reports today showed euro-area manufacturing contracted
less than initially estimated in September, Markit Economics
said today. Chinese factory output weakened for a second month
and big Japanese manufacturers became more pessimistic in the
last quarter, according to the findings of official surveys.
Unemployment in the euro area reached the highest on record.  The  S&P 500  rebounded after last week sliding 1.3 percent,
its worst retreat since the week ended June 1. Consumer-staples,
health-care, energy and financial shares led gains in the
benchmark  index (SPX)  for U.S. equities today as six of its 10 main
groups advanced.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advanced 2.8 percent after
Barron’s predicted that the stock will rise as much as 25
percent within a year as  capital markets  improve. Ceradyne Inc.
jumped 43 percent after 3M Co. agreed to buy the company for
$860 million to expand its energy unit. Monster Worldwide Inc.,
the Internet recruiting service that is exploring a sale,
increased 4.1 percent after DealReporter said the company is in
talks with a private equity bidder.  Apple Retreats  Apple, the biggest company by market value, lost 1.2
percent to extend last week’s 4.7 percent drop, its first weekly
decline since July. As it retreated, the S&P 500 trimmed an
earlier gain of as much as 1.1 percent.  “Apple is a real market mover,”  Alan Gayle , a senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees about $47 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “Its fundamentals are in place, but after such a big
run, we’re a seeing a breather. In the U.S., manufacturing data
has limited the downside risk. Yet the market is still saying
‘show me’ and waiting for other data points.”  The S&P 500 may climb to a record 1,585 next year as
economic growth improves amid stimulus efforts by global central
banks, said John Stoltzfus, Oppenheimer & Co.’s chief investment
strategist. The strategist’s forecast implies a 10 percent rally
in the S&P 500 from the Sept. 28 close of 1,440.67.  Wall Street strategists so far are unanimous in predicting
the S&P 500 will reach a record next year, according to the four
firms that have made predictions out of 14 tracked by Bloomberg.
Stoltzfus’ estimate is higher than the 1,575 level called for by
Bank of Montreal’s Brian Belski while lower than predictions of
1,600 by Bank of America Corp.’s Savita Subramanian and 1,615 by
Tobias Levkovich at Citigroup Inc.  September Returns  Emerging markets  led global stocks to the fourth monthly
gain in September, the longest streak since 2007, handing equity
investors better returns than bonds, commodities and the dollar
and pushing them ahead for the year.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities increased 3.2
percent last month including dividends, bringing its 2012 gain
to 13 percent. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of commodities
slid 1.4 percent, trimming its yearly advance to 3.5 percent,
while the U.S. Dollar Index lost 1.6 percent. Bonds of all types
returned 0.31 percent, on average, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Unprecedented steps by central bankers to fix the slowest
global growth since 2009 have sent investors to equities. The
U.S. Federal Reserve pledged on Sept. 13 a third round of asset
purchases to revive the economy after unemployment stayed above
8 percent for 44 months. The  European Central Bank  announced an
unlimited bond-buying program last month, the  Bank of Japan 
unexpectedly expanded its asset-purchase fund and India’s
central bank lowered the  cash reserve ratio  for lenders.  Bernanke Speaks  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today renewed a pledge to
sustain record stimulus even after the U.S. expansion gains
strength, while saying policy makers don’t expect the economy to
remain weak through 2015.  “We expect that a highly accommodative stance of monetary
policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the
economy strengthens,” Bernanke said today in the text of a
speech in Indianapolis. Policy makers’ forecast to hold the main
 interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2015 “doesn’t mean
that we expect the economy to be weak through” that year.  Commodity Movers  The S&P GSCI added 0.2 percent as 16 of 24 commodities
advanced. Oil increased 0.3 percent to $92.48 a barrel in New
York. Sugar, natural gas and coffee rose more than 2.5 percent
while wheat, cocoa and soybeans led declines.  All but one of 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600 advanced
as the gauge rebounded from last week’s 2.7 percent plunge, the
biggest decline since June 1. Xstrata Plc rose 2.4 percent in
London trading after its board recommended shareholders accept a
$33 billion takeover offer by Glencore International Plc.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  gained almost 3 percent as the
 International Air Transport Association  raised its 2012 global
airline profit forecast by 37 percent. International
Consolidated Airlines Group climbed 3.6 percent. Credit Agricole
SA advanced 7.4 percent after entering exclusive talks to sell
Emporiki Bank, its unprofitable Greek unit, to Alpha Bank SA.  ‘Another Hurdle’  Banks in the Stoxx 600 climbed 2.2 percent as a group and
contributed the most to the index’s advance.  “The stress tests are another hurdle overcome in easing
the sovereign-debt crisis,” said  Henk Potts , an equity
strategist at Barclays Plc in London. “It’s absolutely right to
rally on the back of the tsunami of stimulus we have seen.”  Unemployment in the economy of the 17 nations using the
euro was 11.4 percent in August, the same as in June and July
after those months’ figures were revised higher. An Oct. 5
report is forecast to show the U.S. jobless rate rose to 8.2
percent last month from 8.1 percent in August, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated.  Spain’s securities pared last week’s declines after Moody’s
Investors Service said the recapitalization of the nation’s
banks was positive for its  credit rating .  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell two basis points to 5.08
percent, while the rate on similar-maturity German bunds climbed
one basis point to 1.45 percent. The  yield  on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries lost two basis points to 1.61 percent.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.2886 and 0.3 percent to
100.51 yen. The shared currency earlier weakened 0.4 percent
against both.  Euro Manufacturing  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of  purchasing managers  was 46.1, a six-month high
and above an initial estimate of 46 on Sept. 20, according to
Markit. The index, which stood at 44 in July, has held for 14
months below 50, indicating contraction.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.4 percent as almost
two stocks fell for each that rose. Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s biggest carmaker by market value, lost 1.7 percent in
Tokyo. Financial markets in China,  Hong Kong  and  South Korea 
were closed for holidays.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was 49.8 in September
after a 49.2 reading in August, according to a report today by
the National Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing. In Japan, the Tankan index for large
manufacturers fell in the July-September quarter to minus 3 from
minus 1, the fourth negative reading, the Bank of Japan said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  