-- Asian Stocks Drop as China, Japan Data Signal Slowodown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-01T09:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/asian-stocks-drop-as-china-japan-data-signal-slowodown.html
Asian  stocks  dropped a second day
after  Japan ’s largest manufacturers became more pessimistic and
 China ’s factory output shrank for a second month amid a global
economic slowdown that has sapped export demand.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by market
value, fell 1.7 percent. Nippon Shokubai Co. plunged 13 percent
after a deadly fire shut output at one of the chemical maker’s
factories. BEC World Pcl,  Thailand ’s biggest publicly traded
television broadcaster, tumbled 20 percent after its chief
financial officer said the stock’s rally couldn’t be justified.
Arrium Ltd., an Australian iron ore producer, surged 25 percent
after rejecting a bid from companies led by Noble Group Ltd.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.4 percent to 121.98
as of 6:30 p.m. in Tokyo. About two shares fell for each that
rose on the gauge, with markets in China,  Hong Kong  and South
Korea closed for holidays. The regional benchmark slid 0.9
percent in the previous two weeks amid concern political discord
would keep  Europe  from resolving its debt crisis.  “People still have to downgrade their assumptions for
economic growth, and that will probably flow through the next
quarter or next half in lower profit assumptions for
companies,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Given markets
are closed in many parts, I think we are probably in for a
relatively quiet, but soft start to the week.”  Japanese Cabinet  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slipped 0.8 percent. Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  appointed Koriki Jojima the fifth
finance minister in three years as part of a cabinet reshuffle
ahead of an election that may come by the end of the year.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.5 percent and Singapore’s
Straits Times Index slipped 0.2 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index was little changed, with volume 52 percent below the 30-
day average as many businesses were closed for a public holiday.
 India ’s Sensitive Index added 0.3 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent
today. The index dropped 0.5 percent in  New York  on Sept. 28,
capping the biggest weekly loss since June, after reports showed
business activity contracted in September and  consumer spending 
stalled in August. Data due Oct. 5 is expected to show the
jobless rate increased last month.  Exporters Drop  Exporters declined as reports from South Korea, India,
China and Japan pointed to a regional slowdown. Indian
manufacturing growth held at a nine-month low in September, a
private survey showed, while South Korean exports fell for a
third month. China’s purchasing managers’ index signaled for a
second month that manufacturing is contracting, the first time
that’s happened since 2009.  Japan’s Tankan index of sentiment among large industrial
companies fell to minus 3, posting a negative reading for a
fourth quarter, the  Bank of Japan  said today. A number below
zero figure means pessimists outnumber optimists.  Toyota dropped 1.7 percent to 2,989 yen in Tokyo.  AU
Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s second-largest maker of liquid crystal
displays, sank 1.9 percent to NT$10.40 in Taipei.  Creative
Technology Ltd., a maker of music players that compete with
Apple Inc.’s iPod, slid 1.5 percent to S$3.25 in Singapore.  Nippon Shokubai, which supplies a third of the global
market for chemicals used in diapers, slumped 13 percent to 757
yen in Tokyo, the most since October 1987, after a fire at its
western Japan factory on Sept. 29 led to a death and stopped
output.  Unjustified Rally  BEC World plunged 20 percent to 61.50 baht in Bangkok, the
most on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The Stock Exchange of
Thailand should investigate a last minute trade that caused a 30
percent rally on BEC World’s shares on Sept. 28, Chatchai
Thiamtong, the company’s CFO said in a phone interview today.
The gain wasn’t justified because the company has no news or
information that could have affected the share price, he said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 7.1 percent this year,
compared with a 15 percent gain on the  S&P 500  and an 9.8
percent increase on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. The Asian
benchmark  traded  at 12.8 times estimated earnings compared with
13.9 for the S&P 500 and 11.9 for the Stoxx 600.  PAL Holdings Inc. tumbled 15 percent to 6.40 pesos in
Manila after the Philippine Star newspaper reported unit
Philippine Airlines is in talks to buy a regional airline,
citing PAL President Ramon Ang. Ang couldn’t be reached for
comment.  “The market doesn’t think it’s rational for the company to
be making these huge investments until its house cleanup is
completed and its return to profit is sustained,” said James
Lago, head of research at Manila-based PCCI Securities Brokers
Corp.  Among stocks that advanced, Arrium jumped 25 percent to 68
Australian cents. The company rejected an offer from a
consortium led by Noble Group and Posco Australia Pty. to buy
its shares at 75 Australian cents apiece, saying the offer
“undervalues Arrium.”  Olympus Corp. gained 1.3 percent to 1,540 yen in  Tokyo 
after Sony Corp. announced plans to invest 50 billion yen ($642
million) in the endoscope maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  