-- Asmussen Doubts ECB Ready to Start Supervision in January
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-01T18:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/asmussen-doubts-ecb-ready-to-start-supervision-in-january.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said he doubts the central bank will be
ready to assume its role as a single banking supervisor by
January as many of the proposals are still “half-baked.”  While all the European agencies involved are working hard
to show that the region can learn from the crisis and act
swiftly, “it’s just as important to ensure the new supervisory
structure is built on firm and sound foundations,” Asmussen
said in a speech in Vienna.  Rushing into the new role “risks harming the reputation of
the ECB” if nothing has changed substantially yet, Asmussen
said. “Therefore it’s doubtful that we’ll meet the target date
of January 1, 2013.”  The European Union last month unveiled proposals for euro-
area bank oversight that require unprecedented cooperation
between the ECB and national regulators. The Frankfurt-based ECB
should expand its role as financial-system guardian by becoming
the top-level supervisor for all 6,000 lenders in the 17-nation
currency bloc.  “I want to make something clear to all those who are
angling for a possible direct bank recapitalization via the
European Stability Mechanism and are prepared to go with a half-
baked solution for the banking supervision: not with us. We
won’t sacrifice the ECB’s reputation for this,” Asmussen said.  EU leaders called for a single supervisor in June as a
condition of bailout assistance directly to euro-area banks.
Such a mechanism would be designed to decouple government
funding to prop up failing lenders, breaking the link between
sovereign and banking debt that has been blamed for compounding
the crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  