-- Aussie Dollar Touches 1-Year Low Against Kiwi Before RBA
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-10-01T06:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/aussie-dollar-touches-1-year-low-against-kiwi-before-rba.html
Australia ’s dollar touched the lowest
in more than a year against its  New Zealand  peer before the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia holds a policy meeting tomorrow.  The so-called Aussie fell to a three-week low against the
greenback as swaps indicate a 86 percent chance the RBA will cut
 interest rates  by 25 basis points. New Zealand’s dollar, the
kiwi, weakened as global stock losses damped demand for riskier
assets. Declines in the South Pacific currencies were limited as
a gauge showing a contraction in China’s manufacturing added to
speculation the nation will expand stimulus.  “The stage is set for a few days of volatility in the
Aussie dollar,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank
of New Zealand in Wellington. “We’re looking for the RBA to
ease monetary policy over the next six months. They could choose
to get ahead of the curve by cutting tomorrow.”  Australia’s currency touched NZ$1.2469, the lowest since
September 2011, before trading at NZ$1.2501 as of 4:15 p.m. in
Sydney, little changed from the close on Sept. 28. The Aussie
fell 0.3 percent to $1.0348 from the end of last week, after
touching $1.0326, the lowest since Sept. 11. It lost 0.4 percent
to 80.58 yen.  The New Zealand dollar slid 0.3 percent to 82.78 U.S. cents
and weakened 0.4 percent to 64.46 yen.  China PMI  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.5 percent, following a 2
percent decline in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  last week. The
Australian Stock Exchange operated normal hours today, while
much of the country was closed for a public holiday.  Australian  government bonds  were little changed with 10-
year yields at 2.97 percent.  A private gauge today showed Australian manufacturing
contracted at a faster pace in September as employment fell and
new orders shrank for a seventh month. The manufacturing index
fell to 44.1 from 45.3 in August, the Australian Industry Group
and PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released today. A
reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  Consumer prices  rose  2.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the
Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today showed. That is
near the middle of the RBA’s 2 percent to 3 percent target.  In China, a purchasing managers’  index  of manufacturing was
at 49.8 in September, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
rise to 50.1. China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and
New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  “We’d expect the  reserve requirements  to be going down,”
 Richard Jerram , chief economist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. A cut in the reserve
requirement ratio “seems to be long overdue.”  China’s money-market rate on Sept. 28 completed the biggest
weekly drop in 11 months after the nation’s central bank added a
record amount of funds to the financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  