-- Aussie Weakens Amid RBA Rate-Cut Speculation; N.Z. Dollar Falls
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-01T21:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/aussie-weakens-amid-rba-rate-cut-speculation-n-z-dollar-falls.html
The Australian dollar reached the
lowest level in three weeks against its U.S. counterpart amid
speculation the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will cut  interest
rates  at a policy meeting today.  The Aussie weakened as swaps indicated an 82 percent chance
the RBA will lower its benchmark rate by a quarter-percentage
point to 3.25 percent. A private gauge showed yesterday
Australian manufacturing contracted at a faster pace in
September as employment fell and new orders shrank for a seventh
month. New Zealand’s dollar declined for a second day against
the greenback as appetite for riskier assets slipped.  “The Australian dollar undulated according to the whims of
the market’s risk appetite,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst
in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., wrote yesterday in a note to clients.
“Tuesday’s  Reserve Bank of Australia  rate decision should bring
a swift end to the Aussie’s doldrums.”  Australia’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.0361
yesterday in New York after earlier reaching $1.0326, its lowest
level since Sept. 11, and rising to $1.0404. It declined 0.1
percent to 80.81 yen after falling earlier to 80.46 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, weakened 0.3
percent to 82.76 U.S. cents. The kiwi slipped 0.2 percent to
64.56 yen.  China Stimulus  Declines in the two South Pacific currencies were limited
as a gauge showing a contraction in  China ’s manufacturing added
to speculation the nation will expand stimulus to spur growth in
the world’s second-largest economy.  A purchasing managers’  index  of manufacturing was at 49.8
in September, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said. The median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a rise to 50.1.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-largest export market.  The  New Zealand dollar  has strengthened 4.6 percent this
year, the biggest increase among the 10 developed-nation
currencies monitored by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The Aussie has fallen 0.9 percent, and the greenback is
down 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  