-- Austria Court Jails Ex-Haider Allies Over Kickbacks: APA
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-10-01T19:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/austria-court-jails-ex-haider-allies-over-kickbacks-apa.html
An Austrian regional court convicted
former allies of the late Austrian politician Joerg Haider in a
trail over kickbacks linked to the sale of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG in 2007,  Austria  Press Agency reported, citing
Judge Manfred Herrnhofer.  Former conservative politician Josef Martinz, who stepped
down in July after saying he and Haider agreed to divvy up
kickbacks, was sentenced to 5 and a half years of jail time, APA
cited the jury at the Regional Court of Klagenfurt as saying.
Tax consultant Dietrich Birnbacher, who confessed in court that
his 6 million-euro ($7.7 million) fee was excessive, was
sentenced to three years, while Hans-Joerg Megymorez and Gert
Xander, who at the time led Carinthia’s holding company that
paid the fee, were sentenced to three and to two years
respectively, APA said.  Hypo Alpe, once owned by Haider’s Carinthia province,
caused 3.7 billion euros of losses at BayernLB when Austria
nationalized it in 2009. The lender, which expanded in the 2000s
to become one of the biggest banks in the former  Yugoslavia , has
cost Austrian taxpayers at least 700 million euros since the
nationalization. Austrian and German prosecutors have been
investigating since 2009 how former managers and investors
contributed to the losses.  BayernLB bought its initial 50 percent stake in Hypo Alpe
for 1.63 billion euros from Carinthia, insurer Grazer
Wechselseitige and a group of investors led by Tilo Berlin.  The verdicts are not final as Martinz, Megymorez and Xander
said they will appeal, Kleine Zeitung newspaper said in its live
blog from the court. Birnbacher’s lawyer asked for three days to
consider whether to challenge the verdict, Kleine said.  The Klagenfurt court was investigating whether the fee paid
by Carinthia’s state asset holding company to the tax
consultant, Birnbacher, was appropriate. Birnbacher confessed
last month that the fee, which had initially been 12 million
euros and was halved after it became public in 2008, had been
excessive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  