-- Australia TD Inflation Gauge Rises Toward Midpoint of RBA Target
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-01T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/australia-td-inflation-gauge-rises-toward-midpoint-of-rba-target.html
A private gauge of Australian annual
inflation rose in September to near the middle of the central
bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target as the costs of fruit and
vegetables advanced.  Consumer prices increased 2.4 percent last month from a
year earlier, an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the
Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today showed. Prices rose
0.2 percent from August, when they gained 0.6 percent.  Investors are pricing in a greater-than-80-percent chance
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
will cut the nation’s benchmark interest rate by a quarter
percentage point to 3.25 percent at tomorrow’s policy meeting.
That contrasts with a majority of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  including  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research for TD Securities, predicting a fourth-straight pause.  “Tomorrow’s RBA meeting will be a close call, but on
balance we think the cash rate will be left unchanged,” said
Singapore-based Beacher. “Waiting for another monthly data
suite is prudent,” she said, referring to coming releases
including Australian third-quarter inflation and gross domestic
product for China.  Today’s inflation gauge release from TD Securities showed
fruit and vegetables prices rose 6.3 percent in September.
Prices also climbed for local holiday travel and accommodation,
and automotive fuel prices. The cost of rents, footwear, and
audio, visual and computing equipment and services declined, the
gauge showed.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  