-- Australia in Talks With California to Link Emission Programs
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-01T20:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/australia-california-start-talks-to-link-emission-markets.html
Australia  said it agreed to work with
the state of  California  to promote global emission markets.  Mark Dreyfus, Australia’s secretary for climate change and
energy efficiency, has set up an “ongoing working
relationship” with the California Environmental Protection
Agency and the California Air Resources Board, according to a
release from his office yesterday. Dreyfus is in the U.S. for
clean energy and climate talks, according to the release.  The largest U.S. state has been at the forefront of
American efforts to reduce carbon pollution, said Dreyfus, who
is attending the Major Economies Forum on Climate and Energy in
New York. California’s cap-and-trade program starts on Jan. 1,
2013, and its first auction of carbon allowances is scheduled
for November.  Australia began charging about 300 of its largest emitters
a fixed price of A$23 ($24) a metric ton for their greenhouse
gas emissions on July 1. The country is scheduled to start a
cap-and-trade system in 2015. It abandoned an attempt to set a
minimum price for carbon permits and announced Aug. 28 it was
linking to the European Union market, laying the groundwork for
global emissions trading.  ‘Share Experience’  California’s air resources board isn’t actively considering
a link to Australia’s program that would allow companies in the
two jurisdictions to trade carbon allowances and offsets across
borders, Dave Clegern, a spokesman for the board in  Sacramento ,
said by e-mail.  “We’re more focused on learning from each other at this
point as we inaugurate our programs,” Clegern said. “The
ongoing relationship with Australia provides us both with the
opportunity to share experience and information as our programs
develop.”  California is also in talks with the Mexican state of
Chiapas about partnering in efforts to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, Mary Nichols, chairman of the air board, said during
an interview in Bloomberg’s San Francisco office Aug. 13. The
discussions probably won’t result in a “full linkage” with the
state’s emissions markets, she said at the time.  The air board expects to submit a proposal to California
Governor Jerry Brown this year to form joint emissions markets
with the Canadian province of  Quebec . The province, which
releases about one-sixth the greenhouse gases that California
does, would become the first jurisdiction to link systems with
the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Anderson in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  