-- Auto-Loan Rates at Record Lows Helps Drive Sales in U.S.
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-10-01T20:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/auto-loan-rates-at-record-lows-helps-drive-sales-in-u-s-.html
When it comes to car loans, money is
cheap -- historically cheap.  Yogesh Mathur discovered that when he was in the market for
a minivan for his baby-on-the-way. To keep his monthly bill
reasonable, the Wheeling, Illinois, software engineer figured he
would have to come up with a large down payment. Instead, Mathur
got money for free: a no-interest, 60-month loan from  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  to purchase a $27,683 Sienna minivan. Mathur figures
the free financing is saving him $1,000 to $3,000.  “It’s great,” Mathur, 32, said in a telephone interview.
“I didn’t have to empty out my pockets just before a new baby
is coming.”  Banks, bolstered by loose monetary policy, are charging
U.S. consumers the lowest interest rates on new-car loans since
the Federal Reserve began surveying them in 1971. Attractive
rates helped spur a 9.5 percent jump in light-vehicle sales last
month and maintained the fastest pace since the U.S.
government’s “cash for clunkers” program three years ago,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In addition to Toyota,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Chrysler Group LLC and Nissan Motor Co. also are offering zero-
percent financing on some models, according to Edmunds.com.  “There’s no question that the quantitative easing and the
pressure on interest rates has helped the industry,” said Paul Ballew, chief economist at Dun & Bradstreet in Short Hills, New
Jersey. “It’s absolutely breathtaking to think about not just
zero-for-60 programs, but just base interest rates. It’s
insane.”  Credit Scores  Buyers with lower credit scores are also benefiting from
more-affordable loans. Sales to B-tier buyers, those with credit
scores of 650 to 679, have risen 26 percent this year, compared
with a 7 percent rise in sales to those with A-plus credit, or
scores from 790 to 999, said Thomas King, senior director at
researcher J.D. Power & Associates.  Availability and affordability of auto financing is
improving faster than home mortgage rates are falling, said
Diane Swonk, chief economist with Mesirow Financial in  Chicago .
That helps explain why auto sales are coming back faster than
the housing market, she said.  U.S. light-vehicle sales probably rose 9.5 percent in
September to 1.15 million, the average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The seasonally adjusted annualized  rate 
may accelerate to 14.5 million, the average estimate of 16
analysts, from 13.1 million a year earlier.  Sales Pace  The industry selling pace was 14.5 million in August, the
best since August 2009, when the U.S. government offered
incentives for buyers to exchange older vehicles for new models.  Buyers such as Mathur may have helped Toyota lead the
industry in boosting sales by 36 percent last month, the average
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sienna was one
of seven models, including the Corolla compact car and RAV4
sport-utility vehicle, for which the Toyota City, Japan-based
automaker offered zero percent financing in September.  Industrywide deliveries this year through August climbed 15
percent to 9.71 million, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. The industry is on pace to exceed
14 million sales this year, the best total since 2007.  Banks reported the most common rate for a 48-month new-car
loan was  4.87 percent  in May, the most recent reporting period.
The rates have dropped from more than 7 percent before the Fed
lowered its target interest rate to zero in December 2008 and
undertook large-scale asset purchases to try to boost growth.
The Fed last month committed to a third round of quantitative
easing, with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt per month.  Japanese Rebound  Honda, rebounding along with Toyota from last year’s supply
shortages caused by the tsunami in  Japan , probably boosted sales
in September by 26 percent, the average of eight estimates.  GM may have increased deliveries by 2.8 percent, the
average of 11 estimates. GM is offering no-interest loans on the
2012 Chevrolet Cruze, Cadillac SRX, Buick Enclave and several
other models, according to Edmunds. GM rose 1.5 percent to
$23.09 at the close in New York. The shares have climbed 14
percent this year. Ford gained 0.7 percent today to $9.93.  Ford, which is offering no-interest loans on 2012 F-150
pickups as well as Mustang and Focus car models, may have
boosted sales by 2.3 percent, the average of 11 estimates.
Chrysler deliveries may have risen 6.3 percent. The automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F)  is offering zero-percent financing on
2012 Chrysler 300 sedans, Dodge Durango sport-utility vehicles
and Grand Caravan minivans, according to Edmunds.  ‘Huge Value’  Sales of Fiat’s 500 small car began gaining momentum in
part because the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker began
offering zero-percent financing about a year ago, said Tim Kuniskis, head of the Fiat brand in North America.  “It’s a huge value to the customer and is something that a
customer can really understand,” Kuniskis said in an interview
last week at the Paris Motor Show.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , both based in
 Seoul , may combine to sell 9.1 percent more vehicles in
September than a year earlier, the average of six analysts’
estimates. Hyundai has an interest-free financing offer on the
2012  Santa Fe  SUV, Sonata and Genesis sedans, among other
models, Edmunds said.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which is targeting more than 500,000 vehicle
sales in the U.S. this year, may have increased combined
deliveries of its Volkswagen and Audi brands by 30 percent in
September, the average of four analysts’ estimates. Wolfsburg,
Germany-based VW is offering no-interest loans on the Tiguan and
Touareg SUVs, as well as the Passat, Jetta and Golf cars,
Edmunds said.  Free Loans  Nissan’s deliveries may have slipped 2.1 percent, the
average of eight estimates. Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan is
offering free financing on its Altima sedan, as well as its
Murano, Pathfinder and Armada SUVs, according to Edmunds.  More than one in 10 auto loans written in August featured a
zero percent interest rate, the highest level of the year,
according Edmunds. The average interest rate on auto loans fell
to 4.1 percent in August, the lowest of the year.  “If you’re financing a vehicle, you’re talking about
record-low rates, rates we’ve never seen before,” said Ballew,
a former sales analyst for GM and economist for the Federal
Reserve. “The fact that the Fed is being aggressive at least in
the near term on the margin helps the industry.”  Improved credit conditions also are allowing consumers to
opt for longer-term loans to keep monthly payments affordable.
New-vehicle loans of 60 months or more accounted for 32 percent
of retail sales this year through August, according to J.D.
Power. That’s an all-time high and up from 26 percent in 2009,
according to the Westlake Village, California-based researcher.  More Financing  With car prices rising, more people are financing their
purchases. This year through August, 59 percent of car buyers
took out a loan, compared with 53 percent in 2007, according to
J.D. Power. Leasing, which also becomes more affordable as the
cost of money drops, grew to 21 percent of sales, up from 13
percent in 2009, J.D. Power said.  The average monthly loan payment on a car fell to $462 this
year from $483 in 2007, as the average price of a car has risen
to $32,384, from $30,880 five years ago, according to J.D.
Power. The average lease payment has also fallen to $419 this
year, from $479 in 2007. Payments are down because of declining
interest rates and longer loan terms, J.D. Power said.  “We’re starting to see folks with lower credit scores come
back and they have a higher tendency to take extended loan
terms,” J.D. Power’s King said in a telephone interview. “The
prices people are paying for vehicles are higher now, so longer-
term loans are an important way to make them affordable.”  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from September 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally
adjusted annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light
vehicles.  September had 25 selling days, the same as the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  