-- MLB’s Final Days Decide Three Playoff Spots, Four Divisions
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-01T19:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/mlb-s-final-days-have-three-playoff-spots-four-divisions-open.html
Three playoff slots and four division
titles remain up for grabs as the Major League Baseball season
reaches its final three games, adding late-season drama for the
second consecutive season.  The second wild card spot, a new addition this season, is
undecided in both the  American League  and National League, can
be clinched tonight by the Oakland Athletics and defending-
champion St. Louis Cardinals. The other undetermined playoff
spot, currently held by the AL Central-leading Detroit Tigers
can also be secured tonight.  The tight races in both leagues could produce late-season
drama similar to last season, when two playoff spots came down
to the final day.  “It’s not over yet,” Detroit relief pitcher Jose Valverde
said yesterday on the team’s website. “I want to win already,
but you never know. Baseball is so crazy.”  The  New York Yankees  (92-67), Baltimore Orioles (92-67) and
 Texas Rangers  (93-66) all secured playoff spots with victories
yesterday, though none has clinched a division title. The
Rangers have a two-game lead over the Athletics (91-68) and can
secure the division with a win tonight in Oakland.  The Yankees and Orioles are tied atop the AL East as New
York begins a three-game series at home against the  Boston Red
Sox . CC Sabathia is scheduled to pitch tonight against Boston’s
 Clay Buchholz .  One-Game Playoff  If the Yankees and Orioles remain even after 162 games,
they’ll have a one-game playoff Oct. 4 in Baltimore for the
division title, with the loser taking a wild card spot. New York
has 1-to-2 odds to win the division, according to Pregame.com’s
RJ Bell, meaning a $100 bet would return $50 plus the original
investment.  “Every game is like it’s a playoff game right now,”
Yankees catcher  Russell Martin  said yesterday. “That’s our
attitude.”  The Rangers, runner-up in each of the last two  World
Series , are the favorites at 4-to-1 to win the championship this
season, followed by the NL Central-champion Cincinnati Reds
(96-63) and Yankees at 11-to-2, according to online sports book
Bovada.lv. The  Washington Nationals  (96-63) are fourth at 6-
to-1, and Tigers, who are yet to clinch a postseason spot, are
fifth at 7-to-1.  Detroit (86-73) can clinch the AL Central title with one
win in its final three games or a single Chicago White Sox
(83-76) loss. Should the Tigers lose three straight to the
 Kansas City Royals  and the White Sox sweep the  Cleveland
Indians , the two would meet for a one-game playoff.  New Postseason  The Cardinals, one of the teams that secured a playoff spot
on the final day of the 2011 season, currently hold a two-game
lead over the  Los Angeles Dodgers  for the NL’s second wild card.
The team’s ’magic number’ is two, meaning it clinches the spot
with any combination of wins or Dodgers losses that add up to
two.  Under the league’s new postseason schedules, the two wild
card winners in each league play a one-game playoff, followed by
the traditional divisional series.  “The enthusiasm for the 10-team structure among our clubs,
fans and partners has been overwhelming,” MLB commissioner  Bud Selig  said when the new format was announced. “This change
increases the rewards of a division championship and allows two
additional markets to experience playoff baseball each year, all
while maintaining the most exclusive postseason in professional
sports.”  Nationals Title  The Athletics, who hold a three-game lead in the race for
the AL’s second wild card, can secure a playoff spot today with
a win at home against Texas or losses for the Los Angeles Angels
and Tampa Bay Rays. The Angels travel to play the  Seattle
Mariners ; the Rays play on the road against the Orioles.  The Nationals hold a three-game NL East lead over the
 Atlanta Braves , who have already clinched at least the league’s
top wild card spot. A single Washington win or Braves loss would
secure the first divisional title in 18 years for the Nationals
franchise, which has held at least a share of the NL East lead
since May 22.  “Now that we’re down to that last one, this is what we’ve
been shooting for from Day 1,” Nationals manager  Davey Johnson 
said on the team’s website. “I really like the energy level on
our ballclub during the games leading up to this one. It’s been
great.”  -- Editor: Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  