-- Baht Rally Stalls on China, Japan Slowdown Concern; Bonds Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-10-01T09:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/baht-declines-on-china-japan-slowdown-concern-bonds-advance.html
Thailand ’s baht stalled following its
best quarter in two years after official reports today signaled
an economic slowdown is deepening in  China  and  Japan , the
nation’s biggest export markets. Bonds gained.  Chinese factory output  contracted  for a second month in
September and trailed economists’ forecasts, while sentiment
among large Japanese manufacturers worsened with pessimists
outnumbering optimists last quarter, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said.
Thai overseas sales shrank for a third month in August and a
slump in industrial production deepened, government reports
showed last month.  “The global economy remains in a fragile state and exports
will remain weak for a while,” said Tanawat Ruenbanterng, an
economist at Tisco Securities Co. in Bangkok. “We will have to
wait for next year to see some improvement,” given that global
stimulus measures will take time to have an impact, he said.  The baht traded at 30.80 per dollar as of 3:50 p.m. in
Bangkok, unchanged from Sept. 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, was little changed at 4.27
percent.  The currency rallied 3.1 percent last quarter, the most in
two years, after central banks in  Europe , the U.S. and Japan
announced plans to inject money into their economies by buying
more bonds.  Accelerating Inflation  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 49.8 in September
after a reading of 49.2 in August, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said. A level below 50 implies a contraction. The  Tankan index 
for large manufacturers fell in the July through September
quarter to minus 3 from minus 1, the fourth negative reading,
the Bank of Japan said.  Ten-year notes gained for a fifth day. The Commerce
Ministry cut its 2012 inflation forecast to between 3 percent
and 3.4 percent, versus a previous range of 3.3 percent to 3.8
percent, citing a cap on fuel prices.  Consumer prices rose 3.38 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with a 2.69 percent gain in August, the
Commerce Ministry said in Bangkok today. Economists forecast a
3.29 percent rise, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The yield on the government’s 3.65 percent bonds due
December 2021 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to a three-week low of 3.51 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield fell 17 basis points since Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  