-- Bair Blasts Geithner, ‘Culture of Greed,’ in Blunt Memoir
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2012-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/bair-blasts-geithner-culture-of-greed-in-blunt-memoir.html
Anyone who doubts that our financial
system remains a combustible stew of greed, inadequate
regulation and perverse incentives need look no further than
“ Bull by the Horns ,” a blunt new memoir from Sheila Bair, the
former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Bair piloted that agency through the darkest days of the
financial crisis, consistently advocating a tougher stance
toward the financial giants whose recklessness -- abetted by
slavish or inept regulators -- was responsible for the mess.  A feminist Republican, Bair believes passionately in the
importance of strong regulation and government service. She has
a wide populist streak, yet she’s also a capitalist, and she
understands banking.  Perhaps as a result of this unusual perspective, she’s
delivered an unusually blistering recollection of her five years
in office as well as a sobering assessment of the financial
system she helped oversee -- a system still infected by what
Bair calls “a culture of greed and shortsightedness.” It’s a
wonkish book -- be prepared to accompany the author as she re-
fights the Battle of  Basel II , for instance -- yet also an
endearing one.  Mortgage Mess  As a homeowner, Bair gets treated by a big bank just like
so many other Americans: It loses her mortgage paperwork, and
charges her 5.62 percent instead of 5.26 percent because of a
clerical error. When she tries to refinance, it keeps her $700
rate-lock fee without giving her the loan.  She wears $139 suits from Macy’s and owns up to an
occasional tantrum. Aboard Air Force One, she doesn’t hesitate
to stuff napkins or coasters in her bag as souvenirs.  Most of all, she demonstrates that “the relationship
between  Washington  and  Wall Street  had become too cozy.”  At one point, for instance, she implies that the  Federal
Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
essentially rigged a  stress test  in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s favor so
the company wouldn’t have to raise so much capital -- and lose a
$50 billion tax break.  Key banking chieftains during and after the crisis of 2008
come in for particular scorn.  Citigroup’s Bungling  Citigroup’s management is “bungling,” and Bair doubts
that its CEO, Vikram Pandit, is up to the job of running his
large, complex and (at the time) deeply troubled institution.  Kenneth Lewis , then CEO of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , was seen “as a country bumpkin” by the
city slickers who ran the big  New York  banks, “and not
completely without justification.”  At a crucial meeting with federal officials who were about
to “forcibly inject” capital into teetering financial
institutions, the question on the lips of Merrill Lynch & Co.
CEO  John Thain , whose firm appeared to be insolvent, was about
restrictions on executive compensation.  But these barbs are mere flea bites compared to the
fusillade that Bair directs at her nemesis, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner , who is portrayed as an enabler of Wall
Street recklessness and a tool of the big banks -- one devoted
in particular to the aid and comfort of Citigroup, where
“Geithner’s mentor and hero, Bob Rubin,” was a director.  Geithner’s Fault  In Bair’s book, Geithner symbolizes everything that was
wrong with the government’s approach to financial regulation and
crisis resolution. She finds him at least partly to blame,
during his tenure atop the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , for
letting the banks run wild.  She also blames him for what she sees as a wildly over-
generous series of bailouts, and later for opposing the kind of
tough  capital requirements  and other policies she and her agency
advocated.  On top of everything else, in Bair’s view, Geithner was
part of a boys’ club that studiously ignored her when important
decisions had to be made.  Bair is especially incensed by the bailouts. “What system
were we trying to save, anyway?” she asks. “A system in which
well-connected big financial institutions get government
handouts while smaller institutions and home owners are left to
fend for themselves?”  No Alternative  Yet like many ardent bailout critics, she could offer no
real alternative for saving all the little people who, for
better or worse, depended on the same economy imperiled by the
crisis. So, holding her nose, she went along with a bold program
that did in fact save the day -- and which she acknowledges was
unavoidable.  To her credit, she also pushed for a vast and sensible-
sounding program of mortgage modifications (her advice was
rebuffed), and later for elements in the Dodd-Frank reforms that
would make future bank rescues much tougher on shareholders,
managements and boards. Unfortunately, only time will tell if
the legislation, which strives to eliminate future bailouts, has
also eliminated the conditions that necessitated the last one.  Bair ends her book with some smart suggestions for making
the system safer and fairer, followed by a call to arms for
voters and taxpayers to demand reform: “Life goes on, as  Robert
Frost  observed. But financial abuse and misconduct don’t have
to.”  “Bull by the Horns: Fighting to Save Main Street From Wall
Street and Wall Street From Itself” is published by Free Press
(415 pages, $26.99). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Amanda Gordon 
on parties.  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in New York at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 