-- Baring Vostok Gets $1.5 Billion for Russia’s Largest Fund
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-01T11:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/baring-vostok-gets-1-5-billion-for-russia-s-largest-buyout-fund.html
Baring Vostok, the Russian private-
equity firm co-founded by former Salomon Brothers oil banker
Michael Calvey, has raised $1.5 billion, the largest amount
amassed for deals in  Russia .  Baring Vostok, whose biggest office is in Moscow, secured
$1.15 billion of commitments for its fifth main fund, Baring
Vostok Private Equity Fund V LP, and $350 million in a co-
investment fund, Calvey, 45, said in an interview. This is more
than the $1.3 billion raised in 2007 and more than the firm’s
initial target of $1.3 billion as it reached the limit of
investor pledges, or hard cap, he said.  Baring Vostok, headed by U.S.-born Calvey, Alexey Kalinin
and Elena Ivashentseva, is one of a handful of private-equity
firms that have attracted international backing for Russian
investments as investors prefer  emerging markets  such as  China 
or Brazil over Russia, which is still perceived as riskier and
more corrupt. Russia ranked 143rd out of 183 countries in the
2011 corruption perceptions index published by Transparency
International. China ranked 75th and Brazil 73rd.  “Many investors view Russia principally through what they
read or see in the news, which is mostly about politics,”
Calvey said. “The investors who dig deeper and visit the
country can see for themselves the dynamic business environment
and high quality of local entrepreneurs.”  Emerging Markets  The $1.5 billion Baring Vostok raised compares with $82
million amassed for private-equity deals in Russia in the first
half of this year and $135 million in 2011, according to data
compiled by the Washington-based  Emerging Markets Private Equity
Association . It compares with $7.08 billion raised for  Brazil 
and $16.6 billion for China last year, according to EMPEA.
Baring Vostok’s main competitors aren’t typical private-equity
firms, rather state-owned banks and oligarchs, Calvey said.  “This could be a real ice-breaker for other funds,”
Andreas Boesenberg, deputy global head of private equity at VTB
Capital, said by phone. “It seems we might be entering a new
cycle as we are seeing increasing unsolicited interest in Russia
from fund investors and direct investors.”  VTB Capital partnered with Texas-based TPG Capital, one of
the few global buyout firms with a presence in Russia, to
acquire control of supermarket chain Lenta LLC in 2011 for $1.1
billion after a yearlong dispute with another shareholder.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity firm,
last year named Dmitry Kushaev as its senior adviser in Russia.
VTB Capital, a unit of the nation’s second-biggest lender, is
“watching the space” for fundraising, Boesenberg said.  Russian Fund  Russia’s government, seeking to diversify the economy away
from energy, set up the so-called Russia Direct Investment Fund
about a year ago to promote private-equity deals and encourage
international firms such as Blackstone and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to invest with it. The effort has generated increased
interest in Russia from international buyout firms, less so from
limited partners, Calvey said.  Baring Vostok was started in 1994 as a joint venture
between Baring Asset Management and Sovlink, a Russian-American
merchant bank, and has since made about four times its money for
investors on average, Calvey said. Fund III, raised in 2004, is
marked up at 2.5 times the investments and Fund IV, from 2007,
is valued at 1.4 times, he said.  Volga, Yandex  The firm’s investments include stakes in oil and gas
exploration company  Volga Gas Plc (VGAS)  and  Yandex NV (YNDX) , operator of
Russia’s most popular Internet search engine, which was listed
on the Nasdaq Stock Market last year.  Baring Vostok took longer than the previous time to raise
its latest fund - about a year - and attracted 10 new investors
in the U.S., the Middle East and Asia out of 42 as some U.S.
pension funds decided not to invest again or at lower amounts,
Calvey said. Some public pension funds had reached their
allocation to private equity, he said. About 80 percent of
existing investors committed to the new fund for a similar
amount on average, compared with 90 percent of existing
investors for Fund IV, Calvey said.  Two of the dropouts include the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System and the Pennsylvania State
Employees’ Retirement System.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  