-- Bayer’s Stivarga Helps Colorectal Cancer Patients Live Longer
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-01T06:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/bayer-s-stivarga-helps-colorectal-cancer-patients-live-longer.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Stivarga, a drug to treat
advanced colorectal cancer that won U.S. regulatory approval
last week, helps patients live longer, a study showed.  In a trial of 760 people with colorectal cancer that
progressed after treatment with all other approved drugs, 24
percent of those receiving Stivarga were alive after a year,
compared with 17 percent of those getting a placebo, according
to data presented at the European Society of Medical Oncology’s
meeting in Vienna today.  Sales of the drug may reach $500 million as a treatment for
colorectal cancer and a rare form of gastrointestinal cancer,
said Alison Ayers, senior vice president of Bayer’s oncology
business unit. The company also plans to test Stivarga in  liver
cancer  and earlier stages of colorectal cancer which, if
successful, could boost sales to $1 billion, Ayers said.  “It shows that Bayer’s investment in oncology research is
really paying off,” she said in a telephone interview before
the conference.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved Stivarga,
also known as regorafenib, on Sept. 27 as a treatment for
patients with colorectal cancer that’s progressed after
treatment with other available drugs.  The data, from a Bayer-funded trial dubbed Correct, were
first presented at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology ’s
meeting in January. Today’s presentation confirmed that those
getting Stivarga survived a median 6.4 months from the start of
the trial, compared with 5 months among those getting a placebo.  Colorectal cancer is the third-most common cancer killer in
the U.S. in both men and women, according to Leverkusen,
Germany-based Bayer. More than 143,000 people will be diagnosed
with the disease this year, and nearly 52,000 will die, the
company said in a statement. The cancer spreads in about half of
all cases, most commonly to the liver.  Bayer agreed last year to pay U.S. biotechnology company
 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  a 20 percent royalty for the use of
Stivarga in oncology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  