-- Bets on Carney Rate Increase Scrapped as Canada Recovery Slows
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-01T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/bets-on-carney-rate-increase-scrapped-as-canada-recovery-slows.html
Investors have erased bets for  Bank
of Canada  rate increases through July after a report suggested
the economic recovery will take longer than Governor  Mark Carney 
predicts.  Trading in overnight index swaps on Sept. 28 showed that
 interest rate  increases had been almost completely priced out
for the July 2013 decision, compared with 4.4 points of
increases the day before and 17 points of rises on Sept. 19.  Carney is the only Group of Seven central banker signaling
a bias to raise interest rates because he forecasts the world’s
11th-largest economy will reach full output in the second half
of next year.  Canada ’s economy  grew  0.2 percent in July,
according to a Sept. 28 Statistics Canada report, suggesting
annualized third-quarter growth will be slower than the 2
percent the central bank predicted.  “The Governor has been clear we need to see an
acceleration in growth to something above potential to justify a
rate hike,” said Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Chief
Economist  Avery Shenfeld , who predicts no move until early 2014.
“The economy is cruising but not fast enough to reach its speed
limit.”  The economy will grow by 2.1 percent in 2013, according to
Bloomberg economist forecasts, slower than the central bank’s
forecast growth of 2.3 percent.  Below Trend  “Growth that is likely to spend the next couple of
quarters below trend reduces the urgency for the bank to hike,”
said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  At his last interest rate decision on Sept. 5, Carney
reiterated his intention to raise an interest rate that’s been
at 1 percent for two years, the longest period of unchanged
policy rates since the 1950s.  Other Canadian reports have shown little pressure for
Carney to raise interest rates soon.  Consumer prices  advanced
1.2 percent in August from a year ago, below the central bank’s
2 percent target, and realtor reports have signaled home price
increases are ebbing in major cities where Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  had said there were signs of overbuilding.  Statistics Canada’s gross domestic product report last week
showed declines in construction and activity by real estate
brokers and agents.  Carney and Flaherty have said that corporations should use
the hundreds of billions of dollars of cash on their balance
sheets to boost investment and foster the recovery. Government
stimulus and lower interest rates helped lead Canada out of a
global recession triggered by the 2008 financial crisis ahead of
other G-7 countries.  U.S. Exports  Canada sends three-quarters of its  exports  to the U.S.,
where the  Federal Reserve  last month expanded extraordinary
asset purchases to boost growth.  “As far as U.S. demand for Canadian exports, there isn’t a
whole lot of momentum,” Shenfeld of CIBC said.  Statistics Canada  said last week that mining and oil and
gas extraction fell 0.3 percent in July, the third straight
decline, led by a drop in crude production, Canada’s largest
export.  Canada’s fiscal situation, while better than many of its
peers in the Group of Seven nations, is still likely to be a
drag on growth. Flaherty said last week that international
events are threatening the country’s growth prospects.  “Canada is still growing, better than most, but we are not
immune to downside risks originating outside our country and the
economic challenges faced by some of our largest trading
partners,” Flaherty said in a speech in Ottawa.  Debt Issues  The country also “has to deal with the debt issues that
have been looming in Ontario and  Quebec ,” Dawn Farrell, chief
executive officer of utility  TransAlta Corp. (TA) , said in a Sept. 20
interview in Banff,  Alberta . “Things are coming off a bit in
the very, very short-term.”  Ontario and Quebec are Canada’s largest provincial
economies, with both governments seeking to curb budget
deficits. Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said last week
he is putting a ‘pause’ on public sector wages and cutting
spending.  One remaining source of strength for Canada is business
investment, which will probably stay strong as commodity prices
remain high, said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto. Policy makers have to remain
aware of the risks of keeping interest rates close to record
lows for a long time even if growth is “modest” in the near
term.  “Any tightening is going to be very gradual -- the Bank of
Canada doesn’t want to derail signs of improvement,” Ferley
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  