-- Billionaire Salinas Seeks Deposits, Longer Loans in U.S.
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-10-01T21:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/billionair-salinas-seeks-deposits-longer-loans-in-u-s-.html
Billionaire  Ricardo Salinas  said he
wants to offer no-fee banking deposits and longer-term loans to
low-income U.S. consumers, aiming to export his Latin American
business model to the world’s biggest economy.  “What we would like to do is have the same model we have
in all our other eight countries, a bank especially for people
at the bottom of the pyramid,” Salinas said today in an
interview in  Washington . “It’s a question of regulation, a
question of convincing the right authorities that this is
something that’s needed. We’re working on it.”  Salinas, 56, is looking for greater access to U.S.
consumers after his Grupo Elektra SA paid $655 million in April
to acquire Spartanburg, South Carolina-based payday lender
Advance America Cash Advance Centers Inc. to enter the market.  Salinas is the world’s 81st-richest person, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , with a fortune of $11.2
billion. He built his wealth by converting the company founded
by his grandfather into a retail and lending empire across  Latin
America , providing cash or goods such as refrigerators and
televisions to low-income consumers for interest that eventually
can cost as much as the loan itself.  Elektra Shares  While the loans require a high  interest rate  because of
their size and risk, they provide financial resources to a group
of people who wouldn’t otherwise have access to banking
services, Salinas has said.  “The bottom of the pyramid exists, even in the U.S.,” he
said today after a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
“It’s amazing the number of families that have been excluded
from the traditional financial system in the States. And with
this economic crisis even more families are in that situation.”  Elektra (ELEKTRA*) , based in Mexico City, is in the midst of a lawsuit
against Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB over the stock-exchange
operator’s decision to change the way it calculates the weight
of companies on its benchmark index. The changes, announced in
April, led to a decline in Elektra shares on concern the company
would drop out of the index. Elektra has a temporary restraining
order preventing the exchange from applying its new formula to
the company’s shares.  Televisa Partnership  “I want to protect my minority shareholders,” said
Salinas, whose family holds 70.5 percent of Elektra’s shares.
“I’m not selling my stock. I don’t care if it goes up or down,
but a lot of people were damaged by the wrong decision and we
believe we have the right and obligation to look out for them.”  He declined to comment further on the lawsuit.  “The stock exchange’s duty in designing the index is
precisely to protect every shareholder,” Bolsa Chief Executive
Officer Luis Tellez said in an interview today at the exchange.
The company’s weighting formula is meant to ensure companies
have “enough shares so that those shares can be acquired in the
market, and that’s basically what was done,” he said.  Elektra  rose  1.3 percent to 535.03 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The shares have dropped 61 percent this year.  The company  reported  sales of 32.2 billion pesos ($2.5
billion) through the first six months of this year, up 40
percent from a year earlier, as more Mexicans signed up for
loans at Elektra stores and Banco Azteca branches. Operating
profit surged 55 percent in the same span.  “I don’t see how we can saturate the market. It’s just so
huge,” Salinas said. “Our quality of our loan portfolio is
extremely good, so really it’s just a question of continuing
along those lines, and we’ll do really well.”  A partnership in  Mexico ’s wireless market with Grupo
Televisa SAB is “bearing fruit,” Salinas said. The billionaire
sold a 50 percent stake in mobile-phone company Grupo Iusacell
SA to Televisa earlier this year for $1.6 billion. He declined
to provide subscriber figures or goals for the Mexico City-based
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  