-- Brazil Swap Rates Decline as Analysts Cut 2013 Selic Forecast
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-10-01T21:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/brazil-swap-rates-decline-as-analysts-cut-2013-selic-forecast.html
Brazilian swap rates fell to a two-
month low after analysts cut their forecasts for benchmark
borrowing costs next year as faltering global growth cooled
inflation expectations for  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Brazil ’s benchmark Selic rate will be 8 percent at the end
of 2013, the lowest forecast this year, according to the median
estimate in a weekly central bank survey of about 100 analysts
published today, down from 8.25 percent last week. Policy makers
have reduced the benchmark 5 percentage points since August 2011
to a record low 7.5 percent.  The survey “shows a slightly more benign environment for
inflation,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based
Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone interview. “The
market believes there is room for borrowing costs to remain
permanently low in Brazil.”  Swap rate contracts maturing in January 2014 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.67 percent, at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo, the lowest level on a closing basis since
July 25. The real was little changed at 2.0268 per dollar.  Brazil’s HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index for the
manufacturing sector rose to 49.8 in September, compared with
49.3 in August, Markit Economics said today on its website. The
median estimate from three analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
was for 50. Industrial production rose 2 percent in August from
the month before, according to the median estimate of 36
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The national statistics agency
is scheduled to release the data tomorrow.  Economic Stimulus  Brazil has implemented the most aggressive borrowing-cost
cuts among G-20 nations, reduced bank reserve requirements and
extended tax cuts on payrolls and consumer goods to spur the
economy in the world’s second-biggest emerging market. Policy
makers said last week that the impact of fiscal policy on demand
has become “slightly expansionary,” limiting the room for
additional monetary stimulus.  The real fell earlier as data showing manufacturing
weakness in  Asia  outweighed an unexpected expansion in the U.S.
and Spanish bond gains, Perfeito said.  “European stocks are recovering, but the Asian currencies
and some commodities lost on Asian indicators,” he said.  A Chinese factory index was at 49.8 for September, the
first time it has been below 50 for two straight months since
2009, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing today.  Banks helped lead gains in European stocks after Spanish
stress tests reported a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros
($76.4 billion), less than the 100 billion euro bailout the
country was given for its banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  