-- California Gasoline at Record High on Exxon Upset, Pipeline Shut
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-01T21:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/california-gasoline-at-record-high-on-exxon-upset-pipeline-shut.html
Spot gasoline in  California  advanced
to a record against futures after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance
refinery lost power and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  shut an oil pipeline that
delivers crude to Bay Area refiners.  The 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance plant is scheduled to
flare gases through today, a filing with the  South Coast Air
Quality Management District  showed.  No one was injured by the “external power interruption”
at about 7:30 a.m. local time, “and refinery personnel are
assessing the situation,” Gesuina Paras, an Exxon spokeswoman
in Torrance, said by e-mail.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  jumped
30 cents to 75 cents a gallon above gasoline futures traded on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:16 p.m. East Coast time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the fuel’s
highest premium since at least November 2007, when Bloomberg
began pricing there.  Carbob in  San Francisco  gained 20 cents to 72 cents a
gallon over futures, also its highest level since at least 2007.  Chevron shut the Kettleman-Los Medanos, or KLM, pipeline
that carries crude from Kern County to Northern California
refineries operated by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  after detecting elevated levels of organic
chloride in the oil. The company plans to flush the 85,000-
barrel-a-day line before returning it to service, Gareth Johnstone, a spokesman at Chevron headquarters in San Ramon,
California, said by e-mail late Sept. 28.  Johnstone said in an e-mail today that the company is
“continuing to assess the situation.”  Phillips Work  Phillips 66 (PSX)  is performing planned work at the San Francisco
refinery complex, which includes plants in Rodeo and Arroyo
Grande, California,  Rich Johnson , a spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in Houston, said by e-mail. The 76,000-barrel-a-day
Rodeo plant was scheduled to shut a hydrocracker for a
turnaround, a person with knowledge of the work said Aug. 9.  The company is also expected to shut a hydrocracker at the
139,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery around Oct. 5 for a
turnaround that may last as many as six weeks, a person with
knowledge of the schedule said Sept. 6.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles rose 1
cent to 13.25 cents a gallon above heating oil futures on the
Nymex. The fuel in San Francisco was unchanged at a premium of
15 cents a gallon versus futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
increased 7.5 cents to 50 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures, the highest level since May. Low-sulfur diesel in
Portland increased 1.5 cents to 4 cents a gallon over heating
oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  