-- Canada Lifts Growth Estimates in 3-Decade Revision
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-01T16:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/canada-lifts-economic-growth-estimates-in-three-decade-revision.html
Canada’s economy grew faster over the
last year than previously estimated, according to three decades
of revisions  published  today by the country’s statistics agency.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.9 percent annualized
pace between April and June compared with the prior reading of
1.8 percent,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The fourth-
quarter growth rate was increased to 2.1 percent from 1.9
percent and the third quarter pace rose 1.3 percentage points to
5.8 percent. The changes add C$12 billion ($12.2 billion) to
output last year, taking it to C$1.762 trillion.  The revisions aren’t big enough to prompt a change in
course from Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  or Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
Toronto. Carney has kept his key  lending rate  at 1 percent for
more than two years and signaled his next move may be an
increase as the economy recovers.  “The effects aren’t huge,” and the economy remains
“pretty close to potential,” Chandler said by telephone. Other
indicators such as the  inflation  rate suggest Canada’s economy
still has slack, he said.  Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  said the central
bank will take the revised figures into account when it updates
its economic forecast later this month.  Updating Outlook  “We don’t provide real-time comments on the implications
for the outlook of each new piece of data as it comes out,”
Harrison said. “We are entering into the process of updating
our outlook for the October Monetary Policy Report and the
national accounts revisions, as well as all other data and
information, will be reflected in this revised outlook.”  Statistics Canada raised the average estimate for annual
economic growth over the last three decades by 0.14 percentage
points after adjusting for  inflation . The largest increase was
by 0.4 percentage point in 2008, before the last recession
began, and the largest drop was a 0.4-point subtraction in 1999.  The figures made “no substantial change” to the course of
the world’s 11th largest economy since 1981, Statistics Canada
said, while giving a more complete growth picture. The revisions
adjust the so-called national accounts to meet standards set in
2009 by groups including the  United Nations  and  International
Monetary Fund .  Deeper Recession  The report did show the recession from the end of 2008
through mid-2009 was steeper than earlier figures showed. The
economy shrank at annual rates of 1.1 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2008 and 2.2 percent in the first three months of
2009, versus prior readings of 0.9 percent and 2 percent,
Statistics Canada said.  The nominal level of 2007 gross domestic product was raised
by C$36.4 billion, or 2.4 percent of the total, the agency said.
The biggest reason for faster growth rates was the
reclassification of some military spending as investment,
Statistics Canada said. The agency set 2007 as the reference
year it will use to adjust output figures for inflation.  Household disposable income was lowered by C$45.1 billion,
or 5 percent of gross domestic product. Statistics  Canada 
shifted expenditures from households into new categories such as
non-profit organizations that serve households.  Other changes to the national accounts will be made over
the next few months, with revisions for labor productivity  due 
on Oct. 12. The last revision of this sort was done in 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  