-- Canada Aug. Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-01T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/canada-aug-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) edged down 0.1%
in August compared with July, largely the result of lower prices
for motor vehicles and other transportation equipment. The Raw
Materials Price Index (RMPI) rose 3.4% in August, mostly because
of higher prices for mineral fuels, specifically crude oil.  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI posted a fourth consecutive decline in August.
However, the decrease of the index was smaller than in the
previous three months. Of the 21 major commodity groups, 13 were
down while 4 were up.  The motor vehicles and other transportation equipment group
(-1.3%) made the largest contribution to the decline of the IPPI,
primarily due to lower prices for motor vehicles (-1.8%). The
increase in the value of the Canadian dollar against the US
dollar in August was largely responsible for the decline.  Some Canadian producers who export their products are
generally paid on the basis of prices set in US dollars.
Consequently, the 2.2% increase in the value the Canadian dollar
relative to the US dollar in August had the effect of reducing
the corresponding prices in Canadian dollars. Without the impact
of the exchange rate, the IPPI would have risen 0.4% instead of
falling 0.1%.  Downward pressure on the IPPI also came from primary metal
products (-0.8%), specifically lower prices for aluminum
products (-2.8%), copper and copper alloy products (-3.0%) and
nickel products (-5.2%).  Conversely, the decline of the IPPI was moderated mainly by
higher prices in the petroleum and coal products group (+3.4%),
especially fuel oils and other fuel (+4.4%) and gasoline (+2.5%).  The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal products fell 0.5% in
August.  Industrial Product Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with August 2011, the IPPI was down 0.3%. This was
the first year-over-year decrease of the index since March 2010.  The main contributor to the decline of the IPPI was the
primary metal products group (-10.7%), particularily other non-
ferrous metal products (-14.9%), aluminum products (-15.0%),
nickel products (-28.4%) and copper and copper alloy products (-
12.6%). Silver and platinum were largely responsible for the
decrease in other non-ferrous metal products.  Among the other major commodity groups that contributed to
the IPPI decline were chemical products and pulp and paper
products.  Compared with August 2011, the IPPI decline was moderated
primarily by lumber and other wood products (+7.0%),
specifically as a result of higher prices for lumber and ties.
The motor vehicles and other transportation equipment group was
also up on a year-over-year basis.  The 0.9% year-over-year decrease in the value of the
Canadian dollar against the US dollar moderated the IPPI decline.
Without the impact of the exchange rate, the IPPI would have
fallen 0.6% instead of 0.3%.  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  The RMPI rose 3.4% in August, the second consecutive
monthly increase, posting the largest gain since November 2011.  The increase in the RMPI was largely a result of higher
prices for mineral fuel (+9.1%), specifically crude oil (+9.8%).
The RMPI excluding mineral fuels was down 1.3% in August.  Among the other commodity groups, only vegetable products
(+0.1%) rose. The increase was mostly attributable to grains
(+4.3%), specifically corn, wheat and barley.  The advance in the RMPI was moderated by lower prices for
non-ferrous metals (-3.0%), pushed downward mainly by copper and
nickel concentrates as well as radioactive concentrates.  Raw Materials Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with August 2011, the RMPI fell 4.0%, the sixth
consecutive year-over-year decrease. Overall, five of the seven
major commodity groups were down.  The largest contributor to the decline of the index was
non-ferrous metals (-13.6%), particularly copper and nickel
concentrates (-17.2%) and other non-ferrous base metals (-21.1%).  Lower mineral fuel prices (-2.7%) also contributed to the
year-over-year decrease in the RMPI. Other commodity groups that
posted declines were ferrous materials, vegetable products, and
animals and animal products.  Compared with August 2011, the RMPI decline was slightly
moderated by wood products (+6.5%), specifically due to higher
prices for logs and bolts.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months (for
example, when the July index is released, the index for the
previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave the
plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike
the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and
all the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the
plant and the time the final user takes possession of it,
including transportation, wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially US dollars, which
are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular, this is
the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood products.
Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian dollar
against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the conversion
into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents provide
their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes into
account the full effect of exchange rates, since that is a more
difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot rate) established
by the  Bank of Canada  and is available on CANSIM in table 176-
0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the release, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices
paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of
those prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices
are denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  