-- Canadian Dollar Advances on U.S. Factory Data, Growth Revision
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-01T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/canadian-dollar-drops-versus-euro-as-china-manufacturing-slows.html
The Canadian dollar advanced against
most of its major peers as unexpected manufacturing gains for
the U.S.,  Canada ’s largest trading partner, spurred an advance
in stocks and positive risk sentiment.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, gained versus its
U.S. counterpart after Statistics Canada released revised
economic data showing faster growth than previously reported.
Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, advanced for a third day,
reversing earlier declines.  The U.S. manufacturing report “shows that factories are
not continuing to contract in the U.S. and the demand for raw
materials there is a positive for the Canadian economy and the
loonie,” Adam Button, a currency analyst in  Montreal  at
forexlive.com said in a phone interview. “When we see U.S.
stocks move higher, the Canadian dollar is going to make
gains.”  The loonie advanced 0.1 percent to 98.23 cents per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after gaining as much as 0.4
percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0178.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent, while
crude oil futures gained 0.2 percent to $92.35 a barrel in New
York, after falling as much as 1 percent in earlier trading.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options, the anticipated
price swings for the dollar-Canada exchange rate, rose to 7
percent, the highest close since Aug. 30. Implied volatility,
which traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the
expected pace of currency swings.  Government bonds rose, with the yield on the 10-year
government bond dropping one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.71 percent. The 2.75 security maturing in June 2022
added gained 13 cents to C$109.21.  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index
rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a reading of 49.7 for September, according to the
median of 76 forecasts.  Canada’s manufacturers’ raw material costs rose more than
forecast in August while the prices for their products declined,
Statistics Canada said today. The raw-materials price index
increased 3.4 percent in August and the gain topped all nine
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey that had a median estimate of a
1.2 percent gain.  Economic Revision  GDP grew at a 1.9 percent annualized rate between April and
June compared with the prior reading of 1.8 percent, Statistics
Canada said today in Ottawa. Fourth quarter pace increased to
2.1 percent from 1.9 percent.  The loonie declined against the euro after a report showed
a Chinese factory index was at 49.8 for September, the first
time that it has been below 50 for two straight months since
2009, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing today.  “The data out of  China  was weaker than expected,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities, said in a phone interview.  Canada’s dollar has strengthened 1.8 percent this year
against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  