-- Carl Icahn’s CVR Energy to Form Refining Partnership
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-10-01T13:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/carl-icahn-s-cvr-energy-to-form-refining-partnership.html
CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , the U.S. oil refiner
controlled by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , intends to raise
$300 million creating a master-limited partnership for its two
plants and related assets after failing to find a buyer.  CVR Refining LP would own the 115,000 barrel-a-day refinery
in Coffeyville,  Kansas , and the 70,000 barrel-a-day refinery in
Wynnewood,  Oklahoma , as well as oil pipelines, tanks and a fuel-
sales business, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission today. The $300 million amount is a
placeholder used to calculate fees and is subject to change.  The shares rose 6.2 percent to an all-time high of $39.02
at 9:36 a.m. in New York. CVR has more than doubled in value
this year. Icahn gained control of the  Sugar Land , Texas-based
oil refiner in May for $30 a share and the right to an
additional payment if he sells the company by Aug. 18, 2013.  CVR said yesterday it was beginning an investigation into
an explosion on Sept. 28 at the Wynnewood refinery that killed
one employee and critically injured another.  CVR Energy would control CVR Refining through ownership of
its general partner, according to the filing. Proceeds may pay
 debt , according to the filing. U.S. partnerships pay no
corporate income tax, leaving more cash for investor payouts.  Icahn, who had criticized CVR for not seeking a buyer,
hired Jefferies Group Inc. to run a 60-day sales process,  which
failed to attract a credible bid, the company said July 26.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. are managing the
offering of CVR Refining, according to the filing. The company
would list as CVRR on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  