-- CFTC Should Appeal Ruling on Speculation Limits, Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-10-01T19:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/cftc-should-appeal-ruling-on-speculation-limits-chilton-says.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission should appeal a federal judge’s decision blocking
Dodd-Frank Act limits on speculation in oil, natural gas and
other commodities, said Commissioner Bart Chilton.  The CFTC should also seek a stay of U.S. District Judge
Robert Wilkins’s Sept. 28 ruling that the agency failed to
assess whether limits were necessary and appropriate under the
2010 regulatory overhaul, Chilton said in remarks prepared for a
speech tomorrow in Rome at the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the  United Nations .  “The struggle isn’t over,” said Chilton, one of three
Democrats on the five-member commission. “I think the court
opinion is deeply flawed.”  The court decision stymied rules from taking effect Oct. 12
that were challenged by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association and International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. The associations represent  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other banks
and energy trading firms.  The agency should start drafting another version of the
rule to account for the judge’s objections, Chilton said. The
agency should issue an interim final rule with a 15-day period
of public comment, he said.  “We already know what most folks think,” Chilton said.
“This would allow us to quickly do what we had planned.”  In his ruling, Wilkins said the law requires the CFTC to
find that limits are necessary before imposing them.  “The Dodd-Frank amendments do not constitute a clear and
unambiguous mandate to set position limits, as the commission
argues,” Wilkins wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  