-- Check Point Sinks as Price Cut on Competition: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-02T13:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/check-point-sinks-as-price-cut-on-competition-israel-overnight.html
Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP)  slid the most in a month as  RBC Capital Markets  cut its
price target for the world’s second largest network security
maker by 18 percent amid increased competition.  The Israeli technology developer dropped the most since
Aug. 30 in  New York  yesterday, after posting a 4.5 percent
advance in September, the first monthly gain in six months.
Check Point led the  Bloomberg Israel-U.S. equity index  of the
most traded Israeli companies in New York down 1 percent to
85.85.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , the Israeli developer of
network traffic management technology, was the biggest decliner
on the index. The TA-25 Index gained 2.3 percent at the close in
Tel Aviv today after trading resumed after a two-day holiday.  Check Point is falling as stocks on Israel’s benchmark
TA-25 Index completed their best quarter in two years. RBC
reduced its 12-month price estimate for the Tel Aviv-based
company yesterday and downgraded it to the equivalent of hold
from outperform. More competition from  Santa Clara , California-
based  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) , as well as new rivals  F5 Networks
Inc. (FFIV)  and  Sourcefire Inc. (FIRE) , will force Check Point to offer more
discounts, RBC analyst  Robert Breza  wrote in his report.  “The company needs to reprove itself among investors that
there is potential for reacceleration of growth,”  Daniel Ives ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets & Co. that rates Check Point
buy, said by phone in New York yesterday. “Check Point is in
the investor penalty box and they have to show a good second
half performance in order to get incremental investors to focus
back on them again.”  Slow Growth  The company will probably post the slowest sales growth in
three years in the third quarter, according to the  mean estimate 
of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Israeli company will
have sales of $332.8 million in the third quarter, a year-on-
year growth of 7.9 percent, the least since the first quarter of
2009, according to analysts’ estimates.  Palo Alto Networks, which also provides Internet firewall
technology, raised more money than planned in its initial public
offering in July. The company offered 6.2 million shares at $42
each, more than the initial price range of $34 to $37, and has
advanced 44 percent since its debut. Palo Alto, along with new
entrants like F5 Networks and Surefire, has garnered the most
competitive attention from investors, RBC’s Breza wrote in his
report yesterday.  “The increased competition from all players will likely
lead to more aggressive discounting and concessions,” Breza
said. “Which may not allow CHKP to grow above the industry
rate.”  ‘Still a Major Player’  Check Point  dropped 3 percent to $46.72 in New York,
extending its 2012 decline to 11 percent. The company had a 14.5
percent share of the network security market based on revenues
in 2011, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based data
research firm IDC.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  is the leading company in
the segment, IDC data show.  “It’s a beaten-down stock that is still a major player in
the security market,” said FBR’s Ives. “Investors sense that
the company’s better days can be seen in the rear-view mirror.
They need to show that they are still fueling the growth
engine.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Hod Hasharon, Israel-based Allot slumped 5.7 percent
yesterday to $25, closing at a 45-cent premium to its shares in
 Tel Aviv . The stock gained 2.5 percent to 98.4 shekels, or the
equivalent of $25.32, on the Tel Aviv stock exchange today.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 index surged 12 percent in the
third quarter, the biggest advance since rising 15 percent in
the same period of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at   eobrien6@bloomberg.net  