-- Chile Peso Rises as Spain Stress-Test Results Boost Risk Demand
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-01T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/chile-peso-rises-as-spain-stress-test-results-boost-risk-demand.html
Chile’s peso rose for the first time
in four days as stress-test results bolstered confidence in
 Spain ’s banking system, spurring demand for higher-yielding
assets including emerging-market currencies.  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 473 per  U.S. dollar  as of
12:24 p.m. in Santiago. Copper, Chile’s main export, rose as
much as 1.1 percent to $3.798 a pound on the Comex in  New York 
and the euro climbed 0.5 percent. Of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, 16 rose today.  Stress tests on Spanish banks showed a capital deficit of
59.3 billion euros ($76.6 billion), less than the 100 billion
euros agreed to as part of a bailout. The peso would appreciate
more were it not for concern the central bank may intervene to
weaken the currency, said Ronald Volpi, the head of spot
currency trading at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in
Santiago.  “With copper at this level and the euro at this level we
should be nearer 470 per dollar,” Volpi said. “But there’s a
lot of noise around intervention and banks are buying dollars
today.”  Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said on Sept. 28
that the bank was prepared to act to weaken the currency if it
was justified. The central bank would intervene if the peso
appreciated to a level that was out of line with fundamental
drivers for a long time, he said. The peso is nearing the level
that would prompt the bank to consider intervening, he said.  Chile ’s peso has appreciated 9.9 percent, more than any
other currency in the region, this year, propelled by a stable 5
percent central bank  interest rate  and  economic growth  that has
exceeded economists’ estimates.  Economic Data  Chile’s  manufacturing index  rose more than forecast in
August and unemployment unexpectedly fell, the National
Statistics Institute reported on Sept. 28.  The median forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey
is that the economy grew 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier. The central bank will publish the data on its website
on Oct. 5.  “There’s no need for the central bank to cut rates,” said
Felipe Hernandez, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The interest-rate differential
between the U.S. and Chile still favors the strength of the
Chilean peso.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  