-- China-Japan Weakness Persists as Korean Exports Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-01T04:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/china-manufacturing-contracts-a-second-month-official-pmi-shows.html
China’s manufacturing contraction
persisted last month, Japanese industrial companies grew  more
pessimistic  and South Korean exports fell, signaling East Asia’s
biggest economies have yet to reverse their slowdowns.  A Chinese factory index was at 49.8 for September, the
first time that it has been below 50 for two straight months
since 2009, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing today.
 Japan ’s Tankan index of large manufacturers’ confidence fell to
minus 3 for the past quarter. South Korean shipments slid for a
third month.  In China, measures to support growth may be stepped up
after the Communist Party dealt with political issues including
laying charges against ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai and
setting Nov. 8 for the start of a party congress, Bank of
America Corp. said today. Japan’s fiscal response may be
complicated by a parliamentary stand-off over financing and an
election as early as this year, with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda reshuffling his cabinet today to revive support.  “We don’t expect a bounce back soon from the slowdowns in
these East Asian economies,” said  Junko Nishioka , an economist
at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo  and a former central bank
official.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.7 percent as of 1:02
p.m. in Tokyo. In Japan, the Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped
1.2 percent. Financial markets in China, Hong Kong and South
Korea are closed for holidays.  Global Manufacturing  Manufacturing reports may also today indicate contractions
across  Europe  and in the U.S. amid weakness in global demand.  In America, the Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s
factory index was probably little changed at 49.8 in September,
from 49.6 in August, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Data from the euro region may show  unemployment rising  and
manufacturing contracting. Purchasing managers’ indexes will
give readings on factory activity in nations including  Italy ,
 France ,  Germany .  India 's gauge was unchanged in September, a 
report showed today.    Today’s Chinese PMI, released by the statistics bureau and
the nation’s logistics federation, came after a similar measure
from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics showed an 11th
straight contraction. Outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao aims to stop
economic growth slipping below his 7.5 percent target for this
year, a pace that would already be the weakest since 1990.  Party Congress  The date for the 18th Communist Party Congress and the
decision to charge Bo with criminal offences -- after his wife,
Gu Kailai, was convicted of murder -- were announced by the
state-run Xinhua News Agency on Sept. 28.  Those announcements suggest that the party has agreed on
the make-up of the Politburo’s standing committee, and mean the
nation’s leaders can now turn their efforts to supporting the
economy and countering a deterioration in the labor market, said
Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist for Bank of America.  The odds of further cuts in banks’ reserve requirements
“could rise significantly if interbank rates do not reverse
after the week-long holiday,” Lu said.  The central bank has held off from adding to  interest-rate 
cuts in June and July, partly on concern housing prices will
rebound, Chen Yulu, a People’s Bank of  China  academic adviser,
said last week.  In Japan, Koriki Jojima, 65, was named the nation’s fifth
finance minister in three years, highlighting the absence of
political continuity that is among challenges for the world’s
third-biggest economy.  China Dispute  Growth is further threatened by a dispute between Japan and
China over islands claimed by both nations in the East China
Sea. The crisis is hurting the $340 billion trade relationship
between Asia’s two largest economies, causing cancellations of
40,000 seats on All Nippon Airways flights, while Toyota Motor
Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. are cutting production in China.  Kiichi Murashima, chief economist at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc., said the Japanese economy is likely to have
contracted in the third quarter and will probably do so again in
the fourth, because of weakness in exports. Domestic demand may
also wane after the expiry of a subsidy program for purchases of
fuel-efficient cars.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  meets twice this month to review monetary
policy after expanding easing in September.  Weakness in exports is hitting economies across Asia as
Europe’s austerity measures cap demand. South Korea’s government
reported today that purchases of oil products and electronics
including Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S III smartphone
helped prevent a steeper decline in shipments last month.
Economists’ median forecast had been for a 5.5 percent decrease.  Recovery Signs  In China, the logistics federation said that a recovery for
the nation “is gradually coming into shape,” with the
purchasing managers’ index up from 49.2 in the previous month,
along with gains in sub-indexes for output, orders and export
orders.  “Weak external demand is putting heavy pressure on Chinese
manufacturers, especially exporters,”  Ren Xianfang , an analyst
with IHS Global Insight in Beijing, said before the data.
“China’s economic performance may hit bottom in the fourth
quarter before it rebounds modestly in the first quarter of next
year.”  The index last showed two straight months of contraction in
January and February of 2009.  The official manufacturing PMI has a pattern of rising each
September. Before the release, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
that a modest increase in the number was likely because of
“seasonality” and China’s growth momentum has yet to show a
meaningful recovery.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  