-- Chrysler Canada Workers Vote 90% in Favor of Four-Year Agreement
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/chrysler-canada-workers-vote-90-in-favor-of-four-year-agreement.html
Chrysler Group LLC employees
represented by the Canadian Auto Workers ratified a four-year
contract that follows union agreements with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  in reducing costs for new workers while
maintaining current production levels in Canada.  The vote was 90 percent in favor, the Toronto-based union
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The agreement covers
about 8,000 production workers in Ontario, including vehicle-
assembly plants in Brampton, near Toronto, and Windsor, outside
of Detroit. The Auburn Hills Michigan-based company builds its
Dodge Grand Caravan and Chrysler Town & Country minivans in
Windsor, the fourth- and fifth- best selling models in the
company’s lineup last year.  “One of our objectives coming into these talks was to
position our industry for future growth and success, and we did
as much as we possibly could on that front,” union President
 Ken Lewenza  said in a statement.  The ratification concludes this year’s labor talks between
the U.S. automakers and the CAW. Negotiations began last month
with the companies saying labor costs in Canada are too high and
the union facing job cuts.  Chrysler reached an accord with the CAW on Sept. 26, the
last of the U.S. companies to obtain a Canadian labor
settlement. The automaker, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , followed
the pattern set by Ford and GM. The contracts at the three
companies exchange most cost-of-living raises for bonuses,
extend the amount of time for a new employee to reach full pay,
and shift new workers to a cheaper  retirement plan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  