-- Coeure Says Basel III Could Require ECB Collateral Changes
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-01T13:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/coeure-says-basel-iii-could-require-ecb-collateral-changes-1-.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure said Basel III and other planned banking
regulations may mean the ECB has to change its collateral rules.  A structural change in the demand for collateral as a
result of regulatory changes such as Basel III “may warrant
changes to central banks’ eligibility criteria for collateral to
prevent central bank operations adding to the overall demand and
competition for high-quality and liquid collateral for banks,”
Coeure said in speech in Amsterdam today.  Banks have warned that liquidity rules and other
regulations drafted by global regulators risk forcing them to
hoard the same kind of easy-to-sell assets that would otherwise
be used as collateral for loans from the central bank.  “Central banks would need to consider extending collateral
eligibility beyond these demanded assets,” Coeure said.  European Union banks would have faced a 1.17 trillion-euro
($1.51 trillion) shortfall in the assets needed to meet a
liquidity standard drafted by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , had it been in force at the end of last year,
according to data published last week by the European Banking
Authority.  Collateral Pool  The ECB has already widened its list of acceptable
collateral as the sovereign debt crisis has hampered the ability
of banks in some parts of the euro area, including Spain and
 Greece , to muster suitable assets.  Still, Coeure said that on aggregate, there is no shortage
of collateral in the euro area.  “The average amount of eligible collateral for Eurosystem
liquidity operations was 14.3 trillion euros during the second
quarter of this year,” he said. “However, only 2.5 trillion
euros was put forward as collateral by counterparties. This
shows that, despite the fears of collateral scarcity in the euro
area, there is some leeway in collateral availability.”  Coeure also said that non-marketable assets, and above all
bank loans, “have become the largest single asset class in our
collateral portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  