-- Colts’ Pagano Won’t Coach This Season Due to Leukemia Diagnosis
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-01T15:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/colts-coach-pagano-has-serious-illness-indianapolis-star-says.html
Indianapolis Colts coach Chuck Pagano
is unlikely to coach again this season after being diagnosed
with a treatable form of leukemia, the National Football League
team said.  Pagano, who turns 52 tomorrow, was diagnosed with  acute
promyelocyctic leukemia , a cancer of the bone marrow, and is
expected to make a complete recovery, Larry Cripe, his doctor,
said at a news conference in Indianapolis.  “It’s unlikely that he will be all-in as a head coach this
season,” team owner Jim Irsay said. “That’s probably not in
the cards where he’s going to be able to come back and be all-
in.”  Pagano, who began treatment Sept. 26, sought testing after
feeling extreme fatigue and noticing bruising on his body, Irsay
said.  “It is a relatively favorable acute leukemia in terms of
the likelihood of remission and the likelihood of the coach
achieving a cure,” Cripe said.  The initial phase of the treatment will keep Pagano in the
hospital for four to six weeks, during which he’ll continue to
undergo chemotherapy, which he already has begun, Cripe said.
He’ll continue the treatments after being released as well.  “Most people with this variety of acute leukemia will in
fact achieve a complete remission,” Cripe said.  Offensive coordinator Bruce Arians will be interim coach,
Irsay said.  “The case here is we feel that, and he feels that, he will
battle and get this disease in remission,” Irsay said. “It’s a
marathon, there’s no question about it.”  First Season  Pagano is in his first season coaching the Colts after
replacing Jim Caldwell, who was fired after a 2-14 campaign.
Indianapolis, which is 1-2 this season, had a bye last week and
plays the Green Bay Packers on Oct. 7.  Pagano was the Baltimore Ravens defensive coordinator last
season, leading a unit that allowed the third-fewest points and
yards in the NFL. It was his first season in the position after
coaching Baltimore’s secondary from 2008 to 2010. He also has
been an NFL assistant with the Oakland Raiders and Cleveland
Browns.  Irsay said he fully expects Pagano to someday help the
Colts win another Super Bowl title.  “I feel with every fiber in my body, and I know Chuck
feels the same way, that he can beat this thing,” Irsay said.
“He is ready to take this fight on and he is a fighter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  