-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Decreased in August
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decreased-in-august.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in August for a second month as declines in
commercial and government projects overshadowed the strongest
pace of home building in three years.  The 0.6 percent  drop , the biggest decrease since July 2011,
followed a revised 0.4 percent decline in July that was smaller
than previously estimated, the Commerce Department reported
today in Washington. The  median  estimate of 43 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent rise.  Non-residential projects, which currently account for
almost 70 percent of construction spending, are suffering from
government budget constraints and concern about the looming
fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending cuts set to take
effect next year should lawmakers fail to act. That weakness is
eclipsing gains in housing, where record-low  borrowing costs 
have boosted demand at  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and other builders.  “Construction is not going to be able to lead the
recovery,”  Ryan Sweet , senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before today’s report.
“We’re going to have to lean on other sources of growth.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.2
percent to a gain of 1 percent, following an initially reported
0.9 percent decrease for July.  Construction spending increased 9 percent in the 12 months
ended in August before adjustments for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending fell 0.5 percent from the
prior month.  Private Construction  Homebuilding outlays climbed 0.9 percent to $273.5 billion,
the most since January 2009. Private non-residential projects
decreased by 1.7 percent, led by fewer power and communications
plants.  Spending on public projects dropped 0.8 percent from the
prior month. Federal construction increased 0.3 percent, while
state and local agency projects declined 0.9 percent from the
prior month.  The housing market has shown uneven improvement. Americans
signed fewer contracts in August to purchase  new home s. At the
same time, the broader market for houses is improving, with the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of prices increasing more than forecast
in July from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  