-- Creative Artists Unit to Sell $1.5 Billion Europe Soccer Rights
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-01T22:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/creative-artists-unit-to-sell-1-5-billion-europe-soccer-rights.html
European soccer’s ruling body signed
an agreement with a newly created unit of Creative Artists
Agency LLP to manage the sale of broadcasting rights to
qualifying matches for Euro 2016 and the 2018  World Cup .  UEFA  said in a release yesterday that CAA Eleven will
handle the sale of the rights that the soccer organization took
over after promising its 53 member associations $1.5 billion, an
increase on what they make through individual agreements. Nyon,
Switzerland-based  UEFA  didn’t provide details about whether CAA
Eleven has provided any financial guarantees or what rights are
included.  CAA Eleven’s offer was accepted over a 1.7 billion euro
($2.2 billion) bid from Lagardere SCA’s Sportfive subsidiary,
which also wanted rights to the Euro 2016 final tournament in
the contract, according to one person involved in the talks
who asked not to be identified because negotiations were
private. IMG Sports & Entertainment also in discussions, the
person said.  UEFA announced the agreement following a meeting of UEFA’s
executive committee in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia . Olivier Guiguet
and Stephane Schindler, who last year left executive positions
at the sports rights holder Sportfive, led the negotiations on
behalf of CAA Eleven. The  Daily Telegraph  reported that the
company has offered 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) to
underwrite the sale, and may be backed by 2022 World Cup host
Qatar.  The 2016 European Championship is to be staged in  France ,
and the 2018 World Cup in Russia.  Beth McClinton, spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based CAA,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. IMG
spokesman  Jim Gallagher  declined to comment, and an e-mail sent
to Lagardere wasn’t returned. UEFA spokesman Thomas Giordano
said more information will be provided in a separate news
release in the coming days.  UEFA’s plan to sell all rights centrally comes at a time
when free-to-air television networks face budget cuts because of
continuing difficulties in the European economy. Earlier this
year the soccer body’s president  Michel Platini  said UEFA would
meet its commitments even though analysts have suggested it may
face a shortfall of as much as 400 million euros.  Cash Reserve  If UEFA fails to achieve its goal, the governing body would
have to dip into its 500 million-euro cash reserve. Because of
that, some of the larger national federations have criticized
UEFA’s plan, saying it would result in less money going to
smaller associations for developing the sport.  Instead, England’s ruling soccer body has suggested UEFA
keep the sales rights for the host country broadcasts, and hand
back overseas rights to federations. That would allow national
associations to sell television rights directly to foreign
broadcasters while UEFA retains control of the major agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom on 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 