-- Credit Agricole Enters Talks With Alpha to Sell Emporiki
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i
-- 2012-10-01T16:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/credit-agricole-enters-exclusive-talks-to-sell-emporiki-to-alpha.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
largest bank, entered exclusive talks to sell Emporiki Bank to
Alpha Bank SA for a token price of 1 euro ($1.29) as it tries to
limit the potential costs of a Greek exit from the euro.  Credit Agricole will inject a further 550 million euros
into its Greek unit, bringing the total the French bank has
contributed since July to 2.85 billion euros, the French lender
said in a statement today. It will also buy 150 million euros of
convertible bonds issued by Alpha Bank, the company added.  The French bank is trying to sell its Greek unit as concern
lingers over the country’s future in the euro area. Emporiki’s
loans exceed its deposits, requiring its French parent to
provide funding to the unit. As a result, Credit Agricole is the
foreign bank with most to lose should  Greece  exit the euro.  “It’s a good deal,” said Alex Koagne, a Paris-based
analyst at Natixis SA who rates Credit Agricole a buy. “The
impact on Credit Agricole’s solvency is quite contained.”  Credit Agricole gained 7.4 percent to 5.77 euros in Paris
trading, giving the bank a market value of about 14.4 billion
euros. Alpha Bank jumped 6.6 percent to 1.77 euros in  Athens .  “This transaction would contribute to the consolidation of
the Greek banking sector as part of the restructuring and
recovery of the country’s financial sector,” Credit Agricole
said in today’s statement.  Alpha will cover that funding gap in three instalments
which are guaranteed by “quality assets,” Credit Agricole
said. The last payment is due by the end of 2014. The lenders
expect to complete the sale by Dec. 31, subject to regulatory
approvals.  Credit Agricole’s additional capital injection into
Emporiki and its purchase of Alpha Bank convertible bonds will
reduce the French bank’s funding support by 700 million euros,
according to the statement. Credit Agricole may also transfer $1
billion of shipping assets from Emporiki to the French bank,
according to a Sept. 19 presentation on its website.  Credit Agricole provided 2.3 billion euros in capital to
Emporiki in July following a request from the  Bank of Greece (TELL) ,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet told journalists on
Aug. 28. Following the capital injection, Credit Agricole’s
equity investment in Emporiki was 2.7 billion euros with net
funding of 2.3 billion euros, the bank, based in Montrouge,
France, said on Aug. 28.  The French bank’s “liquidity line is going to be
guaranteed by non-Greek collateral, and this will reduce risks
of losses in case of a Greek exit” from the euro, said
Natixis’s Koagne. Credit Agricole’s funding exposure may fall to
about 800 million euros after the transfer of the Emporiki
shipping assets, Koagne estimated.  The French bank, founded in 1894 as a lender to farmers,
invested 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to buy a majority stake in
Emporiki, the least profitable of Greece’s top five banks at the
time. Since then, Emporiki has been unprofitable every year
except 2007, with accumulated losses for Credit Agricole of
about 5.7 billion euros at the end of June.  National Bank of Greece SA  and  Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  also
submitted bids for Emporiki, joining Alpha, Greece’s third-
biggest lender, in their pursuit of the unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  