-- CVC to Buy Cunningham Lindsey From Stone Point, Fairfax
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-10-01T13:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/cvc-to-buy-cunningham-lindsey-from-stone-point-fairfax.html
A group led by CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. agreed to buy Cunningham Lindsey Group Ltd., one of the
world’s largest insurance-claims adjusters, from owners Stone
Point Capital LLC and  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)   The deal values Cunningham at about $900 million to $1
billion including debt, said a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because the figure is
private. Fairfax is selling a stake for about $260 million,
according to a statement today. Stone Point, run by former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives Stephen Friedman and Charles Davis, and Fairfax plan to remain investors, a separate
statement showed.  Private-equity firms have bought and sold insurance-
services firms this year as some look to cash out investments
made during the buyout boom half a decade ago and others look to
invest in an industry with steady cash flow and little need for
capital expenditures. Cunningham, with about 7,000 employees,
helps insurers and other companies determine losses and has
operations in nations including Australia, Brazil, Germany,
India, Japan and the U.S.  “CVC’s diversified international coverage will be a
tremendous asset to capitalize on as we broaden our global
Presence,” Cunningham Chief Executive Officer Philippe Bes said
in a statement.  Fairfax, the Toronto-based insurer run by  Prem Watsa ,
bought Cunningham Lindsey’s predecessor in 1986 and took it
public the next year, according to the adjuster’s  website . At
the end of 2007, Fairfax bought out the publicly held shares and
sold 51 percent to Stone Point. Fairfax had a 43 percent stake
as of June 30, according to a company  document .  Private Equity  Stone Point, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , invests
mostly in financial companies. Luxembourg-based CVC is the
former European private-equity arm of Citigroup Inc.  Bank of America Corp. and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised
Cunningham on the deal, while Willis Capital Markets Advisory
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and Clifford Chance provided advice
to CVC’s investor group. Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, Royal
Bank of  Canada  and UBS AG provided fully committed financing to
CVC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  