-- Czech Manufacturing Slows Amid Rate Reductions, PMI Shows
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-01T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/czech-manufacturing-slows-amid-rate-reductions-pmi-shows.html
The Czech Republic’s manufacturing
performance worsened for a sixth month in September on declining
new orders, an industry gauge showed after the central bank cut
 interest rates  to a record low.  The HSBC Czech Republic Manufacturing PMI fell to 48, from
48.7 in August, the bank said today in an e-mailed report. A
result greater than 50 signals an improvement in performance,
while a figure below signals deterioration.  “Output declined at the fastest rate in over three years,
while demand from both domestic and export markets remained
weak,” the bank said in the report compiled by Markit, a
financial information services company. “New orders have
declined for six successive months, though the rate of
contraction stabilized after accelerating in both July and
August.”  The central bank in  Prague  cut the  benchmark  interest rate
to a record-low 0.25 percent on Sept. 27 as weakening domestic
demand pushed the economy into the second recession in three
years. Gross domestic product contracted for three quarters
through June as households cut spending in response to a
worsening economic outlook across  Europe .  The economy relies on demand for cars, auto parts and
electronics goods from the European Union, the market for about
80 percent of its exports. The government wants to push through
a package of measures including tax increases that the central
bank forecasts will further depress domestic demand next year.  “Policy makers seemed to have exhausted their response
options,”  Agata Urbanska , a London-based economist at HSBC,
said in the statement. “Eyes need to be fixed on the fiscal
policy side and the future of the vetoed pension-system reform
and fiscal austerity measures debated in the parliament at
present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  