-- Deutsche Bank Head of Systemic Risk Diplas Said to Leave Firm
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-10-01T19:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/deutsche-bank-head-of-systemic-risk-diplas-said-to-leave-firm.html
Athanassios Diplas, the global head
of systemic risk management at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , is leaving the
firm as of today, according to a person familiar with the
decision.  Diplas, co-chairman of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association’s Industry Governance Committee, has
helped lead market efforts to reform the $648 trillion swaps
market, mostly related to credit-default swaps, and spoke on
behalf of ISDA and Deutsche Bank at industry forums.  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment, as
did Diplas.  The world’s largest banks are facing the first regulation
of the swaps market since it was invented by the lenders in the
1980s. The September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. six months earlier,
both of which were among the largest dealers of privately
negotiated derivatives, shook investor confidence in the market
and prompted Congress to overhaul trading practices in an effort
to reduce systemic risk.  Robert Lee will replace Diplas with a new role in the bank
focused on the U.S., the person said.  Deutsche Bank is cutting costs by $5.8 billion as it aims
to increase its after-tax return on equity to at least 12
percent by 2015, the Frankfurt-based lender said last month. The
lender said in July that it will eliminate 1,900 jobs, including
1,500 at the investment bank and support areas, by year-end as
Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen face
declining revenue from the unit.  Trade Times  Diplas, 47, helped Deutsche Bank cut trade confirmation
times in the credit-swaps market in 2005, as the firm and its
Wall Street competitors were under pressure from  Timothy
Geithner , then the President of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , to speed up transactions that were taking the equivalent
of 17 days to complete.  Along with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Tom Benison, Diplas also
helped create ISDA’s credit-steering  committee  as the financial
crisis loomed in 2008. A year later, the panel re-engineered how
credit-default swaps work, overseeing the industry’s so-called
‘Big Bang’ protocol that made it possible to process the
transactions with clearinghouses.  Diplas, an amateur pilot, previously worked at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , where he was an  emerging markets  derivatives
trader, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records show. He
was among the first credit-derivatives traders at Goldman Sachs,
where he also managed a book of the firm’s counterparty risks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 