-- Dollar-Funding Pressures Ease as Libor-OIS Gap at One-Year Low
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-01T14:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/dollar-funding-pressures-ease-as-libor-ois-gap-at-one-year-low.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled strains in short-term dollar funding markets abated
with the gap between where banks say the can borrow from each
other and the  Federal Reserve ’s benchmark rate the lowest since
August 2011.  The three-month  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor,
which represents the rate banks say it would cost to borrow from
one another, fell  to  0.355 percent, adding to consecutive daily
decline that began on Aug. 22.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of
banks’ reluctance to lend, narrowed to 22.4 basis points,
touching the least since August 2011.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term of
the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Oversight of Libor will be handed to the U.K.’s financial
regulator, and dozens of the currencies and maturities that make
up the benchmark axed, under proposals published by Financial
Services Authority Managing Director Martin Wheatley on Sept.
28. The overhaul is designed to revive confidence in a rate
tarnished by scandal.  The  British Bankers ’ Association should be stripped of the
responsibility for managing the rate and other organizations
invited to replace it, Wheatley said in London the day the
report was published. More than 100 Libor rates tied to
currencies and maturities where there isn’t enough trading data
to set them properly should be scrapped, and a code of conduct
introduced for how lenders contribute to the benchmark backed by
criminal penalties, he added.  Wheatley began his review at the request of Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  after  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound ($470
million) fine in June for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate, used to set rates for more than $300 trillion of
securities.  The Wheatley changes will likely help trigger further
declines in dollar Libor, according to companies including
JPMorgan Chase & Co, TD Securities Inc. and Bank of America
Corp.  Three-month dollar Libor may fall to 0.25 percent by
January, a team of TD Strategists including Ken Silliman and
Michael Lin, wrote in a note published on Sept. 28.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, were little changed at 20.2 basis points,
according to the second rolling three month contracts. The gap
is down from 58 basis points at the start of the year.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 13.2 basis points. The gap, a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor, touched 11.25 basis points on Sept. 14, the lowest since
March 2010.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $18.1 billion to $990.1 billion in the week ended Sept. 26,
according to Federal Reserve data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  