-- DP World Says It’s Willing to Buy Assets in Latin America
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-10-01T18:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/dp-world-says-it-s-willing-to-buy-assets-in-latin-america-1-.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s third-
largest port operator, said it’s ready to look at acquisitions
in Latin America to meet demand from customers and has enough
cash for investments without needing to sell assets.  “If the customer says ‘we need you there,’ we’ll be
there,” said Chairman Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem. “If the
economics are good, why not. The Latin American market is very
important to us.”  The operator of ports from China to  Russia  and  Peru  isn’t
looking at buying assets in the U.S. where acquisition costs are
“prohibitive” and can serve the market from other ports in the
region, he said today in an interview during a conference in
Lima. DP World isn’t pursuing deals in  Latin America , he said.  The company based in Dubai increased container volumes at
its more than 60 terminals by 7.5 percent in the first half,
with its  Asia  Pacific and Indian subcontinent operations driving
growth. While trade is growing in Latin America,  Africa  and
Asia, the company is cutting costs in Europe, where trade is
“stagnant,” Bin Sulayem said.  “I don’t see a reduction in trade but I don’t see
growth,” he said. “Europe will come back. When the boom comes
again, we’ll be ready for it.”  Global container volumes will probably grow 4.3 percent
this year, Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. said July 3. Because
of the weakness in Europe’s economy, the industry won’t have a
strong peak season in 2012 and operators will experience some
“rate erosion” in the summer, it  said .  No IPO Plans  Shares of DP World traded on Nasdaq Dubai rose 0.9 percent
to $11.35, bringing their advance this year to 17 percent.  DP World has no plans for an initial public offering in
 India , where it has brought its local container terminals
together under one company.  “When we did that people said ’oh, they’re preparing for
IPO’,” he said. “If it’s going to be in the interests of the
company we do it. But we don’t have any plans. If things change
we can always adapt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  