-- Dubai’s Arabtec to Build Tallest Europe Office Tower for Gazprom
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-01T06:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/dubai-s-arabtec-to-build-tallest-europe-office-tower-for-gazprom.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest construction company by market value, won a
453 million dirham ($123 million) contract from  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  to
build Europe’s tallest office tower in  St. Petersburg .  The Dubai-based company and Gazprom unit Okhta Center will
begin the first phase of construction for the 463 meter-high
(1,519 foot) Gazprom Tower, Arabtec said in a statement to the
stock exchange today. The headquarters of  Russia ’s natural-gas
exporter and oil arm will be located in the tower, Arabtec said.  Arabtec has been expanding outside of Dubai after  profit
fell  in each year following the 2008 property-market crash in
the emirate. The builder, which derived  all revenue  from the
Gulf Cooperation Council last year, said today it expects to win
more projects in Russia. Arabtec’s Target Engineering
Construction unit also won 270 million dirhams of contracts in
Abu Dhabi and Qatar, the company said in a separate statement.  Arabtec’s shares have surged 66 percent this year on bets
the builder will benefit from regional infrastructure spending,
outpacing the 17 percent advance in the benchmark Dubai
Financial Market General Index.  Abu Dhabi  government-controlled
Aabar Investments PJSC raised its stake in Arabtec this year to
21.6 percent, fueling bets it’s poised to win more contracts in
the U.A.E. capital, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s oil reserves.  Arabtec shares gained 0.4 percent at 10:08 a.m. in Dubai
after jumping 3.3 percent yesterday, giving the company a market
value of 3.97 billion dirhams.  Abu Dhabi Projects  The company in June won a contract valued at about $3
billion to build a terminal at Abu Dhabi Airport along with
partners including TAV Insaat of  Turkey . The second phase of the
five-year project in Russia includes two more buildings and
other facilities, Arabtec said today.  Gazprom in 2010 won final approval from the Russian
government to build the tower as it relocates from Moscow, even
after the project faced a public outcry from protesters who said
the building would spoil the city’s historic skyline. The tower
was initially designed to become  Europe ’s tallest skyscraper  Arabtec, which has the fourth-heaviest weighting on Dubai’s
gauge, may post a 72 percent slump in third-quarter profit to 11
million dirhams, according to the  median estimate  of three
analysts on Bloomberg. The shares are trading at 17 times
estimated earnings compared with 10.5 times for the Dubai
benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  