-- Dubai Financial Hub Seeks Lower Telecom Costs to Attract Traders
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-10-01T04:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/dubai-financial-hub-seeks-lower-telecom-costs-to-attract-traders.html
The Dubai International Financial
Centre is seeking reduced telecommunications tariffs to entice
global financial services companies to move trading operations
to the tax-free business park.  The DIFC has started talks with the United Arab Emirates’
two telecommunications service providers after “enough”
companies called for a drop of 20 percent to 30 percent in
tariffs, the center’s Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Singer,
said in an interview yesterday. Lenders including  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, have indicated they would relocate
some trading operations if rates were lower, he said.  The DIFC opened in 2004 to attract international banks,
asset managers and insurers with promises of a zero-tax
environment for 50 years. The regional offices of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc (C)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are located
in the center, which was home to 817 companies at the end of
last year, including 279 in financial services.  Higher costs for data and phone lines erode a company’s
savings from paying lower salaries to traders than in Europe,
Singer said.  More Than Singapore  “Telecom rates in the city are more than Singapore and
London on an adjusted basis so you can’t move large trading
operations here unless” tariffs are cut, Ashok Aram, Deutsche
Bank’s Middle East North Africa chief executive officer, said at
a news conference in Dubai yesterday. “Dubai will never become
a huge trading center until telecom rates come down.”  Dubai is one of seven emirates that make up the U.A.E.,
which is home to state-run  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
based in the capital  Abu Dhabi , and Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co., known as  Du (DU)  and headquartered in Dubai.  The DIFC is also working to attract financial institutions
from China as Asia’s biggest economy boosts investments and
trade with Africa, while using Dubai as a hub, Singer said.
Chinese companies are investing in minerals, agriculture and
infrastructure in Africa and several Chinese institutions are
seeking to base their regional offices in Dubai, he said.  The center also expects to benefit from rising personal
taxes in Europe, which may push businessmen to move to Dubai,
Singer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  