-- DuPont Says Its Drought-Tolerant Corn Increased Yields by 8%
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-01T20:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/dupont-says-its-drought-tolerant-corn-increased-yields-by-8-2-.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , battling  Monsanto (MON)  Co. for
the lead in U.S. corn seed, said its Aquamax seeds boosted
yields of the grain by more than 8 percent this year as the U.S.
drought provided a test of the new technology.  The yield gain is based on the average results from 2,523
fields with “water limited” environments in comparison with
competing corn hybrids, Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said
today in a statement. Aquamax outperformed rivals on 69 percent
of the fields under those conditions, DuPont said. In
environments with higher moisture levels, the yield advantage
was 2 percent with a win rate of 59 percent, the company said.  DuPont is the first of three companies developing drought-
tolerant crops to announce preliminary results after the worst
U.S. drought in half a century reduced stockpiles of the grain
by 12 percent.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) ’s competing product is called
Artesian and Monsanto’s is called  DroughtGard .  DuPont will update its Aquamax results in about a month
when more harvest data is available, Jane Slusark, a company
spokeswoman, said today by phone.  Monsanto grabbed more than 37 percent of the U.S. corn-seed
market this year, a gain exceeding 1 point, Don Carson, a New
York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, said in a
Sept. 30 note. That surpasses DuPont’s 37 percent share, which
was unchanged, he said.  Kelli Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman, and Pam Molitor, a
spokeswoman for Syngenta, declined to immediately discuss this
year’s results for their companies’ drought-tolerant seeds when
reached by phone today.  DuPont  rose  0.2 percent to $50.36 at the close in New York.
Monsanto fell 0.7 percent to $90.39.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  