-- The Flaws That Will Bring Down Obama’s Health-Care Plan
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-10-01T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/the-flaws-that-will-bring-down-obama-s-health-care-plan.html
The debate over President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law has taken another twist. Now
conservatives and libertarians are defending it, while the
administration tries to toss part of the legislation out.  The reason for this role reversal is that the drafters
of the law outsmarted themselves and handed their opponents
a weapon. Now they would like to pretend the law doesn’t
say what it does.  Obama’s plan makes tax credits available to people who
get health insurance from exchanges set up by state
governments. If states don’t establish those exchanges, the
federal government will do so for them. The federal
exchanges, however, don’t come with tax credits: The law
authorizes credits only for people who get insurance from
state-established exchanges. And that creates some problems
the administration didn’t foresee, and now hopes to wish
away.  Legislative debate over the law didn’t go into great
detail about these provisions. We can surmise what
happened, though. Supporters of the legislation wanted to
encourage states to set up the exchanges. So they offered
the states a deal: If they did so, they would get to write
their own rules, and their citizens would be able to get
the tax credit. The states would also gain extra
flexibility on Medicaid spending. The law’s supporters also
expected the health-care law to become more popular over
time.  Taxes and Penalties  That hasn’t happened. Many states are determined in
their opposition, and few of them  have set up exchanges . If
they don’t do so, the tax credits don’t go into effect and
the federally established exchanges won’t work: People
won’t be able to afford the insurance available on them
without the subsidy.  States have another incentive to refrain from setting
up exchanges under the health-care law: It protects
companies and individuals in the state from tax increases.
The law introduces penalties of as much as $3,000 per
employee for firms that don’t provide insurance -- but only
if an employee is getting coverage with the help of a tax
credit. No state exchanges means no tax credits and thus no
employer penalties. The law also notoriously penalizes many
people for not buying insurance. In some cases, being
eligible for a tax credit and still not buying insurance
subjects you to the penalty. So, again, no state exchange
means no tax credit and thus fewer people hit by the
penalty.  The administration’s response to the impending failure
of its signature legislation -- a failure resulting
entirely from its flawed design -- has been to ignore the
inconvenient portion of the law. In May, the  Internal
Revenue Service  decided it would issue tax credits to
people who get insurance from exchanges established by the
federal government. It has thus exposed firms and
individuals to taxes and penalties without any legal
authorization. Obviously, that situation sets the stage for
lawsuits.  The plaintiffs will have a strong case. Jonathan Adler
and Michael Cannon -- two libertarians, the first a law
professor at  Case Western Reserve University  and the second
a health-care analyst at the  Cato Institute  -- have done
more than anyone to bring attention to this issue.  They
point out  that every health bill advanced by  Senate
Democrats  clearly made tax credits conditional on states’
establishment of exchanges. They have also uncovered that
during the debate over the bill, Senator  Max Baucus , a
Democrat from  Montana , explicitly said the same thing.  Court Battles  Supporters of the health-care law may be tempted to
dismiss the challenge to the IRS. That would be to repeat a
mistake. They were contemptuous of the constitutional case
against the law, too. Timothy Jost, a Washington and Lee
University law professor, even  wrote  that the attorneys who
brought the suits should face professional sanctions for
filing frivolous cases. In the end, the  Supreme Court  sided
with the plaintiffs on their constitutional claims, in one
case by a 7-2 margin, upholding the law only by removing
parts of it.  There will be many more court battles over the health-
care law, because it involves so many legally dubious
expansions of bureaucratic power. In addition to the IRS
move, there are lawsuits against the administration’s
ruling that almost all employers must provide coverage for
contraception and sterilization, a decision that conflicts
with the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The law also
creates a board of experts to control health-care costs, a
move that is sure to bring legal action on separation-of-
powers grounds.  Supporters of the law see such legal attacks as proof
of the fanaticism of the opposition. Jost is now the
leading defender of the IRS’s action. “What is it about
extending the benefits of our health-care system to
millions of uninsured Americans that so troubles
opponents?”  he asks .  One answer: It is troubling that this expansion of
benefits is being accomplished in such a lawless way.  The health-care plan the Obama administration got
enacted isn’t going to work. That doesn’t mean they get to
rewrite the law unilaterally as they go. It means they
should have passed a different law.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  regulating high-
frequency trading  and on why  QE3 isn’t a declaration of war 
on  emerging markets ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama’s Middle
East mistakes ; William Pesek on  economic development in
Myanmar ; Alexandra Harney  on China’s angry men .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  