-- EADS Investor Lagardere Calls BAE Terms Unsatisfactory
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-10-01T13:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/eads-bae-merger-terms-unsatisfactory-investor-lagardere-says.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  is under siege from investors about its proposed merger with
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , with major shareholder  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  calling
the combination’s terms “unsatisfactory.”  EADS must show how the planned transaction will create
value, Paris-based Lagardere, which has a 7.5 percent stake,
said in a statement today. Lagardere Chief Executive Officer
Arnaud Lagardere is the chairman of EADS.  With just 10 days left until EADS and BAE want to present a
formal merger agreement, the two sides are under pressure to
appease stakeholders.  France  wants to keep some political
control, and German lawmakers have criticized the ownership
structure of the new company. EADS has fallen 17 percent since
announcing the plan, bruising investors who have lost a combined
4.1 billion euros ($5.26 billion) in market value.  “Lagardere calls on the management of EADS to undertake,
without delay, the indispensable re-examination of the project
to combine EADS and BAE, to better take into account the
interest of all the French controlling shareholders of EADS,”
the company said in the statement today.  European Assets  The publisher is one of EADS’s main investors, alongside
Germany’s  Daimler AG (DAI)  and the French state. Together, they
control 44 percent of the company. The publishing company’s 7.5
stake has lost 310 million euros in value since the
announcement. Lagardere, who was appointed chairman this year,
has said that he eventually wants to retreat from EADS.  EADS’s shareholder structure, created when the company was
formed in 2000 from the combined aerospace assets of France,
Germany and Spain, gives it two controlling shareholders who
have both publicly said they have no interest in the aerospace
industry. Daimler is a carmaker and Lagardere, which has voting
control of its own 7.5 percent stake as well as the French
state’s 15 percent stake, is a media conglomerate.  “We have made very clear that we want to focus on our
automotive business,” Daimler Chief Executive Dieter Zetsche
told journalists at the Paris Auto Show last week. “It’s not
our key responsibility to define the future strategy of the
aerospace industry.”  ‘Room to Maneuver’  EADS rose as much as 20 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 24.87
euros, while BAE advanced as much as 1.3 pence, or 0.4 percent
to 326.4 pence in  London . EADS is based in Toulouse in southern
France, which is also home to Airbus SAS, its biggest unit.  “I don’t see this statement as a deal breaker,” Stephan Boehm, an analyst at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt , said about
Lagardere’s release. “The comments are in line with what
Daimler has already communicated. I think there is still room to
maneuver and to come up with a slightly more favorable ratio for
EADS shareholders.”  Lagardere originally owned 15 percent of EADS before
selling half its stake in 2005, along with Daimler. Arnaud
Lagardere’s father, Jean-Luc, started his career as an aerospace
engineer and kept a lifelong affection for aviation. He died
unexpectedly in 2003 at the age of 75.  Arnaud’s father was a pioneer in the creation of EADS as it
exists today. After Daimler bought Spain’s state-owned
Construcciones Aeronauticas SA to form a company that combined
German and Spanish interests in Airbus and the Eurofighter war-
plane business, Lagardere worked out a deal with the French
government to merge state-owned aerospace company Aerospatiale
with Lagardere’s Matra Defense division.  Aviation Pioneer  The merger was a quick way to privatize Aerospatiale and
make it palatable to the Germans as a partner. The young
Lagardere had no aerospace training or background and spent his
career focused on Lagardere’s media interests. He skipped this
year’s annual general meeting where he was elected chairman, and
he has said that he wants to remain a stakeholder until the
Airbus wide-body A350 had proven itself.  EADS and BAE first announced Sept. 12 their plan to merge
the companies in a deal that would give EADS investors 60
percent of the new company and those of London-based BAE the
rest. Government shareholders will get a shares that gives them
special rights, though EADS CEO Enders has said he wants to
limit the role of government involvement in the new company.  Enders and his counterpart at BAE, Ian King, wrote joint
articles that appeared in German, French and U.K. newspapers
today to drum up public support. The companies combined would be
a better fit than the sum of their parts, and EADS and BAE would
together reap synergies and exploit businesses that are beyond
each company’s individual reach, they said.  Hopes for Shares  “We believe Lagardere would like to see the share price
back around 31 euros, which would be a better level to exit,”
said Edward Stacey, London-based analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank. “EADS and BAE will have to present the merger
terms and hope the benefits of the deal drive the share price
back up to convince European and British shareholders to support
the deal.”  The two companies will be looking for the backing of
stakeholders before laying out the finer details of their
proposal, including the composition of the board, executive
appointments and where key businesses will be based. Governments
remain guarded for now.  “The proposal of a EADS-BAE merger is an attractive and
interesting one, but its consequences are very complex,” French
Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told journalists today in
Muelheim,  Germany , after meeting his German counterpart. “We,
the French and German ministers, are making sure to assess the
situation very frankly, to reach a common position. We’re also
asking ourselves the questions” concerning potential veto
rights on strategic decisions and on location of headquarters,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net 
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net 
Helene Fouquet in Muhlheim at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  