-- EADS’s Enders Reckons With Make-Or-Break Week for Merger
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-01T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/eads-ceo-enders-reckons-with-make-or-break-week-for-bae-merger.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said he’s advanced to the
crucial phase of a planned merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  as he
seeks to win over governments and critical investors.  With little more than a week to produce a formal merger
document, Enders said the coming days will be conclusive in a
process he called both “very fluid and very advanced.” The
German CEO sought to rekindle support, saying a merger between
 Europe ’s largest aviation company and the biggest defense
contractor would make the two financially more resilient, give
them new markets and benefits in the long term.  “This week will be decisive,” Enders said at the  Royal
Academy  of Engineering in  London , where the CEO delivered a
lecture yesterday. “We cannot go on much longer,” he said,
referring to anxiety among investors and company employees.  Enders’s ambition to create the world’s largest aeronautic
and defense company has been criticized by investors over the
valuation and by governments concerned with their role in an
entity that he has said would limit political involvement. While
Enders acknowledged the merger is fraught with considerable
complexity, the companies are not desperate to combine, and all
sides should reach a conclusion very soon, he said.  EADS Chairman and major shareholder Arnaud Lagardere said
yesterday the merger terms are unsatisfactory and don’t fully
recognize the interests of French shareholders. Lagardere’s
comments are the “obvious” expression of concern that he has
heard from many shareholders he has met, Enders said. Cutting
thousands of jobs also isn’t part of his concept, he said.  Ownership Dispute  EADS, based in Toulouse in southern  France , and London-
based BAE, announced on Sept. 12 that they are exploring a
combination. EADS, the larger of the two, would hold 60 percent
of the new entity, and BAE the rest. That ownership ratio has
been disputed by some German lawmakers, who have said the
distribution should be closer to 70-30.  France is also demanding that its 15 percent shareholding
in EADS is properly reflected, while the U.K., which owns a so-
called golden share in BAE that lets it veto a change in
ownership, has said that in principle it’s in favor of the plan.  The companies have until Oct. 10 to produce a merger
document or seek an extension, according to U.K. takeover
regulation. Enders said he is still striving to meet that
deadline.  Enders said he is “absolutely not surprised” about the
concern from some shareholders, and that he’s met with many
investors to discuss the broad terms of the deal. EADS  has lost 
16 percent since the day before the merger plan became known.
BAE stock is little changed in the same period.  “At root the problem for shareholders is that they lose
out in various ways -- loss of income, loss of the pure play
focus they bought into -- but with no tangible gain as there is
little likelihood of any significant cost or revenue
synergies,”  Nick Cunningham , managing partner at Agency
Partners LLP in London, said in a note to clients today.
Cunningham predicted the deal will ultimately fall through.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  