-- Health Week Ahead: Insurers Prepare for Exchanges as States Wait
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-01T14:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/health-week-ahead-insurers-prepare-for-exchanges-as-states-wait.html
With enrollment in state-run health
insurance exchanges set to begin a year from today, 37 governors
have yet to formally commit to a project that was mandated by
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Affordable Care Act.  America’s Health Insurance Plans, an industry lobbyist that
represents  Aetna Inc. (AET) ,  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , is
gathering in Washington this week to talk about the work that
needs to be done. States must decide by Nov. 16 whether to build
their own exchanges or let the federal government administer all
or part the program for them.  Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah  is among Republican lawmakers
who have complained that the Obama administration hasn’t offered
enough information on how any of those options will work, or how
they may differ in cost. He chided U.S. Health and Human
Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius last week in a letter about
a “lack of transparency” in planning.  “Without specific details provided through the rulemaking
process with cost estimates and a clear understanding of the
roles and responsibilities of the states and the federal
government, states are not in a position to make an informed
decision,” wrote Hatch, the Senate Finance Committee’s top
Republican.  So far, 13 states and Washington, D.C. have told the
federal government they’ll run their own insurance marketplaces.  At the three-day  State Issues Conference  that starts
Wednesday, the health insurers will hear from the Obama
administration official in charge of helping states build
exchanges, Amanda Cowley. They’ll also hear from state leaders
such as Bruce Greenstein, the health and hospitals secretary for
 Louisiana , which has said it won’t build its own exchange or
expand Medicaid to cover more of the working poor.  “There is an urgent need for more regulatory clarity with
respect to exchanges and insurance market reforms,” Dan Durham,
executive vice president for policy and regulatory affairs at
America’s Health Insurance Plans, said in prepared remarks for a
Sept. 12 congressional hearing.  Erin Shields Britt, a spokeswoman for Sebelius’s agency,
said the administration has been providing the states with
information and guidance for the past two years.  “We look forward to continuing our work with states and
will provide additional information and guidance as we move
forward,” she said in an e-mail.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  SEBELIUS SPEECH: Sebelius delivers a speech to the National
Hispanic Council on Aging on Wednesday at the National Press
Club. The group represents Latino senior citizens and their
families, a key demographic for Obama’s re-election effort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  