-- Eastern Europe Must Prepare for 2014 Recovery, EBRD Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-10-01T15:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/eastern-europe-must-prepare-for-2014-recovery-ebrd-says.html
Eastern European governments must
adopt policies to strengthen their economies to benefit from a
global recovery in 2014, said Suma Chakrabarti, president of the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  The policies advocated by the EBRD include improving the
business environment, state-asset sales, strengthening legal
systems and making policies predictable so that investments
remain viable, Chakrabarti told reporters in  London  today.  With every eastern European country cutting its fiscal
deficit, their economic growth is also being dragged down by the
recession in the euro region, their main export market, he said.
The European Union’s eastern members are all planning to post
shortfalls within the 27-nation bloc’s limit of 3 percent of
output this year or next.  “What they need to do more about is the growth side,
structural reform,” Chakrabarti said. While that’s hard for
nations to carry out while also tackling the deficit, “it’s
very important that they do, because when the global recovery
comes they won’t be ready to take advantage of it unless they
have done structural reform as well.”  The 29 east European and central Asian countries where the
EBRD invests will grow 2.7 percent in 2012, down from 5 percent
last year, the London-based bank forecast July 25. It is due to
release revised forecasts on Nov. 7.  Slowing Growth  “Growth and credit inflows are all slowing down in our
eastern European region and unemployment has been rising -- I’m
particularly worried about youth unemployment in some places,”
Chakrabarti said, adding that economic growth should return to
the area in 2014.  Credit in eastern  Europe , where western lenders such as
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  own three-quarters of the
banking industry, is suffering as stricter regulatory
requirements reduce funding to the region. Bank lending from
February to April adjusted for inflation only expanded in Poland
and Slovakia, according to the EBRD.  The help shield eastern Europe’s lenders from sudden
withdrawals by western parent banks, non-euro EU countries
should be included in a banking union that’s being set up to
preempt future crises, Chakrabarti said.  “We’d very much like to see the banking union covering
non-euro-zone countries,” he said. “It would be a bit odd if
they weren’t covered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  