-- Egypt Stocks Drop Most in World on Report of IMF Delay, Goldman
-- B y   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-10-01T13:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/egypt-stocks-drop-most-in-world-on-report-of-imf-delay-goldman.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stocks index fell
the most since July after Al Borsa reported the International
Monetary Fund delayed a visit and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its recommendation on eight companies in the country.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  tumbled 3 percent, the most among 91
gauges tracked globally by Bloomberg, to 5,650.07 at the close
in Cairo. Twenty-nine of the 30 shares in the EGX 30 declined,
while one was unchanged.  Commercial International Bank Egypt
SAE (COMI) , the country’s biggest listed lender, fell to the lowest
level in more than two weeks after Goldman Sachs cut the shares
to sell.  An IMF team postponed a visit to Egypt until December,
after the fund’s annual meeting in  Tokyo , the newspaper reported
today, citing Finance Minister Momtaz El Saieed. The delegation
was due to arrive last month to discuss terms of a loan
agreement for up to $4.8 billion. The EGX 30 is still up 56
percent this year, the best performer among global benchmarks,
as political stability increased and prospects for international
aid started to materialize.  “The market was due for a hit,” Mohamed Radwan, head of
equities at Pharos Holding for Financial Investment in Cairo,
said by phone.“Investors had expected the IMF visit delay to be
until this month. Today’s Goldman report was also a wake up call
to investors that it may be time to lock in profits.”  Company earnings forecasts failed to keep up with share
gains, reducing the potential median upside for Egyptian stocks
Goldman Sachs covers to 5 percent compared with 14 percent for
shares covered in the  Middle East  and North Africa covered,
analysts including Dubai-based Eshan Toorabally and Matija Gergolet, wrote.  CIB retreated 1.9 percent to 33.99 Egyptian pounds.  Talaat
Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, the country’s biggest publicly traded
property developer, slumped 4.6 percent, the most since July 9,
to 5.2 pounds.  The finance minister couldn’t be reached for comment, when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  on his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  