-- Emerging Stocks Pare Loss as Micex Leads European Gains
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-01T21:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/emerging-stocks-drop-as-china-data-add-to-slowdown-signs.html
Emerging market stocks extended their
best rally since February as stress tests signaled Spain’s banks
may require less support than has been agreed and a report
showed U.S. manufacturing grew more than economists forecast.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  rose 0.2 percent to
1,005.08, after gaining 5.8 percent in September. Brazil’s
Bovespa stock index climbed for the first time in five days as
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s biggest
banks, advanced. Russia’s Micex gained 2.2 percent, the most in
two weeks. Equity indexes in South Africa,  Mexico ,  Hungary  and
 Turkey  also increased.  Spanish stress tests showed a capital deficit of 59.3
billion euros ($76 billion), less than the 100 billion euros
agreed as part of a bailout. The Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S. factory index rose to 51.5 in September from
49.6 a month earlier, above economist projections for a reading
of 49.7. A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area
based on a survey of purchasing managers also beat estimates.  “Some of the gains are because of the Spanish bank stress
test which weren’t as bad as people had feared,” Greg Lesko,
who helps manage about $700 million at Deltec Asset Management
in New York, said in a phone interview from New York. “In
general there is some optimism around  Europe , which is leading
to gains.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, climbed 1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 2.6 percent.  Bovespa Gains  The Bovespa advanced 0.7 percent, snapping its longest
losing streak since July. Itau Unibanco increased 1.5 percent
and Banco Bradesco rose 1.8 percent.  Spain’s banks have a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros,
stress tests conducted by New York-based management consultancy
Oliver Wyman showed last weekend. Spain commissioned the stress
test as part of terms to obtain a European bailout of as much as
100 billion euros for its banks.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  in the
U.S. advanced to 51.5 last month from 49.6 in August, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a September reading of 49.7. The dividing line between
expansion and contraction is 50.  A manufacturing survey in euro area was 46.1, above an
initial estimate of 46,  Markit Economics  said in  London  today.  Chinese PMI  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 7 percent last
quarter, as central banks from Europe, the U.S., Japan and  China 
took action to stimulate economic growth. The gauge has added
9.7 percent this year, trailing a 12 percent increase in the
MSCI World Index of developed countries. The emerging-markets
gauge trades at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the
MSCI World’s multiple of 13.3.  Russia’s Micex Index rose to the most since Sept. 21. South
Africa’s benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index added 1.4
percent.  Coal of Africa Ltd. , a producer of the fuel in South
Africa, jumped the most in a year after Beijing Haohua Energy
Resource Co. agreed to buy a $100 million stake in the company.
Turkey’s ISE National 100 index gained 0.5 percent.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for China showed 49.8 in
September after a 49.2 reading in August, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
today in Beijing. That compares with a median forecast of 50.1
in a Bloomberg News survey. The data and a contraction add to
signs that growth is at risk of reaching a 22-year low as the
ruling Communist Party prepares to begin installing a new
generation of leaders next month.  Chipmakers  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)  and  Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346) 
slumped to record lows in Taipei after Micron Technology Inc.,
the largest U.S. maker of memory chips, reported a loss.  Nanya Technology, which has a joint venture with Micron,
lost 4.1 percent. Powerchip Technology slumped 6 percent. Micron
had a fourth-quarter loss of $243 million and lower revenue as
lackluster demand for personal computers reduced sales of
components, it said in a filing on Sept. 27.  PAL Holdings Inc. (PAL) , owner of the nation’s largest carrier
Philippine Airlines Inc., plunged 15 percent in Manila, the most
since November 2010. PAL said it may delist its shares from
trading and the Philippine Star said Philippine Airlines is
interested in buying a regional carrier.  TPK Holding Co. (3673) , a supplier of touch panels for Apple Inc.
devices, dropped 4.3 percent in Taipei after a Barclays Plc
report said TPK’s September sales may be lower than market
expectations.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries slid five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 303, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  