-- Merck’s HPV Vaccine Gardasil Shown Safe in Kaiser Study
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-01T21:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/merck-s-hpv-vaccine-gardasil-shown-to-be-safe-in-kaiser-study.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Gardasil, the human
papillomavirus vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, was shown to
be safe in the second large-scale study in the past year of side
effects since the drug was approved six years ago.  Fainting and infection were among short-term side effects
in a U.S. government-required study of 190,000 females in  Kaiser
Permanente ’s  California  insurance system who were tracked for 60
days after receiving the HPV vaccine. The study today in the
Archives of Pediatric & Adolescent Medicine showed patients were
six times more likely to have fainted the day of the shot than
in the following weeks and 1.8 times more likely to report a
skin and subcutaneous tissue infection in the two weeks after.  Gardasil sparked debate in 2007 as 24 states introduced
legislation to mandate HPV shots for school girls, despite the
lack of long-term safety studies. U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  brought the issue back to light last year
at a Republican presidential debate, when she chastised Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  for requiring girls in his state to be
vaccinated. Today’s report is the second to be published in the
past year to show no significant side effects.  “The take-home message is this is a very reassuring
finding,” said Nicola Klein, the study’s lead author and co-
director of the Kaiser Permanente Vaccine Study Center in
Oakland, California. “Patients and providers should be aware to
follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines
for 15 minutes after this vaccine.”  Gardasil Sales  The CDC recommends, and Gardasil’s prescribing information
suggests, patients be monitored for 15 minutes after they
receive the vaccine.  Merck had committed to studying the short-term safety of
the HPV vaccine when the  Food and Drug Administration  approved
Gardasil in 2006. Kaiser conducted the study in today’s report
with the input of  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck.  Gardasil and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Cervarix are the only
two U.S.-approved vaccines to combat HPV. Merck’s Gardasil
generated $1.2 billion in revenue last year, while Cervarix
brought in $812 million for London-based Glaxo.  Gardasil, initially approved for females ages 9 to 26, had
its use expanded by the FDA to boys and men in 2009 for the
prevention of genital warts caused by certain types of HPV. The
shot is supposed to be given in three doses over six months.
Merck warns about possible pain, swelling, itching, bruising and
redness at the injection site as well as fainting.  Paralysis, Blindness  A study of records from seven large managed care
organizations by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
and Kaiser published a year ago didn’t find a significant
increased risk of fainting associated with Gardasil.  Of the 190,000 females in the Kaiser study published today,
44,000 received all three recommended doses.  Some of the criticism of Gardasil has to do with the
potential for long-term side effects that haven’t been examined
as thoroughly. Government watchdog Judicial Watch said a review
of adverse events reported to the FDA found the vaccine was
associated with  26 deaths  in the year ending Sept. 15, 2011, as
well as seizures, paralysis and blindness.  The Kaiser review board determined that increases during
its study in the likelihood of experiencing epilepsy or
convulsions after the injection weren’t associated with
Gardasil, Klein said. The review board also analyzed 14 deaths
and determined they weren’t associated with the vaccine, Klein
said. The shots were given between August 2006 and March 2008.  Rare Diseases  “I think they truncated their conclusions,” said Diane
Harper, a University of Missouri-Kansas City professor who
worked on Gardasil trials. “The biggest concern of all of these
is neurologic that are most rare and most hard to define.”  She singled out a rare condition known as Guillain-Barre
Syndrome, in which the immune system attacks the nerves leading
to paralysis.  “It doesn’t rule out that any of these effects could still
be coming,” Harper said in a telephone interview.  Kaiser said its study “may have had insufficient power to
detect very rare conditions.”  Merck is required to conduct a long-term effectiveness
study in males and a short-term safety study with another
managed care organization, according to an FDA database of post-
market commitments. Merck also must collaborate with cancer
registries in  Sweden ,  Norway ,  Iceland  and  Denmark  to assess
long-term outcomes following Gardasil use.  PAP Smears  Human papillomavirus is the most common sexually
transmitted infection. About  20 million  Americans have the
virus, according to the CDC. The types of the virus that can
cause cancer are not the same types that can cause genital
warts. About 12,000 women get cervical cancer each year in the
U.S. and about 1 percent of sexually active adults have genital
warts, according to the CDC.  “Cervical cancer is not a health crisis in any developed
country in the world,” said Norma Erickson, president of
SaneVax, an advocacy group that highlights the risks associated
with the HPV vaccine and has asked the FDA to rescind Gardasil’s
approval. “It’s preventable with noninvasive PAP smears. For
some reason we’re promoting universal vaccination of girls and
boys for something that is already preventable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  