-- Merrill Lynch Rejected by High Court on Broker Bias Suit
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-01T13:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/merrill-lynch-rejected-by-high-court-on-broker-bias-suit.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch
unit must defend against a race-discrimination lawsuit on behalf
of 700 black financial advisers, as the U.S.  Supreme Court 
turned away a company appeal.  The justices today left intact a federal appeals court
ruling that let the case go forward as a class action. The suing
workers say that they are paid less than their white
counterparts and that Merrill’s policies are to blame. Bank of
America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , acquired Merrill in
2009, after the suit was filed.  The workers say black brokers were paid 33 percent to 42
percent less than white colleagues with the same job, education,
experience and office location. The workers say the pay
disparity stems from Merrill’s policy of letting advisers work
together on teams and its method of distributing the accounts of
retiring or departing financial advisers.  The Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
the case could go forward as a class action to determine whether
the two policies had a so-called disparate impact on black
employees. Writing for the court, Judge  Richard Posner  said
individual trials could be used to determine damages, if
necessary.  Merrill argued unsuccessfully in its appeal that its case
was similar to the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  class action blocked by
the Supreme Court in a 2011 decision.  The brokers, led by George McReynolds, urged the  high court 
to reject the appeal.  Earlier Appeal  The Supreme Court rejected an appeal by the workers a year
ago, after the lower courts had ruled the brokers didn’t have
enough in common to proceed in a single class action. The 7th
Circuit revisited that conclusion in light of the Wal-Mart
ruling and decided the case could go forward.  The case is one of two filed by McReynolds. In September
the same federal appeals court threw out a suit accusing Merrill
and Bank of America of devising a discriminatory retention bonus
plan as part of the acquisition.  The new case is Merrill Lynch v. McReynolds, 12-113.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  