-- Estonian Doctors Strike as Wage Row Triggers Emigration
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-10-01T09:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/estonian-doctors-strike-as-wage-row-triggers-emigration.html
Estonian doctors and nurses at the
country’s biggest hospitals began a strike, demanding higher
wages to stem an exodus of medical staff from the Baltic nation.  Three hospitals in the capital, Tallinn, and one in the
second-biggest city, Tartu, halted outpatient services, except
for those under 18, pregnant or oncological patients, according
to statements on the hospitals’ websites today. They may stop
inpatient care starting Oct. 8, while hospitals in four more
towns may also join the strike.  Teachers went on strike in March to demand higher salaries
as Estonia became the only euro-area nation to post budget
surpluses in the last two years by freezing public wages.
Doctors and nurses are leaving for countries such as  Finland ,
where vacancies are increasing, salaries are four times higher
and the language is closely related to Estonian. Workloads for
staff who stay have been pushed too high, the unions say.  The unions demand an increase in the lowest hourly wages
for doctors to 8.6 euros ($11.1) from 7.2 euros now, with a
raise to 12 euros by 2014. Nurses want hourly wages raised to
7.7 euros in two years from 3.8 euros, and hospice workers seek
an increase to 4.2 euros from 2.1 euros. The employers, financed
by the Health Insurance Fund, last week offered a pay increase
of 6.6 percent starting next year.  Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  called unions’ demands
“totally unrealistic” on Sept. 26. The Cabinet approved next
year’s budget earlier last week to raise minimum monthly wages
for teachers by up to 18 percent to 715 euros, compared with an
overall increase in public salaries of 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  