-- Meth Charge for Lockyer’s Wife Imperils His Ambitions
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/meth-charge-for-lockyer-s-wife-imperils-his-ambitions.html
Only eight months ago, Bill Lockyer
was the envy of  California  politicians. Undefeated in 39 years
as assemblyman, senate leader, attorney general and treasurer,
the Democrat won 5.4 million votes in his 2010 re-election, more
than any other state official in the U.S.  Then in February, headlines about his wife, Nadia Lockyer,
41, an Alameda County supervisor -- whose rise in politics he
sponsored with more than $1 million from his own campaign funds
-- began to spill out in the state’s newspapers. They chronicled
an extramarital affair, an alleged sex tape and drug abuse.  The 71-year-old state treasurer, who set up a campaign fund
to run for controller in 2014, is seeking appointment as chief
executive officer of the California State University system, the
nation’s largest. As he does, he faces continuing revelations
about his estranged wife, most recently her arrest on charges of
methamphetamine possession, a felony, and neglect of the
couple’s 9-year-old son who was with her.  Bill Lockyer, who still harbors aspirations to higher
office and has $2.4 million in contributions to finance them,
has “remained focused on doing the job he was elected to do,”
according to a spokesman in  Sacramento ,  Tom Dresslar . That
includes selling $19.3 billion in  debt  this year, the most of
any state, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t expect it to have any campaign consequences,”
Lockyer said in an interview, referring to his family
tribulation. “It’s just a personal stress and time that I have
to commit to being a single parent.”  Political Couple  Lockyer, then 61 and California’s attorney general, married
Nadia Maria Davis, 31, an Orange County lawyer, in 2003, the  Los
Angeles Times  reported at the time.  It was his third marriage and her first, a Lockyer
spokesman, Nathan Barankin, told the Times. He said the couple
had met at Democratic Party functions and that she was expecting
a baby, the newspaper reported.  Nadia Lockyer became executive director of the  Alameda
County Family Justice Center  in 2007, according to her  biography 
archived by the nonpartisan League of Women Voters of California
Education Fund. The agency is part of the county district
attorney’s office and helps victims of domestic, sexual and
child abuse,  In 2010, Nadia Lockyer was elected to the Alameda County
Board of Supervisors. Of the $1.64 million in contributions
raised for her campaign, $1.45 million came from her husband’s
state political account, according to campaign finance  records .  In the same general election, Bill Lockyer received 5.43
million votes, more than California Governor  Jerry Brown  or any
other elected official in the U.S., according to the secretary
of state’s office.  ‘Violently Attacked’  Trouble in the marriage became public in early February
when Lockyer told the San Francisco Chronicle newspaper that his
wife had been “violently  attacked ” in a Newark, California,
motel room by a man he described as an ex-boyfriend of his wife.
Court papers later identified the man as Stephen Robert
Chikhani, 36, who wasn’t arrested.  Because Nadia Lockyer’s ties to the district attorney’s
office could pose a conflict of interest, the investigation was
handed to the California Justice Department, which is headed by
the attorney general.  “The  Department of Justice  has thoroughly reviewed the
matter referred to us by the Alameda County District Attorney’s
Office regarding the Feb. 3 incident at a Newark hotel involving
Nadia Lockyer,” according to a statement provided by Lynda
Gledhill, a spokeswoman. “After reviewing the evidence, the
department has determined that it will not file charges.”  Sex Tape  On Feb. 14, Nadia Lockyer announced she was taking a leave
of absence from her supervisor duties to undergo treatment for
substance abuse. Then, on Feb. 26, the Chronicle reported that a
 sex tape  of Nadia Lockyer and a man had been sent to Bill
Lockyer before the hotel incident.  At a  San Jose  courthouse two days later, where he appeared
for a hearing on possession of methamphetamines and other
charges, Chikhani told reporters, “There’s a way bigger story
than the sex tapes,” according to the  San Jose Mercury News .  Chikhani has been charged at least three times since 2010
with possession and being under the influence of a controlled
substance, according to records in Santa Clara County Superior
Court in San Jose. He was sentenced to two months in jail and
two years of probation for those offenses, according to the
records.  Chikhani didn’t respond to an e-mail message seeking
comment on the Feb. 3 incident.  E-mailed Accusation  On April 13, the Mercury News said a reporter received an
 e-mail  that appeared to be sent from Nadia Lockyer, accusing her
husband of supplying her with drugs.  “Bill bought and gave me drugs years before meeting
Steve,” the newspaper said the e-mail read, “then called me
crazy when I sought help.”  Nadia Lockyer denied sending the message and said her e-
mail account had been hacked, then later  said  she actually had
sent it, the newspaper said.  “I ask the public not to hold anything against my husband
for actions that happened a long time ago,” she said in a
Mercury News interview.  Asked about her drug-supplier assertion, Bill Lockyer
referred to an earlier comment from Dresslar reported by the
Sacramento Bee: “The allegation that Bill Lockyer provided her
drugs was B.S.” The telephone line then went dead. Dresslar
didn’t respond to a request to resume the interview.  Nadia Lockyer didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for
comment. Her criminal defense lawyer,  Allan Stokke , didn’t
respond to a telephone call and e-mail message seeking comment.  ‘Chemical Dependency’  Nine days after the e-mail, Nadia Lockyer resigned from her
supervisor position, “in order that I may focus on the well-
being of my child, recovery from chemical dependency and
interpersonal violence, and transitioning to work in the private
sector,” she said in a  statement  published by  AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s
Livermore Patch, an online news site.  On July 13, Bill Lockyer filed for divorce in Alameda
County Superior Court, according to court records.  The treasurer since 2007 of the most-populous state,
Lockyer is ineligible to run for a re-election due to term
limits. The current controller, John Chiang, has publicly
expressed an interest in running for treasurer.  Bill Lockyer’s contributors poured $66.8 million into his
last four campaigns. He has almost $2.4 million left in his
political account for controller, according to filings with the
secretary of state’s office, more than the combined total of the
other six people who have filed statements of intent to run in
2014.  The potential candidate with the second-largest sum, former
state Assembly Democratic leader Dario Frommer of  Los Angeles ,
said in a telephone interview that he won’t run for controller
if Lockyer does. Others expect Lockyer to seek the office.  Public Servant  “I’ve known Bill Lockyer since the 1970s,” said Bob
Stern, president of the nonpartisan  Center for Governmental
Studies  in Los Angeles. “He is a true public servant, in the
sense of serving the public in a variety of roles. I fully
expect him to run for controller and be the odds-on favorite
based on name recognition.”  In an interview, Lockyer said his interest in serving as
chancellor of the  California State  system had nothing to do with
his family turmoil or the possibility of it being raised in a
campaign. Lockyer, whose term as treasurer ends in 2014, would
have to step down to take the post.  The university system, based in  Long Beach , has 23
campuses, almost 427,000 students and 44,000 faculty and staff;
its sister, the Oakland-based  University of California  system,
has about 220,000 students, and 170,000 faculty and staff,
according to their websites.  Higher Pay  The chancellor’s position may pay better. While
compensation for a successor hasn’t been set, retiring
Chancellor Charles Reed received $451,500 last year in salary
and supplements, said Mike Uhlenkamp, a CSU spokesman. Lockyer
earns $132,230 a year as treasurer.  A new leader may be announced this month, Uhlenkamp said.
He declined to say who was being interviewed or whether Lockyer
was in contention.  Even as Cal State trustees were interviewing candidates,
Nadia Lockyer reappeared in news headlines. She was arrested
Aug. 28 in a home in Orange, California, where she was staying
with the couple’s 9-year-old son, according to state court
filings in  Santa Ana , southeast of Los Angeles.  Drug Arrest  Acting on an anonymous tip, police found methamphetamine,
as well as an aluminum-foil tube with a burned end, in the room
where she and her son were staying, according to the filings.
Foil tubes can be used to smoke meth.  Lockyer was charged with felony possession of a controlled
substance and three misdemeanors, including child endangerment,
according to court records. She was released on bail to National
Therapeutic Services, a drug rehabilitation center in Orange
County, south of Los Angeles, according to court records. She
has pleaded not guilty to the charges.  A receptionist at the center said he couldn’t confirm
whether Nadia Lockyer was there and declined to forward a
message from  Bloomberg News .  On Sept. 10, an Orange County judge granted Nadia Lockyer
permission to visit her son while her husband is present, or to
speak with the boy on the telephone, according to court records.  In a statement reported by the  Associated Press , she said,
“I’m really happy to be getting the help that I need and
focusing on getting healthy and I hope to inspire many, many
others to do the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  