-- MetLife Joins Wal-Mart Selling Insurance in a Snoopy Box
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-01T20:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/metlife-joins-wal-mart-selling-insurance-in-a-snoopy-box.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, is turning to the world’s biggest retailer and Snoopy
to boost sales of its policies to less-affluent consumers.  The insurer began offering prepaid  life policies  at about
200  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. locations in  South Carolina  and  Georgia 
last month, Shane Winn, a spokesman for New York-based MetLife,
said in an e-mail today. Shoppers can buy a package adorned with
an image of the comic-strip beagle  Snoopy  that offers as much as
$25,000 of coverage for one year.  MetLife is seeking to increase the proportion of policies
it sells directly to consumers to add clients and cut costs tied
to middlemen. The insurer has set a goal to cut expenses by $600
million by 2016 as it targets return on equity of as much as 14
percent. Direct sales, including those through the internet, may
climb to 13 percent of the U.S. individual life market in 2016
from 8 percent in 2010, the company said in a May 23
 presentation , citing data from Limra.  “That’s where the growth is, that’s where we need to be,”
William Wheeler, president of the company’s Americas division,
said that day.  A one-year policy, providing a $10,000 death benefit, is
advertised at $69 for people ages 18 to 44. Those  60 to 65  would
pay $429 for $25,000 of coverage lasting a year. Customers
purchase a prepaid card that holds enough value to cover the
policy’s cost and then call MetLife to answer health questions
and activate the coverage. Those who don’t qualify can return
their purchase or use the card to shop for other products.  Everyday Services  The program marks the first time Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart has sold life insurance and is part of the
company’s efforts to expand offerings of financial products, 
said Sarah Spencer, a company spokeswoman. She said it’s too 
early to gauge the customer response.  “We’re trying to make sure our customers have access to
affordable, everyday money services,” she said by phone.  The Wal-Mart program is “an effort to pilot a new product
in a new channel and in a new market,” and not directly related
to the cost-cutting efforts, Winn said.  U.S. life insurers typically focus on selling policies with
larger face values to more affluent individuals, said  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets. By distributing
coverage at Wal-Mart, MetLife can reach consumers at different
income levels, he said.  Insurers “largely focused on affluent and mass affluent
Americans, effectively the upper end of the income scale,”
Binner said by phone. “There’s a large population in the U.S.
that’s pretty underserved.”  Peanuts, Blimp  MetLife’s branding efforts include its blimp, naming rights
for the stadium that’s home to the  National Football League ’s
New York Jets and  New York Giants , and Peanuts characters
created by the late comic-strip artist Charles Schulz.  “Snoopy and the Peanuts characters are strongly associated
with MetLife and they’re obviously very valuable,” Binner said.
“To the extent that you have a brand like that that has mass
appeal, it’s interesting to think about ways you can make your
product more available.”  A website explaining the  life insurance  sold at Wal-Mart
lists prices and terms, and also answers questions about the
coverage including “Is it really that easy?”  “Does Snoopy live in a doghouse?” is MetLife’s answer.  The program doesn’t have a set end date and MetLife will
evaluate the results later this year, Winn wrote in an e-mail.  MetLife already offers life insurance on the firm’s website
and sold $5 million of new premium via that channel in the first
three months of this year, Wheeler said. Manulife Financial
Corp. offers policies to Canadian customers of  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST) , the biggest U.S. warehouse-club chain.  Wal-Mart has been expanding in financial services by
offering money transfers, check cashing and bill payment in
stores. The retailer sought to open a limited-service U.S. bank
for more than a year before abandoning that effort in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  