-- Global Factory Weakness Spreads as Debt Crisis Persists
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-01T23:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/euro-region-manufacturing-contracted-for-14th-month-in-september.html
(Corrects euro-area  unemployment rate  in third paragraph.)
For more on Europe’s debt crisis, see TOP CRIS.)  Manufacturing from Europe to China
contracted in September as the euro region’s fiscal crisis
eroded investor confidence and clouded global growth prospects.  A gauge of  manufacturing  in the 17-nation euro region was
at 46.1, above an initial estimate of 46 on Sept. 20, Markit
Economics in London said today. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. A Chinese factory index was at 49.8 for September,
a statistics bureau report showed. In the U.S., manufacturing
unexpectedly returned to growth last month.  Economies around the globe are cooling as European
governments toughen spending cuts to restore investor confidence
as the region’s economic slump deepens. Euro-area  unemployment 
held at a record 11.4 percent in August and Japan’s Tankan index
of large manufacturers’ confidence dropped to minus 3 for the
past quarter, two reports showed today.  “Europe is still a big problem out there, you’re seeing
weaker global growth in general,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James Financial Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
Florida. “A lot of firms doing business in Europe are reporting
weaker results, a lot more caution.”  U.S. stocks rose after the Institute for Supply Management
said its factory index rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 a
month earlier. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a
reading of 49.7, according to the median of 76 forecasts.  The S&P 500 rose 1 percent as of 10:20 a.m.  New York  time.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 1.1 percent. In Europe,
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index extended its gain and was up 1.5
percent.  Deepening Slump  Signs of strength in the U.S. emerged despite indications
of a deepening slump in Europe. At least five euro-member states
are already in recession.  Economic confidence  unexpectedly
declined in September and service industries also contracted
last month. Markit will release a final reading on Oct. 3.  At 25.1 percent, Spain had the highest unemployment rate
within the 27-member European Union, according to today’s labor
report. Ireland and Portugal, which both received external aid,
reported a jobless rate of 15 percent and 15.9 percent,
respectively. Greece didn’t provide data for August.  “Manufacturers across the euro area suffered the worst
quarter for three years in the three months to September,”
 Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in the
statement. “Output, order books and exports all continued to
fall at steep rates in September, causing firms to cut their
staffing levels once again.”  China Slowdown  Weakness in exports is hitting economies across the globe
as Europe’s austerity measures cap demand.  Today’s Chinese indicator, released by the statistics
bureau and the nation’s logistics federation, came after a
similar measure from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit showed an 11th
straight contraction. Outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to stop
economic growth slipping below his 7.5 percent target for this
year, a pace that would already be the weakest since 1990.  China’s central bank has held off from adding to interest-
rate cuts in June and July, partly on concern housing prices
will rebound, Chen Yulu, a People’s Bank of  China  academic
adviser, said last week. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  meets twice this
month to review monetary policy after expanding easing in
September.  ‘Poor’ Data  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  last month said it would
keep its target  interest rate  close to zero until at least
mid-2015 and began a third round of stimulus, buying $40 billion
in mortgage bonds a month.  The  European Central Bank  will probably keep the  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent when council
members meet on Oct. 4, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
Frankfurt-based central bank pledged to purchase  government
bonds  in tandem with Europe’s rescue fund to fight the crisis.  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight, said he expects the ECB to lower borrowing costs
further.  “We lean toward the view that they will probably hold off
to November,” Archer said. “If the ECB does hold fire next
Thursday, we suspect another month of poor euro-zone economic
data and surveys will encourage the bank to act in November.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  