-- Dollar Weakens on Prospects Fed to Sustain Stimulus
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-02T07:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/euro-trades-near-three-week-low-before-retail-sales-ecb-meeting.html
The dollar weakened versus most of
its 16 major counterparts on speculation signs of weakness in
U.S. employment will encourage the  Federal Reserve  to sustain
monetary stimulus that tends to debase the currency.  The greenback fell after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
yesterday defended the central bank’s unprecedented bond buying.
Demand for the 17-nation euro was limited before data tomorrow
forecast to show retail sales in the currency bloc decreased for
a second month and ahead of an Oct. 4 meeting of the  European
Central Bank .  Australia ’s dollar dropped to the lowest level in
more than three weeks after the  Reserve Bank  cut interest rates.
The yen slid versus its main peers as Asian stocks gained.  “The dollar’s just going to continue to see-saw,” said
 Thomas Averill , managing director in Sydney at Rochford Capital,
a currency and  interest-rate  risk management company. “Economic
concerns globally are keeping it relatively strong, but
continued printing by the Fed is keeping it weak.”  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to 78.04 yen at 8:14 a.m.
 London  time. It was little changed at $1.2883 per euro. Japan’s
was also little changed, at 100.51 per euro.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares added 0.1 percent.  A report tomorrow from ADP Employer Services will show U.S.
companies hired 140,000 workers in September, versus 201,000 in
August, according to the median estimate of economists in a
 Bloomberg News  survey. The government will release its monthly
payrolls report on Oct. 5, a day after weekly jobless data is
due.  Fed Policy  The Fed will publish on Oct. 4 minutes of its Sept. 13
meeting when it announced that it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage bonds a month. The central bank will continue record
stimulus even after economic expansion gains strength, Bernanke
said yesterday in Indianapolis.  “We expect the economy to continue to grow,” the Fed
chairman said. “Our concern is not really a recession. Our
concern is that growth will continue but at a pace that’s
insufficient to put people back to work.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.6 percent to $1.0301, after
touching $1.0294, the lowest since Sept. 7.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  cut its benchmark interest
rate to the lowest level since 2009 as a global slowdown weakens
commodity prices that have helped drive 21 years of growth
without a recession.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the overnight
cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent,
the central bank said in a statement in Sydney today. The
decision to end a three-month pause was predicted by nine of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  RBA Decision  “We were calling for a 25 basis point cut today, and
that’s what they delivered,” said Callum Henderson, Singapore-
based global head of currency research at  Standard Chartered
Plc. (STAN)  “The knee-jerk reaction to the decision is negative” for
the Aussie dollar, said Henderson, who expects the currency to
decline to $1.0250 over the next few days.  Gains in the euro were limited before data tomorrow that
economists in a Bloomberg poll said will show European  retail
sales  fell 0.1 percent in August from July, when they slipped
0.2 percent. Figures yesterday showed unemployment in the euro
area climbed to a record 11.4 percent in August.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will keep its main refinancing rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent this week and will
reduce it by the end of the year, a separate Bloomberg poll of
economists showed.  Debt Crisis  “News out of Europe is certainly not going to get a huge
amount better overnight,” saidAverill. “The debt crisis is
far from over. We’ve got some more bad headlines to come out of
there, which will push euro-dollar lower.”  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the nation is
pressing on with its analysis of whether to seek a bailout,
moving beyond his call last week that the EU needed to provide
more guidance on conditions. Following a meeting with Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  in Madrid yesterday,
De Guindos said Spain is studying the ECB bond-buying proposal.  The move in Spain comes as European leaders enter a month
that may decide the success of the central bank’s bid to end the
debt crisis by pledging bond purchases. Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy , who spent six months campaigning for ECB
President  Mario Draghi  to buy bonds, has been weighing the
benefits of seeking aid since Aug. 2.  “If Spain decides to ask for a bailout, that’s a positive
factor for the euro,” said Noriaki Murao, New York-based
managing director of the marketing group at the Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s biggest financial group
by market value. “That could reduce risks of a euro breakup.”  The euro lost 3.1 percent over the past six months, the
biggest drop after the Swiss franc among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 0.5 percent and the yen jumped 6.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 