-- Evans Sees Scope for Fed to Do More to Aid Economy
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-01T14:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/evans-sees-scope-to-aid-economy-as-inflation-poses-no-threat.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said he isn’t seeing threats of
inflation and that the central bank can do more to boost growth
and hiring even after it stepped up record stimulus last month.  “I don’t think we’ve seen inflationary concerns,” Evans
said today in a CNBC interview. “We want to average 2 percent,
but at the moment we’re under-running that.”  Evans, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, said that the
Fed can do more to support the recovery and that he sees
unemployment in the range of 7 percent by the end of 2014. He
said the central bank can “back off” of its accommodation
should inflation present a greater threat.  “There’s scope for doing more,” he said. “I would have
been doing more for a longer period of time.”  Policy makers are attacking unemployment with an
unprecedented commitment to buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a
month in a third round of quantitative easing until the labor
market shows sustained improvement. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  also said last month it will probably will hold the
federal funds rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  In June, the Fed  extended  Operation Twist, selling about
$45 billion of short-term  Treasury securities  a month and buying
about $45 billion of longer-term Treasuries. The Fed said it
will continue the program through the end of the year.  $85 Billion  Evans said today that the pace of $85 billion in purchases
of longer-duration mortgage-backed securities and Treasury
securities may be appropriate through the end of 2013.  “It’s going to take almost a year in order to see the type
of improvement in labor markets that I’m expecting, just getting
through the first half of next year with the headwinds that
we’re facing, I think that it’s probably later in 2013 that we
would get there.” Evans said. “In my opinion we’d continue
with those asset purchases until we see payroll employment more
like 200,000 to 250,000” new jobs per month.  The Labor Department said Sept. 7 that the economy added
96,000 jobs in August, less than forecast by economists and down
from a 141,000 increase in July. The Oct. 5 jobs report may show
employers added 115,000 jobs in September, according to the
median of 25 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  