-- Ex-Lehman Executive Jack Can Enter Treatment Program
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-01T17:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/ex-lehman-executive-jack-can-enter-treatment-program.html
Bradley Jack, a former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. managing director charged with forging
prescriptions, can enter a drug and alcohol treatment program, a
 Connecticut  judge ruled.  Superior Court Judge Maureen D. Dennis today granted Jack’s
request, which prosecutors didn’t oppose, to enter the program
on the conditions that he attend weekly group sessions and
participate in self-help programs, receive outpatient
psychiatric counseling and submit urine samples upon request.  Jack, 54, is “someone who would benefit from treatment”
as he has “struggled in the past” with addiction and is taking
steps to address the issue, his attorney, Robert Golger, said in
court. Jack, who was in court today, declined an opportunity to
address the judge.  The program allows a case to be suspended if the court
finds that a defendant was dependent on drugs or alcohol when
the offense occurred, that the program would serve the interests
of justice and that treatment can help the defendant, according
to the Connecticut Judicial Branch. Charges against Jack will be
dismissed if he completes the program.  Jack was first arrested on a charge of second-degree
forgery in June 2011, when he allegedly obtained forged
prescriptions for Ritalin and the painkiller Oxycontin in
Fairfield, Connecticut.  A judge allowed Jack to avoid prosecution in that case,
under a diversionary program for first-time offenders, as long
as he stayed out of trouble for a year. Jack was arrested again
in March on second-degree forgery charges after he allegedly
altered a prescription for Vyvanase, an attention-deficit
disorder drug, in Westport, Connecticut.  A hearing on Jack’s first case is scheduled for Nov. 16.  “I really don’t want to comment on the matter, but I hope
it’s going to be resolved,” Golger said after today’s hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Dillon at Connecticut Superior Court in Norwalk at
   jdillon@snet.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  