-- Extra Scrutiny of Bank of Japan Pledged by Economy Chief
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-02T02:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/extra-scrutiny-of-bank-of-japan-pledged-by-noda-s-economy-chief.html
Japan ’s new Economy Minister Seiji Maehara pledged a closer watch over the central bank to ensure
it meets a 1 percent inflation goal, adding that purchases of
foreign bonds may be a powerful tool for easing.  “Now I am in this position, I will scrutinize even more
strictly” the Bank of Japan’s efforts to achieve its target,
Maehara, 50, told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. If the bank’s
actions are insufficient, Maehara will do more than “just
talk,” he said.  Newly-appointed Finance Minister Koriki Jojima, 65, said
that central bank purchases of foreign bonds are an issue that
“requires cautious handling and consideration,” suggesting he
may have less enthusiasm for the idea. He also said the
government will “take bold actions against the currency’s
excessive moves if necessary,” echoing comments used by
predecessor  Jun Azumi  to signal that intervention in currency
markets remains an option.  Investors and analysts are looking for clues to any policy
shifts after Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda reshuffled his
cabinet ahead of an election that may come as early as this
year. In the case of Jojima, the nation’s fifth finance chief in
three years and a newcomer to the cabinet, limited financial
expertise may increase his reliance on ministry bureaucrats and
lessen his own input.  “We know almost nothing about his economic or financial
policies,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “He likely will follow the
Ministry of Finance’s stance of intervening if necessary.”  Stocks Fall  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was up 0.3 percent this
morning, rebounding from a three-week low yesterday after U.S.
manufacturing data beat estimates and Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke renewed a pledge to sustain record stimulus.
Noda’s reshuffle is as tensions with China cloud the outlook for
trade and deeper declines in consumer prices show deflation
remains entrenched.  A 48 percent gain in the yen against the dollar in five
years has hit exports and manufacturing. Azumi, the former
finance minister, oversaw the sale of a record 8 trillion yen
($103 billion) in market intervention last October after the
currency hit a postwar high of 75.35 yen per dollar. The yen was
at 78.09 as of 11:06 a.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Tasks that Jojima must tackle include persuading opposition
leader Shinzo Abe to back legislation for deficit-financing
bonds so the government doesn’t run out of money.  “I am not a true expert, but I don’t think I’m so terrible
at it,” Jojima said last night, when quizzed by a reporter on
his experience with finance and currencies.  Maehara’s Stance  Maehara has been the leader of the Democratic Party of
Japan and stepped down as foreign minister five days before the
March 11, 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster over allegations
he violated campaign financing laws, and also served as
transportation minister, overseeing the successful turnaround
plan for Japan Airlines Co.  As DPJ policy chief, Maehara in August said it would be
“desirable” for the government and the central bank to reach a
deal allowing the bank to purchase foreign securities to help
stimulate the economy. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has
opposed the idea, which would require the bank to identify and
manage appropriate foreign assets.  Maehara “is fairly aggressive on monetary easing,” said
 Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief economist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Weakness in exports may be strengthening the case for
adding foreign-bond purchases to the central bank’s tool kit.
Implementing the policy would alter the relationship between the
Bank of Japan and the Ministry of Finance, which Azumi has said
should control currency interventions, such as those conducted
since Japan’s earthquake to weaken the yen.  Europe ‘Fears’  “If we do not correct the extreme yen appreciation, then
Japan’s manufacturing will not hold up,” Maehara said today.
“I think the current yen level is too high.”  Answering reporters last night, Jojima said his former role
as deputy policy research chief for the DPJ was relevant to his
new role and he had “shown an interest in my own way” in
finance and currency issues. Current yen moves were partly
because of “fears about the  European debt crisis ,” he said.  “Jojima isn’t much known in financial markets, but he was
probably picked because of his bargaining ability with
opposition parties,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist
at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “He will inherit policies that Noda’s
administration and the finance ministry have set.”  Loves Animals  Visitors to Jojima’s blog get few insights into his views
on the yen or the economy. He referred to the currency’s
strength once in 26 posts this year, and the economy three
times. Last month, he wrote on his love of animals and reforming
the electoral system.  A graduate of the University of Tokyo where he majored in
agriculture, Jojima was first elected to parliament in 1996.
Before entering politics, he was head of the worker’s union at
food company Ajinomoto Co. and wrote a book on labor relations.
His office wall is decorated with pictures of livestock and a
sign saying he cured a 100-cigarette-a-day smoking habit by
suddenly halting.  The new finance minister’s first appearance on an
international stage will be next week as he and Shirakawa host
the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World
Bank in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  