-- Failure Becomes Fortune as Property CDS Drop: Australia Credit
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-01T14:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/failure-becomes-fortune-as-property-cds-drop-australia-credit.html
After pulling back on failed global
expansion strategies, Australian property companies are gaining
bondholder confidence as they return to their rent-collecting
roots and take on partners to share development risks.  Credit-default swaps on  GPT Group (GPT) ,  Westfield Group (WDC)  and  Lend
Lease Group (LLC)  tumbled the most among companies in the Markit
iTraxx Australia gauge in 2012, according to data provider CMA.
The declines all outpaced the 78 basis-point drop on an index of
contracts on global real estate companies, the data show. GPT is
boosting retail rents 4.5 percent this year and has an occupancy
rate of 99.1 percent, while Westfield and Lend Lease have signed
deals with pension funds to jointly fund projects.  Australian property trusts sold off assets from  Europe  to
the U.S. after a global buying spree before the 2008 credit
freeze saddled them with billions in losses on overseas
investments. The S&P/ASX 200  Real Estate Index (AS51REAL)  has surged 19
percent this year, more than double the benchmark gauge’s 8
percent gain, as investors bet that the fastest forecast
economic growth among the Group of 10 will support property
values and lease payments.  “They’re in terrific financial shape,” Stephen Hiscock,
managing director and portfolio manager for listed property
trusts at Melbourne-based SG Hiscock & Co. said in a telephone
interview. “They’re still trying to make money but they’re
trying to do it in a much more risk-controlled manner.”  The average price of credit-default swaps for four of the
nation’s biggest property companies -- GPT, Westfield, Lend
Lease and  CFS Retail (CFX)  Property Trust -- fell 110 basis points
this year to 203 basis points on Sept. 28 and reached a 13-month
low on Sept. 17, the CMA data show.  Rent Growth  Sydney-based GPT, which reported a 13 percent increase in
net income to A$275.5 million ($285.6 million) in the six months
ended June 30, expects rent growth to help drive an earnings
increase of at least 7 percent in the year ending Dec. 31, it
said in August.  Australia’s  second-biggest  diversified property trust
expects rental growth of between 3.4 percent and 4.5 percent
across its properties in 2012 and a decline in debt costs to 5.7
percent, the company said.  The relative yield on GPT’s A$250 million of 6.75 percent
notes due in 2019 fell to 181 basis points more than swap rates
on Sept. 26, the narrowest spread since they were issued in
January, Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  prices show.  “GPT’s balance sheet is very strong with debt-to-total
assets at 20 percent and interest coverage of 4.7 times as at
the end of June,” said Michael O’Brien, the company’s chief
financial officer who from this week will head up GPT’s new
business area of corporate development. “It’s great to see the
company’s strong position demonstrated through the
competitiveness of pricing of debt we’ve accessed.”  CFS Retail spokeswoman Penny Berger didn’t immediately
respond to e-mailed requests for comment. Westfield spokeswoman
Julia Clarke declined to comment.  Falling Risk  The cost of insuring GPT’s debt dropped 244 basis points to
156 as of Sept. 28 from a high of 400 on Oct. 4 last year, CMA
prices show. Westfield default swaps declined to 168 from a peak
of 388 the same month, and Lend Lease’s fell 195 basis points to
343. CFS Retail contracts slid 158 basis points to 146 from a
peak on Nov. 25.  The average cost of credit-default swaps on the four
companies peaked at 909 basis points in April 2009 amid the
financial crisis sparked by the U.S. subprime mortgage collapse,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Australians spent twice as much as Middle Eastern investors
on U.S. real estate from 2005 to mid-2007, and almost three
times more than Germans, according to New York-based Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a provider of data on the U.S. property
market. That backfired when property values tumbled and
borrowing costs spiked because of the credit crunch, forcing
companies to write down and sell offshore assets and replenish
balance sheets ravaged by losses.  Shares Surge  Westfield’s  share  price has surged 29.8 percent this year,
while CFS Retail saw a 16.3 percent gain. GPT’s has jumped 11.1
percent and Lend Lease’s shares  climbed  8.8 percent. That
compared with an 8.2 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index.  CFS Retail’s distributable earnings rose 6.1 percent in the
year ended June 30, and the company said it has fixed rental
increases of 5 percent for its specialty store tenants. Its cost
of debt fell to 6 percent from 7 percent a year earlier.  The Sydney-based mall operator “continues to benefit from
structural rent increases,” Lou Pirenc, a real estate analyst
at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report in August. “With the
average cost of debt expected to be 5.5 percent in fiscal year
2013, this will benefit both underlying earnings and improve the
cost of capital for future projects.”  Debt Costs  Debt costs have dropped for property companies as 1.25
percentage points of central bank  interest-rate cuts  since
November lowered the cost of money in the South Pacific nation.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg showed an 82
percent chance yesterday that  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  will reduce the 3.5 percent benchmark rate to 3.25
percent. The RBA will announce its decision at 2:30 p.m. Sydney
time today.  Benchmark 10-year bond yields have fallen 112 basis points
over the past 12 months and were at 2.983 percent yesterday in
Sydney.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded
currency, bought $1.0375.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was at 160 basis points.
The gauge of corporate bond risk reached a six-month low of 135
on Sept. 14, CMA data show. The gauge is a benchmark for
insuring bonds against default and traders use it to speculate
on  credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  Westfield Bonds  Westfield sold $500 million of 2022 notes on Sept. 24,
paying a spread of 180 basis points more than Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sydney-based
company paid a 350 basis-point spread on 10-year debt in 2009,
the data show.  The extra yield that Westfield’s $1 billion of 4.625
percent notes due in 2021 offer over U.S. swap rates shrank to a
low of 181 basis points on Sept. 27 from as high as 249 in June,
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc prices show.  Westfield this year sold stakes in 12 U.S. malls to the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board to raise $2.1 billion to
fund development projects. It jointly owns Australian and New
Zealand malls with  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) , and is partnering
with local groups in Brazil and  Italy  to develop new shopping
centers.  For companies including Westfield and Lend Lease, which
rely on higher-risk activities such as development to boost
earnings, tie-ups with “very large, very well-resourced capital
partners” are helping to reduce risk, Hiscock said.  “There’s a clear trend toward capital partnering,” he
said. “If it reduces risk without materially changing the
outcome, then it’s obviously a very significant positive.”  Stake Sales  Lend Lease in July said it won A$2 billion in commitments
from Canada Pension, Telstra Super and its own unlisted fund the
Australian Prime Property Fund Commercial, to build the first
two towers of its A$6 billion Barangaroo redevelopment on
Sydney’s harbor.  The improved perception of Lend Lease in debt markets
“reflects the underlying financial strength of the group and
our continued progress on Barangaroo,” Lend Lease spokeswoman
Vivienne Bower said in an e-mail.  “There’s quite a lot of demand from institutions to come
into this space” and partner with developers, said Tony Sherlock, head of property research at Morningstar Australasia
Pty. “The limit actually seems to be the supply of assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  