-- FDA Asks Judge to Dismiss Spying Suit Filed by Employees
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-01T21:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/fda-asks-judge-to-dismiss-spying-lawsuit-filed-by-employees.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
asked a federal judge to dismiss spying claims brought by six
current and former employees who told lawmakers the agency was
improperly approving medical devices used to screen for cancer.  The FDA, in a filing today in Washington, said the
employees must first have what the government calls claims of
“alleged whistle-blower retaliation” reviewed through an
administrative process before seeking judicial action. The
agency said five of the plaintiffs have complaints pending
before the U.S. Office of Special Counsel, which handles
government whistle-blower allegations.  “Plaintiffs’ attempt at a procedural shot-gun blast must
fail,” W. Scott Simpson, a Justice Department lawyer, said in
the filing.  The employees, in an amended civil rights lawsuit filed in
January, said the agency monitored their communications using
spyware to capture screen shots and learn the workers’
identities, as well as “the tactics and strategy” they were
planning to use in “blowing the whistle to Congress, the
inspector general, among other proper authorities.”  The monitoring began more than three years ago, after nine
FDA employees signed a letter to President  Barack Obama ’s
transition team alleging government misconduct in the approval
of medical devices, including an imaging device used to diagnose
 breast cancer , according to the filing. It was expanded in 2010
after the  New York  Times published an article in which FDA
scientists criticized the device-approval process.  The lead plaintiff in the case is Paul Hardy, a former
officer of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.
The other plaintiffs are three former FDA scientists -- Ewa
Czerska,  Robert Smith  and Julian Nicholas -- and two current FDA
employees -- R. Lakshmi Vishnuvajjala and Nancy Wersto.  The case is Hardy v. Shuren, 11-01739, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  