-- Fisker CEO Still Aiming to Make Plug-in Cars in Delaware
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-01T20:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/fisker-ceo-still-aiming-to-make-plug-in-cars-in-delaware.html
Fisker Automotive Inc.’s new chief
executive officer said the plug-in hybrid carmaker still plans
to build rechargeable autos at a Delaware plant that stalled
when the Energy Department blocked a loan for the project.  The closely held company, which last week said it raised
more than $100 million from private investors, continues to work
out plans to produce its second model, the Atlantic, at the
Wilmington, Delaware, facility,  Tony Posawatz  said in a phone
interview today. Posawatz joined Anaheim, California-based
Fisker in August after retiring from  General Motors Co. (GM) , where
he led development of the rechargeable Chevrolet Volt sedan.  “The intent and plan is to utilize that Delaware facility
and build cars there in the future,” Posawatz said. Issues that
led regulators to suspend access to a loan to refurbish and
equip the factory have been resolved, and “at an appropriate
time we will revisit the discussion with them of the possibility
of accessing the remainder of the loan,” he said.  Fisker’s goal of becoming profitable from its $103,000
Karma sedan, which goes about 40 miles (64 kilometers) on
battery power before a gasoline engine kicks in, has been
challenged by initial delivery delays, tight funds and technical
failures that led to recalls of flawed lithium-ion battery packs
and cooling fans.  Consumer Reports  last month criticized the luxury car,
declining to recommend it because of cabin noise, interior
design and reliability concerns.  Flaws Addressed  Early flaws have been addressed and the company is working
on enhancements for a second-generation Karma, Posawatz said.  “We have a little bit of follow-up to do as it relates to
a few component replacements, but I would say for the most part
that is behind us,” he said. “Now we look forward to getting
the gen-two technology and the next cars out on the road, and
that’s the phase we’re starting to enter.”  He declined to say when a revamped Karma would be
available. Fisker said last week it would provide details by
December on plans to produce the lower-priced Atlantic model.  Fisker must raise more money before it decides where and
when to make the Atlantic, Posawatz told reporters today in
 Detroit . About 1,500 Karmas have been delivered to customers in
the U.S. and  Europe  since December, the company said last week.
The less-expensive Atlantic will be the “cash engine” of the
company, Posawatz said.  “We can’t be a Karma-only company,” he said.  IPO Preparations  The company is discussing “all kinds of alliances” with
potential partners, Posawatz said.  Fisker was approved for $529 million in Energy Department
loans in 2009 to develop and build its vehicles. In February, it
suspended work on the Wilmington factory, which GM shed in its
2009 bankruptcy.  Posawatz told reporters today that the company is preparing
for an eventual initial public offering of stock.  Until then, Fisker plans to increase its marketing. Founder
Henrik Fisker will go on a 10-city dealer tour to give
prospective buyers a chance to see and drive the car, Posawatz
said. Dealers had been reluctant to commit until Fisker
announced its latest round of funding, he said.  The U.S. awarded Fisker $169 million for Karma engineering
and $359 million for production of a second model in the U.S.
The company said in February it had drawn down $193 million from
the loans. Karma’s battery and motor system were developed in
the U.S., and the car is built under contract in  Finland  by
Valmet Automotive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 