-- Five Germans Die in Bus Fire Near Beijing After Truck Crash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/five-germans-die-in-bus-fire-near-beijing-after-truck-crash-2-.html
Six people, including five German
nationals, died in a bus fire near Beijing yesterday, the
official Xinhua News Service reported, citing police in the
neighboring city of Tianjin.  The Chinese driver also died and 14 people were injured
when the bus, carrying a group organized by  China  Youth Travel
Service, rear-ended a container truck on a Beijing-Tianjin
expressway, Xinhua said. German Ambassador Michael Schaefer
arrived in Tianjin yesterday afternoon to visit the injured
tourists, Xinhua said, without citing anyone.  China said Aug. 29 it would inspect road safety nationwide
after traffic accidents in the previous two weeks, including one
that killed 36 people, spurred public criticism of the
government. Safety standards for long-distance buses will be
checked, China’s State Administration of Work Safety said in a
statement dated Aug. 27.  A failure to minimize fatal road accidents from human error
may cause the people to lose trust in the government, a Xinhua
commentary said at the time.  Of the 14 people injured yesterday, 12 were German and two
Chinese, Xinhua said, citing a doctor at People’s Hospital in
Tianjin’s Wuqing district, who identified himself only by his
surname, Zhang.  Of those hurt, 11 were being treated in the
hospital, including nine tourists, Xinhua said.  Three more-seriously injured patients were transferred to
the Tianjin Municipal People’s Hospital and the First Hospital
for treatment, Xinhua said, citing Zhang.  Hospital Visit  The largely “middle age” group was scheduled to visit the
First Hospital affiliated to Tianjin University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine in the afternoon, Xinhua said, citing Fu
Dechao, the group’s translator, who wasn’t on the bus.  China’s Ministry of Public Security sent a working team to
Tianjin oversee an investigation to the cause of the accident,
Xinhua reported.  The German embassy didn’t immediately reply to a request
for comment via its website, and a phone call to the emergency
number reached a recording saying the embassy was closed
yesterday. Most businesses and government offices in China are
shut for the weeklong National Day break.  Two calls to China Youth Travel went unanswered and a man
who answered the phone at the Tianjin police traffic accident
inquiry line declined to comment or provide his name.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  