-- Ford SUV Sales Defy Australia Fading Boom for Commodities
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-02T06:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/ford-suv-sales-defy-australia-fading-boom-for-commodities.html
In Australia’s  Port Hedland , 50
mechanics work through the night at Pilbara Motor Group,
customizing new sport-utility vehicles for cash-rich miners,
defying assertions that the country’s commodities boom is over.  SUVs have become so popular that they account for nine out
of ten autos sold in Pilbara Motor’s dealerships. Nationwide, a
third of the passenger vehicles sold are SUVs, more than triple
their share in the U.S. or Europe.  The sales surge for the pricey vehicles indicates
Australian consumers have yet to run out of money earned during
the country’s commodity-driven economic boom, even as prices of
coal and  iron ore  fall, according to Phil O’Donaghoe, an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney. That stands in contrast
to concerns voiced by Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson , who
has said the boom is coming to an end.  “Disposable incomes are healthier than some of the other
data is telling us,” O’Donaghoe said. “There’s a disconnect
between people’s perception of their finances and their ability
to buy things.”  Sales of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Territory,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
RAV4, Chrysler Group LLC Jeeps and other SUVs rose 50 percent in
June from a year earlier and made up a record 34 percent of
passenger vehicles sold in the first half of this year.  That compares to a 10 percent market share in the U.S. over
the same period and 7.7 percent in the European Union’s core 15
economies during the first eight months of 2010, the most recent
period for which data is available.  Positive Sign  The willingness of consumers to buy SUVs is a positive sign
for an economy hit by a 25 percent fall this year in the price
of  iron ore , Australia’s largest export, said Saul Eslake, chief
economist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch in Sydney.  The SUV sales boom “does seem to sit oddly with other
stories about people struggling with the cost of living and
cutting back on discretionary spending,” Eslake said.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its key cash rate today
to its lowest level since 2009. Australia’s economy will need to
see a strengthening in “other components of demand” as mining
investments in the next 12 months fail to meet earlier
expectations, the central bank  said .  In Port Hedland, in the arid north of  Western Australia 
state, ships line up to export about  250 million tons  of ore
each year. Car sales in the town, where the average maximum
temperature is above 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit)
for  six months  of the year, are thriving.  The detailing workshop at Pilbara Motors, which sells
Toyotas and Nissans, is open 24 hours, seven days a week. That’s
to meet demand from customers in the remote town, closer to
 Singapore  than Sydney and an 18-hour drive from the state
capital of Perth.  Higher Incomes  “Mining’s got a lot to do with it,” sales manager Shane
Tomerini said by phone. “People earn a good dollar in the
 mining industry  so they can buy quite expensive motor cars.”  Buyers, many of them employees and contractors of miner  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , want a vehicle that can take them over harsh
roads to remote outback gorges and Indian Ocean beaches, he
said. Workers in the sector earn an average of A$118,000
($124,000) annually, more than double the national average of
A$55,000, according to government data.  The economic benefits of the commodities boom are fading,
Resources Minister Ferguson said in a Sept. 17 interview with
Bloomberg Television, as growth slows in China, the biggest
buyer of Australian resources.  “The easy earnings of high prices are now gone,” the
minister said. “We know we have to work hard to maintain our
competitiveness internationally.”  BHP Billiton  Ferguson isn’t alone in his view that Australia faces
tougher times as mining weakens. Hedge-fund manager  Jim Chanos 
expects slumping Chinese property markets to hit Australia and
Brazil.  Ross Garnaut , an adviser to the Australian government,
said  living standards  may fall as the boom falters.  Bill Evans ,
chief economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , predicts household
spending will shrink.  BHP warned Sept. 19 that China’s iron ore demand has slowed
by more than half. And Australia’s third-biggest iron ore
producer,  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , said Sept. 4 that it
would defer $1.6 billion of spending due this year.  Adam Alexander, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in
 Melbourne , says monthly SUV sales data can be an early warning
of the ripples from such events. He has been tracking the
statistics for the last three years to get an early read on
 consumer spending  in Western Australia, the biggest beneficiary
of the country’s mining boom.  A weak performance at  Crown Ltd. (CWN) ’s Burswood casino in the
state capital Perth in 2011 was foreshadowed by lackluster local
SUV deliveries, he said, and rising SUV sales the following year
presaged a rebound for the casino.  Falcon Slides  “If you look at Western Australia, SUV sales are off the
charts,” indicating the slowdown has yet to materialize,
Alexander said.  Some of the demand for SUVs has come at the expense of
other vehicles. Despite the continuing strength of the
Australian dollar, which has made imports cheaper, passenger car
sales are down 11 percent from their 2007 peak, to about 560,000
over the past 12 months.  Sales of the Falcon, a large sedan for the Australian
market that Ford has made since it opened its first factory in
the country in 1960, fell 25 percent in the first six months of
this year, according to Bob Graziano, president of Ford’s
Australian division. So Ford is reconfiguring its plants in
Melbourne and Geelong to make fewer Falcons and boost production
of the Territory, Australia’s top-selling SUV.  “People are moving into SUVs where previously they would
have used a traditional car,” he said by phone from Melbourne.
“You may never go off-road with these things, but you just feel
that you could.”  Future Slowdown  While there’s little evidence of a slowdown today, Graziano
said things aren’t likely to be quite as sweet as they have been
in the past year or so.  An August  poll  by  Roy Morgan Research  indicated that
589,000 Australians intend to buy a car in the next 12 months, a
six percent decline from a month earlier and 4.4 percent below
the long-term average.  “We think it’s going to keep growing,” he said, though
more slowly than the 20 percent-plus pace of the past year.
“You’re not going to be able to sustain that rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  