-- Fraud Is Main Reason Studies in Journals Are Retracted
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-10-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/fraud-is-main-reason-studies-in-journals-are-retracted.html
Falsified data is the main reason
biomedical and life science research articles are retracted, a
problem that has increased 10-fold in the past three decades, a
review of studies found.  About 43 percent of the articles were rescinded because of
made-up or manipulated data, 14 percent were retracted because
the study appeared in more than one publication and about 10
percent because of plagiarism, according to the report published
yesterday in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences . The study is the most comprehensive analysis of
retracted articles, said  Arturo Casadevall , the study’s senior
author.  Published studies that are withdrawn can have a negative
effect on society and the public’s trust, Casadevall said. A
1998 study published in the Lancet medical journal linked a
childhood vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella to autism and
bowel disease and caused immunization rates in the U.K. to
plummet. The journal retracted the study in 2010 after an
investigation found the research to be flawed.  “We need to work very hard to identify what are the
pressures that are leading to these kinds of behavior and we
need to very rapidly find ways to clean up our act,” said
Casadevall, chairman of the Department of Microbiology and
Immunology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva
University in New York, in a Sept. 28 telephone interview.
Still, “this is not something that’s endemic. This is a small
aspect of the publication process.”  10-Fold Increase  The number of retractions for fraud, though relatively
small considering the thousands of papers published each year,
has risen about 10-fold since 1975, the authors said.  The peak year for retractions thus far is 2007, with 83
papers withdrawn out of 867,700, or 0.00957 percent, according
to Ferric Fang, the study’s lead author and professor of
laboratory medicine and microbiology at the University of
Washington School of Medicine in  Seattle . That would be a 9.9-
fold increase from 1976, when there were three retractions out
of 309,800 papers, or 0.00097 percent.  The researchers reviewed 2,047 biomedical and life-science
research articles that were retracted, with the earliest being
published in 1973 and retracted in 1977. They found that only 21
percent of the retractions were because of error, while 67
percent were because of misconduct. The U.S.,  Germany ,  Japan  and
 China  accounted for about 75 percent of all retractions because
of fraud or suspected fraud.  Casadevall said the retractions might be occurring because
of a rewards system that gives grants, jobs and prizes to
scientists who publish the most in prestigious journals. Some
researchers may be cutting corners to have their work appear in
those publications, he said. Solutions to combat the problem
include checklists, an enhanced focus on ethics and the
establishment of uniform guidelines for retractions and
retraction notices, the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  