-- FreedomPop Starts Public Test of Free Wireless Internet Service
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-10-01T12:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/freedompop-starts-public-test-of-free-wireless-internet-service.html
FreedomPop Inc., a startup backed by
Skype founder  Niklas Zennstrom , began offering a free wireless
Internet service for smartphones and other mobile devices.  The service lets users tap into  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ’s fourth-
generation wireless network and use of to 500 megabytes of data
for free, the Los Angeles-based company said today in a
statement. FreedomPop charges for plans with more data. For now,
the service will available as a so-called beta test.  The company offers a range of accessories that let
smartphone and laptop users connect to the Internet without
relying on their mobile-phone carrier. In the next four to six
weeks, it will start shipping iPhone and iPod sleeves that allow
the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices to get on the network.  “In a mobile data marketplace dominated by expensive
family plans and binding annual contracts, FreedomPop is
delivering a compelling and flexible alternative by offering
consumers the ability to get connected on their terms,” Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Stokols said in the statement.  FreedomPop, founded in 2011, has raised $7.5 million in
 venture capital  and expects to attract an additional $15 million
to $20 million by early next year, Stokols said in August.  Zennstrom co-founded Web-calling provider Skype with Janus Friis and sold the company in 2005 to online auctions provider
EBay Inc. for an eventual $3.1 billion. Later, a consortium that
included Zennstrom bought Skype back, and sold to Microsoft
Corp. in 2011 for $8.5 billion cash. Zennstrom also co-founded
other startups, including Kazaa, Joltid and Joost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  