-- Gasoline Pump Prices in U.S. Fall a Second Week After Oil Drops
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-02T02:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/gasoline-pump-prices-in-u-s-fall-to-3-804-a-gallon-eia-says.html
Gasoline at U.S. pumps dropped for
the second week, tracking a slide of more than $4 a barrel in
 oil prices  last month as oil refiners on the  Gulf Coast  restored
output following Hurricane Isaac.  The  national average  for regular gasoline fell 2.2 cents to
$3.804 a gallon from a week ago, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in a survey posted on its website yesterday.
Prices were up 11 percent from $3.433 a year earlier.  Retail  gasoline  began sliding Sept. 24 after 11 weeks of
consecutive gains that boosted prices to a record high for the
season. Oil in  New York  tumbled $4.28 a barrel last month and
settled below $90 on Sept. 26 for the first time in eight weeks.
Crude accounts for about 66 percent of the costs of the motor
fuel, according to the Energy Department.  “Oil prices are weaker than they were a month or two
ago,”  James Williams , president of WTRG Economics, an energy-
research firm in London, Arkansas, said by telephone yesterday.
“You’ve also got the return of refineries after Isaac in the
last couple of weeks, and gasoline demand remains fairly weak.”  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Pascagoula refinery in Mississippi resumed
normal operations after repairing equipment damaged during
Hurricane Isaac,  Sean Comey , a spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in San Ramon, California, said by e-mail Sept. 27.
The plant was running at reduced capacity as the storm headed
for landfall near  New Orleans  in late August.  Gasoline inventories on the Gulf Coast, known as the Padd 3
region, jumped 1.66 million barrels, or 2.5 percent, to 67.2
million in the week ended Sept. 21, Energy Department data
showed. That was the highest level in four weeks.  Oil Price  Oil for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was little changed at $92.49 a barrel in electronic
trading today. Prices settled at $89.98 on Sept. 26 as the
government reported lower oil demand and on speculation that the
 European debt crisis  would reduce consumption.  Crude stockpiles  probably increased 1.5 million barrels to
366.7 million last week, according to the median of six analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow. They
dropped 2.45 million barrels in the week ended Sept. 21, the
agency’s data showed.  Gasoline demand  for the four weeks ended Sept. 21 was down
1 percent from a year earlier at 8.82 million barrels a day,
according to the Energy Department.  Supplies of the motor fuel slipped 481,000 barrels to 195.8
million that week, the smallest decline since July, the Energy
Department said. They probably fell another 375,000 barrels last
week, according to the Bloomberg survey.  West Coast  Gasoline for November delivery on the Nymex was little
changed at $2.92 a gallon today.  Retail prices dropped the most on the Gulf Coast, declining
4.5 cents to $3.555 a gallon. The West Coast is the only region
where prices gained, increasing by 1.6 cents to $4.081 a gallon,
the energy agency’s report showed.  “West Coast refineries aren’t running very well,”  David Hackett , the president of independent fuel consultant Stillwater
Associates in Irvine, California, said by telephone yesterday.  Spot gasoline  in California advanced to a record against
Nymex futures yesterday after Chevron said it shut an oil
pipeline that delivers crude to Bay Area refiners and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery lost power.  The Energy Department conducts a telephone survey of 800
retail gasoline outlets across the U.S. to post weekly prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  