-- Gene-Modified Cow Makes Milk Rich in Protein, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-10-01T19:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/gene-modified-cow-makes-milk-rich-in-protein-study-finds.html
Scientists have altered the genes of
a dairy cow to produce milk that’s rich in a protein used in
numerous food products and lacking in a component that causes
allergies in humans.  Using a process called RNA-interference that turns certain
genes on or off, scientists from New Zealand produced a cow
whose milk had increased casein, a protein used to make cheese
and other foods, and almost no  beta-lactoglobulin , a component
in milk whey protein that causes allergies. The female calf was
also born without a tail, according to the report today in the
journal  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  The study can be seen as a proof-of-concept that tinkering
with nutritional content genetically is possible, said  William
Hallman , director of the food policy institute at Rutgers
University. More testing will be needed to determine the milk’s
full dietary content, and scientists must consider the effects
of breeding gene-altered animals, he said. The field has been
controversial because of safety and environmental concerns.  “Could you clone a breeding stock that would allow for a
herd with milk of this type?” Hallman, who wasn’t involved in
the study, said in a telephone interview. “There are lots of
issues about what might happen in the next generation.”  Today’s research represents a road map for other groups
that may wish to knock out proteins, and not just in milk, he
said.  Dairy Economics  Farmers in the U.S. earned about $35 billion in 2011 from
dairy sales, said Christopher Galen, a spokesman for the
 National Milk Producers Federation .  Aside from the hypoallergenic qualities, the genetically
modified cow’s milk may also be valuable for its higher content
of  casein . The milk protein is used in a range of food products,
including cheese, thickening agents in soups, salad dressings
and whipped toppings. It’s also used in adhesives, cosmetics and
some pharmaceuticals, Hallman said.  “In terms of dairy economics, casein is the most
profitable part of the milk,” he said.  Ordinarily, the proportion of whey to casein in the milk
from dairy cows is 21-to-79, according to the paper. The milk
from the genetically altered cow had a ratio of 4-to-96,
according to a paper. That’s probably due to a 96 percent
reduction in beta-lactoglobulin, or BGL, the paper said.  Milk Allergies  Beta-lactoglobulin is produced in cows and other ruminant
animals, but isn’t found in human milk. About 2 to 3 percent of
infants in developed countries are allergic to cow’s milk
proteins in the first year of life, according to the study.  Taillessness is a congenital condition in cows, the
researchers wrote. More research will need to be done to
determine if the calf’s taillessness is related to the gene
silencing technique used to change the cow’s milk.  Tests now need to be done to see whether removing BLG
really does help those with allergies and whether the genetic
change harms the animal, according to the paper, written by
researchers from New Zealand’s AgResearch, a  government-owned
research institute , and the University of Waikato, both based in
Hamilton, New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  