-- Georgia Billionaire Scores Shock Vote Upset Over Saakashvili
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-02T18:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/georgian-president-saakashvili-suffers-surprise-election-setback.html
Georgian billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili’s opposition coalition unexpectedly won the most
votes in a parliamentary election yesterday, defeating U.S.-
backed President Mikheil Saakashvili’s party.  Ivanishvili, 56, called on Saakashvili to resign. The
opposition Georgian Dream group had 55 percent of the votes, to
40 percent for the incumbent United National Movement, with
almost 89 percent of the ballots counted, according to the
website of the Electoral Committee in Tbilisi. Saakashvili, 44,
conceded defeat and said his party would move into opposition.  The president has “made a lot of mistakes,” Ivanishvili
told reporters today. “If he were to resign and orders early
presidential elections, and a new prime minister is appointed
under the new constitution, the situation will return to normal.
If not, there may be problems.”  Saakashvili, who allied the country with the West and has a
year remaining in his presidential term, rose to power in the
2003 Rose Revolution and is credited with fostering an economic
turnaround in Georgia, a key link in energy-transit routes
between Europe and the  Caspian Sea .  He also oversaw changes to the constitution two years ago
that will take many of the powers the president holds and give
them to the prime minister. Saakashvili’s second four-year term
ends in 2013. He isn’t allowed to run for a third term.  Georgia’s dollar-denominated government bonds due in 2021
fell today, pushing the yield to 4.768 percent, the highest in a
week, from yesterday’s record-low 4.712 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Clear Message’  Ivanishvili, accused by the government of ties with  Russia 
where he made his fortune, said his government will be pro-
European Union and will sort out relations with Russia while
convincing it that  Georgia ’s membership in the NATO security
alliance is important and not a threat. Georgia fought a 2008
war with Russia in a failed bid to regain control of a breakaway
region.  “The strong showing for the opposition is a clear message
to Saakashvili that his policies were not supported by the
entire population,” IHS Global Insight analyst Lilit Gevorgyan
said in an e-mail. “He can no longer afford dismissing
opposition figures as Russian agents or enemies of Georgia.”  Georgian Dream had warned Saakashvili against seeking to
rig the vote, saying the country “stands on the threshold of a
new dawn of freedom and democratic expression.”  ‘Important Step’  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe 
said the elections were fair and free. The OSCE, a 56-nation
democracy watchdog that deployed 400 observers to monitor the
vote, said the elections “marked an important step in
consolidating the conduct of democratic elections.” At the same
time, the environment was “polarized and tense” with some
instances of violence, it said.  The White House said the U.S. looked forward to continuing
its “close cooperation and strong bilateral partnership” with
Georgia and called on Saakashvili and Ivanishvili’s party to
work together in a spirit of national unity, according to an e-
mailed statement today.  While Saakashvili’s party held a lead of more than 20
percentage points last month, the Sept. 18 release of footage
showing prison guards beating and raping male inmates with a
broom handle and truncheon sparked mass protests in the country
ruled for the past nine years by Saakashvili.  Unexpected Result  “The market was not expecting this result at all, given
opinion polls had shown the ruling coalition riding high in the
polls up until a matter of only a few weeks ago,” Timothy Ash,
head of emerging-market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd in
 London , said by e-mail today. “If we see reserve flight
accelerating on the back of heightened political risk, investors
might look to lighten up.”  Former allies of the president including ex-Foreign
Minister Salome Zourabishvili and former parliament speaker  Nino Burjanadze , a key figure in the revolution, turned against him
and joined the opposition complaining .  Saakashvili, a U.S.-educated lawyer who disbanded the
traffic police after taking office, has won plaudits from
international organizations for reducing corruption and
eliminating red tape in his country of 4.5 million people.  Economic growth  accelerated to 8.2 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter from 6.8 percent in the previous
three months. Georgia is ranked 16th out of 183 countries in
terms of ease of doing business, according to the  World Bank ’s
 2012 survey , ahead of  Germany ,  Japan  and  Switzerland . In 2006,
the  Black Sea  nation ranked 126th.  Russian Influence  Saakashvili has accused the Russian government of spending
billions of dollars in a bid to influence the vote, which the
Kremlin denies.  The U.S., Europe and Russia all vie for sway over Georgia,
which is home to the three pipelines that allow the transit of
gas and oil to the Black Sea and Turkey from neighboring
Azerbaijan while bypassing Russia.  The  Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  oil pipeline, owned by companies
including  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Total SA (FP) ,  Eni
SpA (ENI)  and  Statoil ASA (STL) , was temporarily shut in the 2008 war
between Russia and Georgia.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said the ruling United
Russia party is ready to start a dialog about the future of
bilateral relations in the wake of the vote, Interfax reported.  Ivanishvili, who was stripped of his Georgian citizenship
and holds a French passport, is worth $6.4 billion, according to
Forbes magazine, equivalent to almost half of Georgia’s $14.4
billion economy.  He made his money in banking and the sale of metals before
giving up his Russian citizenship and selling his assets there
this year to focus on Georgian politics. He says he’s spent $1.7
billion of his own money on initiatives to overhaul Georgia’s
police force and military, among others, and would gradually
normalize relations with Russia. He denies any ties to President
 Vladimir Putin ’s administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  