-- Georgians Vote as Prison Scandal Tests U.S. Ally Saakashvili
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-01T11:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/georgians-vote-as-prison-scandal-tests-u-s-ally-saakashvili.html
Georgians are voting today in
elections amid opposition accusations of fraud and a scandal
over the assault of prisoners that threatens the nine-year rule
of U.S. ally President Mikheil Saakashvili.  While Saakashvili’s ruling party held a lead of more than
20 percentage points in a poll conducted last month, the release
on Sept. 18 of footage showing prison guards beating and raping
male inmates with a broom handle and truncheon sparked mass
protests in  Georgia , a key link in energy-transit routes to the
West. Voting stations close at 8 p.m. in Tbilisi, with exit
polls due right after.  “After these revelations, the situation seriously changed
and we can say that the victory of the ruling party won’t be by
as big a margin as expected,” said Alexander Rondeli, head of
the Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies
in Tbilisi. “I can’t exclude that they may lose, though they
tried to improve their situation” by replacing the interior and
prisons ministers and dismissing penitentiary staff.  The opposition movement of billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili,
who’s accused by the Georgian government of ties with Russia
where he made his fortune, vowed to end Saakashvili’s rule in
the former Soviet state with the help of “free and fair”
elections. Georgia, which has been allied with the West since
the so-called Rose Revolution swept Saakashvili to power, fought
a 2008 war with  Russia  in a failed bid to regain control of a
breakaway region.  Economic Turnaround  While Saakashvili is credited with enacting policies to
create the economic turnaround, Ivanishvili, 56, and other
critics say he has curtailed free speech and political
competition. Former allies of the president including ex-Foreign
Minister Salome Zourabishvili and former parliament speaker Nino Burjanadze, a key figure in the revolution, turned against him
and joined the opposition.  Ivanishvili’s party alleged “irregularities” and
“intimidation” today during the voting, urging its supporters
to stay calm. About 20,000 observers, most from the Georgian
Dream, weren’t accredited as polling stations opened, while a
monitor in Tbilisi was attacked by an unknown person, leaving
her with a broken leg, the party said in an e-mailed statement.  “Major Irregularities”  Saakashvili’s party has seen no “major irregularities” at
polling stations and called the opposition’s allegations
unfounded and “discrediting for the elections,” according to
party spokeswoman Chiora Taktakishvili.  The Organization for Cooperation and Security in  Europe , a
56-nation democracy watchdog that has supplied a quarter of the
1,600 international observers monitoring the vote, said that all
parties need to allow peaceful and democratic elections.  “We have made very clear that the expectations for this
election are extremely high and that they will determine the
pace and intensity of our relations with Georgia,” Maja
Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for European Union foreign affairs
chief Catherine Ashton, told reporters today in Brussels.  If the result is close and the ruling party claims victory,
Georgian Dream is likely to mount round-the-clock protests to
demand a recount, IHS Global Insight analyst Lilit Gevorgyan
said Sept. 26 by e-mail.  U.S. Educated  Saakashvili, a 44-year-old U.S.-educated lawyer who
disbanded the traffic police after taking office, has won
plaudits from international organizations for reducing
corruption and eliminating red tape in his country of 4.5
million people.  Economic growth  accelerated to 8.2 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter from 6.8 percent in the previous
three months. Georgia is ranked 16th out of 183 countries in
terms of ease of doing business, according to the World Bank’s
 2012 survey , ahead of  Germany ,  Japan  and Switzerland. In 2006,
the Black Sea nation ranked 126th.  “It’s an important day for Georgia, as it’s deciding what
happens to the European dream, what happens to the idea of
democracy,” Saakashvili told reporters after voting.  Up for grabs in the election is the prime minister’s post,
which will become more powerful than the presidency once
Saakashvili ends his term next year because of legislative
changes two years ago. Ivanishvili said that his past business
experience and management skills would make him a good premier,
adding that he will leave business after exiting politics.  Trade Embargo  Saakashvili accuses the Russian government of spending
billions of dollars, which the Kremlin denies, and staging a
military build-up in a bid to influence the vote. Russia, the
nation’s main trade partner, banned the imports of fruits,
vegetables, wine and mineral water after the conflict, hurting
much of Georgia’s rural population.  The U.S., Europe and Russia all vie for sway over Georgia,
which is home to the three pipelines that allow the transit of
gas and oil to the Black Sea and  Turkey  from neighboring
Azerbaijan while bypassing Russia. The  Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  oil
pipeline, owned by companies including  BP Plc (BP/) , Chevron,
ConocoPhilips,  Total SA (FP) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Statoil ASA (STL) , was
temporarily shut in the 2008 war between Russia and Georgia.  Ivanishvili, who was stripped of his Georgian citizenship
and holds a French passport, is worth $6.4 billion, according to
Forbes magazine, equivalent to almost half of Georgia’s $14.4
billion economy.  Russian Ties  He made his money in banking and the sale of metals before
giving up his Russian citizenship and selling his assets there
this year to focus on Georgian politics. He says he’s spent $1.7
billion of his own money on initiatives to overhaul Georgia’s
police force and military, among others, and would normalize
relations with Russia after five years if his party wins the
election, though he denies any ties to President Vladimir Putin’s administration.  Saakashvili’s party holds 112 out of 150 seats in the
current parliament, with the rest controlled by the Christian
Democrats, Powerful Georgia and Unity for Justice.  Fifty-five percent of likely voters supported the United
National Movement, compared with 33 percent for Ivanishvili’s
Georgian Dream, according to a survey last month by Washington-
based research firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.  “Uncertainty Remains”  The National Movement had 37 percent backing, compared with
12 percent for Ivanishvili’s party, according to a poll
conducted in August by the National Democratic Institute.
Twenty-two percent of voters were undecided, it said.  “Uncertainty remains significant,” Morgan Stanley
analysts Jacob Nell and Alina Slyusarchuk said today in an e-
mailed report.  The scandal will reduce the lead of Saakashvili’s party by
some degree, though it is unlikely the opposition will pull off
an upset, said Jeremy Rosner, executive vice-president principal
of Greenberg Quinlan Rosner, which has been doing polling for
Saakashvili’s United National Movement.  “I want is a colorful parliament, one that has more than
one ruling party,” said 50-year-old pensioner Tsira Chubinidze
outside a Tbilisi polling station today after voting. “It’s
time for broader representation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  