-- German Stocks Rise After Spanish Bank Stress-Test Results
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-01T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/german-stocks-rise-after-spanish-bank-stress-test-results.html
German stocks  advanced as test
results showed the stress to the Spanish banking system was
within estimated limits, and a gauge of manufacturing in the
U.S. rose more than forecast, outweighing data showing further
evidence of an economic slowdown in Asia.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  rose 1.3 percent after a report that the
Frankfurt-based exchange is considering a return to offering
currency futures contracts. Infineon Technologies AG surged 4.5
percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  climbed 1.5 percent as the
 International Air Transport Association  raised its 2012 global
airline profit forecast.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 1.5 percent to 7,326.73 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The benchmark has  rallied 23 percent  from
this year’s low on June 5 as European Central Bank policy makers
approved an unlimited bond-buying program and the U.S. Federal
Reserve started a third round of asset purchases. The broader
HDAX Index also added 1.5 percent today.  “For the mood of the markets it was very important that
the stress test to the Spanish banking system was no negative
surprise,” said  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research
at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt. “The handicap of the  European
debt crisis  for the European markets will lose momentum and that
is very good news for the DAX.”  Spain’s banks have a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros
($76.3 billion), less than previously estimated, according to a
test designed to lift doubts about the financial industry’s
ability to absorb losses.  Spanish Banks  The  Bankia (BKIA)  group, a nationalized lender, had a 24.7
billion-euro deficit and Banco Popular Espanol SA had a 3.22
billion-euro shortfall in  stress tests  conducted by management
consultants  Oliver Wyman . The tests of 14 lenders showed no
deficit for seven including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Banco Sabadell SA, the Bank of Spain
and Economy Ministry said after markets closed on Sept. 28.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory  index 
rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today.  Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a reading of
49.7 for September, according to the median of 76 forecasts. The
dividing line between expansion and contraction is 50, and
economists’ estimates ranged from 48 to 51.2.  A Chinese  factory index  came in at 49.8 for September, the
first time it fell below 50 for two straight months since 2009,
a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing. Japan’s Tankan
index of large manufacturers’ confidence fell to minus 3 for the
past quarter. South Korean shipments slid for a third month.  Euro Jobless  Unemployment in the economy of the 17 nations using the
euro was 11.4 percent in August, the same as in June and July
after those months’ figures were revised higher, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s the
highest since the data series started in 1995 and in line with
median of 30 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Deutsche Boerse  increased 1.3 percent to 43.64 euros. The
operator of the Frankfurt exchange may launch currency futures
contracts to help it compete more aggressively with the Chicago-
based CME, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal.  Infineon Technologies, Europe’s second-biggest
semiconductor maker, surged 4.5 percent to 5.16 euros.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest airline, climbed 1.5
percent to 10.71 euros. IATA raised its 2012 global airline
profit forecast 37 percent as carriers slow capacity growth to
cope with higher fuel prices and waning travel demand.  Carriers may post $4.1 billion of profits this year with a
margin of 0.6 percent, the group, whose members account for 84
percent of global airline traffic, said in a statement today.
That compares with a June forecast for gains of $3 billion and a
profit of $8.4 billion in 2011.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of the
building material, added 2.9 percent to 41.94 euros.  Bayer Gains  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany’s biggest drugmaker, surged 2.5 percent
to 68.53 euros after a study showed its Stivarga treatment for
advanced colorectal cancer, which won U.S. regulatory approval
last week, helps patients live longer.  In a trial of 760 people with colorectal cancer that
progressed after treatment with all other approved drugs, 24
percent of those receiving Stivarga were alive after a year,
compared with 17 percent of those getting a placebo, according
to data presented at the European Society of Medical Oncology’s
meeting in Vienna today.  Evotec Advances  Evotec AG (EVT)  rose 5.9 percent to 2.89 euros after it said it
will develop gynecological drugs with Bayer in an agreement that
may be worth more than 592 million euros ($764 million).  The biotechnology company will receive 12 million euros up
front and as much as another 580 million euros if certain
research and sales targets are met, as well as “low double-
digit” percentage royalties on future sales, depending on its
contribution, the drugmaker said today in a statement.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical maker, gained 2.8
percent to 67.46 euros as a gauge of companies in the chemical
sector posted the second biggest rise of the 19 industry groups
in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Hannover Re , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, added
2.1 percent to 50.77 euros as Exane BNP Paribas raised its
recommendation on the stock to outperform, the equivalent of
buy, from underperform. Long-term profitability is supported by
very solid reserves, attractive property and casualty
reinsurance growth prospects, according to Exane.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, rose 1.9 percent
to 123.75 euros. Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard
said in an interview with the Financial Times that the company’s
business in China is growing by almost 20 percent annually
because of the capital needs of the country’s domestic insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  