-- MGIC Rallies as Obstacles to Selling Policies Cut
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-01T20:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/mgic-rallies-as-obstacles-to-selling-policies-cut-chicago-mover.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the mortgage
insurer that breached regulators’ capital limits, surged the
most in almost two months after saying hurdles to selling new
policies had been lowered.  MGIC  gained  18 percent to close at $1.81 in New York, the
biggest jump since Aug. 6. The Milwaukee-based firm’s shares
have slid 51 percent this year.  The amount of capital MGIC needs to contribute to its main
mortgage-insurance subsidiary was cut by half to $100 million,
the company said in a Sept. 28 statement. An underwriting arm
was approved by Freddie Mac to sell coverage in 16 jurisdictions
excluding  Wisconsin , pending resolution of a dispute between
MGIC and the government housing-finance body, MGIC said.  “While there can be no guarantee that the open matters
that remain can be successfully resolved, I am hopeful we will
continue to make progress,” MGIC Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver said in the statement.  MGIC is conserving funds after eight straight quarters of
losses from costs tied to soured home loans pushed the firm’s
ratio of risk relative to capital above limits set by some state
regulators. The firm last month said it would defer an interest
payment on convertible debt for 10 years.  MGIC has until Oct. 31 to resolve a dispute with Freddie
Mac over covered mortgages to maintain approval to continue
selling policies, the firm said in the Sept. 28 statement.
Mortgage insurers reimburse lenders when borrowers default.  Credit Swaps  Contracts protecting against the company’s default for five
years decreased 4.2 percentage points to 26.1 percent upfront as
of 3:30 p.m., according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $2.61 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of MGIC’s debt for five years,
down from an initial payment of $3.03 million.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  