-- Glaxo Pazopanib as Effective as Pfizer Drug in Renal Cancer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-01T10:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/glaxo-pazopanib-as-effective-as-pfizer-drug-in-renal-cancer-1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s pazopanib pill
for renal cell carcinoma showed similar efficacy to  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s sunitinib with fewer side effects in a late-stage study.  For both drugs, on average, patients survived slightly more
than 10 months without the disease progressing, according to a
study of 1,100 patients. The study, dubbed COMPARZ and funded by
London-based drugmaker Glaxo, was released today at the  European
Society for Medical Oncology  meeting in Vienna.  Renal cell carcinoma is a type of kidney cancer that starts
in the lining of tubes in the kidney. While both drugs resulted
in side effects, some, such as fatigue and skin sores, occurred
with less frequency for pazopanib than with sunitinib, which is
marketed as Sutent, the researchers found.  “The side effects worse with sunitinib are the ones that
really impact patients’ day-to-day living,” Robert Motzer of
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York  and one of
the study authors, told reporters in Vienna today. “It’s a
complicated situation, but in general, this trial tips the
scale” toward pazopanib.  Glaxo shares rose 1 percent to 1,441 pence as of 11:19 a.m.
in  London .  Pazopanib was approved for use in the U.S. in 2009 for
advanced renal cell carcinoma and is marketed as Votrient. The
study began in August 2008, before the drug was approved.  An estimated 64,770 new cases of kidney cancer will be
diagnosed in the U.S. this year, and about 13,570 people will
die of the disease, according to the  American Cancer Society .
Many patients don’t know they have cancer until it has reached
an advanced stage because small tumors can’t be felt and aren’t
easily detected.  “We anticipate that the COMPARZ data with Votrient will
likely enable Glaxo to take market share from Pfizer’s Sutent in
renal cancer,”  Andrew Baum , an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in
London, said in a note to investors last week.  Sutent had global sales of $1.2 billion in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  