-- Libor, PPI Scandals Vestiges of Pre-Crisis Era, RBS CEO Says
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-10-01T19:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/libor-ppi-scandals-vestiges-of-pre-crisis-era-rbs-s-ceo-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said the manipulation of
global benchmark interest rates and the mis-selling of payment
protection insurance were the “last vestiges” of the pre-
crisis era in British banking.  “Issues such as Libor and PPI and those scandals are bound
to dominate public perceptions,” Hester said in remarks
prepared for delivery in London today. “The reality is that
they represent the bill for damages rendered.”  RBS, 81 percent owned by the British government, is one of
at least a dozen firms being investigated over allegations they
colluded to rig the London interbank offered rate so they could
profit from derivatives bets. The lender fired four traders last
year for manipulating Libor and suspended a further three, two
of whom have since been reinstated, a person with knowledge of
the disciplinary actions said last week.  Regulators are now probing RBS’s yen, Swiss franc and U.S.
dollar sales-and-trading businesses, all part of the fixed-
income division  Fred Goodwin  expanded before he was ousted as
CEO in 2008, two people with knowledge of the investigation said
last week.  Financial Services Authority managing director Martin
Wheatley last week proposed an overhaul of Libor, including
giving enhanced powers to regulators to prosecute rate-rigging.
The  Bank for International Settlements  had first raised concern
that the benchmark was being manipulated as long ago as 2008.  “The sadness on adapting to a new way of setting Libor is
that it could have been done a while ago,” Hester said.
“Regulators weren’t focusing on that index as they should have
done.”  Balance Failure  The banking industry in the 10 years before the crisis
expanded too quickly, prioritized sales over service and failed
to balance the interests of shareholders and managers, Hester,
51, said in the speech at the  London School of Economics .  Regulators have ordered U.K. banks to compensate clients
who were forced to buy, or didn’t know they had purchased, so-
called payment-protection insurance to cover repayments on
credit cards or mortgages they were taking out.  Much has been done to shore up the bank’s finances since
the Edinburgh-based lender took 45.5 billion pounds ($73
billion) from taxpayers in the largest bank bailout in history,
he said.  RBS, which has shrunk its balance sheet by 700 billion
pounds since 2008, has about 15 months of “heavy lifting”
before the restructuring phase is complete, Hester said.  “The impression that banks have not made progress in
restoring safety and soundness is wrong,” Hester said.  The bank’s board is also reviewing the lender’s code of
conduct, Hester said.  “Pay awards must be reflective of improvements in customer
service and satisfaction, not just sales,” Hester said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  