-- Intel Software Snag Said to Hamper Windows Apple Response
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-10-01T20:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/microsoft-intel-alliance-weakens-tablet-challenge-looms.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s delayed delivery of
software that conserves computer battery life is holding up
development of some tablets running the latest version of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating system, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Microsoft hasn’t yet approved any tablets featuring an
Intel processor code-named Clover Trail because the chipmaker
hasn’t produced necessary power-management software, said the
person, who asked not to be named since the process is private.  The delay, following remarks by Intel Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Otellini , who told employees in  Taiwan  that Windows
8 needs improvement, underscores how the Wintel alliance that
has dominated the personal computer industry for three decades
is struggling to respond to the threat of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. At
stake is the chance to make up for lackluster PC buying by
capturing users who are flocking to mobile devices, snappy
applications and elegant design.  “The PC channel is in chaos right now,” said Alex Gauna,
an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco. “They don’t
know what to do. They don’t know what to design for, they don’t
know what the consumers are going to buy. Tablets have stolen
their growth trajectory, plus the macro situation, plus Wintel
has made a mess of their ecosystem.”  PC makers, including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , are counting on the new version of Windows to
help them compete in the $63.2 billion tablet market dominated
by Apple.  Fighting Apple  Any software development delay gives manufacturers less
time to get their tablets ready for the year-end holiday
shopping season, undermining attempts to erode Apple’s 70
percent share of tablets.  Tablets featuring Clover Trail are the ones designed by
Intel to most closely compete with the iPad. The industry can
ill afford a slowdown in getting them into stores with the next
iPad due to be released in March or April, said Wes Miller, an
analyst at Directions on Microsoft, based in Kirkland,
 Washington .  “It’s bad news for Microsoft and Intel because it’s not
going to present the best light on either one and it will hurt
the perception of Windows 8,” Miller said.  While Windows is fundamentally sound, the operating system
lacks a wide range of robust applications and PC makers haven’t
had enough time to work out kinks with so-called drivers, which
connect software to such hardware as printers, according to
Directions on Microsoft.  ARM Threat  Microsoft has certified some 800 machines with the new
software, said  Mark Martin , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft. That includes tablets running low-power chips
with technology from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  on a version of the
software called RT. The recent entrant to the Windows family
compounds threats to Intel.  “Microsoft has worked closely with Intel and our hardware
partners,” Martin said in a statement. “We look forward to the
new Atom-based offerings from Intel to complement the already
strong Windows 8 and Windows RT ecosystem.”  Tablets and laptops convertible into tablets built on
Clover Trail will be available Oct. 26, said Jon Carvill, a
spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based Intel.  “We’re excited about the opportunity for Windows 8 tablets
with a broad range of” Intel chips, Carvill said. “We’ve
collaborated very closely with Microsoft in extensive testing
and validation” for chips, he said.  Intel rose less than one percent to $22.76 at the close in
 New York . The stock has declined 6.2 percent this year, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 15 percent. Microsoft
fell 0.9 percent to $29.49. The stock is up 14 percent this
year.  China, Brazil  Intel held an event last week showcasing Clover Trail-based
tablets from  Acer Inc. (2353) ,  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) , Dell,  Fujitsu
Ltd. (6702) , Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  The
new devices, many of which featured detachable keyboards, have
weeks of standby time and are capable of playing high-definition
video for 10 hours.  Still, any delays caused by unfinished software or untested
hardware in tablets, laptops and desktops would be harmful to an
industry already seeing demand faltering in China and Brazil,
countries that until recently could be counted on to compensate
for weakness in the U.S. and Europe.  The refresh of the software that runs more than 90 percent
of all personal computers typically leads PC makers to stock up
on parts in anticipation of a surge in orders. Microprocessor
shipments have risen an average 6.7 percent in the quarter
before new Windows PCs go on sale, according to Mercury
Research, while PC sales gained by more than 15 percent in each
of the past two release quarters, researcher IDC said.  Sales Decline  This time around, Intel is on pace for a sequential  decline 
in third-quarter sales for the first time in two decades.
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  trimmed its forecast for disk drives, and
analysts at IDC said the PC market will expand less than 1
percent this year -- the worst performance since it shrank in
2001.  “It’s a tough environment right now,” said Dean McCarron,
an analyst at Cave Creek, Arizona-based Mercury Research, who
has been tracking PC-industry data for two decades.  According to McCarron, computer-processor industry sales
have posted as steep a decline only twice before in 20 years: in
2000, amid the bursting of the dot-com bubble, and in the fourth
quarter of 2008, after the financial meltdown. He estimates that
8 million fewer PC processors will ship last quarter than the
previous period, which means fewer PCs built.  Chip orders are an important indicator of how confident
manufacturers are of what will happen when the new PC models go
on sale.  Touch Screen  While consumers no longer stand in line outside stores to
get the latest version of Microsoft’s operating system, as they
did when Windows 95 went on sale in August of that year, even
versions like Vista -- which was panned by reviewers -- can help
the industry. PC sales jumped 15.3 percent from a year earlier
in the quarter Windows Vista debuted. Its replacement, Windows
7, prompted a 15.2 percent increase, according to IDC.  In answer to the surging popularity of handheld devices led
by the iPad, Microsoft has given Windows 8 a touch-screen
interface. It has also opened up Windows to chip technology
other than Intel’s, and is plotting a move into the hardware
market itself with a line of tablets, dubbed Surface.  All that may be cold comfort for Intel and other
traditional PC component makers, because in many cases tablets
rely on parts better made by competing suppliers.  Meanwhile, tablet shipments have more than tripled in 2011
and will jump 67 percent this year, according to an estimate by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Lateness Hurts  “It’s obvious that tablets are taking sales from
notebooks,” said Chris Danely, an analyst at JPMorgan in  San
Francisco . “We’re all buying tablets.”  With a growing list of Windows 8-based designs to choose
from -- notebooks, tablets, laptops with touch screens, touch-
screen desktops, laptops with detachable screens that become
tablets -- PC makers have avoided snapping up their usual
stockpiles of parts until demand is more clear, according to CJ Muse, an analyst at Barclays Plc.  “Folks are sitting on their hands in terms of what they’re
building and they’re planning on air-shipping whatever starts to
sell,” said Muse. “There’s just too much uncertainty.”  Still, the main obstacle isn’t lack of enthusiasm about
Windows 8. The underlying challenge is that Microsoft and Intel
were too late with products aimed at fending off tablets, said
 Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  Intel began pushing  Ultrabooks , slim-line laptops that
start up instantly, last year. The devices haven’t come down in
price fast enough to woo buyers, and Windows 8’s planned arrival
Oct. 26 has given Apple and other tablet makers too much of a
head start.  “They’re six to nine months late,” Freedman said. “They
haven’t put their best foot forward against the tablet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  