-- High Court Rejects Appeal Over Forest ‘Roadless Rule’
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-01T13:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/high-court-rejects-appeal-over-forest-roadless-rule-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a
rule issued in the waning days of  Bill Clinton ’s presidency to
protect 58.5 million acres of forest lands, as the justices
turned away arguments from states and industry groups.  The justices today refused to question a federal appeals
court’s conclusion that the  U.S. Forest Service  was within its
authority when it issued the so-called Roadless Rule in January
2001, eight days before Clinton left office.  The rebuff is a setback to Wyoming, which pressed the
appeal, and trade groups representing the mining, cattle, oil
and farming industries. The rule prohibits road construction or
reconstruction and virtually all timber extraction on land in 38
states, mostly in the western part of the country. The area is
about the size of  New York  and Pennsylvania combined.  “The ban adversely affects a host of different interests,
including those associated with mineral extraction, timber
production, grazing, water improvement, wildfire management,
outdoor recreation and sporting opportunities of all types,”
Wyoming argued in its appeal. Eight other states also urged  high
court  review.  The Obama administration defended the rule in court, saying
the provision would have “only minor adverse national
socioeconomic effects” while providing “significant benefits”
to watersheds, wildlife and ecosystem health.  A Denver-based federal appeals court upheld the rule,
rejecting contentions that the Agriculture Department was
usurping Congress’s prerogative to declare wilderness areas.  The Supreme Court today also rejected a similar appeal
pressed by the Colorado Mining Association.  The cases are  Wyoming  v. Department of Agriculture,
11-1378, and Colorado Mining Association v. Department of
Agriculture, 11-1384.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  