-- High-Yield Debt Already Achieved Most of 2012 Returns, RBS Says
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-10-01T19:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/high-yield-debt-already-achieved-most-of-2012-returns-rbs-says.html
Speculative-grade bonds that have
returned 11.6 percent this year have recorded most of the gains
that can be expected in 2012, according to analysts at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  High-yield, high-risk bonds lost 0.04 percent during the
week ended Sept. 21, the first time in more than a month that
the debt failed to post a positive gain, analysts led by Edward Marrinan wrote in a Sept. 28 research report. They lost 0.69
percent last week through Sept. 27.  The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to hold  interest rates  near
zero through mid-2015 disproportionately benefited  junk bonds  as
record amounts of money flowed into funds that invest in the
debt, pushing yields to the lowest ever. Investors such as
 Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  and Western Asset Management have begun
reducing high-yield holdings, with the expectation that bond
prices will decline.  “The total return performance of the high-yield asset
class has lagged rather notably, as the boost from the
quantitative easing announcements has apparently faded and the
return of macroeconomic and geopolitical headline risk has
tempered investors’ appetite for risk,” according to the
report. “We do not expect this asset class to generate material
additional capital gains at current dollar prices, and instead
look for carry to drive total return performance over the
balance of the year.”  The average yield on junk bonds fell to a record-low 6.95
percent Sept. 19, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. It reached 7.12 percent Sept. 28. Speculative-grade
bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
lower than BBB- at Standard & Poors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  