-- Miliband Seeks Tighter U.K. Merger Rules Against ‘Predators’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-02T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/miliband-says-u-k-should-force-suppliers-to-take-on-trainees.html
U.K. opposition leader Ed Miliband
pledged to tighten takeover rules, end quarterly reporting for
companies and require the highest-paid to justify their earnings
to encourage businesses that are “producers” rather than
“predators.”  In his keynote speech today to his Labour Party’s annual
conference in Manchester, northern  England , Miliband laid claim
to the “one nation” model of politics defined by Conservative
Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli in 1872 and said banks and
other businesses should be bound by similar tenets. He said
David Cameron, the current Tory leader and premier, had
abandoned “one nation” policies.  Miliband said Labour is now the party best able to
represent people of all backgrounds and incomes, and that recent
British governments, including those headed by Labour’s Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, in which he was a minister, failed to
hold the powerful to account.  The Labour leader said his speech was aimed at “all the
people of Britain who think they’re at the mercy of forces
beyond their control” and said there was a sense that in the
U.K. there was “one rule for those at the top, another for
everyone else. Two nations, not one.”  Miliband attacked Cameron’s coalition government for taking
the country back into recession and failing to hit its own
deficit-reduction targets.  ‘Change Medicine’  “The next time you hear a Conservative say to you ‘Labour
would increase borrowing,”’ Miliband said, “just remember, it
is this government that is increasing borrowing this year. If
the medicine’s not working, you change the medicine. You change
the doctor, too, and that’s what this country needs to do.”  The Labour leader hinted at higher taxes for the rich,
saying that “those with the broadest shoulders will bear the
greatest burden” under a Labour government, and taunting the
Conservatives for cutting the top rate of income tax to 45
percent from 50 percent in this year’s budget.  Miliband repeated his attacks on bankers, making a call for
“one-nation banking” part of his speech and pledging to split
up lenders’ retail and investment operations by law if
legislation Cameron’s government is pushing through Parliament
to erect firewalls within banks is ineffective.  Manchester Speech  Disraeli, who like Miliband was of Jewish descent, first
defined “one-nation conservatism” in a  speech  in Manchester’s
Free Trade Hall, just across the street from the conference
center where the Labour leader spoke today. Disraeli argued that
different classes in society had obligations to each other.
Cameron has said he follows the same philosophy.  “It was a vision of Britain coming together to overcome
the challenges we face,” Miliband said.  In his speech to last year’s party conference in Liverpool,
Miliband argued that while some businesses were “producers,”
others were “predators,” and that they should be taxed and
regulated differently. “One year on, people know what I was
talking about,” he said today.  “Companies in Britain are far more easily bought and sold
than in many other country,” Miliband said. “When a takeover
is launched, the hedge funds and speculators can swoop in for a
quick profit. They’re not acting in the interests of the firms,
of the nation, they’re just in it for the fast buck.”  Labour would remove voting rights from recent purchasers of
stock and make it the duty of investors to act in the best
interests of savers, putting a priority on long-term growth,
Miliband’s office said.  Pay Ratios  Executives earning more than 40 times the average pay in
their companies would have to publicly justify the decision. The
Labour leader’s office didn’t give more detail on how that would
work.  Miliband said companies would be helped to take a longer-
term view of their business by the abolition of the requirement
for quarterly reporting of results. Business Secretary Vince Cable is also looking at how to encourage long-term investment
strategies.  Oil companies also came under attack from the Labour leader
for not cutting gasoline prices, as did  News Corp. (NWSA)  and its
chairman for the phone-hacking scandal that led to the closing
last year of the News of the World newspaper.  “In one nation, no interest, from Rupert Murdoch to the
banks, is too powerful to be held to account,” Miliband said.  Poll Standings  Labour has led the Conservatives in opinion polls by around
10 percentage points since the March budget. Even so, Cameron
consistently beats Miliband in surveys of who would make the
best prime minister.  A ComRes Ltd. poll for today’s Independent newspaper found
22 percent said Miliband had what it took to make a good prime
minister, against 63 percent who disagreed. For Cameron, the
figures were 39 percent and 52 percent. ComRes interviewed 1,010
adults by phone Sept. 28-30.  Miliband delivered today’s speech, lasting over an hour,
without notes and without an autocue. Activists rose to their
feet to cheer as he attacked the Tories, listing recent policy
changes, including the reversal of a budget tax increase on hot
baked snacks such as Cornish pasties. There were boos when he
referred to Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg.  “Have you ever seen a more incompetent, pointless, out-of-
touch, U-turning, pledge-breaking, make-it-up-as-you-go-along,
back-of-the-envelope, miserable shower?” Miliband asked.  “This was by far his most assured performance to date and
has done enough to see off the doubters,” Mark Wickham-Jones,
professor of politics at Bristol University, who was in the hall
listening to Miliband, said in an interview. “While light on
detail, it provides the basis of a coherent Labour challenge at
the next election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  