-- Egypt Salafis Lured as IMF Aid Beats AA Debt: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-10-01T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/imf-aid-cheaper-than-aa-debt-woos-egypt-salafis-islamic-finance.html
Hossam Aql, an Egyptian professor of
Islamic studies, encountered an unusual question on a religious
radio talk show last month: is it acceptable for the government
to borrow from the  International Monetary Fund ?  His answer was yes. In times of extreme need, he said,
Muslims are allowed to resort to non Shariah-compliant options.
Some groups, such as the ultra-orthodox Nour Party, which had
decried the possible loan for violating Islam’s ban on interest,
are now saying that Islamic debt can’t replace the $4.8 billion
 IMF  accord.  Egypt , rated 12 levels below Qatar, will borrow at
about half the rate the emirate paid for sukuk in July.  Egypt’s worst economic slowdown in at least a decade is
swaying a debate among Islamists toward those who favor the
loan, making it easier for the government to secure the
“critical mass” of support that the IMF says is needed for the
agreement. Indonesia and  Pakistan , the world’s two biggest
Muslim countries by population, have both received IMF funds.  “The global financial system might not be compliant with
some interpretations of our Shariah,” Aql, who teaches at
Cairo’s Ain Sham University, said in a telephone interview Sept.
24. “But it would be foolish of us to demand of others a change
in that system as long as we remain reliant on them for the most
basic of our needs of goods and services.”  Rise of Islamists  Egypt’s popular uprising last year gave rise to Islamist
groups that favor Shariah-compliant financing. The Nour Party,
the second-biggest Islamist group after the Muslim Brotherhood,
seeks a gradual removal of non-Islamic banks and an end to
foreign borrowing, according to its economic program.  The absence of a law allowing sukuk sales leaves the Arab
country, which is rated B at  Standard & Poor’s  compared with
Qatar’s AA grade, reliant on non-Shariah compliant debt to
finance the budget deficit. The government paid an average yield
of 13.6 percent on one-year local-currency notes last week, more
than double what similarly rated Lebanon pays, according to data
from central banks in the two countries.  The five-year IMF loan would cost Egypt 1.1 percent,
according to the government, though the fund has said the terms
are still subject to talks. Qatar paid a rate of 2.099 percent
on $2 billion in sukuk in July.  The  risk premium  investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar-
denominated debt over  U.S. Treasuries  climbed 27 basis points,
or 0.27 percentage points, last week to 444, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. That compares with 131 basis points
for  Malaysia , home to the world’s biggest Islamic debt market
and one of the countries that didn’t take IMF aid during the
1997 Asian crisis.  IMF Endorsement  The Egyptian government has touted the IMF loan as the only
way to reignite foreign investments, help narrow the  budget
deficit , which widened to 11 percent of economic output in the
fiscal year that ended in June. The Nour Party has bought the
argument.  “We support the idea of getting the IMF’s endorsement for
the government’s economic program because it will show others
that we are on the path of reform,” Tarek Shaalan, head of the
party’s economic committee, said by phone Sept. 24. “As long as
we can borrow at a lower interest rate, we will continue doing
so to reduce the debt burden and get to the point where we can
only borrow on terms that are compliant with Shariah.”  Scholars such as Mohamad Akram Laldin, a member of the
Malaysian central bank’s Shariah Advisory Council, also say
loans by Shariah-compliant lenders including the Jeddah-based
 Islamic Development Bank , don’t invoke similar confidence among
investors like the IMF or the  World Bank .  ‘More Favorable’  “Unlike the World Bank, which has a bigger capacity, IDB
is relying on limited funds from its contributors,” he said by
phone Sept. 28. Egypt and the IMF can work out a Shariah-
compliant debt structure, though that is a “remote”
possibility, he said.  “It’s not up to the IMF to determine whether its lending
is Shariah compliant,” Wafa Amr, an IMF spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed response to questions Sept. 29. “We can note, however,
that the IMF’s lending terms are usually much more favorable
than the terms available on the market.”  Some economists such as Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  say the
IMF helped worsen  Asia ’s crisis by dictating a one-size-fits-all
policy of higher  interest rates  and lower  government spending  --
when developed nations facing slumps typically do the opposite.  Egyptian Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed didn’t answer
phone calls to his mobile phone seeking comment yesterday.  Some ultra-orthodox scholars still oppose the loan. “Reba,
whether small or large is prohibited,” Yasser Bourhami, deputy
head of Aldawa Al Salafiya, one of Egypt’s biggest organizations
of Salafi Muslims, said in a televised interview last month.
Reba is the Arabic term of usury. “The main condition for
interest to be permissible is for it to be in the form of
administrative fee.”  Persian Gulf Investors  The lower costs shouldn’t slow Egypt’s efforts to develop a
sukuk market to lure regional investors, said Shaalan of the
Nour Party. “We will push to sell sukuk targeting Persian Gulf
investors as a cheaper method of financing.”  Sales of Islamic bonds in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council surged to a record $17.8 billion this year, led by
offerings from  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sukuk Law  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said Sept. 9 that his
government seeks to pass a sukuk law within three months. Sales
of sovereign dollar-denominated Islamic debt in the Arab world
are so far limited to Qatar, Bahrain, Dubai and Ras Al Khaimah,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014
dropped 65 basis points last quarter to 2.88 percent Sept. 28,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The premium investors demand to
hold Dubai’s sukuk over Malaysia’s investment-grade 3.928
percent notes maturing in June 2015 narrowed 144 basis points
this year to 143 basis points today, the data show.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April
2020 tumbled 68 basis points last quarter to 5.82 percent,
reflecting bets the country would secure the IMF loan after
Mohamed Mursi, an Islamist politician, won the presidential
election in June. The yield was little changed at 5.81 percent
today.  “Failing to secure the money would reverse the recent
improvement in sentiment, cast doubt on additional pledged funds
and deter foreign investors from buying back into the Egyptian
t-bill market,”  Liz Martins, Dubai-based senior Middle East
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said Sept. 27 in e-mailed
comments.  The government has already said it may also miss this
year’s target of 7.6 percent of gross domestic product.  For Aql, the radio talk show guest, accepting the loan is a
no-brainer. “When there’s a an absolute necessity to borrow
from external sources to fend off a disaster, such as what we’re
seeing in our budget deficit, we cannot issue a blanket ruling
calling it forbidden.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  