-- India Rupee Gains on Speculation Policy Changes Boosting Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-10-01T08:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/indian-rupee-declines-on-concern-global-slowdown-hurting-exports.html
India’s rupee rose, erasing earlier
losses, on speculation Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s measures
to boost foreign investment are attracting capital inflows.  The currency advanced for a third day as the  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares rose 0.3 percent. Global funds poured
$3.6 billion into holdings of the nation’s equities last month
through Sept. 27, the biggest increase since February, according
to data from the securities regulator. The rupee’s gains will be
limited by concerns about the outlook for exports amid signs
global growth is weakening, according to  Andhra Bank. (ANDB)   “We are seeing some inflows,” said Vikas Babu, a trader
in Mumbai at the state-run bank. “Later in the day we may see
importers buying dollars, which may cap the strengthening.”  The rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 52.6350 per dollar as of
1:24 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
rose 5.3 percent in the three months through September, its
strongest quarterly gain since 2009 and the best performance
among Asian currencies. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
11.40 percent.  Chinese factory output contracted for a second month in
September and big Japanese manufacturers became more pessimistic
in the last quarter, according to official surveys published
today. A government report showed  India ’s trade deficit widened
to $15.6 billion in August from a $10.3 billion gap the previous
month.  Current Account  The rupee had weakened earlier on concern a continued drop
in exports will reverse a narrowing in India’s current-account
deficit. The shortfall in the broadest measure of trade was
$16.4 billion in the three months through June 30, compared with
a $21.7 billion deficit the previous quarter, the central bank
said Sept. 28. The median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a $14.2 billion gap.  The narrowing in the current-account deficit was
“primarily due to lower gold imports,” economists at Barclays
Plc, including Mumbai-based Siddhartha Sanyal, wrote in a
research report today. “Near-term movements in the rupee will
continue to be influenced heavily by news and domestic policy
and political developments.”  The rupee has rebounded 8.9 percent from a record low of
57.3275 per dollar touched June 22, after Prime Minister Singh
last month cut fuel subsidies, opened up the retail and aviation
industries to foreign investment, and reduced a tax on local
companies’ overseas borrowing to 5 percent from 20 percent.  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.16 percent,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The rate dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, last quarter.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 53.59 a dollar,
unchanged from Sept. 28, and offshore non-deliverable contracts
were at 53.27 from 53.43. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  