-- Indonesian Bonds Advance as Inflation Moderates; Rupiah Steady
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-01T09:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/indonesian-bonds-advance-as-inflation-moderates-rupiah-steady.html
Indonesian  government bonds  advanced,
pushing the 10-year yield down by the most in four weeks, as
data showed inflation unexpectedly slowed. The rupiah was little
changed after the  trade balance  swung to a surplus.  Consumer prices gained  4.31 percent  last month, compared
with 4.58 percent in August and the median 4.6 percent forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, official figures showed
today. The government also reported an August trade surplus of
 $249 million , which compares with a revised deficit of $264
million for July and a $62 million shortfall predicted in a
Bloomberg survey.  The yield on benchmark 10-year debt dropped nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.93 percent, closing
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association show. That was
the sharpest decline since Sept. 3 and the lowest level since
Sept. 19.  “Slowing inflation means  Bank Indonesia  is under no
pressure to raise rates,” said Wiling Bolung, the head of
treasury at PT Bank ANZ  Indonesia  in Jakarta.  Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 5.75 percent for a seventh straight meeting in
September, helping sustain growth in Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said last week Indonesia should be ready to tighten
monetary policy as faster expansion boosts prices.  ‘Risk-On Sentiment’  “We expect the seasonal fourth quarter bounce in food
prices to keep headline inflation sticky around 4.6 percent for
the rest of the year,”  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING
Groep NV in Singapore, wrote in a report today. He forecast the
yield on 10-year government notes will slide to 5 percent by
year-end due to “the inflation backdrop and prevailing risk-on
sentiment.”  The rupiah traded at 9,587 per dollar as of 4:27 p.m. in
Jakarta, after closing at 9,589 on Sept. 28, prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg show. It weakened 1.7 percent last
quarter, the worst performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies. One-month implied volatility, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 63 basis
points to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 