-- Indonesian Prices Eased for First Time Since May Last Month
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-10-01T08:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/indonesian-inflation-slowed-for-first-time-since-may-last-month.html
Indonesia ’s inflation slowed for the
first time in four months as prices eased after the Eid Al-Fitr
festival, supporting the central bank’s decision to hold off
 interest-rate  increases as exports slump.  Consumer prices  rose 4.31 percent from a year earlier last
month, after a previously reported 4.58 percent gain in August,
the statistics bureau said in Jakarta today. The  median forecast 
of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.6
percent increase.  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 5.75 percent for the seventh straight meeting in
September as accelerating economic growth and inflation reduced
the scope for monetary easing to counter faltering overseas
sales. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last week  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy should be ready
to tighten monetary policy as faster expansion boosts prices.  “Today’s data releases should partly assuage over-heating
and current-account shortfall concerns,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Fading festive demand
has seen September headline CPI soften and could ease pressure
on the BI to tighten policy levers.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,598 per dollar as of 2:55
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency was the worst performer in the past
three months among 11 Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Under Pressure  Food and transportation prices eased after the Eid
celebration, said Suryamin, chairman of the statistics bureau.
Exports remain “under pressure” due to the crisis in Europe
that has affected India and  China , he said.  “There will still be some concerns whether high fuel or
food prices globally,” as well as a weaker rupiah and strong
growth will translate into higher prices, said Chua Hak Bin, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Singapore. “Since
domestic demand is doing pretty well, I would say there might be
some risk of tightening.”  Consumer prices rose 0.01 percent last month from August,
today’s report showed. The  core inflation  rate was 4.12 percent,
compared with a previously reported 4.16 percent pace in August.  Exports in August fell 24.3 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 7.6 percent decline in July, the statistics
bureau said. That makes it the worst contraction since at least
June 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, before any
official revisions. Imports slid 8 percent.  The  trade surplus  was $249 million in August, compared with
a revised $264 million shortfall the month before.  ’Downward Revision’  “Of particular concern would be the import growth figure,
as it indicates that domestic demand may be moderating further
into the year-end,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “This could very
well mean that a downward revision to our current 6.2 percent
GDP growth forecast for 2012 may be necessary.”  Indonesia’s exports in the January-to-August period
declined to $127.2 billion from the same period a year earlier,
according to the statistics bureau. It may be difficult to reach
even $200 billion in overseas sales by year-end on account of
volatile demand due to  Europe ’s debt crisis, Satwiko Darmesto,
an official at the statistics bureau told reporters.  The central bank said on Aug. 9 it expects the  economy  to
grow as much as 6.5 percent this year, higher than the OECD’s
forecast of 6 percent expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  