-- Linear Technology Jumps on Factory Index: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-10-01T20:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/linear-technology-jumps-on-factory-index-san-francisco-mover.html
Linear Technology Corp. (LLTC) , whose
microchips are used in computer tablets, factory automation and
medical technology, rose the most in almost a month as U.S.
manufacturing strengthened in September and orders may have
risen last quarter.  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index
rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a reading of 49.7 for September, according to the
median of 76 forecasts. The dividing line between expansion and
contraction is 50.  “The ISM data, which came out today, may have given them a
boost because they because have exposure to the industrial end
market,” Shawn Webster, an analyst at  Macquarie Capital  in San
Francisco, said in a telephone interview.  Shares of Milpitas, California-based  Linear  rose 2.4
percent to $32.57 at the close in New York trading, the most
since Sept. 6. Other analog chipmakers such as  Maxim Integrated
Products Inc. (MXIM)  and  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI) , also rose today, and
“are performing better,” Webster said.  “I like Linear’s high-quality business model and they have
exposure to the fast-growing power-management chip market which
will enable better growth in coming years,” Webster said.
Macquarie has an outperform rating on Linear with a target price
of $35.90 a share.  Industrial Demand  During an earnings conference call in July, Linear Chief
Financial Officer Paul Coghlan said customer bookings had held
up well, due in part to automotive and industrial end market
demand, although were likely to slow during the quarter that
ended last month.  The company had also reduced factory production rates and
managed its inventory in response to slower demand in previous
quarters.  “They may have had a stronger end of September quarter for
bookings and if so, will have a strong December quarter,”
Richard Whittington, an analyst with Drexel Hamilton LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Bookings could be up 6
percent to 8 percent, which is stronger than usual for them.”  If companies are ordering again, and inventories are lower,
“we’ll see a better September than normal and probably a strong
December period and that may continue out into March,” said
Whittington. Personal computer makers are “seeing better
business and ordering more analog semiconductors so there is
some vibrancy to the market.”  Drexel Hamilton has a buy rating on Linear with a target
price of $40 a share.  “Linear is a very solid company and they sell to thousands
of customers, which makes them better diversified because they
don’t have one 10 percent or even one 5 percent customer,”
Whittington said. “They are more in tune with their end
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor in San Francisco at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  