-- ING Cuts 130 Jobs, Closes Emerging European Equities Unit
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-01T15:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/ing-eliminates-130-jobs-closes-emerging-european-equities-unit.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, will eliminate about 130 jobs as it
closes its emerging European equities operation to focus on
Belgium, the Netherlands and  Poland .  ING will cut about 100 analysts, salesmen, traders and
sales-traders, Adrian Simpson, a spokesman for the commercial
banking unit said by telephone today. As much as half of the
reductions will be in  London , he said. ING is also eliminating
about 30 corporate finance positions, mostly ones focusing on
eastern Europe.  The Amsterdam-based firm is trying to reduce costs as the
European sovereign debt crisis crimps the pace of mergers and
stock trading in the region. The decision follows a similar move
by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s largest bank, which in June said it
would scale back its central and eastern European equities unit.  “Market conditions are very tough, and the length of the
downturn is sustained,” London-based Simpson said. “We have to
be very disciplined in how we manage our costs in this type of
environment.”  Costs as a proportion of income at ING’s financial markets
unit, which include the equities division, climbed to 75 percent
in the first half, up from 59 percent in the year-earlier
period. Profit at the operation shrank to 100 million euros
($129 million) in the period from 235 million euros.  The lender will keep its Belgium and Dutch equities
operations open, and also retain a domestic equities operation
in Poland, where  ING Bank Slaski SA (BSK)  is based, Simpson said.
Beyond London and Moscow, ING is mostly cutting jobs in Hungary,
the Czech Republic and Romania, he said.  ING is separately selling its insurance unit before the end
of 2013 to meet European Union conditions after it received a
government bailout in 2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  