-- Minority-Owned Private-Equity Firms Beat Buyout Titans in Study
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-10-01T20:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/minority-owned-private-equity-firms-beat-buyout-titans-in-study.html
Private-equity firms that are diverse
or minority-owned achieved higher gains than the broader
industry, according to a report today by the National
Association of Investment Companies.  Funds managed by NAIC member firms, 79 percent of which are
owned by minorities and 69 percent of which have women or
minorities in at least half of the investment roles, had a
median net internal rate of return of 15 percent from 1998 to
2011, compared with 3.7 percent for the U.S. private-equity
industry, according to the  report . The firms produced a median
1.5 times invested capital versus 1.1 for the industry,
according to the study, which was managed by the audit and
advisory company  KPMG LLP .  NAIC’s 27 members include  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ’s
customized-funds unit, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Capital
Access Partners, Palladium Equity Partners LLC and Vista Equity
Partners LLC, the report says. The group, whose members during
the 1998 to 2011 period oversaw assets ranging from $100 million
to $2.5 billion, doesn’t include any of the 10 largest so-called
alternative-asset firms, such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)   “The lack of diversity throughout the financial-services
industry is reminiscent of the days when baseball owners denied
that there were qualified minority ball players, or the days
when professional women were relegated to the secretarial
pool,”  Connecticut  State Treasurer Denise Nappier said in a
statement commenting on the report’s findings. Nappier oversees
the management and investment of her state’s $25 billion pension
fund.  ‘Call to Action’  At nine of those 10 biggest private-equity firms
industrywide, women account for an average 8.1 percent of
managing directors and senior executives, the highest-ranking
and best-paying jobs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from the companies and their websites. The comparable figure for
the country’s six biggest investment and commercial banks is 30
percent. Women make up 13 percent of the senior ranks at 10 of
the largest traditional-asset managers.  NAIC firms oversee about 0.2 percent of the private-equity
industry’s assets under management, according to the group. The
NAIC report is a “call to action for institutional investors
everywhere that have yet to fully embrace diversity as a factor
when seeking to do business,” said Connecticut’s Nappier.  A  report  published in August by the Credit Suisse Research
Institute found that companies with women on their boards
rewarded shareholders with corporate performance and share-price
returns that are more stable than those at comparable companies
with all-male boards. Net income growth at companies with female
board representation averaged 14 percent over the past six
years, compared with 10 percent at those without a female
director, according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  