-- Hip Replacement Found Safer for Women Than Resurfacing
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-10-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/hip-replacement-found-to-safer-for-women-than-resurfacing.html
Hip resurfacing, a procedure used as
an alternative to hip replacement, is prone to early failure and
shouldn’t be used in women, scientists found.  Women experience more problems than men in the seven years
after surgery, U.K. researchers said today in a study published
in the  Lancet  medical journal. Metal resurfacing implants fail
more quickly than total hip replacements made of other
materials, with the failure rate as much as five times higher
for females, they said.  Resurfacing is more commonly offered to younger patients
because it leaves more bone intact and can make it easier to
perform a total hip replacement if needed later, according to
the  Mayo Clinic . The damaged hip ball is reshaped and capped
with a metal prosthesis, as is the damaged hip socket.  “In view of these findings, we recommend that resurfacing
procedures are not undertaken in women,” Ashley Blom, professor
of orthopedic surgery at the University of Bristol’s School of
Clinical Sciences in  England  and one of study authors, said in a
statement.  The size of the patient’s femoral cap may make a
difference, as about 23 percent of the men had large bones and
experienced similar success rates to those who underwent total
hip replacement, according to the study. Resurfacings of smaller
femoral caps were prone to early failure, and women regardless
of the femoral-cap size fared “much worse,” the researchers
said.  Study Period  Researchers looked at  National Joint Registry for England
and Wales  data on 434,650 hip operations performed from April
2003 through September 2011, of which 31,932 were resurfacings.
The registry has the world’s largest joint-replacement database,
with 1.2 million records covering hip, knee, ankle, elbow and
shoulder procedures, according to the study authors.  In September 2011, the registry said the ASR Acetabular hip
replacement, made by  Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ)  DePuy Orthopaedics
Inc., was removed or replaced 29 percent of the time after six
years, compared with a 9.5 percent failure rate for all metal-
on-metal implants. J&J issued a recall of the devices in 2010.
The registry also found the metal-on-metal hip implants needed
to be replaced more often than their counterparts.  “There might be a trade-off between higher occurrence of
revision and better functional outcomes, which could be
important for patients who are doing more physically demanding
work or participate in sports,” Art Sedrakyan, a professor at
Weill Cornell Medical College in  New York , wrote in a comment
accompanying the study. Women should be advised against
resurfacing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  