-- James Burke, J&J’s CEO During Tylenol Crisis, Dies at 87
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-01T15:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/james-burke-j-j-s-ceo-during-tylenol-crisis-dies-at-87.html
James E. Burke, the former  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  chief executive officer whose leadership during the
Tylenol poisoning scare became a model for corporate crisis
management, has died. He was 87.  Burke, who ran J&J from 1976 to 1989, died Sept. 28, the
company said today in a statement. He died in a health-care
facility in New Jersey following a long illness, according to an
e-mail from Stephen Dnistrian, a company spokesman.  “Jim Burke was among the greatest leaders in the history
of American business,”  Alex Gorsky , the current CEO, said in
the statement. “He will forever inspire the people of Johnson &
Johnson.”  Burke was CEO at New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J in
1982 when seven people died from cyanide-spiked capsules of
Tylenol, then the nation’s leading painkiller. His sure-handed
response, from quickly recalling the product to reintroducing it
with innovative, tamper-resistant packaging, inspired accolades
and a Harvard Business School  case study . In 2003, Fortune
magazine named him one of history’s 10  greatest  CEOs.  “He spoke the truth and that was astonishingly liberating
for everyone who heard it because we have all become so
accustomed to public figures telling less than the truth or
lying,” Richard Tedlow, a Harvard business professor, wrote in
“Denial,” his 2010 book about corporate leadership.  James Edward Burke was born on Feb. 28, 1925, in Rutland,
 Vermont , the son of James Francis Burke, an insurance salesman,
and Mary Barnett Burke.  High Achievers  Burke came from a family of high achievers. His brother,
Daniel, died in October 2011 after building Capital Cities/ABC
Inc. into one of the largest U.S. media companies. Daniel
Burke’s son, Stephen, was named CEO of Comcast Corp.’s NBC
Universal unit in January 2011. James Burke’s sister, Phyllis
Davis, was an executive at cosmetics maker Avon Products Inc.
Another sister, the late  Sidney Burke Carroll , was a New York
lawyer and children’s book author.  Burke graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in
Worcester,  Massachusetts , in 1947, before attending Harvard
Business School in  Boston .  After serving as an officer in the U.S. Navy, Burke joined
J&J in 1953 as a product director in its consumer first-aid
unit. He worked his way up the company mainly through marketing
positions, according to Tedlow. During his tenure as CEO, the
company expanded into  emerging markets  including China and  Egypt 
while adding popular products such as disposable contact lenses.  Cold Case  The Tylenol case remains an unsolved crime, 30 years after
the deaths of the Chicago-area victims. The sabotage threatened
a product that accounted for one-fifth of J&J’s earnings at the
time and spurred a national panic about the safety of consumer
products, Tedlow  wrote .  After poisoned capsules were traced to J&J factories in
different parts of the U.S., authorities concluded the tampering
likely occurred somewhere in the retail system, Tedlow wrote.  Burke, who recalled 31 million bottles of Tylenol and then
sought to save the brand, had to buck advisers within the
company as well as outside marketing experts who insisted the
product’s reputation couldn’t be saved, according to Tedlow.  The CEO was convinced that J&J could draw on a reservoir of
trust among its customers, if it handled the crisis openly.  Full Rebound  By 1985, Tylenol had regained its full market share from
before the crisis. Under Burke, J&J also weathered a second,
also-unsolved 1986 poisoning that killed a woman in New York.  “Nothing good happens without trust,” Burke said in a
2003  profile  published by Harvard Business School. “With it you
can overcome all sorts of obstacles. You can build companies
that everyone can be proud of.”  After retiring, Burke was chairman of the Partnership for
a Drug-Free America, an anti-drug group, for more than a decade.
The work earned him the U.S.  Presidential Medal of Freedom  in
2000.  In 1957 Burke married Alice Eubank, who is now deceased.
The couple had two children, James and Clo. Survivors also
include Burke’s second wife, Didi, and her children from a
previous marriage. He resided in Princeton, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  