-- Jana Founder Says Agrium Plan to Add $50 of Value a Share
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-01T20:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/jana-founder-says-agrium-plan-may-add-50-share-of-value.html
Barry Rosenstein , the co-founder of
activist hedge fund  Jana Partners LLC , said his proposal for
 Agrium Inc. (AGU)  to spin off its farming supply stores and make other
changes may add an extra $50 a share of value.  Jana, Agrium’s largest shareholder, is proposing a so-
called tax-free separation of the Calgary-based company’s retail
operations from its wholesale arm. The hedge fund is also
calling for Agrium’s management to boost capital returns,
improve disclosure and reduce costs and working capital,
Rosenstein said today in a presentation at the Value Investing
Conference in  New York .  “There is no legitimate reason to deny shareholders this
value-creation opportunity,” he said, according to an advance
copy of the presentation obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Jana said Aug. 14 that Agrium’s retail network, the largest
in  North America , had been mismanaged, had too much money tied
up in working capital and should be spun off to “unlock
significant long-term value.” Agrium Chief Executive Officer
Mike Wilson rejected Jana’s demand and hired Morgan Stanley as
an adviser.  “There is nothing new in statements made by JANA today,”
Wilson said today in a statement. “Agrium remains confident
that shareholders will receive far greater value, with less
risk, under the company’s current strategy.”  Agrium rose 1.7 percent to C$103.69 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have gained 52 percent this year.  Retail Network  Agrium’s network of 872 agricultural  retail outlets  in
 Canada , the U.S., Chile and  Argentina  sells seeds, fertilizer
and herbicides to farmers. The company also produces the crop-
nutrient ingredients potash, phosphates and nitrogen. Agrium
generated 63 percent of sales from its retail operations last
year while the wholesale fertilizer business accounted for 34
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Jana’s estimate of potentially unlocked value assumes a
$725 million “working capital rationalization opportunity” and
a $1.5 billion plan to purchase its own stock in addition to a
planned share buyback of as much as C$900 million ($916 million)
that Agrium announced last month.  Market Intelligence  A breakup of Agrium doesn’t make sense for investors,
according to Colin Isaac, a London-based analyst at Atlantic
Equities LLP who has a rating equivalent to buy on Agrium. The
wholesale and retail businesses benefit from each other, he said
in a telephone interview.  “They clearly benefit from the market intelligence and the
supply sourcing from the wholesale side,” Isaac said.  Jana is an event-driven hedge fund, meaning it generally
invests in companies undergoing changes such as mergers,
spinoffs and bankruptcies. It was founded in 2001 and manages
investments worth about $3.5 billion.  The hedge fund invested more than $700 million in Jana and
has a 4.1 percent  stake  in Agrium, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I don’t know if Agrium has a good retail business and
neither does anybody else because Agrium hasn’t disclosed enough
information for us to be able to tell,”  Mark Connelly , a New
York-based analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc., said
Sept. 28 by telephone.  “Agrium owes us a better answer than they’ve given so far,
a better answer than ‘we’re doing a great job and the heck with
them,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  