-- JBS Profit at Four-Year High on Grass-Fed Beef: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-10-01T13:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/jbs-profit-at-four-year-high-on-grass-fed-beef-corporate-brazil.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, is set to post the highest quarterly profit since 2008
as Brazilian meatpackers are shielded from surging grain and
cattle prices that eroded the margins of global peers.  Third-quarter net income will be 331.8 million reais ($164
million), compared with a year-earlier loss of 67.5 million,
according to the average of four analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. JBS’s 19 percent return in the past three months
makes it the world’s third-best performing meatpacking stock,
after Barretos, Brazil-based Minerva SA and  Marfrig Alimentos
SA (MRFG3) , which gained 44 percent and 38 percent, respectively.  Global grain and cattle prices are soaring following the
worst U.S. drought in 56 years. While U.S. ranchers rely on corn
and other grains to feed livestock,  Brazil ’s herd is mostly
grass-fed. Sao Paulo-based JBS also has been shielded from
rising cattle costs after Brazilian prices on Aug. 14 fell to
the cheapest relative to U.S. prices in five years.  “Brazil is in a sweet spot for the next 18 months,” Eric
Conrads, who helps manage $1 billion in stocks at ING Groep NV
in  New York , said by telephone. “Brazilian cattle are grass-fed
so you don’t care about corn.”  Corn and soybean prices reached records since mid-June amid
the U.S. drought. Corn rose to $8.38 a bushel on Aug. 21 from
$5.05 on May 11, while soy touched $17.68 a bushel on Sept. 4
from as low as $12.58 on June 1.  U.S. Earnings  Rising grain prices probably will drive farmers to increase
production next year, averting food shortages,  Greg Page ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Cargill Inc, said in a
Sept. 24 interview. Cargill dominates the U.S. grain market
along with Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Bunge Ltd.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor, will
report net income of $160 million for the fiscal quarter ended
Sept. 30, up from $97 million a year earlier, according to the
average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Tyson
shares have lost 11 percent in the past three months. The
company cut its full-year sales and profit forecast amid rising
feed costs, it said Aug. 6. Revenue will be $33 billion in the
year through September, compared with a previous forecast of $34
billion, the Springdale, Arkansas-based company said.  An official for JBS, who requested anonymity citing company
policy, declined to comment on the company’s earnings. Quarterly
earnings may be released Nov. 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Brazilian producers are also benefitting from the real’s
7.9 percent decline against the  U.S. dollar  this year, which
boosts profits from exports and overseas operations in local-
currency terms. That has been countered by higher costs for
items denominated in U.S. currency.  ‘Sluggish’ Demand  “The dollar is helping exports, but so what? The world is
in a crisis and demand is sluggish,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst
with Sao Paulo-based SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview. “Also, the crisis reduces their ability to pass on
price increases, especially in the U.S.”  JBS still needs to deal with its high level of debt, which
makes it a less appealing investment than local peer Minerva,
Conrads said.  The company’s debt ballooned since 2005 as brothers Joesley
and Wesley Batista, whose father Jose Batista Sobrinho founded
JBS in 1953 by opening a slaughterhouse, started to expand
outside of Brazil with 16  acquisitions  since then, including
 Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC) , Swift & Co. and Tasman Group Services.  Rising Debt  Net debt was 15.3 billion reais in the second quarter, up
25 percent from a year ago. Debt is at 4.3 times earnings,
excluding items, from 3.6 times a year ago.  The large debt load is now being addressed by JBS as the
need for mergers subsides, said Henrique Koch, an analyst with
Banco do Brasil SA.  “It seems that JBS pushed back on acquisitions and is
focusing on efficiency,” Koch said in a Sept. 27 telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “That’s good news, they are doing
their homework. They are set to keep improving as they increase
capacity usage at their Brazil beef plants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  