-- Juniper Is Said to Eliminate 500 Jobs Amid Competition
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-10-02T22:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/juniper-said-to-eliminate-500-jobs-to-cut-costs-amid-competition.html
(Corrects timing of QFabric competitors in last
paragraph.)  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  is eliminating
500 jobs, or about 5 percent of its workforce, in an effort to
trim expenses amid accelerating competition from networking-
equipment makers led by  Cisco (CSCO)  Systems Inc., people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The jobs being cut include some engineers involved with a
set of products called QFabric, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the company hasn’t said which
operations are affected.  QFabric, designed to help businesses operate data centers
more efficiently, is key to Juniper’s efforts to expand beyond
the phone companies that make up its customer core and court big
corporations and Internet service providers. The decline in
headcount dedicated to the project shows that the company is
struggling to gain traction as customers consider alternatives
from Cisco and Brocade Communications Systems Inc., as well as
new technology called software-defined networking, which can
lessen the need for hardware upgrades.  “They’ve been very slow to deliver it to market,” said
 Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  Analysts at  Mizuho Securities  said in a research note
yesterday that QFabric has met with “modest sales.”  The jobs being eliminated are part of a plan outlined in
July to cut costs by $150 million by 2013, said Ellen Roeckl, a
spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Juniper. The company
is dealing with slowing spending by large phone companies, and
fiercer competition from market leader Cisco, which has
refocused on its core business of selling routers and Internet
switches in the past year.  The cuts were previously  reported  by the TechTarget blog.  Combining Teams  The cuts won’t disproportionately hit the QFabric team, she
said.  “We are pleased with the traction that our very
differentiated architecture has achieved in the marketplace,”
Roeckl said. “We are continuing to add both hardware and
software functionality to the QFabric road map.”  Juniper is combining engineering teams that focus on the
company’s mid-tier EX line of switches and the higher-end switch
that’s part of the QFabric, one of the people said. The move
will cut costs and help the company better integrate the product
lines, which are both typically required to deploy the full
QFabric system, this person said.  Brocade Communications (BRCD)  and Cisco had announced similar
approaches when Juniper announced QFabric in February 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  