-- Kingfisher Air Suspends Flights Through Oct. 4 on Lockout
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-10-02T02:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/kingfisher-air-suspends-flights-for-3-days-after-strike.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the money-
losing Indian carrier controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya,
extended a shutdown through at least Oct. 4 after locking out
striking workers it said were intimidating other employees.  “Despite the fact that a vast majority of the staff are
willing to cooperate and support the company in these turbulent
times, they are not able to,” the Bangalore-based carrier said
in a  statement  on its website after the lockout began yesterday.
The company will try to engage with “recalcitrant employees to
persuade them to cease and desist from intimidating and
threatening” non-striking staff, it said.  The dispute prompted by unpaid wages may hinder the
airline’s efforts to find new investors after cash shortages
forced flight cuts, salary delays and service disruptions.
Management will also meet the Director General of Civil Aviation
today, a national holiday, after Aviation Minister Ajit Singh
said the carrier could be closed if it can’t allay safety
concerns.  “The current set of problems will make it more challenging
for Kingfisher to attract investments,” said Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Mumbai-based managing director of Destimoney
Securities Pvt. “Even without this strike, they would find it
difficult to get funds as there are more attractive options.”  Some Kingfisher employees have stayed away for two weeks,
Prakash Mirpuri, an airline spokesman, said in a text message
yesterday. The striking employees include pilots and engineers,
according to the Economic Times and Business Standard
newspapers. Some workers on Sept. 30 refused to deploy
aerobridges in Mumbai, leaving passengers stranded inside
aircraft, the Mint newspaper reported, citing an unidentified
person. Mirpuri didn’t answer phone calls or reply to  text
messages  seeking further comment.  Shares Fall  The  carrier , which has posted five straight annual losses,
fell by its daily limit of 5 percent in Mumbai trading yesterday
to 15.35 rupees, the most since Sept. 20. The stock has declined
27 percent this year, after plunging 68 percent in 2011.  Kingfisher, named after Mallya’s flagship beer brand, has
slumped to sixth from second in terms of domestic market share
after paring services and losing passengers. It had a 3.2
percent share in August, the lowest among six carriers.  The airline operates 15 of its 40 planes and will ramp up
operations after recapitalization, Mallya said Sept. 26, without
specifying a timeframe. The company is in discussions with
overseas carriers about a possible stake sale, he said. The
government ended a ban on such sales last month. Kingfisher has
been seeking investment since at least November.  New Funds  The carrier’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
($219 million) since April 1, Mallya told  shareholders  on Sept.
26. The billionaire is also in talks to sell a stake in  United
Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the largest distiller in  India , to  Diageo Plc (DGE)  as
he seeks cash.  In July, Kingfisher scrapped about 40 flights after some
 employees  refused to work because they weren’t paid. The
services were restored later. The carrier also delayed payments
to banks, airports, tax authorities and fuel suppliers.  The airline’s planes will need to pass safety checks before
services can resume, Minister Singh said yesterday. Kingfisher
said in its statement yesterday that it has enough staff to
safely operate its current schedule.  “If there is no certificate for airworthiness from
engineers who are qualified to do that, they won’t be allowed to
fly,” Singh said. “There were strikes many times earlier. This
is the first time the safety issue has come up.”  Still, the government may not force Kingfisher to shut down
as that’s not in the interests of banks that have lent it money,
a civil aviation ministry official said yesterday in  New Delhi ,
asking not be identified.  Creditor Talks  The airline has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against 64 billion rupees of  debt . It is also in
talks with banks and lessors after they invoked 8.4 billion
rupees of financial guarantees its parent provided.  The carrier may lose its permit if its fleet falls below
five planes, Aviation Minister Singh said Sept. 28. Lessors have
taken back 32 planes from the airline, the Economic Times
newspaper reported in June.  Kingfisher has asked banks for additional working capital
loans and for more time to pay existing loans, two bankers
familiar with the matter said last week. The carrier needs a
capital infusion of $600 million to survive, industry consultant
CAPA Centre for Aviation said in August.  Kingfisher has a  long-term debt  to total capital ratio of
162 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jet
Airways (India) Ltd.’s ratio is 58 percent, while discount
carrier  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) ’s is at 76 percent.  Industrywide losses by India’s airlines exceeded $2 billion
in the year ended March, according to CAPA. That may narrow to
$1.4 billion in the current fiscal year, CAPA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  