-- Korea Consumer Prices Rise 2% From Year Earlier on Storms
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-10-02T00:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/korea-consumer-prices-rise-2-from-year-earlier-on-storms.html
South  Korea ’s inflation accelerated
the most in three months in September after typhoons damaged
crops and a holiday boosted demand for food, according to a
report nine days before the central bank decides interest rates.  Consumer prices increased 2 percent from a year earlier
after a 1.2 percent gain in August, Statistics Korea said today
in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 12 economists was for a 1.8 percent gain. Prices
rose 0.7 percent from August.  The Bank of Korea will decide on Oct. 11 whether to cut
interest rates for the second time this year to counter growth
risks posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in  China .
South Korea’s exports fell for a third month in September and
industrial production dropped more than expected in August.  “The economy saw higher food prices due to two storms”
and shopping ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday, or Chuseok, said
Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc.
“Growth is the overriding concern and we expect the central
bank to cut by 25 basis points on Oct. 11.”  An index measuring prices of fresh foods rose 8.6 percent
in September from a year ago, while public utility costs
increased 5.9 percent, according to today’s statement. Core
consumer prices, which exclude oil and agricultural products,
advanced 1.4 percent from a year earlier.  The won weakened 0.2 percent to 1,113.25 per dollar at 9:00
a.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi stock index rose 0.1 percent.  Growth Outlook  The International Monetary Fund on Sept. 21 reduced its
2012 growth forecast for South Korea to 3 percent from a June
estimate of 3.25 percent. At the same time, the IMF said Asia’s
fourth-largest economy has “sufficient policy space” to
respond to downside risks.  The finance ministry announced 5.9 trillion won ($5.3
billion) of spending and tax relief last month to boost growth,
adding to 8.5 trillion won of support measures in June. South
Korea has been hit by storms this summer including typhoon Sanba
last month, which forced tens of thousands of people to
evacuate. Typhoons Bolaven and Tembin struck in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  