-- Krona New Franc as Riksbank Accepts Top Currency Position
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-01T11:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/krona-new-franc-as-riksbank-accepts-top-currency-position-2-.html
Sweden’s krona is becoming the new
Swiss franc for investors seeking higher  interest rates  in a
growing economy that has a  trade surplus  and falling debt load.  It’s the best performer in a basket of developed-market
peers since June, with a 3 percent advance, about twice that of
the second-place Norwegian krone. The median of economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg is for Sweden’s economy to grow
1.2 percent this year even as the euro region contracts.
Truckmaker  Scania AB (SCVB)  says the currency’s appreciation won’t stop
it from boosting capacity.  Strategists raised their estimates for the currency against
the dollar by about 8 percent in less than three months as the
central bank signaled that it sees no need to curb the krona’s
advance. That’s in contrast to the dollar, which fell last
quarter as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s open-ended
stimulus plan debased the currency, and the euro, which weakened
amid a third year of debt turmoil.  “The krona can go a lot further,”  John Taylor , the
founder and chief executive officer of New York-based hedge fund
FX Concepts LLC, which manages $3 billion, said in a Sept. 27
interview. “Sweden has the wind behind it because Bernanke is
making the dollar go down and  Europe  keeps having these
traumas.”  Rising Estimates  The currency has the potential to reach 6.35 versus the
greenback by the end of November, Taylor said. That would mark a
3.5 percent gain for the krona, which was at 6.5723 per dollar
as of 7:45 a.m. today in New York. It has rallied from 7.3285
per dollar on June 1, the weakest level this year. The currency
was 0.4 percent weaker at 8.4732 per euro, following a 0.9
percent advance last week.  Strategists are having trouble keeping up with the gains.
They raised their year-end forecast to 6.62 per dollar on Sept.
28, from 7.17 in July, the median estimates of analysts compiled
by Bloomberg showed. The mid-2013 estimate jumped to 6.81 from
7.12.  Like the Swiss franc, the krona benefits from a surplus in
its current account, the widest measure of trade. That means the
government doesn’t need to rely on foreign capital. Unlike
Switzerland’s currency, policy makers aren’t seeking to cap its
appreciation. The  Swiss National Bank  imposed a ceiling on the
franc in September 2011 of 1.20 per euro.  The Swedish krona has “all the pillars that you need to be
a safe haven,”  Peter Frank , a foreign-exchange strategist at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in London, said in a phone
interview on Sept. 28. “The Swiss franc is a very highly valued
currency relative to its history, whereas the Swedish krona, if
you go back into the ’80s and ’90s, was a lot stronger than it
is now throughout most of that period.”  Shrinking Debt  The Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index for the  krona  was
at 55.972 today, compared with as high as 108.6276 in 1976 and
more than 80 in 1992. The gauges have a start date of Jan. 2,
1975, and a base value of 100.  The krona is the ninth most-traded currency, Bank for
International Settlements  data show , accounting for 2.2 percent
of the $4 trillion average daily trading on foreign-exchange
markets in 2010. That compares with the Swiss franc’s 6.4
percent share.  Public debt has fallen every year since 2009 and will
decline to 31.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2015 from
38.4 percent last year, the government said Sept. 20. Sweden
forecasts a  budget surplus  in 2014 after deficits of 0.3 percent
of GDP in 2012 and 0.6 percent in 2013.  Options Traders  Investors are rewarding Sweden beyond its currency. At a
yield of 1.48 percent, the government pays about the same to
borrow for 10 years in the  bond market  as  Germany . The OMX
Stockholm 30 Index is up 8.56 percent this year.  Options traders have eased bets the dollar will gain
against the krona. The so-called three-month 25-delta risk
reversal rate fell to 0.75 percent on Sept. 14 from 3.4 percent
on May 18, signaling a reduced demand for calls, which grant the
right to buy the greenback against the Swedish currency, versus
puts, or the right to sell.  Sweden’s economy has expanded more than twice as fast as
the  euro zone  the past two years after lagging behind in 2008
and 2009. In 2011 it grew more quickly than any Group-of-10
peer, as well as  Norway , Brazil, Australia and  New Zealand .  That can’t last, according to  Steven Barrow , head of G-10
research at Standard Bank Plc in London.  “Any kind of idea that a country can defy gravity in terms
of its economic performance when most of Europe is in recession
and other countries are slowing down is fantasy,” he said in an
interview on Sept. 25.  ‘Reality Check’  The stronger krona and waning demand from Europe, which
accounts for 70 percent of exports, may be starting to bite.
Sweden’s  trade surplus  shrank to 3.3 billion kronor ($502
million) in August from 10.4 billion kronor in January.  While it cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point
to 1.25 percent on Sept. 6, the Riksbank signaled that it will
keep borrowing costs unchanged until the middle of next year.
Since then, Sweden’s second-quarter economic growth was revised
down to an annual 1.3 percent from an earlier estimate of 2.3
percent.  The revision may prove a “reality check” for Swedish
policy makers and encourage them to lower rates, said Barrow,
who recommends investors sell the krona. “The Riksbank have
adjusted to that and probably will adjust more with easier
policy going forward.”  ‘Find Solutions’  Scania Chief Executive Officer Martin Lundstedt said on
Sept. 26 he’s confident the economy will bounce back and is
maintaining investment to increase output. While Sweden’s
 second-biggest truckmaker  is able to adjust production between
Europe and Latin America, it doesn’t have any plans to change
strategy because of the strong krona, he said.  “If this continues for a long period of time we will find
solutions to keep our competitiveness,” Lundstedt told
reporters at the company’s investment meeting in Soedertaelje,
where Scania is based.  Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said in an
interview on Sept. 4 that the krona’s value is “not a short-
term phenomenon, it’s something we should get used to.”  Sweden’s economic, institutional and government financial
strength is “very high,” underpinning the country’s Aaa bond
rating, Moody’s Investors Service said on Sept. 3 in an annual
credit report. The current account surplus will be 6.9 percent
of GDP this year and 6.5 percent next year, according to the
median forecast of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Relative Rates  Even after last month’s rate cut, Sweden’s  benchmark  rate
is 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, higher than the
 European Central Bank ’s and 100 to 125 basis points above the
Fed’s.  That helped the  krona  appreciate 2.8 percent this year,
based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It rose for a
fourth straight quarter against the euro, climbing about 3.9
percent, as it strengthened against all 16 of its major peers.  “The krona is at a level, which is stronger than many
times before, but it’s not an extraordinary or different krona
strength,” Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves told the Swedish
parliament’s finance committee in Stockholm on Sept. 18.
“That’s perhaps not that remarkable since we have a big
current-account surplus and we have sound public finances or
generally a decent economic development compared with others.”  Riksbank policy makers estimate they will need to raise the
rate to about 3 percent in three years as the global economy
recovers, according to their published predictions.  “The krona can begin to capitalize on its own distinct
merits, including the comparative strength of its fiscal and
external balances,”  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, said in a Sept. 27 interview.  The bank, the most bullish forecaster, estimates the krona
will strengthen to 5.83 per dollar by mid-2013.  “The growth slowdown in Sweden is a headwind to the
krona,” Maher said. “But not fatal to its prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  