-- Netanyahu Bomb Joins Castro Chickens in UN Theater of Absurd
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-10-02T02:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/netanyahu-bomb-joins-castro-chickens-in-un-theater-of-the-absurd.html
The annual United Nations General
Assembly in New York has long been a magnet for world leaders
great and small, so it’s hosted some performances that are
memorable more for entertainment value than for their import.  The session that just concluded is no exception, having
featured reggae lyrics, a lamentation about the loss of Libyan
dictator Muammar Qaddafi and a cartoon bomb.  The most memorable moment was Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu producing a drawing of a bomb with a lighted fuse to
illustrate the danger of  Iran  acquiring nuclear weapons. “How
much enriched uranium do you need for a bomb? And how close is
Iran to getting it?” he asked. “Well, let me show you.”  “Netanyahu and his cartoon bomb saved this General
Assembly from being a dramatic dud,” said  Richard Gowan ,
associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace operations at
New York University’s Center on International Cooperation.
“Everyone secretly still misses Qaddafi at the UN: He just took
crazy to another level.”  The Israeli leader’s lighted fuse, which triggered an
explosion of online commentary and cable television reviews, was
the latest in a long history of attention-grabbing performances
on the world body’s stage.  In 1960, Fidel Castro traveled to New York for the General
Assembly, meeting with African-American Muslim leader Malcolm X,
plucking chickens in his hotel room in New York’s poverty-
stricken Harlem, and blasting American imperialism from a
lectern before a green-marble backdrop.  Castro’s Marathon  The bearded Cuban communist revolutionary’s marathon speech
broke records and set a standard for bizarre appearances at the
UN.  In 1960, the same year Castro plucked chickens, Soviet
leader Nikita Khrushchev responded to a comparison of his
country’s domination of Eastern Europe to Western imperialism by
brandishing his shoe, or according to some contemporaneous
accounts, banging it on his desk.  Six years ago, Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez brandished a
copy of political activist and Massachusetts Institute of
Technology linguistics professor Noam Chomsky’s “Hegemony or
Survival: America’s Quest for Global Dominance.” (Chomsky
repaid the favor last year by accusing Chavez of concentrating
too much power in his hands.)  In 1974, Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat showed up in a
military uniform, though he did check his gun at the door, and
Qaddafi tried to rip up the UN Charter in 2009.  Qaddafi Missed  The self-professed “King of Kings” of  Africa  made his
debut at the UN wearing orange-colored Bedouin robes. In his
first and only time addressing the General Assembly, Qaddafi
showed his contempt for the world body in a 90-minute ramble,
tossing a copy of its 1945 rulebook over his shoulder. Two years
later, Qaddafi was on the run and pulled out of a drainage pipe
by rebel forces before he came to a violent end.  The task of mourning his “tragic loss” a year ago was
left this year to  Zimbabwe ’s 88-year-old dictator, Robert Mugabe, back at the UN in spite of his advancing years and
showing few signs of slowing down.  While Netanyahu’s Iranian bomb stole the show, there were a
few gems in store for those delegates awake enough to sit
through 12 hours of speeches a day.  Jamaican Prime Minister Portia Simpson-Miller paid homage
to her Caribbean island’s most famous citizen, Bob Marley, by
closing her address with words sung by the reggae star, who died
in 1981: “One Love, One Heart.”  ‘Lion’s View’  Another Caribbean leader compared the power dynamics in the
UN to those of the animal kingdom.  “It is well-known that the lion’s view of history does not
coincide with that of the gazelle or the lamb; the elephant and
the ant do not see things eye-to-eye,” said Ralph E. Gonsalves
of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.  Ending the General Assembly’s week of debate yesterday,
North Korea’s representative said the U.S. is plotting his
country’s demise, justifying its pursuit of a nuclear weapon.  “The U.S. already finalized different Korean War scenarios
and it is waiting for a chance to implement them,” Deputy
Foreign Minister Pak Kil Yon said, as a camera panning the
audience showed a vacant seat for the American representative
and two Moroccan diplomats joking among themselves.  ‘Ahmadinejad Flopped’  Perhaps the biggest surprise this year was that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, at his last General Assembly before leaving office,
played the lamb rather than the lion. In previous years, the
Iranian president called  Israel  a “cancerous tumor” that had
to be removed and declared the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
an inside job.  Instead, Ahmadinejad’s swan song was an ode to a new world
order that touched on the  Occupy Wall Street  movement and
digressed to “woman’s sublime role and personality, as a
heavenly being, a manifestation of divine image and beauty.” He
didn’t mention that in conservative Shiite Iran, women are
required to conceal their beauty at all times in public.  “Ahmadinejad flopped,” Gowan said in an interview. “The
chief rabble-rouser didn’t deliver on the day.”  For television crews, the General Assembly won’t be the
same without the familiar mass walkouts during the Iranian
leader’s annual anti-Semitic tirades. In the words of one
diplomat, Ahmadinejad’s only crime this year was incoherence.  Last year, Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas made headlines
when he waved an application for statehood recognition from the
podium. This year, Netanyahu overshadowed him as any prospect of
a peace agreement continued to slip away.  Arafat’s Olive Branch  Almost four decades have passed since Yasser Arafat’s 1974
entrance at the UN. Dressed in full military uniform with his
signature black-and-white checked scarf, the founder of the
Palestine Liberation Organization struck a conciliatory tone
when he left his pistol at the door.  “Today, I have come bearing an olive branch and freedom
fighter’s gun,” he said. “Do not let the olive branch fall
from my hand.”  This year, the UN hosted some new faces while missing some
of its cast of regulars, as European leaders such as  Germany ’s
Chancellor Angela Merkel stayed home to deal with the
continent’s economic crisis, Myanmar embraced democracy and the
Arab world adjusted to a wave of revolts replacing the old
guard.  Islamic Greeting  Egypt ’s new leader, Mohamed Mursi, greeted the General
Assembly with: “I salute you in the name of Islam.”  Another highlight was the Myanmar prime minister’s speech
saluting a former dissident, which Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst
at the Century Foundation in New York, described as “the
colorless Thein Sein congratulating Aung San Suu Kyi on all the
international recognition she has earned by struggling to bring
down the military governments he’d been a part of.”  President  Barack Obama  was in town less than 24 hours. The
absence of Vladimir Putin, who is once again Russia’s president,
was a disappointment in terms of political theater, Gowan said.  Following Russia’s three Security Council vetoes of Western
resolutions to stop the bloodshed in Syria, Gowan said, “It
would have been interesting to see how he handled criticism over
Syria from the Arabs and Europeans.”  Another notable absentee this year was  Venezuela ’s Chavez,
who’s battling cancer while running for re-election.  ‘El Diablo’  Six years ago, the self-anointed leader of the Bolivarian
Revolution gave Chomsky a sales boost when he plugged the
American thinker’s book. He called U.S. President George W. Bush
“el diablo” and expressed his disgust that the U.S. president
had stood in the same spot a day earlier, telling the assembly
that the place “still smells of sulfur.”  China  and  Japan , usually not among the more theatrical UN
members, supplied some drama on Sept. 27 as they fought into the
night on a deserted UN stage over ownership of some barren
islands in the East China Sea.  Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi kicked off the verbal
duel when he took the floor after 9 p.m. and accused Japan of
theft: “They can in no way change the historical fact that
Japan stole Diaoyu Dao and its affiliated islands from China.”  With the North Korean and Cuban leaders no-shows, the
latest country to join the ranks of shunned speakers at the tail
end of this year’s General Assembly is  Syria , whose 18-month
rebellion against President Bashar al-Assad’s regime was a
dominant theme of the UN’s summit.  Syrian Attack  Speaking to a largely empty room, Syrian Foreign Minister
Walid Al-Muallem attacked the U.S. and its Arab and European
allies who, he said, “support terrorism in my country.” He
said, “Under the pretext of humanitarian intervention, these
countries interfere in the domestic affairs of states.”  Indeed, the star of the show this year may have been the UN
secretary general, a man better known for trying to extinguish
fires than for lighting them.  “The fact that Ban Ki-moon was generally praised for
giving a strong and provocative speech tells you something about
how dull a lot of the rest of the speeches must have been,”
Gowan said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  