-- New York Taxi Commission Sued by Medallion Owners’ Group
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-01T20:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/new-york-taxi-commission-sued-by-medallion-owners-group.html
New York ’s  Taxi and Limousine
Commission  was sued by taxi-medallion owners over claims the
agency is trying to reduce medallion values in retaliation for a
challenge to a plan to allow car services to pick up passengers.  The Greater New York Taxi Association, a group representing
the owners of about 1,500 medallions, filed the suit in state
 Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  today, seeking a declaration that
recent moves by the TLC and Commissioner David Yassky are
“arbitrary and capricious” and asking to have them annulled.  “These illegal actions are all part of a concerted plan
concocted by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Yassky to severely and
recklessly diminish the value of taxi medallions for no reason
other than to retaliate against medallion owners who
successfully challenged the Mayor’s illegal plans,” the group
said in its suit.  The drivers accuse the commission of reaching a secret pact
with the New York Taxi Workers’ Alliance, a group representing
cab drivers, to support the plan to allow car services to pick
up street fares in the city’s boroughs outside Manhattan in
exchange for a fare increase, a lower percentage fee for credit
card charges and a health and disability fund for the drivers.  A medallion is a license from the commission to operate a
New York City taxicab.  Borough Plan  A state judge in June blocked the outer-borough plan,
saying that three taxi groups had demonstrated it would cause
them irreparable injury.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  struck a deal with lawmakers in
December for the city to permit car services to respond to
passengers who hail them on the street outside Manhattan. The
state legislature passed the law in February. Rules to implement
the legislation were approved by the Taxi and Limousine
Commission in April and were to take effect in June.  Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the New York Taxi
Workers’ Alliance, which wasn’t named as a defendant in the
lawsuit, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message left
at the group’s headquarters today seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The city is awaiting the lawsuit and will review   it
carefully, Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the city’s Law
Department, said in a telephone interview.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The case is Greater New York Taxi Association v. New York
City Taxi and Limousine Commission, 103904/2012, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  