-- New Oriental Sinks as Block Renews Allegations
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-02T00:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/new-oriental-climbs-as-report-finds-no-fraud-china-overnight.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  slid from a two-month high as short seller Muddy
Waters LLC said it’s “more convinced than ever” that the
Chinese education provider is misleading investors.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to close at $16.60 in New York,
giving up an earlier advance of as much as 7.8 percent that was
sparked by New Oriental saying a probe into Muddy Waters’s
allegations against the company showed no fraud. The  Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in
the U.S. rose 0.1 percent to 92.14, with 31 stocks declining and
24 advancing.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  climbed for the first
time in six days after the solar company secured government
support.  Based on the information the company has released, Muddy
Waters’s founder  Carson Block  said he is “more convinced than
ever that New Oriental is materially misleading investors,”
according to comments e-mailed by the research firm’s public
relations company yesterday. New Oriental had a record slide
last quarter as Muddy Waters, which has alleged some Chinese
companies listed in North America of misstating assets and
earnings, said on July 18 that the Beijing-based company
inflated cash balances to obtain approval from their auditor.  “If you can avoid being in stocks where Block is involved
it’s probably better for your portfolio,” Erik Lam, director of
Asian equity sales at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York, said
by phone yesterday. “Block has built his name on being very
public with his calls and you can’t downplay the impact he can
have on the market.”  Targets  Block has helped fuel scrutiny of Chinese companies that
trade in the U.S. Sino-Forest Corp., the Chinese tree-plantation
operator accused of fraud, filed for bankruptcy protection in
March in Ontario Superior Court almost 10 months after Muddy
Waters said in a June 2011 report that the company overstated
its assets.  Muddy Waters has also targeted  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a
Chinese advertising company that received a takeover proposal in
August. The short seller issued a fifth report on Focus Media in
February, claiming it overstated its advertising network.  New Oriental said on July 17 that the Securities and
Exchange Commission had started an investigation into the
company’s consolidation of its units’ financial statements. The
stock sank 32 percent last quarter and now trades for 16 times
estimated earnings, from 29 times in October last year.  Carly Westerman of public relations firm Brunswick LLP in
New York relayed a request for comment from Bloomberg News to
New Education’s management in Beijing.  ETF Rises  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1 percent to $34.94.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.3 percent to
1,444.49 as the Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory
index rose to 51.5 in September from 49.6 a month earlier,
surpassing the median economist estimate and above the level of
50 that signals growth. Stocks also advanced as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke renewed a pledge to sustain record
stimulus.  Suntech, the world’s largest solar-panel manufacturer,
climbed 1.6 percent to 87 cents. The company got a delisting
warning on Sept. 21 from the New York Stock Exchange after its
American depositary receipts traded below $1 for 30 consecutive
days as of Sept. 10. Suntech will get 200 million  yuan  ($32
million) from Bank of China Ltd.,  China  Business News reported,
and got an offer of support from the regional government in
Wuxi, the Chinese city where it’s based.  Baidu Retreats  The bailout and assistance will “probably mean that
Suntech is going to remain an employer and that they’re still
going to put out modules,” Aaron Chew, New York-based analyst
at Maxim Group LLC, which rates Suntech a sell, said by phone
yesterday.  Under NYSE rules, Suntech has six months following receipt
of the notification to regain compliance with the minimum share
price requirement.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  declined the most in four weeks, falling 3.5
percent to $112.77 as the owner of China’s most-used search
engine was cut to hold from buy at Jefferies Group Inc. by
analyst Cynthia Meng.  Chinese markets in  Shanghai  and Hong Kong are closed until
Oct. 8 for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  