-- NHL, Players’ Union Complete Three Days of Talks Without Deal
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-01T04:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/nhl-players-union-complete-three-days-of-talks-without-deal.html
The  National Hockey League  and its
players’ union will take a break from talks today after three
straight days of negotiations failed to produce an agreement on
a new labor contract.  “We covered a lot of things over the last three days and
we each have a lot of homework projects to do and things to get
together, drafts we owe each other on certain things,” NHL
Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly told reporters last night.  The NHL locked out its players just over two weeks ago when
a new collective bargaining agreement couldn’t be reached before
the Sept. 15 deadline. The preseason has been canceled while the
league and the union try to reach an agreement to start the
season on time Oct. 11.  “It’s good we’re talking,” NHLPA Special Counsel Steve
Fehr told reporters. “It’s true that we could have done this
last week or the week before or the week before that, but it’s a
lot better than doing it three weeks from now. So I think it’s
some progress and hopefully it will continue.”  Daly said yesterday’s meeting included a discussion about
CBA legal issues and continued negotiations on health and
player-safety issues, including drug testing and medical care.  League Commissioner Gary Bettman and NHL Players
Association Executive Director Donald Fehr didn’t participate in
talks after holding one-on-one discussions the previous two days.  “We’re really talking about micro issues, issues that we
deal with on a day-to-day basis that don’t necessarily rise to
the commissioner’s level or the executive director’s level,”
Daly said. “They will be at the table when we’re talking about
the issues that are really going to get this deal done or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  