-- TNK Billionaires Hire Rothschild for Loan to Buy Out BP
-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-01T13:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/tnk-bp-billionaires-hire-rothschild-for-loan-to-buy-out-bp-stake.html
TNK-BP’s billionaire shareholders,
who own half of the Russian  oil company  through  AAR , are seeking
to raise at least $20 billion, in part to help fund an
acquisition of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 50 percent stake.  AAR hired Rothschild Group to organize a loan, which will
probably be structured in such a way that TNK-BP is the
borrower, rather than AAR, according to AAR Chief Executive
Officer  Stan Polovets . The partners haven’t yet decided what
price they’ll offer for the shares, he said today by telephone.  AAR, which represents  Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan ,  Viktor
Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik , last week decided to make an all-
cash bid for BP’s entire 50 percent stake, rather than the half
it sought earlier. BP plans to exit from TNK-BP after clashing
with AAR over strategy and failing to team up with Russian oil
producer OAO Rosneft following a legal challenge from AAR.  Rosneft, headed by Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s
former deputy for energy,  Igor Sechin , is also seeking to buy
out BP from TNK-BP, and is looking for as much as $15 billion in
loans, two people with knowledge of the plans said Sept. 19.
TNK-BP’s listed unit, which doesn’t include its overseas assets,
has a market value of about $40 billion.  State Role  The bidding may pit Sechin, who helped turn Rosneft into
Russia’s biggest oil producer with assets bought from bankrupt
Yukos Oil Co., against Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
government, which is seeking to reduce the state’s presence in
business.  “The state shouldn’t expand its direct participation in
the economy, including through having state companies acquire
private companies,” Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  has
said, according to his press secretary, Aliya Samigullina. “The
government has no objections to AAR increasing its stake in TNK-
BP.”  TNK-BP dropped as much as 2 percent to 82.70 rubles in
Moscow trading, and was at 83 rubles as of 5:17 p.m. local time.
BP rose 0.2 percent to 437.45 pence in  London .  BP will invite formal offers in mid-October, a person with
knowledge of the plan said last week, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. That will fall
near the end of a 90-day period during which BP must negotiate
in good faith with AAR. BP is allowed to hold talks with others
during the period and may continue talks with AAR thereafter.  Investor Dispute  BP and AAR went to arbitration in 2011 over the U.K.
explorer’s plan to form an alliance with Rosneft. The deal
failed after the billionaire partners blocked a $7.8 billion
share swap and Arctic exploration accord, arguing that BP was
required to pursue all opportunities in  Russia  exclusively
through TNK-BP.  TNK-BP’s infighting has seen both sides jostle for control.
BP and Rosneft offered AAR $32 billion for its stake last year,
which the billionaires turned down. In July, AAR proposed buying
half of BP’s stake based on a market price, with a possible
discount that accounted for potential damages.  The arbitration over the failed Rosneft alliance continues,
with a tribunal scheduled to meet mid-November to hear AAR’s
claims that BP violated their shareholder agreement, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. AAR is also seeking an
indication of damages of $1.  Legal Report  TNK-BP’s board was presented with a legal counsel’s report
by management in December that assessed the company’s chances of
suing BP for billions of dollars in damages, people said at the
time. The board hasn’t met since then, after two of TNK-BP’s
independent directors resigned.  Should BP sell its TNK-BP stake to Rosneft, the London-
based company has said it may use the proceeds to buy shares in
the state-owned oil producer from the government, while the
state would maintain control. BP’s CEO Bob Dudley told investors
in July they should be open to a combination of cash and shares
for TNK-BP, which has paid BP $19 billion in dividends since
2003 and accounts for a quarter of its global output.  The loan agreement with Rothschild was reported earlier by
Kommersant, which cited people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  