-- TNK-BP Drops Second Day on AAR Loan Concerns: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-01T09:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/tnk-bp-drops-second-day-on-aar-loan-concerns-moscow-mover.html
TNK-BP fell for the second day on
investor concerns Russia’s third-largest oil producer will have
to take on debt to help its billionaire shareholders fund their
acquisition of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 50 percent stake in the venture.  TNK-BP fell 1.3 percent to 83.25 rubles by 1:04 p.m. in
Moscow, heading for the biggest drop since Sept. 21. The stock
lost 1.3 percent last month. The Micex Index rose 1 percent to
1,472.60.  AAR, which represents the billionaire partners in the
Russian energy company, hired Rothschild Group to organize the
loan from a group of banks, Chief Executive Officer  Stan Polovets  said today by e-mail. The loan will probably be
structured so that TNK-BP is the borrower, rather than AAR.  “Investors are selling the stock on fears that TNK-BP may
be forced to take on AAR’s debt,”  Alexei Kokin , a senior oil
and gas analyst at UralSib Capital, said by phone. “The more
reports like this, the more uncertainty this creates for the
investors.”  AAR, which represents billionaires  Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan ,  Victor Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik , last week decided to
bid for BP’s entire 50 percent stake, rather than the half it
sought earlier. BP plans to exit from TNK-BP after clashing with
AAR over strategy and failing last year to form an alliance with
Russia’s biggest oil company, OAO Rosneft, following a legal
challenge from AAR.  Rosneft, headed by President  Vladimir Putin ’s former deputy
for energy,  Igor Sechin , is also seeking to buy out BP from TNK-
BP, and is looking for as much as $15 billion in loans, two
people with knowledge of the plans said Sept. 19. TNK-BP’s
listed unit, which doesn’t include its overseas assets, has a
market value of about $40 billion.  Bid Period  BP will invite formal offers in mid-October, a person with
knowledge of the plan said last week, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. That will fall
near the end of a 90-day period during which BP must negotiate
in good faith with AAR. BP is allowed to hold talks with others
during the period and may continue talks with AAR thereafter.  BP and AAR went to arbitration in 2011 over the U.K.
explorer’s plan to form an alliance with Rosneft. The deal
failed after the billionaires blocked a $7.8 billion share swap
and Arctic exploration accord, arguing that BP was required to
pursue all opportunities in Russia exclusively through TNK-BP.
BP and Rosneft offered AAR $32 billion for its stake in the
venture last year, which they turned down.  No Objections  BP CEO Bob Dudley told investors in July that they should
be open to a combination of cash and shares for TNK-BP, which
has paid BP $19 billion in dividends since 2003 and accounts for
a quarter of the company’s global output.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s government has questioned
Rosneft’s bid for BP’s stake, BP and Sechin have said the U.K.
explorer may use some of the proceeds to buy Rosneft shares from
the state.  “The state shouldn’t expand its direct participation in
the economy, including through having state companies acquire
private companies,” Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  has
said, according to his press secretary, Aliya Samigullina. “The
government has no objections to AAR increasing its stake in TNK-
BP.”  The loan agreement with Rothschild was reported earlier by
Kommersant, citing unidentified people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  