-- Nobel Prize Winner Teaches Economics to Laureate
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-10-01T21:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/nobel-prize-winner-teaches-economics-to-laureate.html
Of all the tantalizing about-faces in
Myanmar, the economic education of Aung San Suu Kyi may be the
most important.  In June, the Nobel Peace Prize-winning dissident shocked
many on her first overseas trip after 23 years under house
arrest. Suu Kyi warned investors about “reckless optimism” and
the pitfalls her country holds for markets. Such comments upset
Myanmar’s leaders and unnerved another Nobel laureate: economist
Joseph Stiglitz, a Myanmar government adviser, who said she was
being too pessimistic.  On her 17-day tour of the U.S., though, Suu Kyi is striking
a rather different tone and supporting President Thein Sein’s
reforms. Suu Kyi is playing coy about her sudden conversion, so
let me offer my own theory. After careful thought and analysis,
Suu Kyi realizes what Myanmar has on its hands: Mikhail Gorbachev.  It is early days for Myanmar’s version of perestroika, or
restructuring, that Gorbachev unleashed in the Soviet Union in
the 1980s. There is much to be done to bring Myanmar, formerly
known as  Burma , out from behind its own Iron Curtain, and lots
might go wrong. Not the least of which is a giant military-
industrial complex looking over Thein Sein’s shoulder as he
dismantles its reason for being and welcomes the unpredictable
forces of democracy.  Suu Kyi’s Gorbachev  Suu Kyi now realizes what she may have in Thein Sein. He
could be that rarest of authoritarian leaders who selflessly
works to propel his people higher without clinging to power
indefinitely and then, Gorbachev-style, steps aside.  Ahead of the 2015 election, Thein Sein’s agenda includes
starting to build an economy from scratch; keeping foreign
mining companies from raping his nation; managing Myanmar’s role
as mediator among  China ,  Japan  and the U.S. in Asia; and
tweaking the constitution so that Suu Kyi’s party can even run.  Why would someone likely to succeed Thein Sein three years
from now want to get in his way?  This is where Suu Kyi’s sudden
affection for Thein Sein’s handiwork might come from. Let Thein
Sein tend to the political hardware -- a credible parliament, an
independent judiciary and central bank, a trusted financial
system, fighting corruption, taking Myanmar’s human-rights
record into the 21st century. Meanwhile, Suu Kyi can focus on
the software -- the aspirations of Myanmar’s people.  Whether Suu Kyi gets to fulfill her destiny of leading
Myanmar depends on the foundations being built today. Burmese
should be proud that their peaceful transition to democracy
stands in contrast to bloody uprisings in the Arab world that
felled authoritarian rulers in  Egypt , Tunisia and Libya.  And let’s not forget how much political courage it took for
Thein Sein to hold talks with Suu Kyi. It requires bravery, too,
to allow oneself to be eclipsed by a global celebrity who was
portrayed by Michelle Yeoh in a Luc Besson film, “The Lady.” If
Thein Sein was annoyed about being ignored by the paparazzi at
the United Nations last week, he isn’t letting on.  Thein Sein’s audience is much fickler than that of Suu Kyi,
who somehow gets a pass on ignoring the plight of Myanmar’s
minority Rohingya Muslims. His involves stern-faced trade
officials in  Washington  and Geneva and ambitious generals at
home. It also includes the likes of Alisher Ali and Kenneth Stevens, who personify the breed of investor arriving in Yangon.  Frontier Market  Hailing from the former Soviet Union, Ali, the chairman of
Silk Road Finance, has a passion for investing in frontier
markets, such as Mongolia. Ali has since set his sights on
Myanmar. Earlier this year, he moved his wife and four children
to Yangon, formerly known as Rangoon.  “You can just feel the energy here,” Ali says. Adds
Stevens, an American who runs Leopard Capital: “It’s hard to
not be optimistic about Myanmar’s future. Let’s hope it stays on
this path.”  This last part of Stevens’s comment is important. If
foreign investors even begin to sense Myanmar’s restructuring is
petering out or proving hollow, they will flee and take the jobs
their money creates elsewhere. Thein Sein must craft the best
investment law he can to ensure stability and prosperity at home
and win the esteem of people like Stiglitz.  Suu Kyi is an icon -- a human treasure whose radiant smile
melts the vilest dictators. Thein Sein lacks such charisma, and
the global media have a knack of pushing him to the periphery.
Yet Suu Kyi’s place in history depends on the success of Thein
Sein policies now being fashioned out of the limelight.  Those who romanticize Suu Kyi often come back to a 1990
speech in which she said: “It’s not power that corrupts but
fear. Fear of losing power corrupts those who wield it, and fear
of the scourge of power corrupts those who are subject to it.”  Suu Kyi may have found the exception to her famous dictum -
- her very own Gorbachev.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Yangon, Myanmar, at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  