-- Noble Asks Court to Seal Its Defense Against Ex-CEO Suit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-10-01T01:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/noble-asks-court-to-seal-its-defense-against-ex-ceo-suit.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , sued by former
Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Leiman for withheld shares and a
bonus, asked a Singapore court to seal information it says it
will have to divulge to defend the lawsuit.  Noble may have to reveal details including names of clients,
counter-parties and advisers who Leiman is alleged to have
approached, Jeffrey Alam, the company’s group general counsel
said in a Singapore High Court filing Sept. 24.  The disclosures could materially affect Noble’s share price,
undermine its commercial interest and allow rivals to poach its
clients, Alam said. A hearing on Noble’s request to seal the
entire court file is scheduled for Oct. 9.  “It is plain and obvious that such information is not only
confidential but also commercially sensitive,” according to
Alam’s affidavit. The information may be used by Noble’s
counter-parties to exert pressure on future negotiations, Alam
said, adding that Leiman and the public’s interest won’t be
prejudiced if the court papers are made private.  Noble spokesman  Stephen Brown  declined to comment as did
Liew Yik Wee, a lawyer for Leiman.  Noble shares have risen 17 percent this year, compared with
a 12 percent decline for  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  in  London 
and  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) ’s 3.8 percent fall.  Noble Resources Ltd., the unit sued by Leiman, lost its
appeal last month to throw out the lawsuit. Noble “may be left
with no choice but to justify the decision” in dismissing
Leiman, Alam said in court papers.  Resignation  Leiman was fired from Noble as the company was “unhappy”
with his performance and shouldn’t be given the shares and bonus
he’s seeking. Leiman, who disputes that he was dismissed, has
said the allegation was made to create a false impression of him.  Leiman’s resignation was announced on Nov. 9, the same day
Noble posted its first quarterly loss in about 14 years. He left
for “personal reasons” and would stay on as an adviser, the
company said then.  Leiman claims in his lawsuit that as the CEO, he was
entitled to an annual discretionary bonus of 3 percent of
Noble’s net income. His 2011 bonus works out to $12.9 million
based on full-year net income of $431 million.  The case is Ricardo Leiman v. Noble Resources Ltd.
S393/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  