-- Arrium Rejects A$1.01 Billion Takeover Bid From Noble, Posco
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-10-01T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/noble-posco-lead-a-1-billion-offer-for-australia-s-arrium.html
Arrium Ltd. (ARI)  rebuffed a A$1.01 billion
($1.05 billion) offer from  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  and some South
Korean investors, the biggest bid for an Australian iron ore
asset since the government declared the mining boom over.  Arrium, the Sydney-based producer previously known as
OneSteel Ltd., rejected the offer from the group that also
included Posco  Australia  Pty, National Pension Service of  Korea ,
Korea Investment Corp. and Korea Finance Corp., saying it was
too low and conditional. The bidders, grouped under Steelmakers
Australia, remain interested in developing the proposal to
secure a deal, they said separately.  Steelmakers Australia joins companies including  China ’s
Meijin Energy Group Co. in bidding for Australian resources
companies after a slump in commodity prices eroded asset
valuations. Iron ore fell 25 percent this year on concern about
slowing demand from China, prompting Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  in August to declare an end to the nation’s mining boom.  “We’re at a new stage where the strong companies grow
stronger and the weak ones perish,” said  Tim Schroeders , who
helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
 Melbourne . “We’re going to see more M&A activities in the
resources sector because conditions are conducive. Commodity
prices will achieve a new lower trading range that will make it
very difficult for people to get projects off the ground.”  Largest Asset  At A$1.01 billion, the attempted acquisition would be the
largest of an iron and steel asset in Australia since  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  said it would pay A$1.5 billion for a share of billionaire
 Gina Rinehart ’s Roy Hill project in March, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Marubeni joined  Posco (005490) , and South Korea’s STX
Corp. in investing in the mine, which is controlled by closely
held Hancock Prospecting Pty.  Acquirers have announced $6.23 billion of Australian iron
and steel asset purchases in the past year, with more than 99
percent of the spending by overseas buyers, the data show. In
the past five years, about $11 billion of deals have been
announced, with buyers led by Japanese companies that have
announced $2.4 billion worth of deals, the data show.  Meijin’s A$435 million bid for Adelaide-based  Western
Desert Resources Ltd. (WDR)  is subject to government and regulatory
approvals in Australia and China, the companies said Sept. 18.  The bid from Noble and the South Korean companies came
after Arrium plunged 22 percent this year.  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  yesterday lowered its iron ore
estimate for the fourth quarter to $110 a metric ton from $135 a
ton, citing oversupply in China. Iron ore traded at $104.20 a
ton Sept. 28, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  ‘Opportunistic Bid’  “The difficulty is by rejecting an opportunistic bid it
doesn’t alleviate pressure on the board to improve its earnings
and the balance sheet,” Schroeders said. The proposal “will
have a long way to play out.” Any changes to the offer will
depend on iron ore and steel prices, he added.  Arrium climbed a record 25 percent to close at 68 cents in
Sydney yesterday. The key  stock index  was little changed.  “The proposal was stated to be conditional, incomplete and
non-binding,” Arrium said in yesterday’s statement. “The board
believes that the proposal undervalues Arrium in the context of
a change of control transaction.”  Arrium plans to almost double iron ore output to 11 million
metric tons after June 2013 from its mines in  South Australia ,
the company said in February.  Iron ore  accounted for more than
half its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the year ended June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Full-year net income fell to A$58 million
from A$230 million a year earlier, the data shows.  UBS AG is Arrium’s financial adviser and Allens Linklaters
is its legal adviser, Arrium said.  Name Change  The company changed its name to Arrium from OneSteel in
July as it shifts focus to iron ore production from steel-making.
Arrium still owns steel manufacturing, distribution and
recycling units mainly in Whyalla, South Australia. OneSteel was
spun off from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in 2000.  Buying Arrium would give Noble,  Asia ’s largest publicly-
traded commodity supplier, Posco and other bidders businesses
including  iron ore  mines and steel manufacturing and
distribution in South Australia.  “The consortium partners believe they have the capacity to
advance the development of Arrium’s businesses over the long
term by securing iron ore exports from South Australia and
ensuring a future as an Australian steel producer that is
globally competitive,” William Randall, director at Steelmakers
Australia, said in the statement.  Global Takeovers  Twenty-seven global takeovers of iron and steel companies
announced in the past five years, valued the targets at 9.8
times earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and
amortization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At 75 cents a share, Arrium would have an enterprise value
of A$3.2 billion, or 5.5 times its earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of A$581 million in the year
through June, the data shows.  The offer was conditional on the bidders arranging debt
financing, completing a study of the target’s books and
regulatory approvals in Australia and Korea, Arrium said. The
company said on Sept. 28 its net debt, including hedging, stood
at A$2.2 billion as at June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  