-- Noda Seeks to Boost Support With Reshuffle as Election Looms
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-10-01T03:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/noda-seeks-to-revive-support-with-reshuffle-as-japan-vote-looms.html
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  sought
to revive support for  Japan ’s ruling party with a Cabinet
reshuffle as he trails the opposition ahead of a national
election that could come by the end of the year.  Noda will unveil the changes later today in Tokyo after the
Cabinet resigned this morning, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said. The move follows a change last week at the top of
the Liberal  Democratic Party , with surveys showing new leader
Shinzo Abe polling ahead of Noda in popular preference for
premier.  The new team’s immediate challenge is to secure enough
parliamentary support to enact a deficit-financing bill needed
to the keep the government from running out of funds as soon as
the end of next month. Koriki Jojima, 65, will become Japan’s
fifth finance minister in three years,  Kyodo News  reported,
leading the effort on fiscal legislation while also overseeing
currency policy.  Noda may also appoint a proponent of improving ties with
 China  amid heightened tensions between  Asia ’s two biggest
economies. Makiko Tanaka, the daughter of the premier who
normalized relations with China 40 years ago, will be in the new
cabinet, Kyodo said, without saying where it got the
information.  Jojima is a graduate of the  University of Tokyo  and a
former head of the worker’s union at Japanese food company
Ajinomoto Co. He was first elected to parliament in 1996 and is
a founding member of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan. While
he has served as the party’s deputy policy chief, this would be
his first cabinet post. Jun Azumi is stepping down as finance
chief to become the DPJ’s acting secretary-general.  Currency Policy  As head of currency policy, the new finance minister’s
challenges include a yen hovering within three percent of its
postwar high, hurting exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as
Japan’s economic recovery stalls. Azumi oversaw the sale of a
record 8 trillion yen ($103 billion) in market intervention last
October after the currency hit a postwar high of 75.35 yen per
dollar. The yen was at 77.93 at 11:53 a.m. in Tokyo today.  Tanaka, 68, is the daughter of the late Prime Minister
Kakuei Tanaka, who established diplomatic ties with China in
1972. Japan and China are mired in a territorial row over
islands in the  East China Sea  claimed by both that has sent
relations to their lowest level since at least 2005.  Tanaka, a former LDP lawmaker who served as foreign
minister a decade ago, was among the members of the Japan-China
Friendship Association who last week visited Beijing and held
talks with Politburo member Jia Qinglin.  Public support for the LDP has risen since Abe, a former
prime minister, was elected its head last week. In a Nikkei
newspaper poll published Sept. 28, 37 percent of respondents
said they support the LDP, up 12 percentage points from August.
Support for Noda’s DPJ fell two percentage points to 19 percent.
Asked who they favored as the next prime minister, 41 percent of
respondents picked Abe, while 28 percent picked Noda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  