-- Nokia to Supply Oracle With Phonemaker’s Location System
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-01T14:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/nokia-to-supply-oracle-with-phonemaker-s-location-system.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  won a contract to have its
digital maps integrated with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  software, a boon for
the unprofitable smartphone maker seeking to add revenue sources
beyond its struggling handset business.  Nokia, which boosted its location business by acquiring
Chicago-based digital mapmaker Navteq Corp. in 2008 for $8.1
billion, will allow Oracle enterprise customers to access maps
for almost 200 countries, according to a statement from the
companies today.  The agreement expands Nokia's foothold in maps beyond the
consumer market, where its location data is currently used in
smartphones and cars. Sales at Nokia’s map division increased 4
percent last quarter, while smartphone revenue slumped 34
percent. The map unit accounts for less than 4 percent of Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia’s total revenue.  Nokia is also trying to tout its maps to win back
smartphone users from Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. Apple Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  apologized for the iPhone mapping software released
last month that has been criticized for flaws such as misrouted
directions and inaccurately located landmarks.  Nokia’s CEO Stephen Elop set up a partnership with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  last year to produce smartphones using
Microsoft’s Windows Phone software and supply services including
map data as part of his turnaround plan.  The Finnish company’s stock  rose  3.7 percent to 2.08 euros
at 5:12 p.m. Helsinki time. That pared the shares’ decline this
year to 45 percent.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported Nokia’s map deal
with Oracle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  