-- Nuclear Firms Seek Eased Export Rules as U.S. Demand Wanes
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-01T19:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/nuclear-companies-seek-relaxed-export-rules-as-u-s-demand-wanes.html
The U.S. nuclear-power industry is
seeking to ease export restrictions so it can sell equipment and
technology to nations including  China  and  Russia  as domestic
demand wanes for reactors.  Regulations unchanged since the end of the Cold War impede
U.S. companies in gaining export licenses, putting suppliers at
a global disadvantage, according to a report released today by
the Nuclear Energy Institute, a Washington-based group whose
members include  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Southern Co. (SO)   U.S. rules are “more complex, restrictive and time-
consuming to fulfill” than in France, Japan, Russia and South
Korea, where competing suppliers are based, according to the
report. The global market may be worth a quarter of a trillion
dollars within a decade.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission this year issued its
first reactor-construction licenses in more than three decades,
while U.S. companies struggle to arrange financing for
additional units. A glut of natural gas has lowered prices for
the fuel, discouraging investment in more expensive sources
including nuclear power.  Southern’s reactor project in Georgia is awaiting final
approval 2 1/2 years after winning a conditional $8.3 billion
Energy Department loan guarantee. The NRC in August imposed a
two-year freeze on final decisions for power-plant licenses in
response to a court decision requiring a reassessment of risks
associated with storing nuclear waste.  Reactors Advance  Nations are advancing plans to build reactors, even after a
tsunami and earthquake in March 2011 triggered a triple meltdown
at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. At least
 65 reactors  are under construction, with 26 in China, 10 in
Russia and seven in  India , according to the World Nuclear
Association, a London-based group that promotes nuclear power.  Demand for commercial nuclear technology may be worth $500
billion to $740 billion and support tens of thousands of jobs
during the next decade, NEI said in comments filed with the
Energy Department in December. Goods for commercial use include
reactor components and fuel.  While other nations have one agency to oversee export
licensing, the U.S. process is regulated by the Commerce, Energy
and State departments, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
according to the report. The NRC bars commercial exports to six
nations, including Cuba, Iran,  Sudan  and  Syria .  ‘Bureaucratic Maze’  “For U.S. exporters and their customers, navigating the
bureaucratic maze for a U.S. export license presents a challenge
in itself that has no parallel in the other countries surveyed
in this study,” its said.  The Energy Department, which has jurisdiction over nuclear-
related assistance for foreign countries, has proposed rule
revisions that “would significantly expand the scope of
technologies covered by the regulation,” according to today’s
report, prepared by for the NEI by the law firm Pillsbury
Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.  Compared with the regulatory systems Russia,  France , Japan
and Korea, “the U.S. regime imposes few deadlines for decision-
making on export license applications,” according to the
report. Processing export licenses in the U.S. can take a year
or more, it said.  Exelon of  Chicago  wants to export its operations methods,
which would involve sending top managers abroad to provide
guidance on reactor technology and safety, according to Bradley
Fewell, vice president and deputy general counsel for Exelon
Generation Co. LLC.  “These regulations are hampering our ability to expand the
sale of and the implementation of” the  product , he said at a
press conference today in Washington. Exelon is the largest U.S.
owner and operator of commercial nuclear reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  