-- NYC Liable for False Arrests at 2004 Republican Convention
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-01T19:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/nyc-liable-for-false-arrests-at-2004-republican-convention-1-.html
The city of New York is legally
liable to some anti-war protesters arrested during the 2004
 Republican National Convention , a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  today
granted a request for a judgment before trial by protesters
arrested in a march on Manhattan’s Fulton Street on Aug. 31,
2004, ruling they were victims of false arrest.  Sullivan said his review of the evidence, including hours
of videotapes surrounding the convention protests, made clear
that police lacked the necessary probable cause to arrest the
protesters. Sullivan rejected the city’s arguments that police
had “group probable cause,” permitting them to arrest members
of a large group that appeared to be breaking the law.  “An individual’s participation in a law-breaking group
may, in appropriate circumstances, be strong circumstantial
evidence of that individual’s own illegal conduct, but, no
matter the circumstances, an arresting officer must believe that
every individual arrested personally violated the law,”
Sullivan wrote in an opinion made public today. “Nothing short
of such a finding can justify arrest. The  Fourth Amendment  does
not recognize guilt by association.”  The group arrested on Fulton Street was protesting the wars
in Iraq and  Afghanistan , according to Sullivan. Participants had
planned to march from the site of the World Trade Center to
Madison Square Garden, where the Republican Convention was being
held. The protest was to end in a “die-in” outside the
convention or wherever the march was stopped, Sullivan said in
his opinion.  In his ruling, Sullivan also denied a request by plaintiffs
to find that police lacked probable cause to arrest a group of
protesters on Manhattan’s East 16th Street the same day.  The case is Dinler v. City of New York, 04-cv-7921, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 