-- Ohio, Pennsylvania Voter Rules Face Judges’ Scrutiny
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-02T17:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/ohio-pennsylvania-voter-rules-face-judges-scrutiny.html
Ohio  Republican officials urged a
U.S. appeals court to overturn a decision barring the state from
disqualifying provisional ballots cast in the wrong precinct.  A lower-court judge in August ruled that such ballots can’t
be thrown out if they’re filed in the wrong precinct as a result
of poll-worker error. The law doesn’t disenfranchise voters and
allows officials to monitor the progress of an election, Fred
Nelson, an attorney for the state, said yesterday at a hearing
before the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati.  “The problem only affects 0.1 percent of all votes,”
Nelson said, asking the three-judge panel to throw out the
earlier ruling. “As a category, it doesn’t undermine the fabric
of the election.”  The lower-court decision should be upheld, Danielle
Leonard, an attorney for the plaintiffs, which include the
Service Employees International Union, said at the hearing.  “There’s something incredibly unfair when a poll worker is
providing information to a voter who is then disqualified,” she
said. “It disenfranchises voters and will result in the
disqualification of thousands.”  The 2006 Ohio measure is one of two voter regulations from
that state being litigated before the appeals court in
Cincinnati. The state also appealed a lower-court order
expanding early-voting hours. No hearing date has been scheduled
in that appeal.  Decision Date  The judges didn’t indicate when they would make a decision
in the provisional-ballot case.  The judges hearing the appeal were all appointed by
Republican presidents. Julia Smith Gibbons and Deborah Cook were
chosen by  George W. Bush ; Lee Rosenthal, a U.S. district judge
from Houston, by  George H.W. Bush .  The cases are among at least 15 pending nationwide over
election law limits on issues such as early voting, registration
and identification in the run-up to the Nov. 6 vote. In
 Pennsylvania , a judge today barred enforcement of the state’s
voter photo-identification law until after the election.  Similar laws have been enacted by Republican-dominated
legislatures across the country -- laws aimed in part at
fighting voter fraud, proponents contend. Opponents argue they
are an effort to limit votes for Democratic candidates.  Over the past few months, the majority of challenges have
been resolved against the laws, most recently a Sept. 27
decision in  Wisconsin  effectively barring a photo ID requirement
at polls there.  Registration Suits  Of the pending voter regulation suits, about half are in
states where both Democratic President  Barack Obama  and former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a Republican, contend they
can win. In Ohio, a so-called swing state, both Obama and Romney
see a path to victory.  In the ballot lawsuit, the Service Employees International
Union, Local 1, and other plaintiffs sued the Ohio secretary of
state, asking a court to issue a statewide injunction ordering
that provisional ballots cast in the wrong precinct be counted.  The union argued that rejection of such ballots violates
the rights of voters, particularly in locations that have
multiple precincts, which are generally in urban areas.  In these locations, casting a ballot in the right precinct
is dependent on the poll worker, according to the court filings.
Plaintiffs said that accepting these ballots would prevent the
disqualification of thousands of votes.  Judge’s Order  U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley in Columbus on Aug. 27
ordered such ballot disqualification stopped. In 2008, Ohio
rejected 14,355 so-called wrong-precinct ballots, according to
the judge’s decision.  Marbley, appointed by former President  Bill Clinton , a
Democrat, said that as a matter of law if a voter casts a ballot
in the wrong precinct it’s the fault of a poll worker, unless
the voter deliberately refused to go to the right polling place.  To disqualify a voter who used the wrong precinct, the
state would have to provide a sworn statement by a poll worker
that this happened. The state appealed the decision.  Reversing Marbley’s decision would “indisputably result in
the rejection of thousands of votes by lawfully registered
voters that would otherwise have been protected from
disqualifying poll-worker error,” lawyers for the union and a
homeless advocacy group said in a filing with the appeals court.  In 2011 elections, more than 1,500 ballots were counted
that would have been disqualified if the law hadn’t been limited
by an earlier consent decree -- a policy that changed in 2012 --
they said.  Higher Turnout  “At least that number would be rejected in the upcoming
presidential election, which will have far higher voter
turnout,” the plaintiffs said in the Sept. 4 filing.  In about 80 percent of provisional votes cast in the wrong
precinct, the voters were given the wrong ballots because of
poll-worker error, Leonard said at the hearing.  “To disqualify those ballots after the election is not
needed to uphold the precinct voter system,” she said. “It’s
the poll workers job to tell voters they’re in the wrong place,
and it overrides voter error for going to the wrong location.”  The counting of wrongly-cast ballots would “undermine the
precinct system,” Nelson, the state’s attorney, said at the
hearing yesterday. “If a vote counts even when cast in the
wrong precinct, voters will be able to vote on issues that
aren’t relevant to them.”  The Ohio system is “perfectly rational,” Nelson said.
“Ohio’s record with provisional ballots holds up well compared
to other states.”  Early Voting  Also pending before the Cincinnati appeals court is a
lawsuit dealing with Ohio’s early-voting restrictions. Another
federal judge, ruling Aug. 31 on a complaint filed by Obama’s
campaign, ordered the restoration of three days of early voting
for all citizens that the Republican-controlled legislature had
limited only to members of the armed services and few others.  In that case, Obama for America claimed as support for its
case that in the three days before the 2008 election, 93,000
Ohio voters cast their ballots.  The judge ruled that it was unconstitutional to take away
three days of early voting for most citizens in the state while
allowing Ohioans serving in the military to have them.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Republican, appealed,
arguing that Ohio has previously allowed such a distinction
between military voters and civilian voters. The U.S. Court of
Appeals agreed to expedite Ohio’s appeal, though it has yet to
schedule an argument. Early voting in Ohio begins today.  Pennsylvania Ruling  In Pennsylvania, the state  Supreme Court  on Sept. 18 set
aside a lower-court ruling upholding a voter ID law and asked
the judge to revisit his decision. The judge was told to assess
whether all citizens will be able to obtain allowable forms of
ID in time to vote.  The state high court, in its 4-2 decision, told
Commonwealth Court Judge Robert Simpson, a Republican, to submit
a supplemental opinion by today. He held hearings last week.  Simpson today said that while election officials can ask
for ID on Election Day, voters without ID can still cast ballots
and have them counted. Previously the law had given those voters
six days after the election to get ID to have their provisional
ballots counted.  “I expected more photo IDs to have been issued by this
time,” Simpson said in the 16-page ruling. “For this reason, I
accept petitioners’ argument that in the remaining five weeks
before the general election, the gap between the photo IDs
issued and the estimated need will not be closed.”  Voter Impact  A state analysis found Pennsylvania’s photo ID requirement
might exclude as many as 759,000 eligible voters, or 9 percent
of its electorate, from voting in the presidential election. In
2008, Obama won the state by 620,478 votes.  The state has issued about 10,000 ID cards since March, or
10 percent of the lowest estimate of registered voters without
ID, according to an American Civil Liberties Union chapter
there.  The Ohio provisional-ballot cases are  Service Employees
International Union  v. Husted, 12-469 and Northeast Ohio
Coalition for the Homeless v. Husted, 12-03916, both U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati). The Pennsylvania
case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 71 MAP 2012,
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  federal court
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia federal court
   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 