-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High as U.S. Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-02T06:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-as-u-s-manufacturing-expands.html
Oil traded near the highest close in
a week after a measure of U.S. manufacturing beat economists’
forecasts and before a report forecast to show shrinking fuel
supplies in the world’s biggest consumer of crude.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after advancing for
a third day yesterday. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
U.S. factory index increased to 51.5 in September, exceeding the
median forecast of 49.7 in a Bloomberg News survey. Crude
supplies in the U.S. probably gained last week, while gasoline
and diesel inventories shrank, according to a separate survey.  “We’ve seen a bounce off recent lows, and I think the
primary motivator was the ISM figure,” said Ric Spooner, a
chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “It points to
the fact that we’re seeing what looks like an improvement in the
rate of growth in the  U.S. economy .”  Crude for November delivery was at $92.33 a barrel, down 15
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2:15 p.m. Singapore time. The contract climbed 0.3 percent to
$92.48 yesterday, the highest close since Sept. 21. Prices are
down 6.6 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement was at $112.12 a barrel,
down 7 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was $19.76 a barrel, up from $19.71 yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  Oil in New York has technical resistance along its 50-day
moving average, at $93.64 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted yesterday’s advance near
this indicator. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably gained  1.5 million barrels 
last week, according to a Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. The  American Petroleum Institute 
will release separate inventory data today.  Gasoline supplies may have dropped by  375,000 barrels  last
week, according to the median estimate of six analysts in the
survey. Distillate stockpiles, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, probably fell 450,000 barrels.  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  U.S. Gasoline  Gasoline at U.S. pumps dropped for the second week,
tracking a more than $4-a-barrel slide in  oil prices  last month
and after refiners on the U.S. Gulf Coast restored output
following Hurricane Isaac.  The national average for regular gasoline fell 2.2 cents to
$3.804 a gallon from a week ago, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in a survey posted on its website yesterday.
Prices were up 11 percent from $3.433 a year earlier.  Retail gasoline began dropping Sept. 24 after 11 weeks of
consecutive gains that boosted prices to a record high for the
season. Oil in New York slid $4.28 a barrel last month and
settled below $90 on Sept. 26 for the first time in eight weeks.
Crude accounts for about 66 percent of the costs of the motor
fuel, the Energy Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  