-- Tombini Classmate Uribe Reappointed Colombia Central Bank Chief
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-10-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/tombini-classmate-uribe-reappointed-colombia-central-bank-chief.html
Colombia ’s central bank board
appointed Jose Dario Uribe as the institution’s general manager
for a final four-year term.  Uribe, 53, has worked at the central bank since 1993, and
has led the institution since 2005. He received his doctorate in
economics from the  University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign,
where he studied alongside Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini. Before joining the central bank, whose
directors reappointed him on Sept. 28, Uribe was an economist at
the country’s National Federation of Coffee Growers, or
Fedecafe.  Under Uribe, the central bank’s biggest achievement has
been to reduce inflation to the mid-point of its target range,
and anchor inflation expectations at that level, central bank
co-director Cesar Vallejo said in a telephone interview.  Consumer prices rose  3.11 percent  in August from a year
earlier, close to the central bank’s goal. Colombia targets
inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.
Inflation will end this year at 3 percent, according to the
median estimate in a  central bank survey  of 39 economists this
month, up from the previous month’s forecast of 2.95 percent.  “The results show how well he’s done,” said  Camilo Perez ,
the head analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-biggest
bank. “Inflation is under control, the economy is stable and
financial risk has been reduced. Growth had a boost from
monetary policy when it was needed, and when it was strong, he
raised rates.”  At its Sept. 28 policy meeting, the central bank held its
 benchmark interest rate  at 4.75 percent, after cutting it in
July and August, citing the weak global economy. Policy makers
also extended a program of $20 million daily dollar purchases
through March 29, from a previous scheduled end date of Nov. 2.  Under Colombian law, central bank chiefs can serve no more
than three terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  