-- Longest Rally in Nine Years for JGBs on Deflation: Japan Credit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2012-10-01T00:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/longest-rally-in-nine-years-for-jgbs-on-deflation-japan-credit.html
Japanese  government bonds  are set to
extend the longest quarterly rally in nine years as faltering
demand cements deflation in the world’s third-largest economy.  JGBs handed investors a 0.5 percent return from June 30 to
the end of September, marking a sixth quarter of gains that
matched a similar stretch in 2003, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. They are the longest winning streaks since a
13-quarter run from October 1990, the year  Japan ’s asset bubble
collapsed. U.S. Treasuries had a three-month return of 0.58
percent, the second-straight advance, the data show.  Reports last week showed consumer prices in August matched
the steepest decline in 16 months and industrial output fell
more than forecast, increasing prospects the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will
expand stimulus as early as this week. The benchmark 10-year
yield, the third-lowest in the world, will stay below 1 percent
for another year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of banks
and brokerages.  Switzerland  and Japan are the only two major
economies where consumer prices are falling, prompting the BOJ
to unveil a 1 percent inflation goal in February.  “Japan’s yields are unlikely to rise because it’s clear
that the central bank will have to keep its accommodative
stance,” said Takuma Sugawara, a senior JGB strategist at
Societe Generale SA, one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to
bid at sovereign debt sales. “Deflation is continuing, and
there’s a long way to go before the BOJ’s price goal is met.”  Japan Yields  Japan’s bonds gained each day last week, sending the  yields 
on the benchmark 10-year notes to 0.765 percent, the least since
Aug. 9. The rate was at 0.77 percent at 9:24 a.m. in Tokyo.  The yields touched 0.72 percent on July 23, the lowest
level since records were set in 2003, and way off from the all-
time high of 8.7 percent in 1990. Only Switzerland and  Hong Kong 
have lower  interest rates .  The 10-year rate will finish this year at 0.87 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey of financial firms, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings. They expect
the rate will be at 1.05 percent by the third quarter of 2013,
which would mark the first quarter with yields closing over 1
percent since the three months ended September 2011.  Bond Registrations  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Credit Saison Co., a
Tokyo-based consumer lending company, registered to sell as much
as 300 billion yen ($3.9 billion) of bonds, according to a
filing on Sept. 28 with the Ministry of Finance. Another filing
showed Corporacion Andina de Fomento -- a joint development
venture of the governments of  Bolivia ,  Colombia ,  Ecuador ,  Peru ,
and  Venezuela  -- registered to offer as much as 100 billion yen
of Samurai notes.  Shelf registration allows for bond sales without obligating
company or country to borrow. Samurai notes are yen-denominated
debt issued by overseas borrowers in Japan.  Domestic corporate bonds handed investors a 0.15 percent
return last quarter, compared with the 1.41 percent gain for
Samurai debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company notes worldwide returned 3.9 percent, the data
show.  Japan’s economy has slipped in and out of recession since
its asset bubble burst in 1990,  growing  an average 0.9 percent a
year in the past two decades. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
topped out at 38,957.44 in 1989 and tumbled as much as about 50
percent the next year. The  gauge  was at 8,808.17 today.  Rising Yen  Compounding the nation’s woes is the strength of the yen,
which rose 7.4 percent over the past six months, the most among
the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. A higher yen reduces earnings at
exporters when repatriated and makes their goods pricier
overseas, a factor Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  described last
week a big “demerit” for the economy.  The currency reached as strong as 77.44 per dollar on Sept.
28, a two-week high and within 3 percent of the post-World War
II record of 75.35 on Oct. 31. It was at 77.97 today.  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food slid 0.3
percent in August from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said on Sept. 28. The so-called core inflation rate has never
been above 1 percent for more than a year since 1993. The
comparative  gauge  in Switzerland dropped 1.1 percent in August.  Separate data the same day showed Japan’s industrial
production fell 1.3 percent from July, more than double the
median economist estimate.  BOJ Policy  The BOJ on Sept. 19 increased by 10 trillion yen to 55
trillion yen its asset-purchase program, which has served as the
central bank’s main policy tool since it cut  benchmark interest
rates  to near zero. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board
gather twice this month on Oct. 4-5 and Oct. 30. Policy makers
will update forecasts for prices and the economy for the 2012
and 2013 fiscal years on the latter date.  Waning consumer demand among the world’s most rapidly aging
society is helping to prolong deflation. More than a quarter of
Japan’s population will be over 65 years old in 2014, according
to U.S. Census Bureau estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Declines in consumer prices enhance the value of the fixed
payments on debt, prompting domestic banks to channel customer
deposits into government bonds rather than lending.  Customer deposits  held by Japan’s banks exceeded loans by a
record 171.7 trillion yen in August, data from the BOJ show.
Domestic lenders held 167.4 trillion yen in government bonds at
the end of July, separate central bank figures indicate. The
record was 171 trillion yen in March, which is almost equivalent
to  Italy ’s annual economic output in dollar terms.  Bond Auction  “When the BOJ floods the banking system with yen, those
funds find their way into JGBs,” said  Junya Tanase , the chief
currency strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo. “And then
you get lower yields as a result.”  The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.3 trillion yen of 10-
year notes on Oct. 4. The last sale of the securities on Sept. 4
drew bids valued at 2.84 times the amount on offer, compared
with the average of 3.09 for the prior 10 auctions.  “Japanese financial institutions still have ample cash,”
said  Tetsuya Miura , chief market analyst at Mizuho Securities
Co., a unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank by value. “I don’t
think the auction results will come in bad.”  The BOJ’s Tankan report today showed the nation’s biggest
manufacturers grew more pessimistic last quarter.  Tankan Worsens  The quarterly index of  business confidence  deteriorated to
minus 3 from minus 1, the fourth-straight quarter that
pessimists outnumbered optimists, the central bank said today in
 Tokyo . That marked the longest string of negative readings since
Japan emerged from the global recession in mid-2010.  The data add to evidence that Japan’s economy is shrinking
as exports fall and political tensions with China mount.
JPMorgan, Barclays Plc and BNP Paribas SA are among banks
expecting a contraction in the third quarter after growth slowed
to a 0.7 percent annual pace in the previous three months.  “It’s inevitable that Japan will go into an economic lull,
teetering on the edge of a technical recession,” said Kenji Sakaguchi, who oversees 6.5 trillion yen of bonds as chief
investment officer at Prudential Investment Management Japan
Co., a unit of the second-largest U.S. life insurer. “You can’t
be bullish on the outlook, so it’s hard to imagine an advance in
yields,” said Sakaguchi, who sees the 10-year yield falling as
low as 0.7 percent over the next six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  