-- Oprah Winfrey’s OWN to Air Two Tyler Perry Comedies in 2013
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-01T20:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/oprah-winfrey-s-own-to-air-two-tyler-perry-comedies-in-2013-1-.html
OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network, moving
into original scripted programming, will air two new series from
writer-director Tyler Perry in 2013 under an exclusive,
multiyear partnership.  Perry, known for his “Madea” comedies in theaters, will
serve as executive producer, write and direct both series, OWN
said today in a statement. The shows will premiere in mid-2013.  The deal with Perry bolsters the lineup at OWN, Winfrey’s
joint venture with  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , which has
improved ratings this year after a disappointing start in 2011.
In addition to movies, Perry produces cable’s “Tyler Perry’s
House of Payne” and “Meet the Browns.” The TV shows,
distributed by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s Debmar-Mercury,
run on  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TBS.  “I have been looking forward to the day when we would be
in the position to enter the world of scripted television,”
Winfrey, OWN’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“That day has come.”  In its most recent quarter, OWN’s prime-time ratings rose
63 percent among the target audience of women ages 24-54, the
company said. The network cited “Oprah’s Next Chapter,” the
talk-show host’s interview program, and the life-coaching
reality show “Iyanla: Fix My Life.”  With this deal, OWN becomes the exclusive destination for
Perry’s new television series and projects, according to the
statement. He will continue to distribute his movies and
existing cable shows, including “For Better or Worse,” with
 Lions Gate . That program also runs on TBS.  Discovery, based in Silver Spring, Maryland, rose 0.6
percent to $59.95 at the close in New York. The shares have
gained 46 percent this year. Lions Gate, the independent studio
based in Vancouver and run from  Santa Monica , California,
dropped 2 percent to $14.96 and has climbed 80 percent so far in
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  