-- House Republicans Hesitant to Alter Muni Tax Status, Price Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-10-01T20:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/house-republicans-hesitant-to-alter-muni-tax-status-price-says.html
A Republican on the U.S. House’s tax-
writing committee said his party is hesitant to curtail the  tax
exemption  for investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market,
which has been a concern among bond buyers.  Debt sold by states and cities generates economic growth
and its tax-free status should be preserved, Georgia
Representative  Tom Price  said today at a Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association conference in Manhattan. Price is
a member of the House Ways and Means Committee and chairman of
the Republican Policy Committee.  “From our standpoint, we are loath to try to harm things
that actually generate productivity in the economy, and we
believe that tax-exempt municipal bonds actually generate
activity out in the real world,” Price said. “I would urge you
not to capitulate with a pre-emptive surrender on this.”  President  Barack Obama ’s budget plan would cap the amount
of the tax break on munis for individuals making over $200,000 a
year and married couples making over $250,000. Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  would consider curtailing the
muni exemption for top earners, his campaign has said.  Municipal analysts and investors have been speculating as
to whether the bond tax break could be scaled back as Congress
looks for ways to rein in the U.S. budget deficit.  “Republicans think retroactive tax increases are a
disaster,” Price said. “You have at least one individual, and
I know a lot of my friends in Washington, who will fight tooth-
and-nail against that kind of ridiculous policy change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  