-- How to Negotiate Peace With Honor in Currency Wars
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-01T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/how-to-negotiate-peace-with-honor-in-currency-wars-view.html
Brazil’s president,  Dilma Rousseff ,
and her finance minister,  Guido Mantega , are attacking the U.S.
Federal Reserve for embarking on a third round of quantitative
easing. By aggressively buying bonds, the Fed aims to push
interest rates lower, and that will nudge the dollar down as
well.  This will hurt Brazil and other developing-country
exporters, Mantega says, and what’s more, it’s meant to. To him,
the U.S. has declared “currency war.”  Mantega’s complaints about what used to be called “beggar
thy neighbor” exchange-rate policy are partly justified, even
though his attack on the Fed is misguided. Many countries are
manipulating their currencies to put trading partners at a
disadvantage. It is a collectively self-defeating practice that
everybody has an interest in curbing.  Brazil has particular reason to worry. Its economy is
struggling. Capital lured by Brazil’s relatively high  interest
rates  (the government’s three-month bonds yield more than 7
percent) has kept its currency too strong, and that has been a
brake on output and employment.  You can see why Mantega might think QE3 would make this
problem worse. Yet his attack on the Fed is wrong. If the bond-
buying plan works, Brazil will benefit. And whether it works or
not, QE3 sure isn’t currency war.  The Fed’s primary goal is not to manipulate the dollar but
to expand demand at home. It hopes to do this mainly by lowering
interest rates and convincing investors that rates will stay low
for a good while. This should encourage consumers to spend and
companies to hire and invest. If these things happen, U.S.
imports will rise and exporters such as  Brazil  can expect to
benefit.  Dollar Depreciation  Granted, the Fed wouldn’t mind some dollar depreciation,
but that isn’t its main purpose. U.S. exports are small relative
to the rest of the economy. QE won’t help much unless it boosts
domestic demand. If it succeeds, it will help Brazil -- and if
it doesn’t help Brazil, it probably won’t succeed.  Although Mantega is wrong about QE3, his wider concern
about currency manipulation is right. Indeed, it is an issue
over which Brazil and the U.S. should make common cause.  Let’s be a bit more precise about who is a currency
manipulator. The charge is best limited to countries that stop
their currencies from appreciating even though they have big
current-account surpluses -- that is, countries that block the
movement of currencies toward levels that would help balance
global trade. That isn’t what the U.S. is doing with QE3. It is
precisely what many other countries are doing, however, hurting
the U.S. and Brazil alike.  If currency manipulation is defined this way, the leading
offender is  China . One measure is a country’s growth in foreign-
exchange reserves: Manipulators hold their currencies down by
using domestic money to buy foreign assets. Recently, and
especially over the past year, China has eased this policy, but
its foreign-exchange reserves still stand at a colossal $3.2
trillion.  By no means is China alone.  Joseph Gagnon , a senior fellow
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, recently
posted a  list  of 20 currency manipulators, ranked by foreign-
exchange reserves. China tops the list, followed by Japan, Saudi
Arabia, Russia,  Taiwan ,  Korea ,  Hong Kong  and  Switzerland .  One response to currency manipulation is to resort to
 capital controls , as Brazil has done. The idea is to offset
upward pressure on the currency by limiting inflows of capital,
perhaps by taxing them. As we have  explained , this is a
defensible policy but one that is easy to get wrong. Carelessly
executed, it hurts trading partners and can easily backfire. It
has to be done cautiously and, because it is one more way to put
other countries at a disadvantage, it needs to be supervised.  Currency Oversight  We favor adding currency oversight (and the sanctions that
might go with it) to the duties of the  World Trade Organization 
or the  International Monetary Fund . This makes excellent sense
because currency manipulation can add to trade-policy friction
and vice versa, in a cycle of mutually assured disadvantage.  Currency manipulation already violates WTO and IMF rules,
but there is no enforcement. This should change. Meanwhile,
Mantega and other finance ministers need to be more careful
about whom they accuse of waging currency war. The U.S. isn’t
among them.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  regulating high-frequency
trading ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama’s Middle East mistakes ;
William Pesek on  economic development in Myanmar ;  Ramesh Ponnuru 
on the next challenge to  Obama’s health-care plan ; Alexandra
Harney  on China’s angry men .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 