-- Patriot Coal Says Pollution Deadlines May Cost $29 Million
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-10-01T21:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/patriot-coal-says-pollution-deadlines-may-cost-29-million-1-.html
Patriot (PCXCQ)  Coal Corp. seeks relief from
the usual bankruptcy rules to change environmental compliance
deadlines it says will otherwise cost it $29 million in the near
future.  Two of Patriot’s subsidiaries have been sued in  West
Virginia  District Court, where orders have demanded they comply
with certain deadlines to deal with pollution from selenium. The
company said in court papers filed Sept. 28 that it needs to
lift the so-called “automatic stay” that prevents bankruptcy
companies from continuing lawsuits so it can seek a change to
the deadlines.  If it can win an extension, Patriot and its subsidiaries
“could defer up to $29 million in costs through the end of
2013, thereby providing clear tangible benefits” as the company
works to reorganize, lawyers for Patriot wrote.  Lawsuits over the company’s selenium pollution date back to
2006, and the company has been sued by organizations including
the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition, the  Sierra Club  and the
West Virginia Highlands Conservancy Inc., according to court
papers. Most of the litigation is about the surface mining
activities of its Apogee, Catenary and Hobet units, which mined
coal in the 1980s and 90s before selenium pollution was a water
quality issue, Patriot said.  Venue Request  Patriot, one of the largest coal producers in the U.S.,
filed for bankruptcy in July. Its creditors’ committee and
senior creditors have also asked its bankruptcy judge to keep
the coal producer’s reorganization in  New York , after its union
and the U.S. Trustee asked it be moved to West Virginia. The
U.S. Trustee is an arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees
bankruptcies.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman has yet to rule on
the issue.  The Department of Natural Resources in  Kentucky  joined the
mine workers’ motion, citing the company’s mining activities in
Kentucky. West Virginia has said it has an interest in whether
the company sells or abandons its property in that state.  Patriot has 12 active mining complexes in Appalachia and
the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of
coal reserves, according to court papers. It sells thermal coal
to electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and
coke producers.  In its Chapter 11, Patriot listed assets of $3.57 billion
and debt of $3.07 billion as of May 31.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  