-- Pinot Meets Porcini in Autumn Wine Picks: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/pinot-meets-porcini-in-autumn-wine-picks-john-mariani.html
A fine brisk autumn is upon us and
thoughts turn from cold white summer wines to robust red wines
that go with the stews, braised meats, and roast chicken whose
pots and pans were put away in May.  The ingredients change in autumn: tomatoes and corn and
raspberries disappear from the larder and heartier foods come to
market -- squash and pumpkins, wild mushrooms, truffles,
parsnips, cranberries, apples, and, of course, game.  It’s also a time when a lot of wineries release new wines
in hopes of big holiday sales. So, I’ve been happily drinking my
way through early autumn with robust reds on my table.  Here are
some I’ve found particularly rewarding.  At the new restaurant NoMad in  New York  City, the signature
 dish  is a roast chicken, whose mahogany-colored skin is stuffed
with foie gras, black truffles, and brioche crumbs. With this
magnificent dish I enjoyed two Spanish Riojas: Beronia Gran
Reserva 2001 ($30) and Baron de Ley Gran Reserva 2001 ($38).  The first is a Rioja Alta blend of 88 percent tempranillo,
eight percent graciano, and four percent mazuela, aged in oak
for 30 months, and another three in the bottle, with a sensible
13.5 percent alcohol level.  The grape blend reveals the kind of nuance that make rioja
wines so appealing, with a delicious spice and velvety layers of
fruit that enriched every morsel of the chicken.  Fully Mature  The Baron de Ley is made from 100 percent tempranillo,
sourced from the coolest regions in Mendevia, exclusively from
the Imas estate. After two and half years in barrel it spends a
full five in bottle, and this is a fully mature, earthy, smoky
example in its boldest style.  On another night, at home, my wife and I had a bollito
misto (mixed boil) of beef, chicken, veal, with condiments of
horseradish and mustard on the side. This needed a wine with
good acid but not an enormous amount of plummy fruit.  I chose an  Alois Lageder Lagrein  2010 ($24), made by 150-
year-old family estate in Alto Adige in northern  Italy  where red
wines don’t get massive. With just 12.5 percent alcohol, this
was very easy to drink with the platter of sliced meats and
broth, just tinged with the condiments.  I always enjoy simple Bordeaux with everyday food, so I
picked out a Chateau du Pin 2009 ($11), whose straightforward,
medium-bodied, uncomplicated flavor of predominant merlot was
just right for thick roasted veal chop with the last of the
summer’s corn on the cob. Nothing bigger could have any better.  Decoy Duckhorn  Another merlot I like was Decoy Sonoma County Merlot 2010
($25), the bargain wine from  Duckhorn Wine Company , one of the
pioneers of fine merlot in this country.  If the winkingly-named Decoy lacks the complexity of the
$40 Duckhorn, it is still a solid, rich, extremely satisfying
wine that was perfect with a cup of vichyssoise followed by
grilled chicken with sweet peppers.  Opposed as I am to wines above 14.5 percent alcohol, I
still needed something to marry with a very spicy lamb stew with
chili peppers, garlic, and sweet onions; I chose a  Murphy-Goode
Liar’s Dice Zinfandel  2009 ($21), that neatly complemented the
dish. With 15.5 percent alcohol, I was content with no more than
a glass and a half with my meal, for it packs a wallop.  While none of these wines was expensive, the hard-to-find
Antica Terra Botanica 2010 ($80) was worth it for the finesse
among the big fruit flavors, balanced, as fine pinot noir should
be, with sufficient acid to keep its brightness at an ideal 13.5
percent alcohol.  The wine was made in Yamhill,  Oregon , in a cool vintage, so
its opulence comes through without the cloying fat of a hot
year. I drank it with a plate of egg-rich fresh fettuccine with
porcini mushrooms and a dose of Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese.
Autumn arrived that night in fine form.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater
and  Robert Heller  on rock music.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 