-- Popular Defying Oliver Wyman Tests Allianz’s Spain Appetite
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-02T16:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/popular-defying-oliver-wyman-tests-allianz-s-spanish-appetite.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  is defying
the findings of Spain’s bank stress tests as it seeks new money
from  Allianz SE (ALV)  and other investors to plug a capital shortfall.  The  stress test  by consultant Oliver Wyman showed Popular
had a capital deficit of as much as 3.22 billion euros ($4.15
billion) and would earn 5.8 billion euros in pre-provision
profit from 2012 to 2014 or 4.2 billion euros in its worst-case
scenario. Popular, Spain’s sixth-largest lender by assets, said
yesterday it would have an operating profit of 7.2 billion euros
over that period as it unveiled plans for a share sale of as
much as 2.5 billion euros to boost capital.  The lower the bank’s future earnings, the more the lender
will have to raise capital from investors, diluting existing
shareholders and increasing the likelihood it will have to seek
a government bailout.  “Oliver Wyman has reduced our pre-provisioning profit by
42 percent -- obviously we don’t share that,” Jacobo Gonzalez- Robatto, Popular’s chief financial officer, said in a webcast
for analysts yesterday. “Time will tell that we are right, and
they are wrong.”  After concerns about real estate losses helped push Madrid-
based Popular’s shares down 90 percent from their 2007 peak, the
bank risks further straining its credibility by challenging the
results of stress tests that the government says are the most
detailed analysis yet of Spain’s lenders. Popular was Spain’s
only publicly traded bank that hasn’t been nationalized to have
a capital shortfall in the tests.  Stress Tests  “You’d think meekness would be preferable to valor in
Popular’s case, especially when they seem to have the whole
range of opinion lined up against them,” said John Raymond, a
banking analyst at CreditSights Ltd. in  London . “It would
probably go down better if they just acknowledged the numbers
because in fact it’s hard to say what will happen.”  An Oliver Wyman spokeswoman in  Madrid  declined to comment.  Spain published the results Sept. 28 of the firm’s
independent stress test of the banking system that showed seven
banks, including Popular, out of 14 that were analyzed had a
combined capital shortfall of 59.3 billion euros. Spanish banks
face a capital shortfall that could climb to 70 billion euros to
105 billion euros to absorb losses and keep capital ratios above
regulatory thresholds, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report yesterday.  Share Sale  Popular will ask  major shareholders , including Allianz,
which has been an investor for 25 years, and Credit Mutuel Group
to buy shares in its capital increase, Gonzalez-Robatto said.
Allianz,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, holds a 6.3 percent stake
while a shareholders’ syndicate has 9.7 percent and Credit
Mutuel Group 4.5 percent, regulatory filings show.  “We’re not going to build a rosy picture just to mislead
investors,” Gonzalez-Robatto said. “We want to be entirely
realistic. Why? Because our shareholders trust us.”  Popular’s  shares  slid 1 percent to 1.58 euros at the close
of trading in Madrid today, extending yesterday’s 6.2 percent
decline. The stock is down 55 percent this year.  “We like the fact that they are cleaning up their balance
sheet and accelerating that whole process,” said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an  analyst  at  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  in Porto,  Portugal . “The
profitability targets look ambitious.” The bank’s estimate of a
1.4 billion-euro profit in 2014 is 20 percent higher than BPI’s,
said Peixoto, who recommends reducing Popular holdings.  Reducing Holdings  It’s unclear why an investor such as Allianz would want to
participate in a share sale, said Stefan Bongardt, an  analyst 
with Independent Research GmbH in  Frankfurt , who has a hold
recommendation on Popular’s shares.The bank’s share increase
could be equal to 75 percent of its current market value.  “To invest money in a Spanish bank is not a good idea when
everyone is reducing their exposure to the south,” he said.
“Allianz should have better investment opportunities than a
Spanish bank.”  Allianz declined to comment on whether it will take part in
the share sale because Popular hasn’t made a formal approach,
Stefanie Rupp-Menedetter, a spokeswoman for the Munich-based
insurer, said in a phone interview. A spokesman for Paris-based
Credit Mutuel, a customer-owned bank, declined to comment.  Popular combined its decision to seek as much as 2.5
billion euros from investors with a new business plan that
confirms its operating profit predictions, speeds up recognition
of loan losses and relies less on anticipated one-time gains
from asset sales. The bank will suspend its October dividend and
take 9.3 billion euros of writedowns in 2012 as it predicts a
loss for the year of 2.3 billion euros, it said in a filing.  Popular’s Plan  The plan is to clean up the balance sheet, restore its
dividend next year and return excess capital to shareholders in
2014, Gonzalez-Robatto said. Popular wants to avoid taking state
aid because as a private company its should resolve the concerns
related to Spain’s property boom by itself, he said.  Banks that need to bolster  capital  by more than 2 percent
of risk-weighted assets must issue convertible bonds to be
bought by the government’s rescue fund as a precautionary
measure to cover the shortfall. The 3.22 billion-euro deficit
equals 3.9 percent of risk-weighted assets, putting pressure on
Popular to raise funds quickly or face taking state aid.  Popular can generate revenue by re-pricing loans to
customers more quickly than competitors and also has “floors”
on mortgage loans that limit declines in income when interest
rates fall, said Gonzalez-Robatto. Popular, which has 2,714
branches and 109 billion euros in loans, made 1.18 billion euros
in pre-provision income in the first half of this year compared
with 1.13 billion euros for  CaixaBank SA (CABK) , which has 6,541
branches and 229 billion euros of loans, he said.  “These guys have been taken out by the crisis, and they
have shown they do not know what is coming down the line at
them,”  Simon Maughan , a financial industry strategist at
Olivetree Securities in London, said in a phone interview.
“They’re still telling people what they’ll be making two years
out when they’ve shown that they don’t know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  