-- Pulitzer-Winner Junot Diaz Gets $500,000 MacArthur Grant
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/pulitzer-winner-junot-diaz-gets-500-000-macarthur-grant.html
While in  Chicago  last month promoting
his latest book, fiction writer Junot Diaz was invited to visit
the offices of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation.  Diaz figured that staff members at the nonprofit wanted
just to talk to him about possibly nominating future candidates
for its coveted “genius” awards. Instead, Daniel Socolow, the
MacArthur Fellows program director, walked Diaz into a
conference room and told him that he was a winner of one of the
$500,000 grants.  “I guess I’m going to try to write a crazy monster book
now,” said Diaz, 43, who won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in
2008 for his novel, “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.”
“This award grants me extraordinary leeway.”  Diaz, the Rudge and Nancy Allen Professor of Writing and
Humanistic Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
said the prize will allow him to spend more time at the computer
and less time teaching. He’ll still take his time writing the
next manuscript as he has done with past works.  Diaz put 11 years into completing “Oscar Wao” after
publishing his debut fiction work in 1996, “Drown.” His new
book is a collection of short stories titled “This Is How You
Lose Her.”  “I have to make my characters’ family before they can
address me,” he said. “I have to be steeped in them a very
long time. I’m counting on having more time, which I will need
for this next book.”  Chris Thile  Among the 22 other recipients of the grants, which are
paid in quarterly installments over five years with no
conditions, was mandolin player Chris Thile. At 31, he is the
youngest MacArthur Fellow this year.  A genre-hopping musician with roots in bluegrass, Thile has
composed for symphony orchestras and recorded with Yo-Yo Ma. The
award citation said he was chosen for creating “a distinctly
American canon for the mandolin and a new musical aesthetic for
performers and audiences alike.”  “My first reaction when I got the news was: Good God, I
really have to do something great now,” Thile said by phone.
“I don’t want to be the dud on the list.”  Dinaw Mengestu  Other winners in the arts include  Natalia Almada , a 37-
year-old filmmaker whose work focuses on history, politics and
culture;  Claire Chase , 34, executive director of the Brooklyn-
based International Contemporary Ensemble;  An-My Le , 52, a
photographer and professor at Bard College in New York; the
Ethiopia-born Dinaw Mengestu, 34, a Washington-based novelist
whose writings have explored the African diaspora; and
documentary filmmaker Laura Poitras, whose work has explored the
consequences of military conflict.  Uta Barth, 54, a conceptual photographer in Los Angeles,
said the award will allow her to cut back on time spent
teaching, focus more on her art and allow her to digitally
archive her past works.  “I am incredibly grateful and also humbled knowing the
company I am in,” Barth said in an e-mail. “The incredible
financial generosity of this award took more than a week to sink
in.”  Computer Science  Scientists were also well-represented among the winners.
Daniel Spielman, 42, a professor of theoretical computer science
at Yale University, was chosen for research that could affect
how the environment and behavior can be measured and regulated.  Other MacArthur Fellows in the sciences include: Eric
Coleman, 47, a geriatrician at  University of Colorado School of
Medicine ; Sarkis Mazmanian, 39, a medical microbiologist at the
California Institute of Technology in  Pasadena ; Terry Plank, 48,
a Columbia University geochemist; and Nancy Rabalais, 62, a
marine ecologist at Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium.  John D. MacArthur owned and developed Bankers Life &
Casualty Co. (now a unit of  CNO Financial Group Inc. (CNO) ) and had
numerous real-estate holdings in New York and  Florida . His wife,
Catherine, served as a director of the foundation and held
positions in many of his companies.  For a complete list of the winners, please go to
 http://www.macfound.org .  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 