-- Rate Swaps Signal Tightening on Inflation Risk: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-02T03:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/rate-swaps-signal-tightening-on-inflation-risk-southeast-asia.html
Interest-rate swaps in  Malaysia  and
Thailand are signaling central banks will start to tighten
monetary policy next year for the first time since 2011, as
fighting inflation takes precedence over economic growth.  Malaysian and Thai contracts in which investors exchange a
fixed payment for a floating rate for two years climbed to four-
month highs of 3.18 percent and 3.08 percent, respectively, in
September. Societe Generale SA recommends clients pay the swaps
in Malaysia targeting an increase to 3.35 percent. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. raised its forecasts for five-year rates in both
countries on Sept. 19.  Southeast Asian nations are expanding at a faster pace than
economists predicted this year, even as Europe’s debt crisis and
unemployment in the U.S. reduce export orders. Analysts
including Societe Generale’s Wee-Khoon Chong and central banks
are starting to flag inflation risks for next year, driven by
rising domestic demand and funds pumped into the European and
U.S. financial systems.  “Swaps in emerging Asia have more upside because they were
too low as investors and traders were looking for multiple rate
cuts, but now the world is slightly better,” Chong, a fixed-
income strategist in Hong Kong, said in a Sept. 28 interview.
“The pressure is for swap rates to go higher as sentiment is
turning better with measures from the European Central Bank and
Federal Reserve.”  Europe Risks  Asian central banks have lowered borrowing costs over the
past year to bolter economic growth, as  Europe ’s financial
crisis deepened and expansion in the U.S. faltered. Goldman
Sachs raised its forecasts for swaps last month on speculation
the global downturn reached bottom in the third quarter.  The five-year rate in Malaysia will climb to 3.7 percent in
12 months, the highest since August last year, Fiona Lake, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Goldman, wrote in a research report
on Sept. 19. The contracts were at 3.35 percent as of 11:41 a.m.
in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
Thailand, same-maturity swaps will rise to 3.8 percent, a level
last seen in April, Lake predicted. They were 3.28 percent today.  The Bank of  Thailand  reduced its one-day bond repurchase
 rate  by 25 basis points each in January this year and November
to 3 percent. Policy makers in Malaysia have kept borrowing
costs at 3 percent since May 2011, when they last raised the
benchmark after three prior increases.  “Asian rates still remain below where their fundamentals
suggest they should be trading,” Lake wrote. “Inflationary
pressures are likely to start to rise, although slowly and we
expect European risks to dissipate further.”  Schroder Inflation Doubts  Consumer prices  in Thailand gained 3.38 percent in
September from a year earlier, the fastest pace since March,
official data showed yesterday. Inflation may quicken to 3.5
percent in 2013, from 3.3 percent this year, Somchai Sujjapongse,
head of the finance ministry’s fiscal policy office, said in
Bangkok Sept. 25.  In Malaysia,  the cost of goods  may rise as much as 3
percent next year, compared with a maximum 2.5 percent estimate
for 2012, the government reported on Sept. 28.  Rajeev De Mello, who manages $7 billion of debt as the
Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-income assets at Schroder
Investment Management, is less concerned about inflation. The
global economy will remain weak, keeping prices and interest
rates low, he said.  “I have some difficulty in thinking inflation is going
up,” De Mello said in a Sept. 28 interview. “Growth is
actually weakening. In the next six months, policy is either on
hold or a bias to ease.”  Swaps Spreads  Credit Agricole CIB is recommending so-called steepening
trades, or bets longer-maturity  interest-rate swaps  will rise
faster than those at the short end. The gap in Asia has widened,
reflecting investors’ expectations for tightening.  The spread between Malaysia’s two- and five-year contracts
reached 20 basis points today, compared with an eight-month low
of 11 basis points in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In Thailand, the difference was 31 basis points after
touching 12 basis points on July 25, the least in 11 months. The
margin in  Indonesia  was 35 basis points, compared with a seven-
month low of zero on July 3.  Indonesia should be ready to tighten monetary policy as
accelerating economic growth boosts inflation, according to a
report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development on Sept. 27, which predicted the nation’s consumer
prices may rise 4.7 percent next year from 4.2 percent in 2012.  Rate Curve  “Looking at the longer-term horizon, there’s a chance
Indonesia will raise interest rates in the first quarter because
domestic demand has been very strong,” Pang Cheng Duan, who
helps manage $37 billion of Asian fixed income as head of debt
in  Singapore  at Manulife Asset Management, said in a Sept. 28
interview. He declined to comment on investment strategy or
provide specific forecasts.  Indonesia’s  economy  expanded 6.4 percent in the second
quarter, beating the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for
6.1 percent. Malaysia’s gross domestic product rose 5.4 percent,
compared with the predicted 4.6 percent, while Thailand grew 4.2
percent versus 3.1 percent.  “Asian interest-rate curves are very flat and steepening
could be a trend,”  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole in Hong Kong, said in a Sept. 27 interview. “As long
as there’s no recession, the curves should steepen, although
moving only gradually as there’s still concern over growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  