-- Real Madrid Routs Deportivo 5-1, Napoli Stays Unbeaten in Italy
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-01T00:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/real-madrid-routs-deportivo-5-1-napoli-stays-unbeaten-in-italy.html
Cristiano Ronaldo  got three goals as
Real  Madrid  beat Deportivo La Coruna 5-1 yesterday to climb to
sixth in Spanish soccer’s La Liga. Napoli won to keep pace with
defending champion Juventus atop Italy’s Serie A.  Angel di Maria and Pepe also scored for Real after
Deportivo took an early lead at Madrid’s Bernabeu stadium.
Madrid has 10 points after its second straight league victory,
eight less than first-place Barcelona, which two days ago
rallied with two late goals to win 3-2 at Sevilla. Barcelona
hosts Madrid on Oct. 7.  Edinson Cavani, who scored a hat-trick in midweek,
maintained Napoli’s unbeaten start in Serie A with the only goal
yesterday at Sampdoria, scored from the penalty spot.  Juventus, a 4-1 winner against Roma two days ago, and
Napoli have 16 points from six games.  Inter Milan  and Lazio also
won to move to 12 points.  Inter defeated Fiorentina 2-1 on goals from Diego Milito,
from the penalty spot, and  Antonio Cassano . Lazio beat Siena by
the same score.  Eintracht Frankfurt defeated Freiburg 2-1 yesterday to
extend its unbeaten start in the Bundesliga and stay within two
points of first-place  Bayern Munich . Alexander Meier got both
its goals.  Bayern, which has a 100 percent record through six matches,
won 2-0 at Werder Bremen two days ago.  Defending champion Borussia Dortmund and Schalke are five
points further back. Dortmund beat Borussia Moenchengladbach 5-0,
while Schalke tied 2-2 at Fortuna Dusseldorf on Sept. 28.  Marseille suffered its first defeat of the season in Ligue
1, losing 4-1 at Valenciennes yesterday. Its lead in the
standings is three points over Paris Saint-Germain, which
defeated Sochaux 2-0 two days ago. Lyon is a point further back
on 14 points after a 2-0 home loss to Bordeaux.  Ajax ended  FC Twente ’s perfect start in Dutch soccer’s
Eredivisie with a 1-0 win over its rival two days ago, with
 Vitesse Arnhem  now one point behind the leader after a 2-1
victory at Utrecht. Ajax and  PSV Eindhoven  are a further two
points back. PSV defeated VVV Venlo 6-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 