-- Treasury Yields Trade at Almost 3-Week Lows on Bernanke
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-01T21:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/treasuries-hold-gains-on-before-manufacturing-report.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
at almost a three-week low as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said inflation would remain in check as he renewed a
pledge to sustain stimulus after the U.S. expansion gains
strength.  Benchmark  10-year yields  extended earlier declines as data
indicating slower growth in Europe and Asia bolstered demand for
the safety of U.S. government debt. They briefly rose after the
Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index showed
growth for the first time since May. The Fed purchased $4.8
billion in Treasuries as part of its Operation Twist program.  “Even with today’s ISM, there’s still any number of
significant headwinds we have to go through before you can say
the coast is clear,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist in
New York at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It will be
difficult for Treasuries to find a different trajectory than
what we’ve seen over the last several weeks.”  The benchmark  10-year note  yield fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.63 percent as of 5 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent security due in August 2022 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per
$1,000 face value, to 100. The yield, which dropped 12 basis
points last week, fell to 1.60 percent on Sept. 28, the lowest
level since Sept. 7.  The yield on the 30-year bond was little changed at 2.82
percent.  Treasury  volume  reported today in New York by ICAP Plc, the
largest interdealer broker of U.S. government debt, dropped to
$221 billion at 5:01 p.m. in New York, from $316 billion on
Sept. 28. Daily volume has averaged $243 billion in 2012. It
touched $464 billion Sept. 13, the highest in 13 months.  Bernanke’s View  Five years of low interest-rate policies “have not led to
increased inflation,” and the public’s expectations for price
gains “remain quite stable,” Bernanke told the Economic Club
of  Indiana . Fed officials have the necessary tools to tighten
when needed to prevent “inflationary pressures down the road,”
he said.  Policy makers’ forecast to hold the main interest rate
close to zero until at least mid-2015 “doesn’t mean that we
expect the economy to be weak through” that year, the Fed chief
said.  A gauge of U.S. manufacturing rose to 51.5 in September
from 49.6 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
today. Economists had forecast a rise to 49.7.  ‘Stall Speed’  “We’re still in a stall-speed, low-growth trajectory,”
said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer. “We’re not really
changing our view on manufacturing.”  Fed Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said the
U.S. economy and financial markets still face “severe
challenges” in the aftermath of the 2007-2009 recession.  Treasuries returned 2.3 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The securities returned
1.1 percent in the past two weeks of September, leaving them
down 0.3 percent for the month.  “It’s a follow-through on the same global-growth concerns
and actions by the Fed,” said Scott Sherman, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG.
It’s also “about how global growth can present a risk to our
growth trajectory.”  Fed Buying  The central bank bought Treasuries maturing from November
2020 to August 2022 today as part of its program to swap
shorter-term Treasuries for longer-term securities, according to
its  website .  The Fed has also purchased $2.3 trillion of securities
between 2008 and 2011 in two rounds of another policy known as
quantitative easing. The Fed said Sept. 13 it will buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities a month to support the
economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Investors initially increased their inflation expectations
on the Fed’s plan to buy mortgage bonds. The  gap  between yields
on 10-year notes and same-maturity Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities expanded to 2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17, the
widest since May 2006.  The so-called break-even rate, which measures how much
traders anticipate consumer prices will rise over the life of
the debt, was at 2.42 percentage points today, little changed
from the end of last week.  Demand to protect against higher  long-term bond yields  over
the next six months has been static since the Fed announcement,
Barclays Plc data show.  Payer Skew  The figures measure what traders call the payer skew using
options on  interest-rate swaps . The skew typically widens when
traders anticipate a rise in yields as they seek to hedge the
value of their holdings.  It’s now 25 cents for the shorter term, about unchanged
from December, while it’s 89 cents for options that mature in
2015, up from 80 cents at the end of 2011. Each 10 cents
represents $100,000 of bonds.  “The market is not suggesting there’s any kind of runaway
inflation in the next one or two years given the below-trend
growth trajectory and the impending fiscal cliff,” said Gemma Wright-Casparius, who manages the $43.9 billion Vanguard
Inflation-Protected Securities Fund at Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc.  The fiscal cliff refers to U.S. budget negotiations,
including automatic tax increases and spending cuts that may be
triggered pending deficit-reduction efforts.  High Volatility  Volatility in U.S government bonds was the highest in
developed markets today, according to measures of 10-year or
similar-dated debt, the spread between two-year and 10-year
securities and credit-default swaps.  Treasuries were supported amid reports of slow global
growth. Unemployment in the 17 nations using the euro reached
11.4 percent in August, the European Union  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said today, the same as June and July after those
months’ figures were revised higher.  Japan ’s  Tankan index  for large manufacturers fell in the
third quarter, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said in  Tokyo , showing the
companies became more pessimistic. In  Australia ,  factory output 
shrank at a faster pace in September, a private gauge showed. A
government survey indicated  China ’s manufacturing contracted for
a second month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  