-- Three Charged in What U.S. Calls $100 Million Schemes
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-02T00:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/three-charged-in-what-u-s-calls-100-million-schemes.html
Prosecutors charged three men with
taking part in a $100 million fraud involving the former chief
executive officer of Manhattan’s Park Avenue Bank who pleaded
guilty in 2010 to lying to regulators and embezzling funds.  Wilbur Anthony Huff, a  Kentucky  businessman; Park Avenue
Bank senior vice president Matthew L. Morris; and Allen
Reichman, formerly an executive at  Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., (OPY)  were
indicted by a federal grand jury in Manhattan and accused of
roles in a group of inter-related schemes, including defrauding
Oklahoma regulators in the $37.5 million sale of an insurer that
was later forced into receivership.  The schemes were allegedly conducted with the help of
former Park Avenue Bank CEO Charles Antonucci, the first person
convicted of trying to defraud the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief
Program. Regulators closed Park Avenue Bank in March 2010 and
its assets were assumed by Wayne, New Jersey-based Valley
National Bank, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Huff, 51, of Louisville, Kentucky, engaged in fraud and
bribery through several businesses throughout the U.S.,
including temporary staffing firm  General Employment Enterprises
Inc. (JOB) , insurance broker U.S. Insurance Group and payroll
management firm O2HR LLC, prosecutors said. Huff allegedly
bribed bankers including Antonucci and Morris, to help him carry
out his schemes, according to the indictment.  The Kentucky businessman “unlawfully took and received
tens of millions of dollars from clients, active businesses and
financial institutions, and used these funds to benefit himself,
his family and other companies and accounts in which he had
interests and obligations,” prosecutors said in the indictment.  ‘Corrupt Relationship’  “Integral to the success of these fraudulent schemes was
Huff’s corrupt relationship with Park Avenue Bank executives
Matthew L. Morris, the defendant, and Antonucci,” they said.  Huff is also accused of causing O2HR, a business services
firm, to fail to pay $53 million in employment taxes. The most
serious charge against Huff, conspiracy to commit bank fraud,
carries a 30-year prison term, prosecutors said.  The 13-count indictment also accuses Huff and Morris, 37,
of Queens, New York, of conspiracy to commit bank bribery,
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said today in a statement. Reichman, 52, of Irvington,
New York, was charged for his alleged role in the insurance-
fraud scheme, according to the statement.  All three men were arrested today, prosecutors said.  David Lambertus, a lawyer for Huff; Alan Nelson, an
attorney for Reichman; and Randy Zelin, who is representing
Morris, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on the
charges. Brian Maddox, a spokesman for Oppenheimer, also didn’t
immediately return a call.  22 Accounts  Prosecutors alleged Huff carried out his schemes from about
2007 through 2010, while maintaining as many as 22 accounts at
Park Avenue Bank through which he controlled the finances of his
various business entities.  Huff paid Antonucci and Morris hundreds of thousands of
dollars in bribes in exchange for favors including the issuance
of fraudulent letters of credit, which allowed Huff to accrue
more than $9 million in overdrafts, and the issuance of
fraudulent loans to the company, according to the indictment.  Those three men as well as Reichman were also involved in a
related conspiracy to defraud Oklahoma insurance regulators by
misrepresenting the source of $37.5 million which Antonucci used
to purchase insurer Providence Property & Casualty Insurance Co.
from one of Huff’s companies, according to the filing.  Reichman helped arrange an illegal $30 million loan from
Oppenheimer to fund the bulk of the deal, which wasn’t disclosed
to the regulators, according to the indictment.  Round-Trip  Prosecutors additionally alleged that Huff and Morris
helped Antonucci with a so-called round-trip transaction, in
which the former bank chief executive falsely represented to
U.S. regulators that he had invested $6.5 million of his own
money in the bank.  Antonucci used the transaction to attempt to obtain $11
million from TARP, according to the government.  “Today’s indictment charging two of Antonucci’s alleged
co-conspirators represents ‘Part Two’ in our ongoing
investigation into the misconduct at the bank that ultimately
led to its collapse,” Bharara said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Huff, 12-cr-00750, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  