-- Republicans End Swing-State Voter Sign-Up After Firing Company
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-10-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/republicans-end-swing-state-voter-sign-up-after-firing-company.html
The Republican National Committee
ended efforts to sign up new voters before the deadline in key
states for the presidential race because of questions raised
over registration applications tied to the party.  Republican parties in Florida,  Colorado ,  Nevada ,  North
Carolina  and  Virginia  -- all states that both campaigns view as
competitive -- fired  Glen Allen , Virginia-based  Strategic Allied
Consulting , the company in charge of registrations, said Kirsten
Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee.
The national committee also canceled its contract with the
company, its only vendor signing up new voters, Kukowski said.  The five states have registration deadlines from Oct. 6 to
Oct. 15. Stopping efforts before then could hurt Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney  in his bid to unseat Democratic President
 Barack Obama , said Lance deHaven-Smith, a Florida State
University political science professor in Tallahassee.  “In any swing state that’s going to be significant because
these elections are so close,” deHaven-Smith said. “This gives
an advantage to Obama.”  Firing the company didn’t hurt the party’s registration
efforts, Kukowski said.  ‘No Impact’  “It was wrapping up at the same time this happened, so
there is no impact,” Kukowski said in an e-mail.  Strategic Allied was fired after  Florida ’s Palm Beach Post
reported Sept. 25 that questions had been raised about
applications the company gave to the Palm Beach County elections
supervisor’s office, Kukowski said.  That was the first time either the national or state party
learned about issues with registration, said Kukowski and Brian
Burgess, a Florida Republican Party spokesman.  The company was required to report any instances of
applications being questioned by elections officials to the
state party, Burgess said.  Nathan Sproul, who owns the company, said that wasn’t true.  “Every morning, a conference call was held to discuss the
project using their conference call number,” Sproul said in an
e-mail. “It’s impossible for them to claim with credibility
that we didn’t communicate clearly.”  Sproul said the company had 2,000 workers in Florida and
that the problems were caused by a few individuals.  Similar Signatures  The applications contained similar signatures and
incomplete Social Security numbers, said Chris Cate, a spokesman
for Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner. It’s a third-degree
felony under state law to submit fraudulent applications, Cate
said.  Florida investigators are considering a criminal case over
the registration forms, said Gretl Plessinger, a spokeswoman for
the state Law Enforcement Department.  The Florida Republican Party filed an elections complaint
against Strategic Allied Consulting over the issue, Cate said.
Cate declined to release the complaint, citing a public-records
exemption under state law.  The suspicious forms were linked to the party because of
new requirements under a 2011 law signed by Republican Governor
 Rick Scott . Democrats said the law, which put new regulations on
signing up voters, was written to create hurdles for Obama’s re-
election and favor Republicans. Republicans who control the
Legislature said the law was needed to combat voter fraud.  Scott has made it a priority to remove illegally registered
Floridians from the state’s 11.5 million voters. His
administration has spent more than a year searching the rolls,
and at least 59 suspected noncitizens have been removed so far,
Cate said.  Incomplete Numbers  Hundreds of forms linked to the party were questioned last
week by election officials in nine counties who said the
documents contained similar signatures and incomplete Social
Security numbers, Cate said.  For more than a year, Scott also has made registering new
voters a priority. He recruited top Republican fundraisers to
collect money for the effort to help erase party’s deficit with
Democrats, who have an edge of about 455,000 voters.  That in-house effort from Florida Republicans resulted in
about 7,000 applications in the two months before hiring
Strategic Allied in July at the suggestion of the  Republican
National Committee , Burgess said. None of the applications
collected by the state party have been questioned, Burgess said.  The company has been paid more than $1.3 million from the
Florida Republican Party, Burgess said. The company hasn’t
reported to the party the number of voters it registered,
Burgess said.  Strategic Allied and its units have registered more than
500,000 voters in 40 states since the 2004 presidential
election, Sproul said  “We are very proud of our work product,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  