-- Republican Split on Akin May Hurt Bid for Senate Control
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-10-01T15:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/republican-split-on-akin-may-hurt-bid-for-senate-control.html
As some Republicans close to the
anti-tax Tea Party movement rally around Todd Akin’s U.S. Senate
bid in  Missouri , they are widening a divide in the party that
may hobble Republicans’ efforts to take control of the Senate.  Presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  and former George W. Bush
political adviser  Karl Rove  cut off support to Akin after his
Aug. 19 assertion that “legitimate rape” rarely causes
pregnancy. South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint  and former
presidential candidates  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Santorum  backed
Akin last week as he rejected party leaders’ call to quit the
race.  DeMint, Gingrich and Santorum say an Akin victory in
Missouri is central to Republicans’ goal of winning a Senate
majority, while other Republicans worry that supporting him
would hurt party members running for Congress. Democrats control
the Senate 53-47.  “What you are seeing reflects some of the ideological
division within the Republican party between the center right
and the far right,” said Alan Abramowitz, a political science
professor at  Emory University  in Atlanta.  Akin’s comment about rape was a political gift to his
Democratic opponent, first-term Senator  Claire McCaskill , 59,
who had been running behind him in polls. Romney and other
Republican leaders urged Akin to end his candidacy. He refused,
and Sept. 25 was the last day Akin could have his name removed
from the Nov. 6 ballot.  Not ‘First Choice’  “There are maybe some people in party leadership that I
wasn’t their first choice, but that’s OK,” Akin told reporters
Sept. 28 in  Kansas City  during a statewide bus tour. Missouri
voters “entrusted me with the job to replace Claire McCaskill,
and we’re going about that full speed ahead,” said Akin, 65, a
six-term congressman.  Missouri Senator  Roy Blunt , a Republican, called for Akin
to step aside Aug. 21 yet endorsed him last week. Appearing on
 CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” yesterday, Blunt said the race had
“largely become a debate about the majority in the Senate.”  “Frankly, I think that anybody else would have been a
candidate that clearly would have won, and Todd very well may
win,” Blunt said.  McCaskill, earlier rated as one of the most vulnerable
Democrats seeking re-election this year, seized on Akin’s
comments on rape. On MSNBC Sept. 28, she said Akin would be part
of the “fringe caucus that wants to convince everyone that the
whole issue is that government is the enemy.”  Race Tightened  She moved ahead of Akin in polls although the race
tightened since then. A St. Louis  Post-Dispatch /Mason-Dixon poll
conducted Aug. 22-23 gave McCaskill a nine percentage-point
lead. A  Public Policy Polling  survey conducted Aug. 28-29 showed
the race was virtually tied, with Akin trailing by one
percentage point.  “We’re beginning a new chapter of the campaign and it’s
going to take a couple of weeks to see whether Akin can
withstand the Democratic attacks,” said  Nathan Gonzales , deputy
editor at the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report. If polls
show the race is close, “you will see some Republican outside
groups come in and try to win this for their side.”  In campaign speeches, McCaskill says Akin would work to
privatize  Social Security  and Medicare and to abolish the
minimum wage and government-backed  student loans .  ‘His Own Words’  Last week, as the deadline for Akin to withdraw from the
ballot expired, McCaskill’s campaign began airing a television
ad citing him “in his own words.”  It quotes Akin as having said about Social Security in
March 2011: “I don’t like it.” The ad concludes with his
“legitimate rape” remark and asks, “What will he say next?”  Emily’s List, a political action committee focused on
electing women candidates, began airing an ad last week that
includes a clip of Akin’s comment on rape and says he is “wrong
for Missouri.”  Ken Warren, an independent pollster and political science
professor at Saint Louis University, said McCaskill waited to
ramp up her attack on Akin. “She wanted him to stay in the race
because he’s a wounded candidate,” he said.  Akin drew fresh criticism from Democrats last week when he
compared his Sept. 21 debate with McCaskill to her 2006 campaign
against Republican Senator Jim Talent. She was more “ladylike”
in 2006, Akin said.  ‘Demeaning to Women’  Akin was “at it again with another comment that’s
demeaning to women and offensive to all,” said  Washington 
Senator  Patty Murray , who leads Senate Democrats’ campaign.
McCaskill told the Associated Press Sept. 28 she was “polite
and calm” during the debate and described Akin’s comment as
“kind of a head scratcher.”  McCaskill held no public events last week and her campaign
declined requests to make her available for comment.  Akin was trailed by groups of women protesters last week as
he toured Missouri. About a dozen protesters -- many wearing
pink Planned Parenthood Action Fund shirts that said “Women are
Watching” -- chanted “Akin is mistaken” after he spoke to
reporters in the state Capitol rotunda in Jefferson City.  Still, female Akin supporters who attended his campaign
events said they were frustrated with national Republicans’ rush
to disavow his comment on rape.  ‘Under the Bus’  “His own party threw him under the bus,” said Julie
Thomas, a 35-year-old Lake of the Ozarks resident who has helped
organize Women for Akin rallies in Jefferson City. “This is a
man who has unparalleled character in the political arena, and
to see the whole world try to take him down like they did, it
just bothers me.”  Asked by reporters whether his comments might alienate
women voters, Akin said he had “a regular army of women”
campaigning for him. He said he was “very proud of them all.”  Akin faces a financing shortage. The  National Republican
Senatorial Committee  and Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit group that
Rove helped create, have said they won’t spend money on the
contest with him as the nominee. Though the NRSC endorsed Akin
Sept. 26, it didn’t offer a financial contribution.  In a 14-day period ending Sept. 24, McCaskill ran more than
six times as many television ads as Akin. Her campaign had 2,124
ads compared with 337 for Akin, according to Kantar Media’s
CMAG, which tracks campaign advertising.  Conservatives Fund  Akin received a pledge of financial assistance from the
Senate Conservatives Fund, a DeMint-led political action
committee that helped elect Tea-Party-backed senators in 2010.
The group set an initial goal of raising $100,000 for Akin’s
campaign by Sept. 30.  “The challenge for Akin now is fundraising,” Matt
Hoskins, the group’s executive director, wrote in an e-mail to
its supporters. “Party leaders in Washington have made it clear
that they won’t help him regardless of how close the race is.”  Warren, the Saint Louis University professor, said with
some Republicans coming back to his corner, Akin might get
enough money to “become a viable candidate again.”  When he discusses at campaign events his decision to stay
in the race, Akin cites voters who supported him in his Aug. 7
primary win and criticizes McCaskill’s support for President
 Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law and the 2009 economic
stimulus package.  In his stump speeches, Akin points to Missouri voters’
almost 3-to-1 support in an August 2010 non-binding referendum
for repealing the health-care law’s requirement to buy
insurance.  He also speaks of his religious faith. He told supporters
at a Sept. 25 rally in heavily Democratic  St. Louis  that there
was a question “more fundamental” than whether he wins.  “And that is: What’s the right thing to do?” Akin said.
“There is an amazing correlation. When you do the right thing,
you end up winning anyway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Missouri at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  