-- Republicans Seeking Medicare Edge Put Parents in TV Ads
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-10-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/republicans-seeking-medicare-edge-put-parents-in-tv-ads.html
As they pursue an advantage on the
Medicare issue in the Nov. 6 elections, Republicans are turning
to personal allies for help: Mom and Dad.  “ Richard Mourdock  cares about seniors, and he won’t let us
down,” an elderly man says to the camera in an ad for the
Indiana state treasurer seeking a U.S. Senate seat.  “I should know,” the man concludes, “I’m his father.”  Ads like Mourdock’s seek to put a human face on Medicare
and defuse Democrats’ criticism that Republican plans to curb
government spending would hurt the health insurance program for
Americans age 65 and older. Debate over Medicare has intensified
since Wisconsin U.S. Representative Paul Ryan, an author of
budget proposals to overhaul the program, became the Republican
vice-presidential nominee last month.  Ryan, 42, has introduced his mother at campaign events
including the Republican National Convention in Tampa,  Florida ,
where he said Aug. 29 that Medicare helped a grandmother with
Alzheimer’s disease and is “there for my mom today.”  The Republican campaign on Medicare includes labeling as
deep “cuts” the $716 billion in cost savings that President
 Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law anticipates from scaling
back payments to hospitals and other providers. The personal ads
underscore the importance of the Medicare issue in the election.  Empathy and Caring  “It’s just a way of communicating this sense of empathy
and caring, which the public responds to,” John Geer, a
political scientist at Vanderbilt University in Nashville,
 Tennessee , who specializes in campaign advertising.  Voters “don’t necessarily know all the details of Medicare
policy, but they want to know that there’s somebody who’s going
to care about it and try to protect it,” he said. “And one way
to communicate that is through an elderly parent.”  Republicans are seeking the upper hand on Medicare against
Democrats, who have had a longstanding advantage in opinion
surveys that ask voters which party would do a better job
managing the program enacted in 1965.  Obama led Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  by 51 percent
to 38 percent on the question of which candidate would do the
best job of dealing with Medicare, according to a Pew Research
Center  survey  taken Sept. 12-16. By a 54 percent to 31 percent
margin, voters trust Obama and congressional Democrats to
preserve the long-term financial health of Medicare over Romney
and congressional Republicans, according to a United
Technologies/National Journal  poll  taken Sept. 7-9.  Seven Families  At least seven candidates for Congress, all Republicans,
have aired TV ads on Medicare that include or call attention to
an elderly parent, according to a Bloomberg review of ads from
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  “The fact that it’s being done so much tells me the
Republicans are worried about Medicare as an issue that could
hurt them in the fall election,” Geer said.  The Medicare issue may influence the vote in contests
including Mourdock’s in  Indiana , one of 10 Senate races that the
independent Cook Political Report says has no clear favorite.
Mourdock, 60, is reaching out to more mainstream voters after
unseating Senator Richard G. Lugar in the Republican primary
with help from anti-government spending Tea Party activists.
Mourdock is in a close race with Democratic Representative Joe Donnelly, 57, polls show.  Maternal Advice  Colorado Republican U.S. Representative Mike Coffman, 57,
appears in an ad with his mother, a Medicare recipient, whom he
tells viewers is his “number one adviser on Medicare” as he
says he’s working to “protect every nickel” of the program.
Coffman’s district was reconfigured before this year’s election
to absorb more Democrats, creating a more challenging re-
election race in the suburbs of Denver.  Campaign aides approached Coffman with the idea of
including his mother in a campaign commercial, and “he loved
it,” Owen Loftus, a campaign spokesman, said in an interview.
“He brought it up to his mom, she loved it, and wanted to take
part in it.”  The ad is “a fun way to get our point across” and shows
that “Mike has a personal interest in protecting Medicare,”
Loftus said.  Indiana Republican Jackie Walorski, a former state
legislator, is running an ad in a U.S. House race that shows her
helping an elderly woman, identified as Martha, with an
application to receive Social Security benefits.  “In Congress I’ll oppose any cuts in Social Security or
Medicare,” Walorski, 49, says. “This is personal to me,
because Martha’s my mom.”  Republican Representative Joe Heck of  Nevada , seeking a
second term in a competitive district in metropolitan Las Vegas,
uses a Medicare-themed ad to talk about his father’s recovery
from a heart attack two years ago.  “That’s when I knew how important Medicare was to me,”
Heck, 50, says in the ad, as it shows a photograph of him with
his father. “Medicare and team of great doctors saved my dad’s
life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  