-- Thrilling ‘Pi’ Stars Tiger, Boy, Sea; Bleak ‘Amour’: Film
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/thrilling-pi-stars-tiger-boy-sea-bleak-amour-film.html
The credits unfurl against the odd
gaits and funny muzzles of the beasts in an Indian zoo,
photographed in miraculously tactile 3-D. By the time they’ve
finished, you know that “ Life of Pi ” is going to take you
someplace splendid.  From those opening moments, the director, Ang Lee, makes
clear his intention: to amaze.  “Life of Pi,” which opened the 50th  New York  Film
Festival on Friday, tells the story of a shipwrecked boy and a
Bengal tiger alone on the ocean together.  Its “Robinson Crusoe” charm and excitement come from the
boy’s resourcefulness in keeping himself and the tiger alive in
their drifting boat, and in gaining the animal’s respect so that
it won’t eat him.  Yann Martel, the Canadian author who wrote the 2001 novel
the movie is based on, made the story a parable about faith and
the ways we perceive the divine. His vision and Lee’s merge
beautifully.  As a boy, Pi Patel is comically open to belief. By the time
he boards the fatal freighter with his family, he has embraced
Hinduism, Catholicism and Islam -- all together; he doesn’t see
why he has to choose.  Overpowering Senses  The movie’s idea of these faiths is as bright and friendly
and clean as the  India  of its opening scenes. But if it’s
consciously childlike on the plane of ideas, on the level of the
senses it’s overpowering.  A star-sprinkled sky above a sea phosphorescent with
jellyfish brings to mind another night sky: the one that, in
“ Close Encounters of the Third Kind ,” seemed to capture more
stars than any camera ever had before.  And the story of a fatherless boy who gives his heart to a
creature that isn’t human recalls, of course, “ E.T. ”
Throughout, early Steven Spielberg is Lee’s point of reference:
the simplicity of childhood combined with the most advanced (and
delightful) film technology.  Putting this astronomically expensive machinery in the
hands of a director as sensitive as Ang Lee wasn’t a complete
gamble on the part of 20th Century Fox: In addition to
“ Brokeback Mountain ” and “ Sense and Sensibility ,” he also
directed “ Hulk .”  For the magnificent tiger, which truly is frightening, Lee
in fact worked with four animals, filming a whole library of
movements and facial expressions for the digital artists to use
as reference points.  (It’s a little bit disappointing to learn that Suraj
Sharma, the young actor who plays Pi with great conviction, was
never actually alone in a boat with the beast.)  A whale rushing and leaping, a school of dolphins soaring,
a sudden invasion of flying fish that comes on like a
thunderstorm: Lee amazes.  The movie is so beautiful and, for anyone who loves
animals, so emotional that it might have worked as a simple
adventure story (which is how children will perceive it).  But then, I suspect, Lee wouldn’t have found much reason to
make it. As it is, you may not share his faith in God, but his
faith in film lights every frame.  “Life of Pi,” from 20th Century Fox, is scheduled to open
across the country on Nov. 21. Rating: *****  ‘Caesar’ Dies  The high-security wing of  Rome ’s Rebibbia Prison has had a
drama program since 2000. In “ Caesar Must Die ,” the brothers
Paolo and Vittorio Taviani (“ Padre Padrone ”) use it to film a
modern-dress, modern-language “Julius Caesar.”  With its themes of conspiracy and betrayal, it’s the right
Shakespearean tragedy; most of the actor-prisoners have ties to
organized crime.  They play both their roles and themselves. The film at
first appears to be a documentary about the production.  Only gradually does it become clear that the jokes and
face-offs that interrupt the rehearsals are part of the script,
and that the “rehearsals,” shot all over the prison in the
right scenic order, are the Tavianis’ staging.  The movie lasts just 76 minutes, and every one of them is
intense.  “Caesar Must Die,” from Adopt Films, will be shown again
at the Walter Reade Theater Oct. 1 at 8:45 p.m. and at the
Francis Beale Theater on Oct. 8, at 1 p.m. It is scheduled to
open on Feb. 6. Rating: ****1/2  Passionate ‘Amour’  Not long into “ Amour ,” Anne, an elderly Parisian music
teacher who lives with her husband of many years, Georges,
suffers a seizure. From there we watch her decline and Georges’s
increasingly futile attempts to care for her.  Emmanuelle Riva and Jean-Louis Trintignant, both now in
their 80s, play the couple in what may be the finest and
harshest performances of their long careers.  The film is written and directed, impeccably, by Michael
Haneke and gorgeously shot by Darius Khondji; a bourgeois
Parisian apartment probably hasn’t been this caressed by the
camera since “ Last Tango in Paris .”  But do you really want to be there? “Amour” is
aggressively intimate and unblinking. At one point Georges tries
to bar their daughter from the sickroom. “None of that,” he tells 
her, “deserves to be shown.”  “Amour,” from Sony Pictures Classics, will be shown again
at Alice Tully Hall on Oct. 5 at 6 p.m. and Oct. 6 at 3 p.m. It
is scheduled to open on Dec. 19. Rating: ****  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Amanda
Gordon  on Scene.  To contact the writer of this column: Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 