-- RIM Partnership Could Make Massive Difference, Matthews Says
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-01T20:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/rim-partnership-could-make-massive-difference-matthews-says-1-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the
struggling maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, would be more
likely to recover if it finds a strategic partner to help defray
expenses, Canadian billionaire Terry Matthews said.  “Partnering is so important because it’s not on your
income statement,” Matthews, the founder of Newbridge Networks
Corp., said in an interview today at the Toronto Board of Trade.
An alliance with another company could help RIM with research
spending and generating revenue, he said. “Partnering is an
incredibly important part of the DNA of a company.”  RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said last week
that he’s met with CEOs at various organizations over the past
several months to discuss software licensing and partnerships.
The Waterloo, Ontario-based company is trying to reinvigorate
demand for its BlackBerry phones after losing market share to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  RIM  climbed  4.8 percent to $7.86 at the close in  New York .
The gain, the shares’ fifth in a row, cut their decline to
46 percent this year.  Matthews declined to name any potential partners for RIM.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which like RIM counts companies as some of its
biggest customers, is often cited as the most logical partner.  “Microsoft is another issue,” Matthews said when asked
about the potential for a tie-up between RIM and the Redmond-
Washington-based software maker. The most important thing is a
good fit, he said.  ‘Mutual Respect’  “They have to have a good partner program and mutual
respect,” he said. “It could make a massive difference.”  Among the 80 companies Matthews has started or backed are a
handful that make technology for large wireless operators,
including  DragonWave Inc. (DRWI) ,  Mitel Networks Corp. (MITL)  and Bridgewater
Systems Corp. He sold Newbridge Networks Corp. to Alcatel SA in
2000 for about $7 billion.  Canadian technology companies struggle to get respect among
U.S. investors, who tend to think of their North American
neighbor in terms of commodity investing, Matthews said.  “People don’t actually value high-tech companies in  Canada 
but they do in the U.S.,” he said. “ Iron ore  is better, iron
ore, tin, zinc, lead, they love lead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  