-- Russian Pension Plan Lowering Funded Payments Sent to Putin
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-01T13:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/russian-pension-plan-lowering-funded-payments-sent-to-putin-1-.html
Russia ’s government submitted
proposals on overhauling the pension system to President
Vladimir Putin, including a reduction to the funded component
that had been opposed by the Finance Ministry and fund managers.  The government approved the plan and sent it to Putin by
his Oct. 1 deadline, Natalya Timakova, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s spokeswoman, told reporters today outside Moscow. The
proposal would lower the amount paid into the pension system’s
funded part to 2 percent from 6 percent, said Alexei Levchenko,
spokesman for Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets.  “There are some parts to this concept that the government
sees as invariable, while the rest is submitted as proposals,”
Timakova said, declining to say whether the Cabinet would insist
on a reduced funded component.  The world’s biggest energy exporter faces a pension system
deficit, including transfers from the budget, that may increase
to 8.5 percent by 2030 from 5 percent of economic output, or 2.6
trillion rubles ($83.4 billion), if no measures are taken,
according to Citigroup Inc. Putin ordered Medvedev to reprimand
members of his Cabinet including Labor Minister Maxim Topilin
last month for failing to move quickly enough on a draft
strategy.  ‘Socially Acceptable’  The government’s proposal estimates that leaving the system
unchanged would bring pensions below a “socially acceptable
level,” while transfers to cover the pension fund deficit will
reach 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2030, according to
Levchenko.  The State Pension Fund channels 16 percent of the 22
percent it receives to pay pensions to current retirees and
shifts 6 percent to asset management firms. Vnesheconombank,
Russia’s state development bank known as VEB, manages about 80
percent of the funded part of the system. While pension savings
are transferred to VEB by default, employees can also choose a
non-state company.  The Pension Fund predicts assets in the funded part of the
system, created in 2002, will reach about 2.3 trillion rubles by
the end of this year, up from 1.7 trillion rubles in January.
Speaking at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum in
June, Putin said the funded pension pool will reach about 4
trillion rubles by 2015 and some of that money will be invested
in long-term bonds to help finance infrastructure projects.  Hazardous Jobs  The strategy includes proposals to require employers to pay
higher rates for workers involved in dangerous professions to
reduce the burden of Soviet-era early retirement benefits now
paid by the state. Officials also seek to boost the amount self-
employed workers are paying into the system.  Reducing the funded component to 2 percent will release
about 300 billion rubles per year, not enough to “significantly
improve” the Pension Fund gap, Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at Alfa Bank in Moscow, said in a research note
today.  “We take the Cabinet’s decision as negative for the
Russian business climate and for budget stability,” they said.
“Taking defined contribution revenues from private savers will
increase budget obligations in the longer term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  