-- Russia Micex Index to Be Expanded to 50 Stocks to Match RTS
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-01T15:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/russia-micex-index-to-be-expanded-to-50-stocks-to-match-rts-1-.html
Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  will
incorporate 20 new stocks starting Dec. 18 as the government
moves to simplify trading and ease investment.  The additions will make the composition of the ruble-
denominated Micex identical to the 50-stock  RTS Index (RTSI$) , which is
priced in dollars, according to Sergey Golovanev, head of the
Moscow Exchange’s index and market data department.  “The dollar and ruble-denominated indices will be based on
the same pool of stocks with the largest market
capitalization,” Golovanev said in a phone interview from
Moscow today.  The changes, aimed at unifiying the two gauges, are a step
toward President Vladimir Putin’s goal of turning Moscow into a
global financial hub and luring international investors to the
nation’s assets. The  Moscow Exchange  was created when the Micex
Stock Exchange merged with the  RTS  Exchange in December. The
bourse offers stock, bond, currency and futures trading.  In 2013 the exchange plans to unite the RTS and Micex
indexes under a single trademark, according to Golovanev.  “In 2013, both names, the Micex Index and RTS, will
continue to exist,” Golovanev said. “2013 will be a transition
year. This will continue until the exchange decides on a new
joint name for the indices.”  The Micex Index climbed 1.9 percent to 1,486.33 by 6:05
p.m. in Moscow. The RTS added 2.4 percent to 1,511.71.  ‘Positive Change’  “It’ll be very convenient when we have one index,” Ilya
Piterskiy, an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone. “This is a
positive change.”  OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer, OAO
Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-state oil producer and OAO
Sberbank, the country’s largest lender, have the  largest
weighting  in the Micex, Bloomberg data show.  OAO Bashneft, a Russian oil company, OAO Phosagro, a
fertilizer producer, and M.Video, Russia’s largest electronics
retailer, are some of the companies on the RTS Index that aren’t
included on the Micex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  