-- Samsung, Kimberly-Clark, Whirlpool: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-01T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/samsung-kimberly-clark-urban-outfitters-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  can pursue
its efforts to rescind a ban on U.S. sales of the Galaxy Tab
10.1 tablet computer that’s part of a dispute with Apple Inc., a
U.S. appeals court said Sept. 28.  The court said U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose,
 California , can have jurisdiction to consider whether to lift
the ban, which had been imposed before a patent-infringement
trial that ended in August. The jury found that Samsung didn’t
infringe a design patent that had been the basis for blocking
sales in the U.S.  Apple contends the ban should remain in place because the
jury found the Galaxy Tab infringed other patents. Koh had
refused to act because the ban was on appeal before the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. She said she might
permit sales if granted jurisdiction.  An order granting her that authority was posted on the
Federal Circuit appeals court’s electronic docket.  The Federal Circuit said it isn’t taking a position on how
Koh should decide the issue.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1506,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,
11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Whirlpool, LG Electronics Settle Refrigerator Patent Suits  Whirlpool Corp., the world’s largest appliance maker, and
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  agreed to settle patent-infringement cases
over refrigerator icemakers for an undisclosed amount.  The settlement resolves three patent lawsuits filed in
federal courts in New Jersey and  Delaware , Benton Harbor,
Michigan-based Whirlpool and Seoul-based LG said Sept. 28 in a
statement.  “This agreement, which concludes years of patent
litigation between LG and Whirlpool, will result in the
dismissal” of the cases, the companies said.  A Delaware jury found in 2010 that LG infringed a Whirlpool
icemaker patent and awarded $1.78 million in damages. U.S.
District Judge Gregory M. Sleet in Wilmington questioned the
jury’s calculations and ordered a new trial. Whirlpool had
sought more than $22 million in damages.  Last year, Whirlpool said it won a six-month stay of patent
litigation over refrigerator technology while it challenged the
validity of LG’s patents at the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  One case resolved by the settlement is LG Electronics v.
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , 08-cv-234, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Kimberly-Clark Sues First Quality Over Diaper Closure Patent  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the Dallas-based maker of paper
consumer products, sued a manufacturer of disposable training
pants for patent infringement.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 28 in federal court
in Green Bay,  Wisconsin , First  Quality Products Inc. (QPDC) ’s Baby
Products unit infringes patent 8,221,378, which covers a
refastenable closure to be used for disposable diapers and
training pants. The patent, which was issued in July, was
assigned exclusively to Kimberly-Clark on the date the patent
issued, according to court papers.  Kimberly-Clark, which makes Depends adult diapers and Pull-
Ups training pants, asked the court for an order barring further
infringement of its patent, and for awards of money damages and
litigation costs.  First Quality, based in McElhattan,  Pennsylvania , didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Kimberly-Clark Worldwide Inc., v. First Quality
Baby Products LLC, 1:12-cv-00993, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Wisconsin (Green Bay).  Dow Prevails in Weed-Control System Patent Dispute with Bayer  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Dow AgroSciences unit has prevailed in a
patent-infringement case brought by  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Bayer CropScience
unit.  In a Sept. 27 ruling, U.S. District Judge Renee Marie Bumb
said the technology used in Dow’s Enlist Weed Control System
doesn’t infringe patent 6,153,401, which covers a mechanism for
the genetic manipulation of a plant that will enable it to
resist the 2,4-D herbicide.  Bayer had claimed that Dow’s genetically corn and soybean
strains genetically manipulated to resist the herbicide
infringed the patent, which was issued in November 2000.  Judge Bumb disagreed, saying because the court had accepted
the way Dow considered the patent claims, and Bayer hadn’t
disputed that the Dow products wouldn’t infringe the patent
under those claims, she found no infringement.  The case is Bayer CropScience AG v. Dow AgroSciences LLC,
1:10-cv-01045-RMB-JS, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Urban Outfitters Asks That ‘Navajo’ Trademark Suit Be Relocated  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the lifestyle specialty retailer
based in Philadelphia, has asked the court to move a trademark
suit from  Albuquerque , New Mexico, to Philadelphia.  Urban Outfitters was sued in March for trademark
infringement by the  Navajo Nation , which is the  largest Native
American tribe  in the U.S.  The suit is related to the retailer’s use of “Navajo”
with products it sells.  In October, the Navajo Nation sent Urban Outfitters a
cease-and-desist letter objecting to the use of the word
“Navajo” on underwear and the sale of a flask wrapped in what
was described as “Navajo Print Fabric.” The Navajo Nation
complained that the use of the word on underwear offended the
tribe’s spiritual beliefs about modesty, and calling a flask
“Navajo” was insensitive, given the ban on the sale and
consumption of alcohol on the reservation.  Other items to which the Navajo Nation objected included an
“Unknown Techno Navajo Quilt Oversized Crop Tee” and a “Truly
Madly Deeply Navajo Print Tunic,” according to court papers.  In a Sept. 30 court filing, Urban Outfitters argues that
the New Mexico court is inconvenient for everyone, even
including the Navajo Nation, which is headquartered in Window
Rock,  Arizona , according to the tribe’s  website .  The filing also notes that 75 percent of the docket for the
New Mexico court is comprised of criminal matters, and that this
makes the court the third-busiest in the nation in that regard.
As a result, delays in the handling of civil matters are more
likely, according to court filings.  Additionally, Urban Outfitters said that the court in
Philadelphia is “particularly well-versed in intellectual
property matters,” hearing 200 such cases for a 12-month period
ending June 30, 2011.  Urban Outfitters also argued that the Navajo Nation has
previously released a statement commending the retailer for
removing the Navajo name from its online marketing and products,
and accused the plaintiff of “reneging on their public
representation that they were committed to avoiding what is now
this lawsuit.”  The case is Navajo Nation v. Urban Outfitters Inc., 1:12-
cv-00195, U.S. District Court, District of New Mexico
(Albuquerque).  Amazon.com Seeks Dismissal of Apple’s False Advertising Claim  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest online retailer, has
asked a federal court in Oakland, California, to reject Apple
Inc.’s claim that its use of “AppStore” constitutes false
advertising.  Cupertino, California-based Apple sued Amazon in March
2011, and asked for a preliminary court order barring the online
retailer’s use of “Appstore,” pending the outcome of the
lawsuit.  Apple, whose top-selling product is the iPhone, claimed it
would be irreparably harmed because the value of its own App
Store will be eroded as consumers confuse the two services.  In its Sept. 26 court filing, Amazon said “AppStore” is
part of the name of its “Amazon Appstore for Android” and the
only claim Amazon makes about the nature and characteristics of
the Amazon Appstore is that it contains thousands of apps and
that they have been tested to perform on its Kindle Fire
portable device.  Apple didn’t contend that these claims are false, Amazon
argued. A claim for false advertising requires a false statement
of fact about the nature, characteristics, or quality of the
seller’s product, Amazon said, arguing that none of those
allegations can validly be made about its use of “Amazon
Appstore for Android.”  Amazon claims Apple is trying to turn its trademark-
infringement claims into a false advertising case, and says in
its filing that trademark infringement and false advertising are
“distinct types of wrongful conduct.” Apple shouldn’t be
allowed to “piggyback on its trademark infringement claim,”
Amazon said.  Instead, “from its inception, this has been a simple
trademark case,” Amazon says, and asked the court to dismiss
the false advertising claims in the suit.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-01327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AF Holdings Sues Single Defendant for BitTorrent Film Sharing  AF Holdings LLC, a maker of adult films, sued a single
defendant for infringing the copyright to one of its videos.  According to the suit filed Sept. 27 in federal court in
Worcester,  Massachusetts , the film was infringed through the use
of the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol. In recent months many
copyright infringement cases have been filed by makers of adult
films, generally listing as many as several hundred unidentified
defendants.  In this case, although a name is listed for a defendant,
the complaint doesn’t list a specific place of residence.
Instead, AF Holdings alleges that the defendant “may be found”
in the Massachusetts federal judicial district, or the action
that gives rise to the claims in the case occurred there.  AF does give the defendant’s Internet protocol address,
which is a unique series of numbers separated by dots.  The alleged illegal downloading was observed by AF in April
2011, the film company says in its pleadings. AF also says the
defendant used BitTorrent to share the film with others. Because
of this, AF is also accusing the defendant of civil conspiracy.  The film company asked the court to order a halt to the
alleged infringement, and for the seizure of all infringing
content under the defendant’s control. Additionally, AF seeks
money damages, and awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  AF said that if the defendant didn’t do the illegal file
sharing, and instead simply permitted it to take place on his
computer, then he is accused of negligence and is still liable
for illegal actions performed on his computer.  The case is AF Holdings V. Maxime St. Louis, 4:12-cv-11797-
TSH, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Worcester).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 