-- Scene in D.C.: Rubenstein Notes Organ, Sparks Sings Komen
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-01T14:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/scene-in-d-c-jordin-sparks-at-komen-gambling-for-kids.html
Carlyle Group co-founder  David Rubenstein  and his wife, Alice, recently donated a 5,000-pipe
organ to the Kennedy Center.  “The best part about it is I won’t be playing it,” said
Rubenstein, a piano-lessons dropout.  The organ will make its debut in November with the National
Symphony Orchestra, which celebrated its 82nd season last night
with a performance, dinner and dancing.  Under the direction of Christoph Eschenbach, the NSO
performed a suite from “Der Rosenkavalier” for an audience
that included Supreme Court Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , and Librarian of
Congress James Billington.  Anne-Sophie Mutter, in Kelly-green Dior, was the soloist on
Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E Minor for Violin and Orchestra.  That was one of the favorites of Jay Johnson, the chief
executive officer of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , which is sponsoring
the NSO season.  The evening raised more than $1 million for the orchestra’s
educational and artistic initiatives.  Other guests included attorney Vernon Jordan, Japanese
Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki and Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero.  Pink Alphas  John Castellani  and Ray Lahood are two alpha males who
don’t mind wearing a little pink.  The chief executive officer of trade group Pharmaceutical
Research & Manufacturers of America and Secretary of
Transportation Lahood wore pink pocket squares and lapel ribbons
Friday night at the Kennedy Center.  It’s the signature color of breast-cancer awareness and of
 Susan G. Komen for the Cure , which works to end the disease. The
organization’s Honoring the Promise Gala, with its pink ball
gowns and cupcakes, raised about $2 million.  That’s about the same amount as last year and follows a
public-relations disaster in January when the organization said
it would pull funding from Planned Parenthood clinics. It
reversed its decision a few days later.  Nancy Brinker, who started the organization after her
sister, Susan G. Komen, died of  breast cancer , wore peachy-pink
Carolina Herrera at the gala.  Brinker said she wished more media attention were given to
young researchers looking into “killer diseases” rather than
to young techies looking for “the next killer app.”  Washington  has one of the highest breast-cancer mortality
rates in the country, yet the gala also celebrated progress
made: The national rate has declined by a third since 1991.  Jordin Sparks ignited the crowd with hits like “One Step
at a Time,” and actress Jaclyn Smith and country singer Naomi Judd presented awards.  Representative John Dingell, Michigan Democrat, and Susan
Bales Ford, the daughter of former first lady Betty Ford,
presented the Betty Ford Lifetime Achievement Award to Senator
 Olympia Snowe , Maine Republican, whose mother died of breast
cancer when the senator was eight.  Chicago Mayor  Former Chicago Mayor Richard Daley choked up as he accepted
the Community Distinction Award on behalf of his late wife,
Maggie, who died from the disease last year.  Carlyle’s Rubenstein, a founding chairman of the Komen
gala, sent a video message explaining he had to deliver a speech
at his alma mater,  Duke University , where Susan G. Komen was
given an honorary degree posthumously this year.  Other business leaders present included Fred Malek, the
chairman and founder of Thayer Capital Partners LP, who said his
wife, Marlene, got him involved with the cause.  Casino Night  “Just drink a lot and remember your number,” joked Dean
D’Angelo, a director at Laminar Direct Capital LLC, Saturday
night at the Capital for Children Casino Night.  D’Angelo and more than a dozen private-equity players
founded Capital for Children in 2007 to help needy youngsters in
the D.C. area.  “We’ve been so fortunate. We have got to give back,” said
Phil Deutch, a managing partner at NGP Energy Technology
Partners.  The gamblers gathered at Long View Gallery, an art gallery
and event space. There were 10 blackjack tables, two craps
tables, one double roulette table, and a  Texas  Hold ’Em lounge.
An oyster bar and sleek white couches marked the “High
Rollers” tent.  Chip girls in miniskirts and fish-net stockings added to
the Vegas vibe. The women guests seemed just as eager to roll
the dice.  Deutch says that in addition to the money raised at the
casino nights, each member of Capital for Children makes a
yearly personal contribution of $5,000 to $10,000.  Proceeds benefit several local charities including  Horton’s
Kids , a nonprofit that helps children improve their math and
reading skills.  Argy, Arnold & Porter LLP,  Blank Rome  LP and  BB&T Capital
Markets  were among the main corporate sponsors.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 