-- SEC Leads From Behind as High-Frequency Trading Shows Data Gap
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-10-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/sec-leads-from-behind-as-high-frequency-trading-shows-data-gap.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, stung by criticism that it lacks the knowledge to
analyze the computerized trading that has come to dominate
American stock markets, is planning to catch up.  Initiatives to increase the breadth of data received from
exchanges and to record orders from origination to execution are
at the center of the effort. Gregg Berman, who holds a doctorate
in physics from  Princeton University , will head the commission’s
planned office of analytics and research.  “What we will focus on is trying to shed more light on
some of the big outstanding questions about market structure,”
Berman said in an interview in  Washington . “What is the impact
of high-frequency trading? What’s the effect of high rates of
order cancellations? What’s the connection between exchange-
traded funds and individual stocks? How might different rules
impact the market?”  Berman’s team will assess how market behavior has been
altered after 15 years of regulatory reform and advances in
technology that have left trading fragmented across 13 competing
exchanges, 10 options markets and dozens of venues operated
privately by brokerages. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , spurred
into action by the stock rout of May 6, 2010, has made improving
data collection a priority.  Too Long  High-frequency strategies, which process massive amounts of
quote and transaction data and rely on the rapid-fire submission
of orders to exchanges, account for 51 percent of U.S. equity
volume, up from 35 percent in 2007, according to research firm
 Tabb Group LLC . They include electronic market making,
statistical arbitrage and tactics based on price movements in
indexes compared with their constituent stocks.  Critics say the commission isn’t moving fast enough to rein
in the quickest traders and that money-raising functions such as
initial public offerings are being harmed by perceptions the
market is geared toward speculators. Initiatives similar to the
so-called consolidated audit trail, meant to enhance order
tracking, have been around since the early 1980s, said David
Weild, the New York-based head of  capital markets  with Grant
Thornton LLP.  “It’s amazing it’s taken 30 years,” Weild, a former vice
chairman of Nasdaq Stock Market, said in a phone interview.
“Meanwhile, there’s been an arms race on Wall Street and the
SEC is outclassed in its ability to reconstruct events and look
for vulnerabilities.”  Facebook, Knight  Concern for the stability of U.S. markets has increased
following the so-called flash crash of May 2010, the botched
initial public offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in May and  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $440 million trading loss in August. The
SEC has scheduled a meeting today in Washington for industry
professionals and academics to discuss ways to limit technology
breakdowns.  The proliferation of venues, faster trading speeds and the
use of increasingly complex orders warrant a coordinated review
of regulations that made the market more complicated and helped
high-frequency trading flourish, Joseph Mecane, head of U.S.
equities at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said at a conference in Washington
last month. The analysis should focus on Regulation NMS, the set
of rules implemented in 2007 to foster competition among
exchanges and drive costs down for investors, he said.  According to Berman, the key to understanding what’s going
on and whether rule changes are warranted is first figuring out
the right questions to ask and what the data can reveal.
Regulators can’t answer everything, he said.  Quantitative Analysis  “The art of quantitative analysis is knowing what you’re
supposed to plot on the X axis versus the Y axis so it actually
reveals something interesting and actionable,” he said. “It’s
about knowing when the result tells you something real and when
it’s just an artifact of the data. Sometimes quantitative
analysis requires serious math and writing computer programs
that go through a complex algorithm, but not always.”  The SEC has two initiatives to make his job easier.
Schapiro proposed a mechanism for tracking all order and trading
information known as the consolidated audit trail within weeks
of the 2010 crash, which briefly erased $862 billion from U.S.
share values. The system will trace customer data and the way
orders are passed between brokers and private dark pools before
they’re completed or canceled, information that has never before
been compiled.  It also acquired a research tool from high-frequency firm
and technology vendor Tradeworx Inc. What the SEC calls its
market information data analytics system, or Midas, will collect
trading data that exchanges provide to the high-speed firms and
brokers that want information milliseconds before the public.
The feeds also include data not available elsewhere.  Audit Trail  The audit trail won’t be in place for several years and the
industry hasn’t figured out how much it will cost and who will
pay for it. Midas will be fully rolled out by the end of 2012,
Berman said. It won’t include information about the one-third of
trading that occurs away from exchanges.  “We’re starting with the equities market because there’s a
system we can implement quickly,” Berman said. His group may
also be able to conduct data-driven research into how other
markets function, such as equity options, corporate bonds and
exchange-traded products. Still, he said, the research starts
with formulating the right questions. “We unfortunately don’t
have a HAL 9000 or Star Trek-type computer where you simply
throw data at it and it spits out the answer,” he said.  Market Crashes  Data will be gathered to analyze market crashes and other
events, discern trends related to how liquidity is provided and
how often order cancellations occur, and monitor markets,
according to Berman. If automated checks spot an anomaly,
analysts can probe the data to decide if further investigation
is warranted, he said. The SEC can also use data to inform
rulemaking and policies, he said.  In response to asset managers who say that existing orders
disappear when they try to buy or sell shares, the SEC can look
at instances with individual stocks to see if that happens and
how long it takes to “eat through the available liquidity,”
said Berman, who is a special adviser to the director of the
SEC’s division of trading and markets. The office of analytics
and research will be housed within that division.  Some automated strategies may cancel more than 90 percent
of the orders they send to exchanges, the SEC said in a 2010
report. Critics such as investment manager T. Rowe Price Group
Inc. and broker Themis Trading LLC say the traffic rates and
potentially abusive behavior mitigate benefits of high-frequency
trading, such as tighter spreads between the best bids and
offers.  ‘How Markets Work’  “We can actually provide some metrics around some of the
anecdotes from institutions that say the volume is fleeting,
that it’s there and then it’s not,” Berman said. “Are there
patterns between cancels and the size of a stock? How do cancels
affect large versus small-cap stocks, or ETFs? This analysis can
help us generate more information about how markets work.”  Berman, who studied experimental and nuclear physics,
developed trading strategies in commodities and stocks at a
hedge fund and became a founding member of RiskMetrics Group
Inc. in 1998 when JPMorgan Chase & Co. spun off the company. He
writes programming code and did some of the flash-crash modeling
when the SEC examined how trade requests were withdrawn from
exchange order books that day.  The analytics and research office plans to hire traders
from banks and hedge funds as well as financial engineers and
individuals with quantitative and analytical skills. It’s
looking for programmers in the C++ computer language and “UNIX
gurus who really know how to get under the hood and in former
lives may have written trading programs and now are going to
write analytical programs,” Berman said.  Monitoring Programs  Berman’s group will devise monitoring programs and look for
patterns and outliers that might indicate nefarious behavior or
market manipulation. It will also study message traffic to spot
delays between the proprietary data feeds and the public
streams, Berman said. The SEC fined the  New York  Stock Exchange
$5 million last month for sending information to its private
feeds faster than it provided the data to the public.  Those drawn to Wall Street because they want to analyze
risk will also be welcome, he said.  “Some people thrive on the pressure,” Berman said. “If
they can’t lose their shirt in a day, they don’t feel like
they’ve lived. But there’s a certain percentage who say ’I have
to tolerate that and bear it because I’m interested in analyzing
the risk.’ Those are the people that we’re looking for -- people
who want to understand the markets without having to commit to
the life of someone who trades on  Wall Street .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 