-- Sepura Rises for Fourth Day on U.S. Radio Changes: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-10-01T16:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/sepura-rises-for-fourth-day-on-u-s-radio-changes-london-mover.html
Sepura Plc (SEPU) , the U.K. company that
supplies radios to the majority of British police forces, rose
for a fourth day to its highest price in four years after U.S.
authorities endorsed the Tetra technology used in its devices.  Sepura  gained  0.9 percent to 87.5 pence, the highest since
July 2008 at the close of London trading. The stock has advanced
83 percent this year, giving the company a market value of 120
million pounds ($194 million).  A U.S. Federal Communications Commission decision last
month to expand on a waiver granted for use of terrestrial
trunked radio, or Tetra, gives “further certainty” to
customers considering the technology, the Cambridge, England-
based company  said  on Sept. 24. Sepura shares have gained almost
15 percent since then.  Sepura named its first Tetra distributor in the U.S. in
April after a 12-month trial in  Green Bay ,  Wisconsin . The radio
provider increased its share of revenue from countries outside
the U.K. to 81 percent last year from 73 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The FCC ruling “confirms to potential customers in the
U.S. that they can look forward to enjoying the benefits that
Tetra communications solutions offer,” Gordon Watling, chief
executive officer of Sepura, said in the statement. The company
estimates that there are 9 million professional mobile radio
users in the U.S.  Sepura already claims market leadership in  Europe  for
digital devices that use Tetra. Its products are used by Danish
ambulance drivers and Mumbai Metro staff, and in environments
from offshore wind farms to a remote liquefied natural gas
facility in  Australia .  The FCC said in its ruling that “Tetra is a spectrally
efficient digital technology with the potential to provide
valuable benefits to land mobile radio users,” according to
Sepura. “We are well-positioned to assist customers in their
transition.”  In July, the company said it sees continued “resilient”
demand from the commercial sector and a “strong pipeline” of
opportunities.  Sepura is scheduled to report earnings on Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  