-- Singapore’s Private Home Prices Climb to Record on Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-10-01T09:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/singapore-private-home-prices-climbed-to-record-in-third-quarter.html
Singapore  home prices climbed to a
record in the third quarter after developers sold more homes, a
government report showed.  The island state’s private residential property price index
rose 0.5 percent to 208 points in the three months ended Sept.
30, according to preliminary estimates released by the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  today. The index advanced 0.4 percent in
the previous quarter, which was also at a record.  Singapore in September decided to cap the number of homes
that can be developed in suburban projects to curb the
increasing trend of so-called shoebox apartments that are
smaller in size. The government has been attempting to rein in
residential property prices since 2009.  “The growth of private  home prices  is likely to remain
moderate in the short term,” said Nicholas Mak, Singapore-based
executive director at SLP International Property Consultants, a
real estate consulting company. Mak estimates the home price
index will rise by 1 percent to 3 percent this year.  The government plans to limit the number of homes for
apartment projects outside the city’s central area to discourage
shoebox units, the authority said in a statement on its website
on Sept. 4. The new rules will be implemented from Nov. 4.  Local Buyers  Purchases made by Singaporeans increased to 35 percent of
the total this year from 19 percent in 2011, almost on par with
foreigners, DTZ Holdings Plc said, citing authority data. The
number of home purchases made by Singaporeans this year has
exceeded that for the whole of 2011, suggesting there is
underlying demand from cash-rich local buyers who have been
waiting for more attractive pricing, DTZ said.  “Buyers, both foreigners and locals, are slowly coming
back,” Margaret Thean,  executive director  at DTZ’s residential
business in Singapore, said before the figures were released.
“We expect to see more activity and interest in luxury housing
in the next one to two quarters with a few projects gearing up
for launch.”  Prices of non-landed private residential properties
increased 0.2 percent in the prime districts in the quarter,
moderating from 0.6 percent in the previous three months,
today’s data showed. In suburban areas, prices climbed 1 percent,
compared with 0.5 percent in the previous quarter.  Developers Fall  The Singapore property index, tracking 16 real estate
companies, fell 0.2 percent at the close of trading in Singapore.
 CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer, declined
0.3 percent, while  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , the country’s second-
largest developer, lost 0.7 percent.  Singapore in 2009 barred interest-only loans for some
housing projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb
interest payments for apartments still being built. Foreigners
and corporate entities have to pay an additional 10 percent
stamp duty following measures introduced in December.  The extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents
purchasing a second home and for citizens buying their third
residential property. The government earlier imposed a 1 percent
duty on the first S$180,000 ($146,000) of the property price, 2
percent on the next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder.  Home sales in August fell 27 percent from a month ago, as
developers marketed fewer projects in a month considered
inauspicious based on the Chinese Lunar calendar, according to
the authority last month. The island state’s private residential
property sales fell to 1,421 units from 1,946 apartments in July,
according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  