-- Slovenia `Bad Bank' Plan to Increase Debt Level: Kranjec
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-01T13:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/slovenia-bad-bank-plan-to-increase-debt-level-kranjec.html
Slovenia’s planned so-called bad bank
to exchange non-performing loans from lenders such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. for government-guaranteed bonds would
raise state debt, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec said.  “We are supporting government efforts to stabilize the
banking system, especially in those banks in which the state is
a majority owner,” Kranjec, who’s also a member of the
Governing Council of the  European Central Bank , told reporters
in Ljubljana today. “Any bank recapitalization would increase
the government debt either through guarantees or by issuing
 government securities  later on.”  Slovenia plans to guarantee as much as 4 billion euros
($5.17 billion) to clean up lenders’ bad loans by creating a
special government agency, while the government would also
inject as much as 1 billion into banks directly, Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic has said. Lawmakers in Ljubljana
debated the bank recapitalization plan on Sept. 28 and are set
to vote on it tomorrow.  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  is working on
stabilizing the banking system and overhauling the economy as
the former Yugoslav republic strives to avoid joining  Portugal ,
Ireland and other euro-region countries that were forced to seek
an international bailout. Slovenia saw its debt level balloon to
47. 6 percent at the end of last year from 23 percent since its
euro adoption in 2007.  Debt Forecast  The country’s debt is forecast by the European Commission
to rise to just below 55 percent by year-end and to 58 percent
in 2013.  The Alpine nation’s budget gap will probably be cut to
below the 3 percent threshold by the end of next year with some
additional savings measures, Damjan Kozamernik, the head of
research at the country’s central bank, said today.  Slovenian banks are struggling with bad loans as the
economy heads for a second recession in three years and more and
more companies file for bankruptcy. Gross domestic product will
shrink 1.8 percent this year and 0.7 percent next year before
expanding 0.8 percent in 2014, the central bank said.  Kranjec said he prefers direct recapitalization of lenders
such as Nova Ljubljanska and  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d. to
creation of a “bad bank” and reiterated that Slovenia “should
sell its state-owned assets as soon as possible.”  Bond-Buying Mechanism  The European Central Bank should not impose extra economic
conditions on nations using its bond-buying mechanism, and the
 International Monetary Fund  shouldn’t have an oversight role,
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said Sept. 28.  “As much as I can judge from media reports, most of the
countries are very reluctant to ask for an international
financial and economic aid,” Kranjec said. “If Mr. Monti said
that, he probably knows what he’s talking about as he’s familiar
with the situation.”  Countries such as Italy and  Spain  are reluctant to request
the bond buying they championed because of uncertainty about
what conditions the central bank would seek to impose, Monti
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  