-- SNC Scandal Seen Spurring Purge by CEO Card
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-10-01T20:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/snc-scandal-seen-spurring-purge-by-ceo-card-corporate-canada.html
Robert Card spent his first day at
the helm of  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  meeting with shareholders
about the payments scandal that spawned criminal probes, chopped
market value by 22 percent and spurred demands for management
change at  Canada ’s largest construction company.  “He has to clean house,” said Stephen Jarislowsky, chief
executive officer of Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., SNC-Lavalin’s
biggest investor. “A lot of people who were there who allowed
it to happen are still there. I wouldn’t be exactly happy with
somebody who signs checks and didn’t have the right explanations
of what accounts this was for.”  Card, who doesn’t speak French, is the first American CEO
in the Montreal-based company’s 101-year history. His hiring
followed the surprise retirement of CEO Pierre Duhaime on March
26, four weeks after SNC-Lavalin said it was investigating
inaccurate payment documentation in its construction unit.  “I’m committed to ensuring the company’s social license to
operate remains our top priority,” Card, 57, said today on a
conference call. He didn’t answer questions about the scandal,
and Chairman Gwyn Morgan said the board is handling all matters
related to the case and cooperating with authorities.  Swiss authorities have arrested a former executive vice
president, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police has its own inquiry
under way, and about C$1.6 billion ($1.63 billion) in market
value has been erased. A company inquiry conducted by law firm
Stikeman Elliott LLP found about $56 million in improperly
booked payments in 2010 and 2011 to agents hired by SNC-
Lavalin’s international arm.  Tough Conditions  “It’s not that uncommon for a new CEO to want to have a
conference call to put his mark on the company, but I haven’t
seen a whole lot of CEOs come in under these conditions,”
Trevor Johnson, a National Bank Financial analyst in Toronto,
said in a. “Investors aren’t expecting him to fix this thing
within a quarter or two.”  Two senior managers left in February before the case came
to light: Riadh Ben Aissa, the ex-executive who was arrested by
Swiss officials and who oversaw SNC-Lavalin’s business in Libya,
and Stephane Roy, a vice president controller.  SNC-Lavalin’s board earned “a black mark” for having the
case unfold on its watch, Jarislowsky said in an April
interview. Directors went outside the company to recruit Card,
who worked as the international chief at the closely held U.S.
engineering firm CH2M Hill Cos. and was undersecretary in the
U.S. Energy Department from 2001 to 2004.  ‘Better Management’  “I just want better management,” Jarislowsky said last
week in a telephone interview. His firm’s 21.7 million shares of
SNC-Lavalin as of Dec. 31 were 14.4 percent of the total
outstanding.  Card will have to “clean up” SNC-Lavalin’s corporate
culture, said Johnson, who has a sector perform rating on the
shares.  “People will be looking toward his ethics, and whether
this is a guy they can really believe in,” Johnson said in an
interview. “One of the reasons SNC has had so much trouble is
that they haven’t had the controls in place the last little
while. He will really need to articulate that this is no longer
the case.”  Card told analysts and reporters today on the call that
while it is “premature” to begin talking about strategy,
attracting and retaining the best employees is a priority.  In a note afterward, Johnson wrote that Card “did as well
as could be expected.”  Shares, Bonds  SNC-Lavalin  rose  0.6 percent to $C38.16 at the close in
Toronto, paring the shares’ slide this year to 25 percent. That
compares with a gain of 6.2 percent for the 21-company S&P/TSX
Industrials sub-index.  The company’s bonds have underperformed a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index of BBB-rated non-financial Canadian debt
since Feb. 27, the day before SNC-Lavalin disclosed the payments
probe.  Yields on SNC-Lavalin bonds relative to Canadian government
debt widened by 37 basis points to an average of 216 basis
points as of Sept. 28, while average spreads on the index
narrowed by 12 basis points to 185. SNC-Lavalin’s  debt  rose 0.56
percent in September, trailing the index’s 1.1 percent gain, the
data show.  The swoon in the stock may create an opening for an
activist investor to swoop in as  William Ackman  did at  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , said Maxim Sytchev, an analyst at AltaCorp
Capital in Toronto. Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management
LP won a proxy fight in May to install a new CEO.  ‘Activist Front’  “All these negative issues are creating an overhang,”
Sytchev said in a telephone interview. “If the challenges on
the engineering and construction side continue, then the
probability that something could happen on the activist front
increases dramatically.”  On Sept. 18, investigators from  Quebec ’s anti-corruption
squad  searched  the offices of the McGill University Health
Centre as part of a construction-contract inquiry. SNC-Lavalin,
which won the C$1.6 billion contract to build the facility two
years ago, owns a 60 percent equity stake.  “That adds another dimension to the story,” said Brandon Snow, a principal at Cambridge Advisors in Toronto, the lead
manager of the C$1.1 billion  Cambridge Canadian Equity Corporate
Class (CAMCNEQA)  fund, which doesn’t own SNC-Lavalin shares. “Quebec is
the most stable part of their business, and that makes me pause
much more as a potential buyer of the stock.”  Lawsuit Certified  A day after the Quebec raid, an Ontario judge certified a
C$1 billion lawsuit on behalf of investors who bought company
securities from November 2009 to February 2012. It accuses SNC-
Lavalin and executives including Duhaime of
“misrepresentations” regarding internal controls, 2010 net
income and compliance with the company’s code of ethics.  “We intend to launch a vigorous defense,” Leslie Quinton,
a company spokeswoman, said Sept. 28 in an e-mail. “We believe
we have always published information appropriately and
accurately, following regulatory requirements and best practices
regarding timely corporate disclosure.”  Even without the investigations, Card would face headwinds
across SNC-Lavalin’s businesses. Sales to mining companies risk
being squeezed by what JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates is a 14
percent drop in industrywide capital spending through 2014.  Card will have to make do without any revenue from Libya, a
country that SNC-Lavalin exited last year and one that analysts
such as Sytchev say has historically been one of the company’s
most profitable regions.  Forecast Cut  SNC-Lavalin cut its 2012 profit forecast in August after
second-quarter earnings trailed analysts’  estimates . Profit for
the year will be C$325 million to C$340 million, down from a
projection of about C$379 million, the company said.  Card also will be working to master French. Societe Saint-
Jean-Baptiste, a French language-rights group, said his Aug. 10
hiring was “unacceptable” because he’s not a Francophone.
Quebec Premier Pauline Marois urged SNC-Lavalin before her Sept.
4 election to ensure the new CEO became “at least bilingual.”  That’s part of the plan, according to SNC-Lavalin’s
announcement. Card said in the Aug. 10 statement that he and his
wife were “looking forward to moving to Quebec and especially
to learning to speak French.”  Card “seems to be a guy who’s adventurous, who wants to
make a change,” said Jarislowsky. “He certainly doesn’t run
away from difficult situations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  