-- IPhone 5 Speed Drives Softbank to $2.3B EAccess Deal
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-02T08:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/softbank-to-acquire-japanese-rival-eaccess-in-stock-deal.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) ,  Japan ’s third-largest
mobile phone company, will pay about 180 billion yen ($2.3
billion) for smaller rival  eAccess (9427)  Ltd. to boost network
capacity after it started selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5.  EAccess, which counts Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as its
 biggest shareholder , surged by its daily exchange-imposed limit
of 4,000 yen, or 21 percent, to 23,000 yen as of today’s close
in  Tokyo , after gaining 26 percent yesterday. The deal valued
EAccess shares at 52,000 yen each at yesterday’s closing prices.  Softbank is “not overpaying” for eAccess based on the
value of its network infrastructure and subscribers, Softbank
President Masayoshi Son told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.
EAccess’s network for Long-Term Evolution data transmission can
help Softbank maintain service levels as it signs on more
smartphone subscribers that stream video and surf the Internet.  The premium Softbank is paying “is justified for an
acquisition that brings with it bandwidth,” Hitoshi Hayakawa,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to clients
yesterday. “In this burgeoning era of smartphones and LTE,
eAccess’ network of antenna base stations is also a highly
appealing asset.”  Softbank has lured subscribers as the country’s first
carrier to offer Apple’s iPhone and iPad, narrowing the gap in
user numbers with  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , the largest mobile phone
service, and  KDDI (9433)  Corp., the No. 2 provider. The iPhone 5 went
on sale Sept. 21.  Deal Terms  Softbank  gained  2.9 percent to 3,195 yen today. The Tokyo-
based company will pay 16.74 of its shares for each share of
eAccess, valuing the  target ’s stock at 53,484 yen apiece at
today’s closing price.  Including eAccess’s 223 billion yen of net debt, the deal
is valued at 408 billion yen based on today’s price for
Softbank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With this agreement, we’ll be able to offer the best
broadband services,” Son said. “We don’t think we’re
overpaying.”  The release of the iPhone 5, which can work with the faster
long-term evolution, or LTE, standard, was one motivation for
pursuing the deal, Son said.  ‘Reaching Limit’  “EAccess’s business model may be reaching its limit, while
Softbank’s task has been to strengthen its service,” Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Bayview Asset
Management, said by phone. “Softbank may have been able to buy
a bit cheaper.”  Goldman Sachs owns about 31 percent of eAccess, according
to Sayaka Iida, a spokeswoman for eAccess.  DoCoMo, KDDI and Softbank are competing in a market where
the number of subscribers exceeds Japan’s population of 127
million.  Softbank added more users in August than DoCoMo or KDDI and
had 30.1 million subscribers at the end of the month, trailing
DoCoMo’s 60.6 million and KDDI’s 35.9 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. EAccess had 4.1 million subscribers as of
June 30, according to its announcement in August.  EAccess will be converted into a wholly owned unit and will
be delisted Feb. 25.  Son’s net worth is valued at $9.8 billion, and he is the
100th wealthiest individual in the world, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His wealth has climbed 33 percent
so far this year as Softbank’s shares surged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  