-- ‘Hotel Transylvania’ Sets Mark With $42.5 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-10-01T21:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/sony-s-hotel-transylvania-sets-record-on-43-million-in-sales.html
The animated film “Hotel
Transylvania,” about a resort for monsters and their families,
set a record for a September opening in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, bringing in $42.5 million for  Sony Corp. (6758)   The science-fiction thriller “Looper,” also from Sony,
was second in its debut with $20.8 million in ticket sales,
researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Hotel Transylvania” topped analysts’ estimates and
overtook the record set by “Sweet Home Alabama” with its
$35.7-million debut in 2002.  Sony’s one-two finish will keep the studio in first place
in domestic 2012 ticket revenue.  Culver City , California-based
Sony had $1.28 billion in sales as of Sept. 27, giving it a
narrow lead over  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s $1.26 billion, according to
Box Office Mojo. Sony’s biggest film this year was “The Amazing
Spider-Man,” which has generated $261.5 million in domestic
sales, according to Mojo.  “Sony really helped the industry this weekend by getting
the momentum going,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com Box-Office, said in an interview. “This was great
news for the industry, which has been lacking good news for the
last month or so.”  In “Hotel Transylvania,” Dracula hosts a gathering of
famous monsters, including Frankenstein, the Mummy and some
werewolves to celebrate his daughter’s birthday. The celebration
is complicated by the unexpected arrival of a human guest who
falls for the vampire’s daughter. The film features the voices
of  Adam Sandler ,  Kevin James  and Selena Gomez.  Sales Forecast  The film was expected to have $25.8 million in opening-
weekend sales, the estimate of Box Office Mojo.  The time-travel tale “Looper” stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt
as a hit man working for a mob that operates in the future, when
time travel has become possible. To avoid prosecution, the mob
sends victims back in time to be killed by a special team of
assassins. Gordon-Levitt’s character is tasked with killing his
future self.  Bruce Willis  plays the older version of Levitt’s
character. “Looper” was expected to take in $16.1 million,
according to Box Office Mojo.  The police drama “End of Watch” fell to third from first
with $7.8 million. The film, from Open Road Pictures, stars  Jake Gyllenhaal  and Michael Pena as Los Angeles police officers who
run afoul of a vicious gang. The film has taken in $26 million
since it opened on Sept. 21.  Eastwood’s Curve  Clint Eastwood’s “Trouble with the Curve” from  Warner
Bros ., was fourth with sales of $7.3 million. In the film,
Eastwood plays aging professional baseball scout Gus Lobel, who
tries to keep his job while battling failing eyesight and a
trend toward computer-based scouting. His daughter, played by
 Amy Adams , tries to help by accompanying Lobel on an important
scouting trip. Justin Timberlake co-stars as a washed-up pitcher
who is attracted to the young woman.  “House at the End of the Street,” a horror film from
Relativity Media LLC, collected $7.1 million to put it in fifth
place in its second weekend.  Jennifer Lawrence  stars as a teen
who learns too much about a double homicide committed years
earlier in the house next door. Elisabeth Shue is featured as
the girl’s mother.  “Pitch Perfect” from Universal opened in sixth place with
$5.1 million. Anna Kendrick stars in the musical comedy as Beca,
who upon arriving at college is persuaded to join an all-girls
singing group. Dergarabedian called it a “huge” debut given it
played in just 335 theaters.  “Finding Nemo 3D” placed seventh, with $4 million for
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  The re-release of the 2003 animated hit is the
fifth release in Disney’s plan to re-issue classic films in a
three-dimensional format.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 19 percent to
$106.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 2.6 percent to $8.1
billion, with attendance up 1.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Sept. 28 to Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  