-- South Africa PMI Drops to 3-Year Low, Indicating Factory Slump
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-01T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/south-africa-pmi-drops-to-3-year-low-indicating-factory-slump.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
 index  fell to a three-year low in September as mining strikes
spread and demand from Europe waned, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index declined to 46.2 from 51 in
August, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed statement
today. An index level below 50 indicates a contraction in
factory output. The median estimate of four economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for the index to decline to 49.7.  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
contracted 1 percent in the second quarter, restricting growth
in Africa’s largest economy to an annualized 3.2 percent. A
strike that shut down  Lonmin Plc. (LMI) ’s Marikana mine in August
spread to gold and platinum mines and the  transportation
industry  last month.  “The pullback does not bode well for actual factory sector
output in the third quarter,” Andre Coetzee, managing director
of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply, which
conducts the survey on behalf of Kagiso, said in the statement.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is set to lower his
economic growth forecasts when he gives his mid-term budget on
Oct. 24. In February, he predicted growth of 2.7 percent this
year, compared with 3.1 percent expansion in 2011.  The  Reserve Bank  on Sept. 20 held its benchmark  repurchase
rate  at 5 percent, the lowest level in at least 30 years, as the
European debt crisis saps demand for manufactured exports. The
deficit on the current account, the broadest measure of trade in
goods and services, widened to 6.4 percent of gross domestic
product in the second quarter, the highest in almost four years,
as exports slumped.  The index measuring business activity dropped 7.6 points to
43, the lowest level since July 2011, Kagiso said. The new sales
orders index declined 0.7 points to 46.2, while the employment
sub-index fell to 46.5 from 51 in August, it said. The price
sub-index rose 4.9 points to 75.8.  The Bureau for  Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , conducts the PMI survey along
with the institute on behalf of Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  