-- Korea’s Exports Fall for 3rd Month as Global Demand Wane
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-10-01T00:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/south-korea-s-exports-fall-for-3rd-month-as-global-demand-wanes.html
South Korea ’s exports fell for a
third month as Europe’s debt crisis and gains in the won damped
demand, keeping pressure on the central bank to cut  interest
rates  this month.  Overseas shipments fell 1.8 percent in September from a
year earlier, after a 6.2 percent decline in August, the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists was
for a 5.5 percent decline.  South Korean officials are trying to support growth in
Asia’s fourth-largest economy ahead of the presidential election
in December. Industrial production that fell more than expected
in August also bolsters the view that more stimulus is needed
even after the central bank cut rates in July and the government
provided spending and tax incentives.  “Weaker external demand and a stronger Korean won suggest
exports will continue to decline,” Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Nomura International Ltd., said before the
release. “We believe the  Bank of Korea  will take this into
account when making its policy rate decision.”  South  Korea ’s won touched an 11-month high of 1,110.55 per
dollar on Sept. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi stock index rose 0.4 percent.  Imports Fall  Imports fell 6.1 percent from a year earlier in September,
the ministry said today. That compared with the 9.5 percent
decline projected in a Bloomberg survey. The  trade surplus  was
$3.1 billion after a $2 billion excess in August.  The nation’s  industrial production  fell 0.7 percent in
August for the third monthly drop, after it fell 1.9 percent in
July, Statistics Korea said on Sept. 28.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has clouded the outlook for
South Korean companies such as Hyundai Motor Co., the country’s
largest carmaker. The Seoul-based firm is holding off on any
major expansion in the region, European Chief Operating Officer
Allan Rushforth said in an interview last month.  “There is a sustained weakness in demand for Korean goods
on both domestic and external fronts,” Ronald Man, a  Hong Kong 
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said before the release.
“This is causing firms to push back investment in response to
excess capacity. As such, downside risks to overall GDP growth
are increasing.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 21 reduced its
2012 growth forecast for South Korea to 3 percent from a June
estimate of 3.25 percent. South Korean manufacturers’ confidence
fell in October to stay near the lowest level since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  