-- Spain Adds $32 Billion Power-System Bailout to Bank Rescue
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-01T15:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/spain-adds-32-billion-power-system-bailout-to-rescue-of-banks.html
After Spain’s rescue of its banks and
cash-strapped regions, the 2013 budget reveals a bailout of the
power industry to cover 25 billion euros ($32 billion) of debt
accumulated by the electricity system.  The spending blueprint released two days ago adds 100
billion euros to the nation’s debt from the rescue packages by
the end of 2012, driving its ratio to gross domestic product up
16.8 percentage points to 85.3 percent of total output.  Power companies such as  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) 
booked more revenue than they received from their clients for
most of the past decade -- the difference between government-set
prices for buyers and sellers -- with the shortfall booked as
receivables on their balance sheets.  “Politicians have failed to keep an appropriate distance
from the industries they are supposed to regulate and when you
look at the budget you see the impact,” Jose Ignacio
Torreblanca, head of the Madrid office of the European Council
on Foreign Relations, said in a telephone interview. “The
government is taking on a whole series of debts and the power
industry is a prime example.”  Spanish energy companies have recruited politicians from
both main parties. Gas Natural has former Socialist Prime
Minister Felipe Gonzalez on its board.  Endesa SA (ELE) ’s owner Enel
SpA has former Finance Minister Pedro Solbes. Solbes’s successor
 Elena Salgado  joined  Endesa Chile (ENDESA)  as a director this year.
Iberdrola has Angel Acebes, who was Interior Minister alongside
Rajoy in the last People’s Party administration.  Gas Natural rose as much as 4.3 percent today and traded 3
percent higher at 11.35 euros at 5:18 p.m. Endesa rose 2.3
percent compared with a 1.1 percent gain for the benchmark.  Debt Repayments  The cost of repaying power debt added 2.1 billion euros to
bills this year, driving up the annual deficit. The system’s
debts threatened to run out of control, Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said in July.  Soria said Sept. 14 the government will cover repayments of
power system debt this year alongside a package of tax increases
on power companies to break the debt spiral.  Budget Ministry spokesman Jesus Garcia declined to give
further details of how Spain is accounting for the rescue or how
much it contributed to the jump in borrowing.  The government already backed about 13 billion euros of the
debt through a securitization program that began last year. The
program took the debt off the balance sheets of utilities
including Iberdrola and  Enel SpA (ENEL) ’s Endesa SA unit by selling it
to investors with a government guarantee. It didn’t affect the
overall indebtedness of the system.  Spanish Bailouts  Spain may borrow about 40 billion euros from the European
Union to recapitalize its banks. It underwrote a 35 billion-euro
program to bail out local and regional govvernments that hadn’t
paid their contractors. There’s also an 18 billion-euro pot for
regions including Catalonia and Andalucia that can’t meet their
obligations.  “These are one-off measures that won’t have any impact on
the structural deficit,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
at a press conference in Madrid today.  -- Editors: James Hertling, Francis Harris  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  