-- Spain Said to Be Ready to Seek Euro-Zone Bailout, Reuters Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   S n y d e r   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-01T22:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/spain-said-to-be-ready-to-seek-euro-zone-bailout-reuters-says.html
Spain  is ready to seek a bailout for
its public finances, Reuters  reported , citing four unidentified
European officials.  Germany has indicated that Spain should hold off, Reuters
said. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in
September that Spain was on the right track and may need less
support than previously thought.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who spent six months
campaigning for European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to
buy bonds, has been considering the benefits of seeking aid
since Aug. 2. European officials are pressuring Rajoy to ask for
aid, Spanish newspaper El Pais reported yesterday, citing
unidentified Spanish and EU government officials.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said yesterday
after a meeting with EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  that the country is still analyzing the
ECB bond-buying proposal.  Rehn yesterday also spoke with Rajoy and Spanish Central
Bank Governor Luis Maria Linde. Rajoy will today meet with
Spanish regional leaders, who would help shape the domestic
response to a bailout.  As Rajoy faces unrest on the streets of Madrid over budget
cuts and a separatist movement in Catalonia, leaders of the 17-
nation euro area are confronting a tougher approach from the
German-led pro-austerity bloc and talks in Athens over keeping
emergency aid on track. The first of three summits in the next
three months is set for Oct. 18-19.  Last month, France pressed Spain to snub German concerns
and request help from the European Union to contain the euro-
area financial crisis, according to three people familiar with
negotiations. French officials wanted Spain to ask the EU’s
bailout fund for help to consolidate gains in southern European
bonds.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  would prefer to bundle together
bailout requests before presenting them to her country’s
parliament, Reuters reported, citing unidentified European
diplomats and a German official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Snyder in Washington at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  