-- Spanish Banks Need More Capital Than Tests Find, Moody’s Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-01T22:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/spanish-banks-need-more-capital-than-tests-find-moody-s-says.html
Spain’s banks  face a capital
shortfall that could climb to 105 billion euros ($135 billion),
almost double the estimate the government provided last week,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The nation’s lenders may need infusions of 70 billion euros
to 105 billion euros to absorb losses and still keep  capital
ratios  above thresholds outlined in legislation last year,
Moody’s analysts wrote yesterday in a report. That compares with
the 53.7 billion euro shortfall found last week after officials
commissioned a  stress test  designed to lift doubts about the
financial industry’s ability to withstand losses.  “The recapitalization amounts published by  Spain  are below
what we estimate are needed for Spanish banks to maintain
stability in our adverse and highly adverse scenarios,” the
analysts, Maria Jose Mori and Alberto Postigo, said in the
report. “If market participants are skeptical about the stress
test, negative sentiment could undercut the government’s efforts
to fully restore confidence in the solvency of Spanish banks.”  Spain announced the results of the test, conducted by
management consulting firm  Oliver Wyman , after commissioning the
review of 14 lenders as part of terms to win a European bailout
of as much as 100 billion euros for its banks. Lenders suffered
more than 180 billion euros of losses linked to souring real
estate loans. The government ordered banks in February and May
to recognize 84 billion euros of losses on real estate assets.  Extreme Scenario  The 53.7-billion-euro figure takes into account mergers
under way and deferred tax assets, the Bank of Spain and Economy
Ministry said in a Sept. 28  statement . Without those effects,
the shortfall climbs to 59.3 billion euros, according to the
statement. The estimate is less than the 62-billion-euro
shortfall found by Oliver Wyman in June.  Demonstrating lenders’ ability to withstand an extreme
scenario -- a three-year economic contraction -- is part of the
government’s drive to show it’s fixing the economy while
debating whether to seek another rescue package.  While many assumptions in the stress test were
conservative, some may be questioned, Moody’s said. The test
used a 6 percent core capital ratio under a stressed scenario,
while the ratings firm assumed capital ratios of 8 percent to 10
percent, according to the report. The rate used by Ireland for
its test, including a buffer, was 9 percent.  Banco Popular  The review showed no deficit for seven Spanish lenders,
including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
and Banco Sabadell SA. The Bankia group, a nationalized lender,
had a 24.7 billion-euro deficit and  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  had
a 3.22 billion-euro shortfall.  Banco Popular  slid more than 6
percent yesterday after the firm said it will seek to raise as
much as 2.5 billion euros from a stock sale and suspend its
October dividend.  The stress tests analyzed 36 million loans and 8 million
guarantees using information from the databases of lenders and
the Bank of Spain, according to the statement. A team of more
than 400 auditors verified the quality of loans by examining
115,000 loan operations.  Even as Moody’s expressed concerns that the government
underestimated the banks’ capital needs, a recapitalization is
still “intrinsically credit positive” for all of the nation’s
lenders since it would involve more capital and more banks than
earlier efforts, the ratings firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 