-- SPD’s Steinbrueck Attacks Merkel as 2013 German Campaign Opens
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-10-01T14:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/spd-s-steinbrueck-attacks-merkel-as-2013-german-campaign-opens.html
German Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck  attacked Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s austerity-
focused euro-crisis policy after he was nominated by party
leadership to challenge her in next year’s election.  Promising that “it won’t be a boring campaign,”
Steinbrueck took issue with Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led
government as burdened by coalition infighting and bereft of
orientation. While conceding Merkel’s popularity, Steinbrueck
pledged that the SPD will bolster bank regulation and ensure
equality with a “renaissance of the social market economy.”  Merkel’s Cabinet “is one of the worst -- if not the worst
-- in the history of the Federal Republic,” Steinbrueck told
reporters today in Berlin. “That the chancellor has remained
relatively above the fray lies in a very clever maneuver in
which she has elevated herself presidentially.”  Steinbrueck, the 65-year-old former finance minister who
spearheaded bank rescues in Merkel’s first government, will face
an uphill climb in challenging the popular chancellor in
elections late next year. The SPD’s leadership selected
Steinbrueck unanimously after two other possible candidates,
former Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier and SPD Chairman
 Sigmar Gabriel , decided not to run.  A party congress will ratify the choice in December.  Steinbrueck pilloried Merkel’s crisis-fighting agenda as
too focused on the “symptom” -- gaping public debt -- rather
than the causes of the three-year-old debt crisis.  ‘Huge Divergences’  “Certainly, state debt is an issue, but concentration of
the entire analysis on sovereign debt doesn’t embrace the entire
problem in  Europe ,” Steinbrueck said. “We’re dealing with huge
divergences in competitiveness, in structural challenges.”  He said a “large part” of the crisis has to do with  bank
failures  and touted again his plan for more aggressive bank
regulation, including a separation of banks’ investment banking
and deposit businesses; a ban on naked short selling; and
stiffer rules for  hedge funds  and private equity.  While Steinbrueck stopped short of ruling out another
“grand coalition” with Merkel’s CDU-led bloc, he said the SPD
won’t seek out a combination “we neither strive for nor want.”
The party’s aim is to lead a government with the  Green Party ,
reprising a combination led by former Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  from 1998 to 2005.  Steinbrueck identified a “certain lack of principle” in
Merkel’s government, borrowing a party colleague’s metaphor
during the 2005-2009 grand coalition of the chancellor piloting
a plane -- “technically, she controls the plane excellently.”  “I can sleep well and I feel very safe,” Steinbrueck
said. “But I don’t know where I’m going to land with her.”  Former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  told ARD television last night that Steinbrueck’s bank
plan to separate businesses risks damaging German lenders.  “If Germany goes it alone, it would damage German banks on
the world stage,” Ackermann  said  late yesterday. “The rating
would suffer. It requires other funding and you don’t have the
safety and stability of the entire banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  