-- Sri Lanka Beats England to Move Into Semifinals with West Indies
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-01T18:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/sri-lanka-beats-england-to-move-into-semifinals-with-west-indies.html
Host country Sri Lanka beat defending
champion  England  by 19 runs yesterday to move with West Indies
into the semifinals of cricket’s World Twenty20 competition.  Sri Lanka finished on 169-6 after its 20 overs in the last-
eight game in Pallekele, with 42 by Mahela Jayawardene. England
ended on 150-9 and exits the competition with New Zealand, which
lost against West Indies in a “super over.”  Lasith Malinga cut his way through the England lineup,
taking 5-31 including the top four batsmen. Samit Patel led
England with 67 before being bowled by Malinga. Only Patel, Luke
Wright, Eoin Morgan and Graeme Swann reached double-digits for
England.  “The guys played well,” Sri Lanka captain Kumar
Sangakkara said. “We backed our bowlers to restrict the team
and get us some wickets.”  The World Twenty20, generally held every two years, is the
championship of the game’s shortest form. The Super Eight
consists of two groups of four, with the top two teams in each
advancing to the semifinals.  Later today,  Australia  plays  Pakistan  in a Group 2 match in
 Colombo , which also hosts  India ’s meeting with South Africa.  In Sri Lanka’s innings, Jayawardene was caught off Swann,
and Jeevan Mendis and Angelo Mathews combined for 52 off 31
balls. Stuart Broad was 3-32 and Swann was 2-26.  Swann scored 34, combining with Patel for 51 to move
England closer to the target. Patel and Morgan’s combined 55 led
all partnerships in the match.  ‘Inexperienced’  “We had a quite inexperienced side come here,” England
captain Broad said. “We learned that we need to keep wickets in
hand at the top. We’ve got strikers towards the end.”  Earlier, West Indies defeated New Zealand in a “super
over” tie-break.  The sides were tied on 139 at the end of their innings,
pushing the match into an extra over for each team.  New Zealand put up 17 runs in its extra over. West
Indies had a victory target of 17 runs because it had more
boundaries in its regular innings.  Tim Southee had a no ball on the first ball of West
Indies’ “super over,” which Chris Gayle hit for a six.
Finally, Marlon Samuels hit a six to give the match to West
Indies and eliminate New Zealand from the tournament.  “Marlon Samuels is my go-to man in pressure situations,”
West Indies captain Darren Sammy said.  In New Zealand’s innings, Sunil Narine was 3-20, helping
restrict the Kiwis, but his misfield of a shot in the final over
allowed Ross Taylor to score an extra run and retain the strike.
Taylor’s 62 runs led New Zealand to 139-7 at the end of its 20
overs.  West Indies was all out for 139 runs, led by Gayle’s 30,
with three balls remaining in its 20 overs in Pallekele.  “We probably should have won it in normal time, but you
have to give credit to the West Indies,” Taylor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  