-- Sumitomo Sees ‘Solar Bubble’ as Japan Rejects Nuclear
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-10-01T04:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/sumitomo-sees-solar-bubble-as-japan-rejects-nuclear-energy.html
As  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
billionaire Masayoshi Son lead a swarm of investors exploiting
 Japan ’s solar power subsidies, the world’s biggest,  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  is betting on wind.  The trading house, Japan’s second-largest investor in power
generation outside utilities, will add wind farms and at least
two biomass plants to take advantage of the above-market rates
for electricity from renewable sources the government introduced
in July. Sumitomo’s local utility, Summit Energy Corp., expects
profits from wind power to triple in as many years, said the
unit’s president, Shinichi Kitamura.  Sumitomo’s focus is in part a response to a rush into solar
projects that’s pushing up land prices and salaries, as well as
luring investors from gambling parlor operators to asset
managers. While government data show that Japan can build wind
farms at a cheaper price and with higher returns than solar, 99
percent of applications for the new tariffs are for electricity
generated from sunlight.  “With so many companies rushing in we are seeing a solar
bubble forming and land prices are rising,” Kitamura said in a
Sept. 7 interview. Japan’s ambitions in renewable energy look
more manageable in  wind energy , he said.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  announced on Sept. 14 an
 energy policy  that calls for a phaseout of nuclear energy over
the next three decades and to triple generation from renewable
sources. The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan last month
recommended renewable energy make up about 40 percent of Japan’s
total by the early 2030s, from the current 8 percent that mostly
comes from hydropower.  Premium Prices  To help meet the target, Japan introduced subsidies known
as feed-in tariffs on July 1 that require utilities to buy power
from renewable energy providers at premium prices. As a result,
investment in solar, wind and other forms of clean energy may
jump to $17.1 billion this year from $8.6 billion in 2011,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  The rate introduction follows the examples of Germany,
Spain and  Italy , who since 2004 overtook Japan as the global
leader in terms of installed solar capacity. The rates are now
being cut across  Europe  as the volume of solar projects they
created make subsidies unsustainable at their original levels.  The lessons of Europe show that those that get in early
reap the most benefit before tariffs rates are cut. Of all the
renewable energy types available in Japan today the quickest to
set up on a utility scale is solar, said Dean Enjo, an analyst
with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Tokyo .  Power Crisis  “Right now Japan is in a power crisis and the immediate
response will be in solar,” Enjo said. “Solar farms can be
scaled up in months. Biomass, geothermal, wind, they are all
viable sources, but they take a lot of time and have a lot of
red tape involved.”  From October, all wind power developers will need to make
an environmental assessment of noise pollution from humming
turbines and to show profit feasibility, after some wind farms
failed to make money. Geothermal projects can take as long as a
decade to develop, Summit’s Kitamura said.  In the two months after Japan started offering feed-in
tariffs, applications for 155 solar projects each with a
capacity of at least 1 megawatt were made, government data show.
Wind power attracted 14 applications and biomass just one.  Projects to add more than 1,150 megawatts of solar plants
have been announced this year in Japan, compared to none last
year, according to BNEF. Those estimates, which exclude
residential installations, mean about 110 megawatts of utility-
size solar capacity may be commissioned this year, up from 10
megawatts last year, BNEF said in an Aug. 31 report.  Pachinko Power  Among the most ambitious plans is  Orix Corp. (8591) , a finance and
leasing company that seeks to spend more than its annual net
income of 86 billion yen ($1.1 billion) on solar plants.  Japan Asia Group, a Tokyo-based brokerage and an aerial
surveyor that started looking at renewables three years ago,
last month pledged to invest 150 billion yen to build 500
megawatts of solar power across the country by March 2015. The
amount exceeds Japan Asia’s revenue over the last two years.  Solar investors such as  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which makes solar
equipment, are being joined by companies as varied as asset
manager  Sparx Group (8739) ,  Mitsui Chemicals Inc. (4183)  and pachinko parlor
operator Novil Corp.  Sparx’s announcement that it would build a solar plant
helped its stock jump the most in a month on Sept. 7 in Tokyo.  “The solar market is the most lucrative to investors and
it’s going to be the one heating up for at least the next three
years,” CLSA’s Enjo said.  Goldman Sachs  The attraction for investor lies in the feed-in tariff. At
42 yen per kilowatt-hour for 20 years of a solar project it’s
triple the 14.59 yen per kilowatt-hour industrial users paid for
electricity during the 12 months ended in March. That’s grabbed
the attention of investors outside Japan.  A group including  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
Goldman Sachs won approval to build Japan’s largest solar plant
of 250 megawatts in the southern city of Setouchi, which will
cost as much as 86.1 billion yen, the local council said Sept.
13 on its website. That would be Goldman Sachs’s second
renewables investment in Japan after it bought 5.1 percent of
Eliiy Power Co. a lithium-ion battery maker, last year.  “We expect the clean technology and renewable  energy
industry  to play an increasingly important role in Japan, and we
remain focused on this area,” Ankur Sahu, Goldman Sach’s co-
head of merchant banking in the Asia Pacific, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Costs Rising  Sumitomo, a trading house with 5,810 megawatts of capacity
worldwide, decided against investing in some advanced stage
solar projects because of rising costs, Summit’s Kitamura said.
Summit Energy operates two wind farms and three thermal
generators in Japan, one of which can burn biomass.  Hamamatsu, a city west of Tokyo, last month said it
received 23 bids for a project to build two solar plants with a
total capacity of 3 megawatts.  The tender winners, which included Chubu Electric Power
Co., agreed to pay “several times” the minimum land price set
by Hamamatsu for the bid, Kuniatsu Suzuki, an official at the
city’s new energy promotion headquarters said Sept. 25 by phone.  Though the effect is not yet felt nationwide, the amount of
space solar plants need will push up land prices because
suitable space is limited, said Takashi Ishizawa, the head of
real estate research at Mizuho Securities Co.  Deflation Beater?  With land prices falling in Japan for the last 21 years,
according to the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and
Tourism, renewable energy investment may help the country in its
fight against deflation that has dragged on the economy for
decades.  “There are many players entering this business fighting
for land and the competition will be pretty fierce from now
on,” Kazunobu Watanabe, Chief Planning Officer of  Japan Asia
Group (3751) , said in a briefing in Tokyo. The company’s aerial land
surveying unit provides it with leads from its network with
local governments, he said.  The number of job openings in renewables almost tripled
this year and most of that is due to “aggressive” demand from
solar projects, said Kazuyoshi Ofuchi, owner of Tokyo-based
Pathfinders Executive Search Co., which specializes in
recruitment for the power industry.  Engineers and business development staff are being offered
20 percent more to join solar projects compared with similar
industry positions as there’s a shortage of experienced talent,
Ofumi said.  Billionaire Bet  Billionaire Son’s mobile phone operator  Softbank Corp. (9984)  may
already be hedging its solar bet. After unveiling in August an
230 megawatt renewable program that was almost 90 percent solar,
Softbank said Sept. 14 it may add a 1,000 megawatt wind farm in
Hokkaido, which would be the biggest in Japan.  The push into wind does not mean Softbank believes solar is
in a bubble, company spokesman Naoki Nakayama said Sept. 25 by
phone, adding that the details of the Hokkaido project are not
yet decided.  “Some people may call it a bubble, but it’s not that
simple,” Nakayama said.  While the relative ease of entering the solar business has
invited a rush of different investors, wind power is mostly
being developed by specialists in the field, Travis Woodward, an
analyst with BNEF in Tokyo, said by phone.  Powerful Wind  Japan’s wind farm market is led by Sumitomo’s rival  Toyota
Tsusho Corp. (8015) , a trading house that is diversifying away from car
sales, according to a CLSA February report. Other players
include  Electric Power Development Co. (9513) , also known as J-Power,
Japan Wind Development, and Green Power Investment, which sold a
44 percent stake to Softbank last year.  The wind market allows developers to build larger projects
and according to the Ministry of Environment offers greater
potential capacity. The country could accommodate 280,000
megawatts of wind capacity onshore and a further 1,600,000
megawatts off the coast, compared to 150,000 megawatts of
commercial solar power, the ministry said last year.  In the long-term, wind farms stationed off the coast may be
a particularly strong area for Japan, CLSA’s Enjo said.  At present, windy areas in Hokkaido and northern Tohoku
lack the transmission capability to reach high-demand areas such
as Tokyo. In using more renewable energy, Japan will need to
spend 5.2 trillion yen on building and upgrading transmission
and distribution grids, according to government estimates.  Grid Lock  “Unlocking the potential to make money means securing grid
capacity for wind and that’s limited by the utilities,” BNEF’s
Woodward said. “An upgrade and more unification of the Japan
grid will open more opportunities.”  The cost of wind power generation is estimated between 9.9
yen and 17.3 yen and offshore wind parks between 9.4 yen and
23.1 yen, government estimates show. Solar plants are the most
expensive electricity source in Japan, costing between 30.1 yen
and 45.8 yen per kilowatt hour.  The higher cost gives solar almost twice the 23.1 yen per
kilowatt-hour guaranteed for wind. And yet, the wind tariff is
based on an 8 percent internal rate of return, while solar is
based on 6 percent, government data show.  As in solar, Japan’s tariff for wind is the most generous
in the world and 43 percent higher than that of next-best Italy.
The U.K. offers less than half and China about a third,
according to BNEF’s Aug. 14 wind market outlook report.  Three Year Window  By the end of 2016, Japan may have 7,600 megawatts of wind
capacity, CLSA estimates. The estimate for solar is 17,300
megawatts by the end of 2014, including residential panels.  Despite greater regulation in the wind industry, the three
year window Japan set for projects to receive feed-in tariff
approval is stimulating investment, Summit’s Kitamura said.  Summit Energy is planning a wind farm in Ibaraki north of
Tokyo that will be an 18 megawatt add-on at its 20 megawatt site
in the town of Kashima, according to the company’s environmental
impact report submitted to the local government.  The Sumitomo utility will also develop a 29-megawatt wind
farm in Oga, Akita prefecture, that’s due to start operating in
December 2014, the company said in a Sept. 28 statement.  “There will be a flood of applications trying to lock in
the good rates before they expire,” CLSA’s Enjo said. “If
there is to be a big bubble it would be in the year before
everybody knew that these rates would drop heavily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  