-- U.A.E. Central Bank Won’t Extend Deadline for Loan Cap
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-10-01T07:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-a-e-central-bank-won-t-extend-deadline-for-loan-cap.html
The  United Arab Emirates  won’t extend
its deadline for banks to comply with new rules that cap lending
to governments and state enterprises, said Saif Al Shamsi,
assistant governor at the central bank.  “The decision stands as is,” though each bank will be
dealt with individually, Al Shamsi told reporters in  Kuwait 
today. The deadline expired yesterday.  The U.A.E. central bank said  April 4  that banks must not
lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local governments
and the same amount to government-related entities to help
reduce risk. There was no limit under previous rules.  The Emirates Banks Association led discussions with the
central bank, although talks are being held separately with each
bank about the rules due to differences within portfolios,
according to a spokesman for lender  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , who
declined to be identified because of company policy.  Many U.A.E. banks suffered from an increase in bad loans
linked to debt restructuring by state-owned businesses including
Dubai World, which shook global markets in 2009 with its request
to delay payments on $25 billion in loans. Sovereign and
government-related entity, or GRE, issuers have about $32
billion of debt maturing in 2012, including $15 billion in
Dubai, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a March 14
report.  ‘Breaching the Limit’  “My view is that banks would ask the central bank to give
them time to run down large exposures naturally by allowing
these loans to mature,” according to Shabbir Malik, an analyst
based in Dubai at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “In the meantime,
they wouldn’t be allowed to extend more loans to entities where
the exposure is breaching the limit.”  The exposure of Emirates NBD, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by
assets, to sovereign and quasi-sovereign clients is 192 percent
of regulatory capital, while that of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC  and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the second-and third-
biggest U.A.E. lenders, are 199 percent and 108 percent,
according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates in April.  “This lending cap could potentially create opportunities
for other banks who have some headroom available, and which
aren’t as close to the GREs as other banks,” Malik said by
phone today.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Jean-Michel Saliba
wrote in research note last week that he expected the central
bank to extend the deadline by six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  