-- U.K. Manufacturing Slump Deepens More Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-01T08:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-k-manufacturing-slump-deepens-more-than-economists-forecast.html
A U.K. index of  manufacturing  fell in
September by more than economists forecast, suggesting parts of
the economy may be struggling to shake off a recession.  A  gauge  based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to
48.4 from 49.6 in August, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in  London  today.
Economists had forecast a decline to 49.3, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Data last week showed the economy’s second-quarter
contraction was less than an initial estimate, adding to signs
growth may have resumed in the third quarter. The Bank of
England will maintain its quantitative-easing program this week
as policy makers await confirmation the U.K.’s double-dip
recession has ended, economists say.  “Overseas sales continue to be hit by the ongoing
deterioration in global economic growth, with the  euro zone  --
the U.K.’s largest export market -- at the epicentre of the
weakness,” Markit Chief Economist  Chris Williamson  said. “In
this global economic environment, manufacturers look certain to
struggle and the sector is unlikely to act as a driver of
economic growth.”  The average index reading for the whole third quarter was
47.7, which is the lowest since the second quarter of 2009,
Markit said. Consumer, intermediate and investment goods
companies all said that production fell.  ‘Uncertain’ for Smiths  “The economic environment remains uncertain,” Smiths
Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Philip Bowman said in a
statement on Sept. 19 as the world’s biggest supplier of
mechanical seals to energy and marine clients reported higher
full-year operating profit. “Pressures on  government spending ”
are likely “to constrain those parts of our business with
government-funded customers.”  The economy contracted 0.4 percent in the second quarter
from the first three months of the year, less than the 0.5
percent previously thought an initial estimate of a 0.7 percent
slump. Disposable incomes rose the most since 2009, suggesting
the squeeze on consumers is easing, and recent data on services,
retail sales and production suggest growth resumed in the third
quarter.  Still, economic output is 4 percent below its peak in early
2008, and the slump in manufacturing is continuing while  Europe ,
the U.K.’s biggest trading partner, slides into recession. Gross
domestic product in the 17-member euro area fell 0.2 percent
from the first quarter, when growth had stalled, the European
Union’s statistics office said last month.  The  Bank of England  will hold its bond-purchase plan at 375
billion pounds ($606 billion) this week, according to all 40
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Policy makers will also
hold the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent,
all 50 economist said in a separate poll. The bank announces the
decision at noon in London on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  