-- U.K. Stocks Rally Most in Two Weeks; Barclays Advances
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-01T16:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-k-stocks-rebound-from-three-week-low-as-barclays-gains.html
U.K. stocks  jumped the most in more
than two weeks as stress tests bolstered confidence in the
Spanish banking system and U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
expanded last month.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led a rally in banks, climbing 3.5 percent,
after Liberum Capital advised investors to buy shares in British
lenders.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  gained 2.4 percent after the board
recommended Glencore International Plc’s $33 billion sweetened
takeover offer. Homebuilders climbed as Citigroup Inc. upgraded
 Taylor Wimpey Plc. (TW/)   The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 78.38 points, or 1.4 percent, to
5,820.45 at the close in London, the largest advance since Sept
14. The gauge fell to the lowest level since Sept. 5 last week
amid concern the Federal Reserve’s latest bond buying program
will fail to boost growth. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 1.3
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased less than
0.1 percent.  “The stress tests are another hurdle overcome in easing
the sovereign-debt crisis,” said  Henk Potts , an equity
strategist at Barclays Plc in London. “It’s absolutely right to
rally on the back of the tsunami of stimulus we have seen. We
still believe investors should be using any weakness to build up
a correct exposure to equities.”  Banks  led stocks higher  in  Europe  as the Spanish stress
tests, released after the close of trading on Sept. 28, reported
a capital deficit of 59.3 billion euros ($76 billion) for the
country’s lenders, less than the 100 billion euros agreed as
part of a bailout.  Santander, BBVA  The tests of 14 lenders showed seven, including Banco
Santander SA and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the
country’s largest banks, had no capital shortfall.  U.K. stocks extended their advance after the Institute for
Supply Management’s U.S.  factory index  climbed to 51.5 in
September from 49.6 a month earlier, topping the 49.7 median
economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50
represent expansion.  Barclays advanced 3.5 percent to 222.35 pence, rebounding
from two-week decline. Liberum upgraded Barclays,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  to buy, citing
bank deleveraging and reduced tail risks.  RBS gained 3.7 percent to 266.4 pence while Lloyds climbed
3 percent to 39.98 pence.  Xstrata increased 2.4 percent to 980 pence after the board
recommended shareholder’s back Glencore’s takeover offer after
gaining assurances on board composition and delinking votes on
the bid and bonus payments.  Xstrata Resolutions  Shareholders will be asked to consider two resolutions: one
to approve the takeover along with 144 million pounds ($232
million) of retention bonuses and a second that excludes the pay
question, Xstrata said in a statement today. This means the deal
can proceed even if the incentive payments are rejected.  Glencore (GLEN) , the Baar, Switzerland-based commodities trader,
slipped 0.3 percent to 342 pence.  Taylor Wimpey increased 2.6 percent to 55.7 pence as
Citigroup upgraded the homebuilder to buy from neutral and
raised its share-price estimate by 31 percent to 67 pence.  A  gauge of U.K. homebuilders  rose the most in almost a
month, climbing 1.7 percent, as Citigroup also reiterated its
buy recommendation for  Bellway Plc (BWY) , Berkley Group Holdings Plc,
Bovis Homes Group Plc and  Persimmon Plc. (PSN)   “We continue to believe that sector margins and profits
will move steadily higher in the next few years,” Clyde Lewis
and Aynsley Lammin wrote in a report. “Despite the strong run
in the sector, we still believe there is some good upside to
come over the next 12 months.”  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  gained 1.6 percent to 2,683 pence before the
supplier of plumbing reports earnings tomorrow. The stock fell
2.8 percent last week.  IAG Advances  Elsewhere, International Consolidated Airlines Group paced
European airlines higher, gaining 3.6 percent to 154.3 pence.
The International Air Transport Association raised its 2012
global airline profit forecast 37 percent to $4.1 billion as
carriers slow capacity growth to cope with higher fuel prices
and waning travel demand.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  slid 1 percent to 2,925 pence after the
drugmaker suspended share buybacks as the board and new Chief
Executive Officer Pascal Soriot review the company’s strategy.
AstraZeneca has repurchased $2.3 billion of stock this year,
compared with an initial target of $4.5 billion, prompting
speculation it will embark on larger takeovers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  