-- U.K. Government Needs to Do More to Boost Weak Economy, BCC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-k-government-needs-to-do-more-to-boost-weak-economy-bcc-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
needs to do more to revive the stagnating economy, the British
Chambers of Commerce said after publishing a report showing
business confidence weakened this quarter as demand declined.  Gauges of domestic and export sales at factories and
services companies dropped from the previous three months, the
London-based business lobby said in a report today, citing a
quarterly survey. Expectations measures, including export orders
and investment intentions, also declined.  As Cameron’s  Conservative Party  prepares for its annual
conference this weekend, the BCC said the government should
introduce measures to boost infrastructure investment and
capital allowances to encourage companies to spend. The
opposition  Labour Party  called yesterday on Cameron to use funds
from the planned sale of fourth-generation mobile-phone spectrum
to fund homebuilding.  “U.K. economic performance remains weak and inadequate,”
BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said in a statement. “The
economy has been stagnant for too long and urgent measures are
needed to enable businesses to drive a sustainable recovery.”  For manufacturers, the BCC’s measure of domestic sales fell
to 3 this quarter from 9 in the second quarter, while the export
sales index dropped to 13 from 31. At services companies,
domestic sales fell to 1 from 10 and export sales slipped to 19
from 24.  Measures of orders in both industries also fell this
quarter, as did gauges of investment in plant and machinery as
well as training. The BCC’s survey was based on 7,593 responses
to a questionnaire between Aug. 20 and Sept. 12.  Fiscal Squeeze  The U.K. economy shrank for a third consecutive quarter in
the three months through June. Data on Oct. 25 will show whether
the economy rebounded in the third quarter from the disruption
caused by an extra public holiday for Queen Elizabeth II’s
jubilee in June.  Part of the economy’s weakness relates to the government’s
fiscal squeeze, which Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
says has helped to insulate Britain from the euro-area debt
crisis.  “Economic growth is weak and businesses are less confident
and less likely to invest than they were at the beginning of the
year,” said John Longworth, director general of the BCC. “The
survey results should be a clear signal to government that more
needs to be done to stimulate growth alongside continued  deficit
reduction .”  The BCC didn’t comment on monetary policy in today’s
report. It said last month that the benefits of so-called
quantitative easing have “diminished” and the  Bank of England 
could help boost credit by purchasing assets other than gilts,
such as securitized business loans.  All 40 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast that
the central bank will keep its  bond-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds ($605 billion) when the Monetary Policy Committee
announces its monthly decision on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  