-- U.K. Rainfall Above-Average in September, Ireland Mixed
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-01T13:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-k-rainfall-above-average-in-september-ireland-mixed.html
U.K. rainfall was “slightly” higher
than average in September, while Ireland’s precipitation totals
were mixed, the countries’ national weather forecasters said.  The U.K. had 96.3 millimeters (3.8 inches) of rain up to
Sept. 26, representing 100 percent of average precipitation for
the month of September from 1981 to 2010, the  Met Office  said
today in a  report  on its website. About 87 percent of the
monthly total should have fallen by that date, according to the
report. Areas of northern  England  had more than a month’s worth
of rain during two days of  storms  through Sept. 25, the Met
Office said last week.  “The latter part of September saw some exceptional
rainfall in parts of the U.K., which caused disruption and
flooding at times,” according to the statement. Still, the
month is “set to be slightly wetter than average, but by no
means a record-breaker.”  Temperatures to Sept. 26 averaged 12.2 degrees Celsius (54
degrees Fahrenheit), about 0.5 degree cooler than the monthly
average, the Met Office said. The country registered about 126
hours of sunshine, representing about 101 percent of the monthly
average for September.  In Ireland, rainfall during September was above average in
northern parts of the country, as well as areas of the west,
east and midlands, while below-average totals were registered in
the south, national weather forecaster Met Eireann said in a
separate  report .  Areas of Dublin had as much as 149 percent of the normal
amount of rain in September, while southern regions had as
little as 15 percent of the average monthly total, Met Eireann
said. Temperatures during the month were below average across
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  