-- U.K. Deficit Plans ‘Standing Still’ Amid Rating Risk, Riley Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-01T10:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-k-deficit-plans-standing-still-amid-rating-risk-riley-says.html
Britain’s efforts to cut the  budget
deficit  are “standing still” and the pound could come under
pressure if investors lose confidence in the fiscal plans and
the economic recovery, Fitch Ratings Managing Director David Riley said.  “It’s a very serious situation that the U.K. finds itself
in,” Riley told  Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” in London today. “The  budget deficit  for this year is
going to be in excess of 8 percent, which, actually despite all
of the talk of austerity, actually means the U.K. is now
standing still in terms of  deficit reduction .”  Fitch, which has Britain’s AAA credit rating on negative
outlook, said on Sept. 28 the country faces an increased risk of
a downgrade, citing the potential for government debt to peak at
a higher level and later than it previously predicted. Riley
said the ratings company expects to make a decision on the top
grade by early 2014 and that the U.K. faces a  currency risk  too.  “One can’t completely discount the idea that sterling
could come under significant pressure,” Riley said. “What you
could get is a sterling crisis, rather than a bond market
crisis. That could arise as a result of a loss of confidence in
both the government’s program and also prospects for the U.K.
economy in terms of a broader recovery.”  The assessment adds pressure on Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  as the economy struggles to recover from three
quarters of contraction. Fitch forecasts that the economy will
shrink 0.3 percent this year.  Debt Target  The ratings company said last week that Osborne is set to
miss his target of starting to bring down net debt in the
2015-16 fiscal year. Instead, debt will peak at 80 percent of
gross domestic product that year before beginning to decline in
the following year. In the March budget, the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  predicted debt would peak at 76.3 percent of GDP
in 2014-15.  “We are not at all complacent about the potential for
concerns over the U.K.’s creditworthiness, but underlying
fundamentals in our opinion are such that it still warrants it
at this point in time,” Riley said. He said those fundamentals
-- the reserve currency status of sterling and the long average
maturity of its debt -- should prevent a financing crisis.  “There’s no market risks we think embedded in the U.K.
rating,” Riley said. “The risk of some kind of financing
crisis in the U.K. is in fact very small.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  