-- Ex-Madoff Workers Face More Charges in Fraud Indictment
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-s-prosecutors-file-new-charges-against-madoff-ex-employees.html
Five longtime employees of  Bernard Madoff ’s former investment firm face more charges related to the
jailed con man’s Ponzi scheme, which the government claims got
its start in the 1970s.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  yesterday released
a revised indictment expanding the charges against former Madoff
employees Daniel Bonventre, Annette Bongiorno, Joann Crupi,
Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez . The indictment adds to the 17
criminal counts filed against the former employees in November
2010, for a total of 33 counts.  Bonventre, 65, and Bongiorno, 64, worked for Madoff for 40
years, with Bongiorno rising to the level of supervisor and
account manager. Crupi, 51, an employee since 1983, tracked
daily bank account activity, prosecutors said. Perez, 46 and
O’Hara, 49, started at the firm in the early 1990s.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 for cheating
investors out of $20 billion in principal. He’s serving a 150-
year term in federal prison in  North Carolina .  The defendants are scheduled to be arraigned on the new
charges at a hearing today before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, Bharara’s office said in the statement.  Additional Pressure  The new charges put additional pressure on the former
employees, who have pleaded not guilty in the case. New charges
against Bonventre and Crupi include bank fraud, which is
punishable by as much as 30 years in prison.  The new indictment contains 22 counts against Bonventre,
including conspiracy,  securities fraud  and filing false tax
returns. Bongiorno is charged with 10 counts including
conspiracy, securities fraud and tax evasion. Crupi faces 13
counts including conspiracy, securities fraud, falsifying
records and  tax evasion .  O’Hara and Perez each face eight counts of conspiracy,
securities fraud and falsifying records.  The new charges appear to include information from former
Madoff employees who pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
government’s investigation. Seven people, in addition to Bernard
Madoff, have pleaded guilty.  Former Chief Financial Officer  Frank DiPascali , who began
working for Madoff in 1975, Madoff’s former accountant David Friehling, former employees Craig Kugel, David Kugel, Enrica
Cotellessa-Pitz and Eric Lipkin have pleaded guilty. In June,
 Peter Madoff , Bernard Madoff’s brother, pleaded guilty. Peter
Madoff didn’t agree to cooperate. He’s scheduled to be sentenced
next month. Irwin Lipkin, hired in 1964, plans to plead guilty
in the case, according to prosecutors.  Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch; Bongiorno’s lawyer,
 Maurice Sercarz ; Crupi’s lawyer, Eric Breslin; O’Hara’s lawyer,
Gordon Mehler; and Perez’s lawyer, Larry Krantz, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages yesterday seeking comment
on the new charges after regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 