-- U.S. Leads in High-Frequency Trading, Trails in Rules
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-01T23:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/u-s-leads-in-high-frequency-trading-trails-in-rules.html
Given the missteps that have
prolonged and deepened the  European debt crisis , one wouldn’t
necessarily expect the continent to be home to far-sighted
financial reform. But that is exactly what seems to be happening
in the realm of high-frequency, computer-driven trading.  High-speed trading comes with real benefits: lower trading
expenses, better prices for investors and increased market
liquidity. The costs, however, are fairly significant and can be
seen in wild volatility and destabilizing trading snafus.  Consider two events in this year alone: In March, Bats
Global Markets Inc., a computer-trading exchange, had to abandon
its initial public offering, after its system crashed the day of
its IPO and forced a halt in Apple Inc. shares. And in July, the
Wall Street trading firm  Knight Capital  Group Inc. nearly
collapsed after a flawed computer program ran out of control
for 45 minutes and placed errant orders. Then there was the 
so-called flash crash of May 6, 2010, when U.S. markets plunged,
losing about $1 trillion in value, before recovering within
an hour.  All of this has contributed to the erosion of trust in U.S.
markets. Today, only 15 percent of Americans express confidence
in financial markets, the lowest since the Chicago Booth/Kellogg
School Financial Trust  Index  was created in January 2009.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is holding a  round
table  Oct. 2 to review what to do about high-frequency trading,
but we aren’t optimistic. The gathering is little more than a
fact-finding mission, and the agency hasn’t proposed significant
fixes.  Some Examples  In contrast to this go-slow approach,  Germany ,  Canada ,
 Australia  and the European Union are taking up some of the tools
the U.S. should consider to keep computerized trading from
running amok. To cite a few examples:  -- In Germany, legislation is pending to require high-
frequency traders to register so regulators can better track
their market moves.  -- Canada charges fees to firms that attempt to clog
markets with buy and sell orders, as well as cancellations, a
practice known as  quote stuffing . High-frequency trading firms
sometimes do this to overload the less-sophisticated trading
systems of rivals and exploit minuscule and fleeting price
discrepancies.  -- Australia will ask trading firms to conduct stress tests
to gauge how they deal with market shocks.  -- The EU is reviewing a number of measures including one
that would require a trading firm to honor a bid for half a
second, a lifetime in a market where trades can be executed in
microseconds.  It wouldn’t hurt if U.S. regulators took a look at these
options and considered a few others, as well.  One is the creation of a tracking system to provide a
consolidated audit trail of all trading in real time. The SEC
has  ordered  markets to build such a system, but it will generate
data only the next day. In a hyperspeed world, that’s too late.  High-frequency traders also should be required to make
markets in securities, serving as buyers and sellers of last
resort. One reason the flash crash was so deep was that traders
pulled out as the market decline picked up speed. An obligation
to buy when others sell can slow a fall. As part of this market-
making duty, trading firms could be required to honor a buy or
sell offer for a certain period of time.  Existing circuit breakers that temporarily halt trading and
slow a market plunge are fine, but one idea worth considering is
to have circuit breakers for individual high-frequency outfits.
These would prevent a firm from sending out an inordinate number
of orders to engage in stuffing.  Every firm also needs a “kill switch” to halt trading in an
instant. If Knight Capital had one, it might have avoided
calamity.  High-frequency trading is here to stay. It has the power to
add real value to markets -- but only if it is tempered by sound
rules to ensure that human beings, not machines, are in charge
of the markets.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  QE3 isn’t a declaration
of war  on  emerging markets ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Obama’s Middle
East mistakes ; William Pesek on  economic development in Myanmar ;
Ramesh Ponnuru on the next challenge to  Obama’s health-care
plan ; Alexandra Harney on  China’s angry men .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 