-- UBS Co-Worker Says He Used Adoboli’s Umbrella Account
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/ubs-co-worker-says-he-used-adoboli-s-umbrella-account.html
John Hughes , a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader,
testified he made the same type of unauthorized trades as his
co-worker Kweku Adoboli, who is being prosecuted for fraud.  Hughes said during his fourth day of testimony at Adoboli’s
fraud and false accounting trial in London yesterday that he
made trades that benefited the fund Adoboli had dubbed his
“umbrella” -- the first time another worker admitted using
that account.  Charles Sherrard, Adoboli’s lawyer, presented evidence of
at least five transactions on the umbrella account made by
Hughes while Adoboli was on vacation in  Greece  in June 2011, and
that accounting firm KPMG LLP had evidence of other such trades.
Adoboli called it the umbrella because it could be tapped on
“rainy days” to cover trading losses, prosecutors have said.  Sherrard asked Hughes why, if he had made the trades, he
told UBS management and their lawyers after Adoboli’s arrest
last year “that you hadn’t played a part in anything” even
though the last trade Hughes personally made was executed “just
six weeks earlier.”  Hughes confirmed he’d made the trades, which were real
transactions on the bank’s books tied to fake hedges that hid
risk from the desk’s regular trading book. Profit from such
trades went into the umbrella fund for later use by the
exchange-traded fund desk, Sherrard said.  Futures Market  Adoboli was charged in relation to unauthorized trades on
which UBS lost $2.3 billion. The former trader admitted hours
before his arrest in September of last year that he had risked
$5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a further $3.75
billion in the German futures market, a former manager
testified. Adoboli has pleaded not guilty.  Sherrard has said previously that Hughes had made his own
off-book trades, knew of the umbrella account and “at times
controlled it.”  Hughes reiterated yesterday he didn’t control the umbrella
fund and that he didn’t know how to directly access it on
Adoboli’s computer. He also said he didn’t know about the fund
until about January 2011, though Adoboli created it in 2008.
Others who were fired, including Adoboli’s former manager Ron Greenidge, weren’t aware of the umbrella, Hughes said.  Sherrard said Hughes abandoned Adoboli as the scheme
unraveled and let him take the fall on his own, instead of
stating he’d been part of it. Hughes also agreed for the first
time he had a supervisory role over Adoboli and that he
repeatedly lied when asked by the ETF desk’s manager to report
on their daily profits and losses.  Hughes was shown transcripts of iPhone messages between
Adoboli and his girlfriend. Sherrard said they showed Hughes
went to the woman’s apartment after the scheme fell apart, to
determine if “Adoboli had been saying anything to anyone else
about you, that’s what you were worried about -- just you.”  Hughes said he didn’t remember whether he went to the
woman’s apartment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  