-- Human-Rights Suits May Be Limited in Top Court Shell Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-01T18:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/human-rights-suits-may-be-limited-in-top-court-shell-case.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices suggested
they will shield companies from some suits alleging complicity
in overseas atrocities, as the court debated how far to go in
scaling back a favorite legal tool of human-rights advocates.  During arguments in Washington on accusations that two
foreign-based units of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  facilitated torture
and execution in  Nigeria , the justices today questioned whether
American courtrooms were the proper site for such claims. The
case centers on the two-century-old Alien Tort Statute.  “Why does this case belong in the courts of the United
States when it has nothing to do with the United States other
than the fact that a subsidiary of the defendant has a big
operation here?” Justice  Samuel Alito  asked, as the court heard
the first case of its new nine-month term.  A ruling cutting back the Alien Tort Statute would be a
coup for companies, dozens of which have faced suits under the
law in recent years.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Pfizer
Inc., Unocal Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Ford Motor Co. have all
been sued under either the Alien Tort Statute or a related law,
known as the Torture Victim Protection Act.  Trimming the Statute  By the end of the hour-long session, the focus of the
debate was how far the court should go in trimming the Alien
Tort Statute. Some justices suggested they would continue to
allow suits against alleged perpetrators who took refuge in the
U.S., while the Obama administration urged the court to bar
claims against foreign units -- and throw out the Shell case --
without deciding whether U.S. companies could be sued.  Human-rights advocates say a victory at the high court for
Shell, based in the  Hague ,  Netherlands , would undermine the
ability of atrocity victims to hold their perpetrators
accountable.  “This law is incredibly important,” said Katie Redford,
co-founder of EarthRights International, an environmental and
human rights group that filed a court brief supporting a group
of Nigerians who sued, in a statement. “It makes corporations
think twice before they cut corners and curb human rights
standards to improve their bottom line.”  Lawyers who represent corporations say such a ruling is
long overdue. Lawsuits under the Alien Tort Statute have been
“sucking up huge resources of lots of companies,” Andy Pincus,
a  Washington  lawyer who has represented companies and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce on the issue, said last week.  Second Argument  The justices were hearing arguments for the second time on
the suit, being pressed by Nigerians who say two Shell units
were complicit in torture and execution in the country’s Ogoni
region from 1992 to 1995.  The high court in February considered contentions that the
Alien Tort Statute doesn’t permit suits against corporations.
Several justices, including Alito, suggested then that they were
more interested in hearing arguments that the law can’t be
applied overseas.  The justices then expanded their review, ordering re-
argument on a potentially more sweeping question: whether the
statute applies beyond the U.S. borders. A decision limiting the
law to misconduct on U.S. soil would shield corporate officers
as well as the companies.  The 33-word statute, enacted in 1789, was in part a
reaction to an attack on a French diplomat in Philadelphia. The
Alien Tort Statute then lay largely dormant for almost two
centuries before being revived in the 1970s as a means of
pressing human-rights lawsuits.  1980 Ruling  A 1980 federal appeals court ruling allowed use of the law
by two Paraguayan citizens against a former Paraguayan police
chief who had moved to the U.S.  Several justices, including  Anthony Kennedy , today
suggested they weren’t interested in undercutting the 1980
decision. That would limit the scope of any ruling in the Shell
case, perhaps barring suits against foreign-based corporate
units while allowing other types of claims.  Paul L. Hoffman, the lawyer for the Nigerians who sued,
told the court that “the trend in the world today is toward
universal justice for people that -- and corporations that --
violate these kinds of norms.”  The court’s Republican-appointed justices suggested they
weren’t comfortable with that approach. Kennedy said Hoffman’s
position would give other countries license to adjudicate claims
involving alleged wrongdoing against U.S. corporations.  Any Court  Under Hoffman’s approach, “if a U.S. corporation commits
an international law violation in the  United States , that U.S.
corporation can be sued in any court in the world,” Kennedy
said.  Shell’s lawyer, Kathleen Sullivan, urged the court to issue
a sweeping decision that would categorically bar suits for
conduct that occurs beyond the U.S. borders. The U.S. shouldn’t
impose “our law onto foreign countries,” she said.  Justice Elena Kagan asked Sullivan whether the court
shouldn’t permit such suits in at least some contexts. Kagan
described a hypothetical assault by an American on a French
ambassador in  London .  “Wouldn’t the ATS have contemplated exactly that sort of
action?” Kagan asked. “I mean, why would it make any
difference whether the attack on the French ambassador by a
United States citizen occurred in Philadelphia or occurred in
London?”  At another point, Kagan asked whether plaintiffs should
have to first try to sue in countries with a closer connection
to the alleged wrongdoing. In the Shell case, that would include
the U.K. and the Netherlands, where the two units are based, she
said.  Obama Argument  U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, representing the
Obama administration, urged the court to rule in Shell’s favor
without reaching some of the broader questions. He said the
court should leave intact the 1980 decision that allowed suits
against perpetrators who had moved to the U.S.  Justice  Stephen Breyer  offered some support for the
Nigerian plaintiffs. He pointed to the prospect that, at the
time it was passed, the law would have allowed suits against
pirates.  “If, in fact, an equivalent torturer or dictator who wants
to destroy an entire race in his own country is not the
equivalent of today’s pirate, who is?” Breyer asked.  The  case  is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum, 10-1491.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  