-- United Technologies Seeks Payoff on $16.5B Aerospace Bet
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-01T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/united-technologies-ceo-seeks-payoff-on-goodrich-purchase.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert , with his $16.5 billion bet on
the aerospace industry in place, is now turning his attention to
making sure it pays off.  Focusing on integrating the record acquisition of Goodrich
Corp. probably means eschewing any takeovers of more than about
$1 billion, Chenevert said in an interview. That deal added the
world’s largest maker of aircraft landing gear to brands that
include Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters.  Aerospace is now poised to surpass more than half of
revenue at United Technologies, from 43 percent when Chenevert
became CEO in 2008. As the Hartford, Connecticut-based company
finishes selling units that include manufacturers of rockets and
industrial pumps, the aviation shift will pay off as airlines
race to buy fuel-efficient jets, according to Chenevert, 55.  “The next time someone says they want to do a whole new
airplane, we have a whole array of opportunities we can offer
them,” Chenevert said in the interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  His customers include Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
biggest commercial-jet makers, enabling United Technologies to
benefit from what Boeing predicts will 5 percent annual growth
in global airline traffic for the next 20 years. At the same
time, United Technologies and Goodrich already share the U.S.
government as their largest buyer, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, amid a squeeze in defense spending.  Integration Focus  Chenevert said his Goodrich-integration emphasis may last
as long as three years, curbing United Technologies’ appetite
for large acquisitions for now.  “When you do a big deal, getting the deal done is hard but
doing the integration and bringing it home is even more
difficult,” Chenevert said. “The portfolio’s been reshaped,
and I don’t see any other big deals.”  Chenevert spoke a day after a Sept. 27 conference for
analysts and investors near  Montreal , where Chief Financial
Officer Greg Hayes said Goodrich was helping United Technologies
put more equipment on the newest wide-bodies, such as Boeing’s
787 and Airbus’s A350, than on their predecessors.  United Technologies announced the deal in September 2011
and completed it July 30. It is the largest aerospace industry
acquisition on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
While the associated costs will damp earnings by 20 cents a
share this year, income from Goodrich will boost profit by 50
cents in 2013, United Technologies has said.  Earnings Outlook  Earnings for 2012 will be $5.25 to $5.35 a share on sales
of $58 billion to $59 billion, the company said Sept. 7,
reaffirming earlier projections. A 2013 profit forecast will be
provided later this year, it said.  Goodrich isn’t the only recent aerospace acquisition.
United Technologies also is digesting International Aero
Engines, maker of V2500 engines for Airbus’s A320 narrow-body
jet. Pratt & Whitney took control of the joint venture with MTU
Aero Engines AG and Japanese Aero Engines Corp. after buying
 Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ’s stake for $1.5 billion in July.  Counting Goodrich and IAE, more than half of United
Technologies’ 2011 revenue would have come from aerospace,
according to a presentation at the Montreal conference that
didn’t give a precise figure. John Moran, a spokesman, said the
company isn’t disclosing that number.  United Technologies’ 7.1 percent gain in 2012 through Sept.
28 beat the 5.7 percent climb for the Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Aerospace & Defense Index while trailing broader
stock market benchmarks. The S&P 500 Index rose 15 percent.  Shares Slide  The shares slid 0.1 percent to $78.29 at the last close,
capping a seven-day decline that’s the longest such streak since
August 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  United Technologies plans to spend as much as $2 billion or
more to buy back stock as it resumes repurchases suspended to
help pay for Goodrich, Chenevert said at the conference.  On May 24, United Technologies issued $9.8 billion of bonds
with maturities from 18 months to 30 years with an average
interest rate of about 2.8 percent in the biggest U.S. corporate
debt offering in more than three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  United Technologies forecasts $150 million of savings this
year in its UTC Aerospace Systems unit, which includes Goodrich
and aviation equipment maker Hamilton Sundstrand. It plans steps
such as consolidating some facilities, Alain Bellemare, head of
the business, told investors and analysts in Montreal.  “Pratt & Whitney, along with Hamilton Sundstrand over the
next couple of years, is the business within UTC in our opinion
that holds the largest potential source of upside,”  Nicholas Heymann , an analyst at William Blair & Co. in New York, wrote in
a Sept. 28 note. He has an outperform rating on the shares.  Even with  Europe  gripped by an economic slump and  China ’s
growth cooling this year, worldwide passenger traffic rose 5.8
percent in the first eight months, the International Air
Transport Association trade group said last week.  Chenevert, who led Pratt & Whitney before becoming CEO,
said rising demand will validate the aerospace strategy.  “The appetite that people have to fly, especially in
 emerging markets , is so great,” he said in the interview.
“That’s going to help us get tremendous momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  