-- Obama Misses Mideast Opportunities
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-10-01T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/hunt-for-obama-s-middle-east-policy-comes-up-empty.html
(Corrects title of Shadi Hamid in 12th paragraph.)  There’s an old saying that liberals
will support armed intervention in a foreign conflict only so
long as nothing resembling a self-interest is at stake.  If the cause is purely humanitarian -- if the refinement of
American morality is the only possible domestic benefit --
liberals just might be persuaded to support the use of military
force to help a starved, invaded or otherwise oppressed people.  Which brings me to the baffling subject of  Syria . Like many
observers of the Obama administration, I’ve been confused by its
unwillingness to take even the relatively modest steps required
to bring about a decisive end to the regime of Bashar al-Assad.
More than 30,000 people have been killed since the beginning of
the uprising against him, according to the Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights , and untold numbers have been wounded, tortured
or raped.  The Syrians who are rebelling are in dire need of the sort
of support that the U.S. can best provide. The U.S. has the
capability to efficiently neutralize Syria’s air defenses and
impose a no-fly zone to ground Assad’s attack helicopters. And
as Michael Doran and Max Boot pointed out in a recent  New York 
Times opinion article, only the U.S. can lead a multinational
effort to establish safe corridors between the Turkish border
and the besieged city of Aleppo. If Aleppo was under the stable
and permanent control of Syria’s rebels, it would spell the end
of Assad’s regime and its appalling brutality.  Elusive Explanation  So what explains President  Barack Obama ’s hesitancy?  Perhaps the caricature of liberals is true: In  Libya , where
Obama deployed the  Air Force  against the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi  -- whose crimes were terrible, but not as terrible as
Assad’s -- there were only marginal national-security interests
at stake. In Syria, the national-security interests are
profound. It doesn’t seem plausible that Obama is hesitating
because the U.S. self-interest is so nakedly apparent. Yet a
better explanation for his passivity is elusive.  Could Obama simply be avoiding a messy foreign entanglement
during his bid for re-election? If this were true, it would make
him guilty of criminal negligence. Is he the sort of man who
would deny innocent and endangered people help simply because
greater engagement could complicate his re-election chances? I
truly doubt it.  Here’s another possible explanation: Perhaps Obama isn’t
quite the brilliant foreign-policy strategist his campaign tells
us he is. Of course, he has had his successes. I’m not sure
you’re aware of this, but  Osama bin Laden  is dead (killed,
apparently, by Obama, who used only a salad fork and a No. 2
pencil). And, despite Republican assertions to the contrary, he
has done far more to stymie  Iran ’s nuclear ambitions than his
predecessor,  George W. Bush , ever did.  Yet Obama’s record in the Middle East suggests that missed
opportunities are becoming a White House specialty.  Syria is the most obvious example. Assad is a prime
supporter of terrorism (as opposed to Qaddafi, who had retired
from terrorism sponsorship by the time his people rose up
against him), and his regime represents Iran’s only meaningful
Arab ally. The overriding concern of the Obama administration in
the Middle East is the defanging of Iran. Nothing would isolate
Iran -- and its Lebanese proxy, Hezbollah -- more than the
removal of the Assad regime and its replacement by a government
drawn from Syria’s Sunni majority. Ensuring that Muslim
extremists don’t dominate the next Syrian government is another
compelling reason to increase U.S. involvement.  ‘Weak,’ ‘Feckless’  Yet all we have from Obama is passivity, which is a
recurring theme in the administration’s approach to the  Middle
East . So is “aggressive hedging,” a term used by the  Brookings
Institution ’s Shadi Hamid to describe Obama’s strange reluctance
to clearly choose sides in the uprisings of the Arab Spring.  “There’s a widespread perception in the region that Obama
is a weak, somewhat feckless president,” Hamid, who is the
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center, told me.
“Bush may have been hated, but he was also feared, and what
we’ve learned in the Middle East is that fear, sometimes at
least, can be a good thing. Obama’s aggressive hedging has
alienated both sides of the Arab divide. Autocrats, particularly
in the Gulf, think Obama naively supports Arab revolutionaries,
while Arab protesters and revolutionaries seem to think the
opposite.”  Leaders across the Middle East don’t take Obama’s threats
seriously. Neither Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  nor
the Arab leaders of the Gulf countries believe he’ll act
militarily against  Iran’s nuclear program  in his second term.  Obama’s handling of Middle East peace negotiations couldn’t
be characterized as passive; they could, however, be described
as thoughtless. Obama publicly demanded that Netanyahu freeze
settlement growth on the  West Bank . When Netanyahu only
partially and temporarily complied, Obama, in reaction, did
nothing. Obama was wrong to draw a line in the sand over
settlements, which are a derivative issue (if the Israelis and
Palestinians settle their borders, the settlement issue will
also be solved). But because he made it an issue without a
thought to follow-up, he managed to freeze the peace process.
From the Arab perspective, Obama didn’t carry through on a
stated policy. This didn’t help his reputation.  “Netanyahu and other Israeli leaders have run roughshod
over Obama, embarrassing and undercutting him,” Hamid said.
“They simply don’t believe that Obama will do anything about
it.”  The Middle East is a misery for American presidents. Very
few, including Obama, have managed to shape events there in ways
that benefit the U.S.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  regulating high-frequency
trading  and on why  QE3 isn’t a declaration of war  on  emerging
markets ; William Pesek on  economic development in Myanmar ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on the next challenge to  Obama’s health-care
plan ; Alexandra Harney  on China’s angry men .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 