-- Vanguard Wins Most Deposits Ever on Indexing Popularity
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-10-01T18:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/vanguard-wins-most-deposits-ever-on-indexing-popularity.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest U.S.
mutual-fund firm, attracted more money from investors in the
first nine months of 2012 than it has in any full calendar year
in its 38-year history.  The company won $113 billion in deposits in mutual funds
and exchange-traded funds through September,  John Woerth , a
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based company received $104 billion in 2007, the
previous high.  “We’re pleased that investors recognize Vanguard as the
low-cost fund leader and continue to entrust assets to us,”
Woerth said.  Vanguard has benefited as investors pull money from
actively managed funds and plow it into products that track
indexes. Mutual funds whose managers pick domestic stocks
experienced redemptions of $497 billion in the five years ended
June 30 while  index funds  took in $117 billion, data from
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  show.  Vanguard’s mutual funds charge an average annual fee of 16
cents on every $100 invested, compared with 79 cents for the
industry, according to data from Denver-based Lipper.  Vanguard attracted $72 billion in mutual-fund deposits
through August, more than twice as much as its nearest
competitor, Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., Morningstar data show. The $37 billion it won in
exchange-traded fund deposits also topped the industry, data
from Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)  show. ETFs typically track
indexes and trade throughout the day like stocks.  Vanguard manages almost $1.95 trillion in U.S. fund assets,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 csteni4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  