-- Capriles Rally Draws Thousands Against Chavez Ahead of Vote
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-10-01T15:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/venezuela-s-capriles-closes-caracas-campaign-as-thousands-march.html
Venezuelan opposition candidate
Henrique Capriles Radonski symbolically closed his Caracas
campaign against President Hugo Chavez yesterday with a march
attended by tens of thousands of supporters.  Capriles, dressed in a shirt styled with the three colors
of  Venezuela ’s flag, promised to confront growing violence in
the South American country after he said three supporters were
shot and killed over the weekend in Barinas state. He asked
voters to judge Chavez’s priorities after 13 years in power and
decide if they were happy with their lives today.  “This government gives away resources to every other
country,” Capriles said. “There is no gauze in the hospitals
here, but they give money away to sponsor samba dancing at the
carnival in Rio.”  Capriles, 40, has held large rallies across Venezuela over
the past month to close his campaign and build momentum after
making house-to-house visits to offer what he described as a
message of unity, progress and private investment. He filled the
stadium used by Chavez’s favorite baseball team on Sept. 27 in a
rally to close his campaign in the central state of Carabobo.  “This has to be one of the largest marches in the history
of Caracas,” Capriles said yesterday to a throng filling the
length of Bolivar Avenue in downtown Caracas, a symbolic space
often used by Chavez for campaign rallies, waving party flags,
chanting, dancing to campaign music and blowing vuvuzelas.  Leopoldo Lopez, a member of Capriles’ campaign team, said
on the Globovision television network Sept. 28 that he hoped as
many as a million people would attend the march. The campaign
didn’t provide an estimate on the size of the march afterward.  Three Dead  Shots were fired at a caravan of cars in eastern Barinas
state on Sept. 29 when Capriles supporters tried to pass a
checkpoint, the Primero Justicia political party said in a
statement, adding that the barricade had been set up by
“presumed” Chavez supporters.  Police have detained three suspects, the Venezuelan
government said yesterday in an e-mailed statement, without
providing additional details. Chavez, who spoke at a rally
yesterday in western Zulia state, said the incident was
“regrettable” and urged his supporters not to fall into
“provocations.”  Chavez, who also spoke at a rally on Sept. 29 in central
Miranda state, said he himself is one of the biggest critics of
his government and that there were reasons for some people to be
“discontent.”  Insecurity, Crime  “There have been failures and problems, but what is at
stake on Oct. 7 is not about the small or medium problems
including water or electricity problems,” said Chavez. “We’ll
solve the problems of insecurity and crime.”  Andrea Thadino, who lives in Caracas slum of San Agustin
where a cousin was killed by a gunfight three years ago, said
she works at a street nail salon because she can’t get a job
teaching at a public school after signing a petition against
Chavez.  “Despite studying for five years, I have to work as a
street vendor to survive,” she said in an interview at
yesterday’s march while carrying her 2-year-old son. “I voted
for Chavez the first time but not anymore. I think Capriles is a
sincere man who is going to make a change.”  Fitness for Office  Capriles, a former governor of Miranda state, has played up
his youth and fitness to offer a stark contrast to the condition
of his 58-year-old opponent, who is coming off three operations
related to an unknown cancer in the past 15 months. He is ahead
in several polls while trailing by as much as 15 percentage
points in others.  “There are two options here. One we already know and has
been in power for 14 years,” Capriles said. “I lead the other
option that aims to solve your problems.”  Capriles, who arrived on a truck with “Progress” written
on its windshield, said Chavez had dashed the hopes of many
Venezuelans.  “There was a lot of hope, wherever you went, there were
rivers of people full of hope,” said Capriles, referring to the
period after Chavez was first elected. “Almost 14 years later,
you be the judge of who is in the process of change and who is
sick with power. Because the man in Miraflores defrauded the
Venezuelan people.”  After his speech, Capriles hugged his mother and tossed his
trademark baseball caps with the Venezuelan colors into the
crowd.  Middle Class Votes  Chavez, a self-professed socialist who is traditionally
supported by the country’s poor, has spent his final days on
campaign trying to attract middle class and rich voters.  “Those with a big house and two or three cars in the
garage, a good job, their kids in a good school, the ones who go
to the club on Friday night and take their plane to Miami or
Margarita Island on Saturday, those people should vote for
Chavez,” the former paratrooper said in an interview broadcast
yesterday on the Televen television network. “We are the
guarantee of tranquility. Think about it well. It’s not for me,
it’s for you.”  Armando Briquet, head of the Capriles campaign, said the
government is trying to make the vote difficult for the
opposition with actions including the closing of Venezuela’s
Miami consulate, which will require thousands of voters to
travel to the nearest voting center in  New Orleans .  “Even with all that, we are going to win by more than 10
percentage points,” Briquet said backstage after the rally,
citing the campaign’s polling numbers.  “On Oct. 7, Chavez wins!” Chavez told supporters
yesterday in Zulia state. “It will be a grand victory, I don’t
have a doubt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  