-- Vietnam Bond Yield at Five-Month High on Concern About Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-01T08:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/vietnam-bond-yield-at-five-month-high-on-concern-about-inflation.html
Vietnam ’s bonds fell, pushing the
five-year yield to the highest level since early May, on
speculation inflation risk will deter the central bank from
lowering interest rates. The dong was steady.  The nation may struggle to keep the  gains  in consumer
prices below 10 percent because of higher seasonal food demand
and increased fuel costs, Hanoi Moi newspaper reported on its
website today, citing a forecast by the finance ministry’s price
control department. Annual inflation quickened for the first
time in more than a year last month to 6.48 percent, the General
Statistics Office reported Sept. 24.  “The return of inflation means the central bank will not
lower interest rates and traders right now are trying to take
profits,” said Nguyen Duy Phong, a Ho Chi Minh City-based
analyst at Viet Capital Securities. The downgrade of the
country’s credit rating by Moody’s Investors Service on Sept.
28, also helped push bonds lower, he said.  The yield on benchmark five-year notes rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.19 percent, according to
a daily fixing rate from banks compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest since May 4.  Moody’s cut Vietnam’s foreign- and local-currency
government bond ratings to B2 from B1, with a stable outlook,
the company said in a Sept. 28 statement . The new rating, five
steps below investment grade, puts Vietnam on a par with  Egypt 
and Cambodia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dong traded at 20,883 per dollar as of 2:31 p.m. in
Hanoi, compared with 20,890 on Friday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The State Bank of Vietnam set its
reference rate at 20,828, unchanged since Dec. 26, according to
its website. The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1
percent on either side of the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  