-- Vivus’s Weight-Loss Pill Covered by Insurers 30% of the Time
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-10-01T14:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/vivus-s-weight-loss-pill-covered-by-insurers-30-of-the-time.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s obesity drug Qsymia was
covered by health insurers more often than anticipated in its
first week on the market, which may help drive sales.  Vivus had said it didn’t expect health plans to agree to
pay for the medicine, according to  Andrew Berens , an analyst
with Bloomberg Industries. Qsymia was covered about a third of
the time in the week starting Sept. 21. Insurers paying for the
 Mountain View , California-based company’s treatment may boost
use of Qsymia, since patients wouldn’t have to pay cash.  “This is definitely a major concern among obesity
physicians; there was a lot of talk -- some wishful thinking
maybe -- that there will eventually be reimbursement for drug
therapy in obesity,” Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen &
Co., said in a Sept. 24 note to clients.  Qsymia is the first new weight loss drug on the market in
more than a decade and may generate as much as $1.1 billion a
year by 2016, Berens said. It will take time for sales of the
drug to solidify, and in the first week, only 106 prescriptions
were written, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vivus climbed 4.3 percent to $18.57 at 10:24 a.m. New York
time. The shares had increased 83 percent this year through
yesterday.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) , based in  San Diego , has its
obesity own drug, Belviq, that was approved by U.S. regulators
in June.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , based in  La Jolla ,
 California , is developing a therapy as well, which if approved
will be sold under the name Contrave.  Slow Expansion  The obesity drug market probably will expand slowly,
Simeonidis said in an interview, as patients and doctors learn
more about the medications and who should take them. He attended
the annual meeting of the Obesity Society in  San Antonio  last
month, and spoke to physicians to gauge their interest. He found
about 70 to 75 percent said they would prescribe Qsymia or
Belviq, while the other 25 to 30 percent were more skeptical, he
wrote in a note last week.  “The biggest demand I saw was from the obesity
specialists,” Simeonidis said in an interview. “From the
general practitioner perspective, they’re going to be slower to
adopt.” He compared the market for these new obesity drugs to
the early development of medication to treat depression.  “It was similar to the obesity space, in that obesity is
seen as a lifestyle and motivation issue, and depression was
seen like that by some people, and that has become a huge
market.”  Only a segment of patients are likely to get the drugs, he
said, with those looking to lose 5 percent or less of their body
weight being advised to focus on diet and exercise. On the other
end of the scale, those who want or need to lose 30 percent or
more of their body weight probably would require surgery. Still,
Simeonidis said some doctors told him they would put these
patients on the medications for months prior to surgery to
reduce the amount that needs to be removed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  