-- West Indies Defeats New Zealand in World Twenty20 Cricket Match
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-01T14:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/west-indies-defeats-new-zealand-in-world-twenty20-cricket-match.html
West Indies defeated  New Zealand  in a
“super over” to keep its hopes alive in cricket’s World
Twenty20 tournament in Sri Lanka.  The sides were tied on 139 at the end of their innings,
pushing the match into an extra over for each team.  New Zealand put up 17 runs in its “super over.” West
Indies had a target of 17 runs because it had more boundaries in
its regular innings.  Tim Southee had a no ball in the first ball of West
Indies’s super over, which Chris Gayle hit for a six. Finally,
Marlon Samuels hit a six to give the match to West Indies and
eliminate New Zealand from the tournament.  “Marlon Samuels is my go-to man in pressure situations,”
West Indies captain  Darren Sammy  said.  In New Zealand’s innings, Sunil Narine was 3-20, helping
restrict the Kiwis, but his misfield of a shot in the final over
allowed  Ross Taylor  to score an extra run and retain the strike.
Taylor’s 62 runs led New Zealand to 139-7 at the end of its 20
overs.  New Zealand won the toss and elected to field. West Indies
was all out for 139 runs, led by Gayle’s 30, with three balls
remaining in its 20 overs in Pallekelle.  “We probably should have won it in normal time, but you
have to give credit to the West Indies,” Taylor said.  Defending champion  England  plays host  Sri Lanka  in the
other Group 1 match today. England won the toss and elected to
field.  The World Twenty20, generally held every two years, is the
championship of the game’s shortest form. The Super Eight
consists of two groups of four, with the top two teams in each
advancing to the semifinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  