-- West Ham Beats 10-Man QPR for First Road Win in Premier League
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-10-01T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/west-ham-holds-on-for-2-1-win-at-qpr-in-premier-league-soccer.html
West Ham United beat 10-man Queens
Park Rangers 2-1 for its first road win in English soccer’s
Premier League.  Matthew Jarvis and Ricardo Vaz Te got the goals for the
Hammers and Adel Taarabt scored with his first contribution for
Rangers at Loftus Road in west London last night.  “Having just been promoted, to come to QPR and take the
game to them and dominate that first half was great for me to
see,” West Ham manager Sam Allardyce told reporters. “I’m a
little disappointed we didn’t finish them off, but absolutely
delighted we won.”  The victory lifts West Ham three places to seventh in the
20-team standings, with 11 points from six games. QPR remains
bottom of the table, with two points through six of 38 games.  “We were very poor, certainly in the first half where we
were second to every ball and didn’t get anywhere near to the
level we need to be at to get results in the Premier League,”
QPR manager Mark Hughes told reporters.  QPR avoided relegation when Bolton failed to win its final
game last season, while West Ham won a playoff to earn promotion
from the second tier.  Jarvis put West Ham ahead in the third minute with a headed
goal, his first since his move from Wolves in August.  QPR failed to clear a 35th-minute corner and Vaz Te
capitalized to make it 2-0 on his 26th birthday with a shot that
squeezed between QPR goalkeeper Julio Cesar and his right-hand
post.  Long Shot  Hughes brought on Taarabt for Shaun Wright-Phillips in the
56th minute. The Moroccan midfielder, last year’s Football
League Player of the Year, curled a right-foot shot into the top
corner of the net from about 20 yards (18 meters) a minute
later.  QPR’s Samba Diakite was shown a red card in the 75th
minute, 20 minutes after he joined the game as a substitute. The
midfielder was ejected for a second bookable offense when he
caught West Ham defender Guy Demel with a sliding tackle.  West Ham may be sanctioned after referee Mark Clattenburg
cautioned eight of its players.  “We got fined for seven bookings,” Allardyce said. “An
awful lot of yellow cards he gave nearly spoiled the game.”  England international striker Andy Carroll came on as a
72nd-minute substitute, his first appearance since injuring a
hamstring in his debut for West Ham after joining on loan from
Liverpool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 