-- Wind to Make Denmark Reliant on Power Imports, Lobby Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-10-01T15:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/wind-to-make-denmark-reliant-on-electricity-imports-study-shows.html
A surge in output from Nordic
renewable-power may depress electricity prices, forcing Danish
fossil-fuel plants to close and making the country reliant on
power imports for the first time, according to the Danish Energy
Association.  Wind power, hydropower, biomass and nuclear energy projects
in  Norway ,  Sweden , Denmark and  Finland  may boost annual
electricity supplies by 56 terawatt-hours, or 15 percent from
2011 levels, by 2020, the lobby group said in a report, received
Sept. 28 by e-mail. The study assumes a 38 terawatt-hour
increase in demand during the period, turning a 9.6 terawatt-
hour annual region-wide deficit into an 8.4 terawatt-hour
surplus, according to  data  from the Nordic energy regulator.  “Regardless of how prices develop for fuels and CO2
emissions permits, owners of Danish coal-fired power stations
will have a hard time covering fixed costs,” Peter Meirbom,
head of strategic analysis at the association, which represents
power producers, traders and grid operators, said by phone today
from Frederiksberg, Denmark. “Denmark could face a deficit in
peakload power generation capacity of 1.6 gigawatts by 2020.”  Intermittent Renewables  Denmark is planning to link its  electricity market  to other
countries as it prepares for the growing role of intermittent
renewable sources of power. Danish grid operator Energinet.dk
and Dutch counterpart Tennet Holding BV plan to make a final
 investment decision  on a  700-megawatt cable , called  Cobra , by
December 2014, Poul-Jacob Vilhelmsen, chief project manager at
Energinet.dk said today by e-mail from Fredericia, Denmark.  The share of renewable energy sources in Danish power
supply is set to rise from 40 percent in 2011 to 69 percent by
2020, Denmark’s Energy Agency said on Sept. 28.  Utilities such as Vattenfall AB and Dong Energy A/S plan to
mothball about 1 gigawatt of coal-fired plants in Denmark by the
end of the year.  “This is the first stage before real closure, with a
likely further loss of 1.5 gigawatts coal-fired capacity as well
as 500 megawatts from small gas-fired cogeneration plants by
2020,” Meirbom said.  The loss of coal generation will make  Denmark  particularly
dependent on power imports during peakload periods, such as cold
and dark winter afternoons, Meirbom said. To counter that,
Denmark needs more cross-border cables, such as the Cobra
project, to access continental European markets, he said.  ‘The Other Side’  The Dutch grid operator has seemed less keen than its
Danish counterpart to implement the cable, illustrating how
regulators and grid companies in the EU tend to give priority to
national economic interests instead of acting as one, Ulrich
Bang, director of EU affairs at the Danish Energy Association
said by phone today. The EU is promoting the development of a
joint power market in 2014.  “An open question is: what is on the other side of cross-
border lines?,” Meirbom said. “Neighbor countries must have a
power surplus to serve Denmark when we need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  