-- Workday Seeks Up to $546 Million in Initial Offering
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-01T15:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/workday-seeks-up-to-546-million-in-initial-offering.html
Workday Inc. (WDAY) , a maker of software
that helps manage office operations, filed to raise as much as
$546 million in its initial public offering.  Workday is offering 22.75 million shares at $21 to $24
each, according to a filing today. Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. are leading the sale. Workday plans to list on
the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WDAY.  The company, based in Pleasanton,  California , focuses on
payroll and human resources delivered through cloud computing,
and counts  Google Inc. (GOOG)  among its  customers , according to people
familiar with that deal. Workday said it may use some of the
proceeds from the IPO to expand its business through
acquisitions or investments.  “The demand for this offering prior to the price range was
extremely large,” said Scott Sweet, senior managing partner at
IPO Boutique. “The demand for Workday is reminiscent of demand
for Palo Alto Networks. The investing public has been just
waiting for the terms.”  Workday was founded in 2005 by co-Chief Executive Officers
Dave Duffield and Aneel Bhusri, who both previously worked at
HR-software pioneer PeopleSoft Inc.  Cloud-Based IPOs  The company’s market value will be $3.6 billion at $22.50
per share, the midpoint of its price range with a total of 160.3
million shares outstanding.  Revenue for the six months ended July 31, 2012, more than
doubled to $119.5 million, compared with $54.8 million for the
same period a year earlier, according to the filing. The company
posted a net loss of $46.9 million in the period that widened
from $36.3 million.  Companies specializing in cloud-based software have
performed well in IPOs this year, Sweet said. Shares of
 Guidewire Software Inc. (GWRE) , a developer of software for insurance
companies, had more than doubled since its January 24 IPO as of
Sept. 28.  Demandware Inc. (DWRE) , an e-commerce software provider, had
surged 98 percent since its March 14 IPO.  Workday competes with companies such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , which will be watching the company closely,
Sweet said.  “A lot of Workday’s reasons for not being profitable are
because of R&D expenses, which will obviviously come down and
make them even more attractive to investors and potential
suitors,” he said.  Greylock Partners, a Menlo Park, California-based venture
firm is the top outside investor in Workday and isn’t selling
shares in the IPO, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  