-- Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer Has Baby Boy
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-01T19:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/yahoo-ceo-marissa-mayer-has-baby-boy.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  gave birth to a boy yesterday, adding new
parenthood to the list of challenges she’s facing as the head of
a struggling Web portal.  “Mom and baby are doing great -- we couldn’t be more
excited,” Mayer’s husband, Zachary Bogue,  posted  in his Twitter
feed today. The family hasn’t yet chosen a name, Anne Espiritu,
a spokeswoman for Yahoo, wrote in an e-mail. Mayer and the baby
are healthy, she said. Mayer, 37, continues to lead the company,
working remotely, and is planning to return to the office in
about one to two weeks, Espiritu said.  The CEO “is involved in all critical decision making,”
Espiritu said. “She also has an incredibly strong executive
leadership team in place.”  While it is not without precedent for women to run small
tech startups at the same time they are starting a family, it is
less common among leaders of more established companies. At the
time, Mayer’s appointment brought the number of women serving as
CEOs of Fortune 500 companies to 20. Many other women on the
list -- including PepsiCo Inc.’s Indra Nooyi and Xerox Corp.’s
 Ursula Burns  -- had children before becoming CEOs.  “I like to stay in the rhythm of things,” Mayer said in
the interview with Fortune. “My maternity leave will be a few
weeks long and I’ll work throughout it.”  New CFO  Yahoo said last week that it hired  Ken Goldman , a
technology-industry veteran with three decades of experience in
software and Internet companies, to succeed Tim Morse as chief
financial officer. CEO since July, Mayer is realigning
leadership in her drive to reverse three years of declining
revenue and market share losses to Facebook Inc. and her former
employer,  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Mayer, an engineer and former Google executive who helped
develop the company’s home page and maps products, was hired
after a nine-week search for a CEO.  Yahoo  shares  fell 1.1 percent to $15.80 at 3:25 p.m. in  New
York . The stock has gained more than 20 percent in the past
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  