-- YPF Delays Put 55-Cent Default Deal in Doubt
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-10-01T17:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/ypf-delays-put-55-cent-default-deal-in-doubt.html
Metrogas SA (METR) ’s creditors risk losing
the chance to recoup any money from their defaulted bonds as
takeover talks between  Argentina ’s biggest gas distributor and
state-owned oil producer YPF SA stall.  Metrogas’s dollar bonds maturing in 2014 dropped as far as
30.05 cents on the dollar last week, the lowest since Aug. 30,
after a Sept. 27 meeting between BG Inversiones Argentinas SA,
the company’s majority owner, and YPF was postponed. Yields on
 utility  debt in Latin America fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 5.53 percent in the same period.  Under a debt restructuring last month, creditors are in
line to get 55 cents on the dollar in new bonds. Without YPF,
which was seized by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  in
April, Metrogas has less of a chance of being allowed to raise
rates that have been capped since 1999, according to Tom Mullen,
a partner at TWM Capital LP. That increases the likelihood the
company, which doesn’t even have money to pay its suppliers,
will default again.  “It’s very likely that they’ll end up delaying the deal,”
Mullen said in a telephone interview. That “results in more of
the same: suppliers not getting paid and the company getting
backed into a corner.”  Metrogas is 70 percent owned by Gas Argentino SA, which is
55 percent owned by BG Inversiones, a unit of the U.K.’s  BG
Group Plc. (BG/)  YPF, Argentina’s largest oil company, owns the rest.
YPF was expropriated by the government in April.  YPF Expropriation  Kim Blomley, a press official at BG Group, declined to
comment on the negotiations, as did Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a
spokesman for Buenos Aires-based YPF. Jessica Rey, a spokeswoman
for Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof, who oversees YPF’s
management, didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  Jorge Montanari, spokesman for Buenos Aires-based Metrogas,
wasn’t available to respond to questions, said a person at his
office, who declined to be identified.  Metrogas has said it needs higher rates to pay suppliers
that include  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PBR)  An option for YPF to buy
BG’s stake expired last October after the government rejected
the acquisition. Negotiations resumed after Fernandez
expropriated 51 percent of YPF from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and
assigned Kicillof to oversee its management.  Argentina in January won a U.S. appeals court decision that
overturned a $185 million award to BG, which had claimed the
nation’s freeze on natural gas prices pushed Metrogas to default
on its debt in 2004. In 2010 the company ceased debt payments
again and filed for bankruptcy protection.  Viable Rates  The government’s control of utility rates also forced
electricity distributor  Empresa Distribuidora y Comercializadora
Norte  SA to sell assets to meet the obligations of its debt,
which now trades at distressed levels, and pushed  Transportadora
Gas del Norte SA  to default on its bonds in 2008. The gas
pipeline company restructured its debt earlier this year.  “As long as these companies don’t get rates increases they
aren’t going to be viable and there’s no concrete step in that
direction,” said  Christian Reos , head of research at Buenos
Aires-based brokerage Allaria Ledesma & Cia.  The cost to protect Argentine debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell 16 basis points to 943
basis points at 2:19 p.m. in Buenos Aires, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell 26 basis
points to 871 basis points, data compiled by JPMorgan show.  Second Chance  Warrants tied to economic growth rose 0.01 cent to 13.06
cents. The peso was little changed at 4.6985 per dollar.  Metrogas, which had a total 1.9 billion pesos ($404
million) of outstanding debt as of June 30, lost 37.7 million
pesos in the second quarter, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company has posted losses every year since 2008.  Last month, the company won court approval to proceed with
its $250 million debt restructuring. Under the terms of the
agreement, bondholders will receive 55 cents on the dollar and
about 19 months of accrued interest in new 2018 notes, according
to a filing with the Buenos Aires stock exchange. The new
securities will pay interest of 8.875 percent.  The 2014 notes have risen 13.83 cents on the dollar since
touching a record-low of 20 cents on the dollar in July. That
signals increased confidence among some speculators that  YPF (YPFD)  and
Metrogas, which has 2 million clients, will come to an agreement
that lets the gas distributor meet its obligations on the new
securities, said Leonardo Bazzi, head of research at Puente
Hermanos SA, a Buenos Aires-based brokerage.  Relative Value  “Bondholders expect the situation will be resolved, maybe
not tomorrow, but soon enough to allow Metrogas to continue
operating and paying debt,” he said in a telephone interview.
“The company is too important to national consumption, so it’s
also in the interest of the government to work out a solution.”  The defaulted notes are still worth almost half the new
bonds, which TWM Capital’s Mullen says reflects greater concern
the Argentine government will reject any tariff increases and
ultimately leave Metrogas creditors with worthless securities.  “The intelligent thing to do is buy out BG and work out
some kind of agreement,” he said. “But it’s anyone’s guess if
this will actually happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net . 