-- Zuma Fails in Mandela Steps as Investor Confidence Wanes
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-01/zuma-fails-in-mandela-steps-as-confidence-in-south-africa-wanes.html
After 16 years of toiling in  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ’s sweltering Bleskop platinum mine
shafts, Giyo says he’s had enough of taking home 5,000 rand
($600) a month and living in a tin shack.  The father of six last month joined an illegal strike by
mineworkers demanding minimum monthly pay of 12,000 rand. Giyo
doesn’t just fault his employers for his plight. He also blames
his impoverished existence on South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress. Eighteen years after  Nelson Mandela  led South
Africa out of apartheid, President  Jacob Zuma  now governs a
nation with the worst employer-labor relations in the world.  Such disenchantment runs deep among the nation’s 500,000
mineworkers, whose labor action has cost platinum and gold
mining companies more than 4.5 billion rand in lost production
this year. The discord reached an apex when police opened fire
on striking workers at a  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  mine on Aug. 16, killing 34
in the most deadly police action in post-apartheid South Africa.
That event may spell the waning of the black majority’s faith in
the ANC as leaders try to dispel perceptions they’re a political
elite pandering to big business for their own interests.  “If the violence goes on like this people will march away
from that party,” Giyo, who refused to give his first name for
fear of reprisals, said at a worker hostel near the mine, about
100 miles northwest of Johannesburg. “People need somebody who
will not only care about themselves, but also care for other
people. If you love somebody, he is also supposed to love you,
so your relationship can go forward.”  Strikes Spreading  Six weeks of labor unrest at Lonmin have left at least 46
people dead in a nation that produces about 75 percent of the
world’s platinum and is Africa’s largest gold producer.
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , the world’s third-largest gold miner,
halted output at all its South African mines on Sept. 25, while
strikes have shut operations owned by Anglo American Platinum,
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and Coal of  Africa Ltd. (CZA)   The ANC has been the bedrock of the nation since the end of
apartheid in 1994, winning more than 60 percent support in every
election it has contested. It currently controls almost two-
thirds of the seats in parliament, while the Democratic
Alliance, the main opposition party, has 17 percent.  At the same time, some of the ANC’s stalwarts bear little
resemblance to those they fought to represent. Cyril Ramaphosa,
founder of the National Union of Mineworkers and a former ANC
secretary-general, is one the country’s wealthiest black
businessmen. Tokyo Sexwale, who was jailed on Robben Island with
Mandela, has taken advantage of laws designed to give blacks a
greater stake in the economy to amass a fortune worth 1.95
billion rand, according to the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times.  Legitimacy Decline?  “What we’re seeing is the decline of the legitimacy of the
party system, the trade union system, which is leading to
withdrawal, apathy, violence,” Robert Schrire, a politics
professor at the University of  Cape Town , said in a phone
interview. “There is no longer a legitimate structure that can
resolve problems. The vital missing cog is the absence of a
viable alternative.”  While the government has deployed the army and extra police
to restore stability in the mines, hostility toward the ruling
party and its labor union allies is undermining investor
sentiment.  Moody’s Investors Service cut South Africa’s credit rating
one level, to Baa1, on Sept. 27, citing the government’s
inability to deal with economic and political challenges. It,
 Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor lowered their outlook on South
African government debt between November 2011 and March this
year to negative, in part because of rising political risk.  Mining Stocks  Mining stocks have suffered as well.  Impala Platinum
Holdings Plc (IMP)  is down 17 percent this year and Anglo American
Platinum 21 percent, while Lonmin has fallen 39 percent and Gold
Fields 13 percent. The benchmark  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
is up 13 percent.  “If the social tensions do increase and there is more
power in the hands of the workers, that would be a big concern
for us,” said  Kevin Daly , who helps manage $9.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at London-based Aberdeen Asset Management,
in a phone interview. He isn’t selling yet, he said.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold the nation’s
dollar debt rather than U.S. Treasuries has risen 11 basis
points since the Aug. 16 shootings, compared with a seven basis-
point drop for the average of emerging-market debt. The cost of
insuring the debt using credit default swaps over five years has
risen 15 basis points to 149, versus a 29 basis-point decline
for the Markit iTraxx SovX index of emerging-market nations.  Three Centuries  Zuma, who has led the ANC since 2007, says his party’s
delivery record is unparalleled in the developing world and 18
years hasn’t been long enough to undo the damage caused by three
centuries of colonial and apartheid rule.  “You can’t say ANC policies have failed,” he said in an
Aug. 22 interview with Bloomberg Television in Cape Town. “It
is just that people don’t talk about what it has achieved. What
people fail to appreciate is the degree, the depth of the
problems. You are dealing with a country that has two worlds in
one. There were people who were not catered for as citizens of
this country, who we are now trying to cater for.”  ANC Treasurer Mathews Phosa rejected the idea that the ANC
hasn’t done enough to improve the lives of black  South Africans .  “There was apartheid here, we had nothing,” Phosa said by
phone on Sept. 27. “We have built it all up from scratch.
Everyone has made a lot of money since 1994, not just people in
the ANC.”  Zuma’s spokesman,  Mac Maharaj , referred questions to
government spokesman Harold Maloka, who by phone on Sept. 28
requested e-mailed questions and didn’t respond to them.  Middle Class  During the ANC’s rule, the black middle class has expanded
as people benefited from affirmative action employment policies,
government contracts and legislation that compels companies to
sell stakes to black investors. The number of black South
Africans earning an average of 7,000 rand a month or more
climbed by a third to 3 million in the three years through 2008,
according to a study by the University of Cape Town’s Unilever
Institute of Strategic Marketing.  Blacks earned on average 9,790 rand a year in 2008, almost
double the amount in 1993, according to research by the Paris-
based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
While white incomes increased 62 percent in the period, they
earned more than eight times what black counterparts received.  The labor strife is compounding a jobs crisis in Africa’s
largest economy. One quarter of the workforce is unemployed and
almost a third of the population of 50.6 million receives
welfare grants.  Lowest Rank  South Africa is  ranked  the lowest of 144 countries on the
 World Economic Forum ’s index that measures cooperation in labor-
employer relations. It has the second-most rigid hiring-and-
firing practices, according to the survey of business executives
conducted by the Geneva-based forum.  Lonmin ended its strike by giving workers pay increases of
as much as 22 percent, an industry record, raising expectations
of similar settlements among striking platinum miners at larger
rivals Anglo American Platinum and Impala Platinum.  “What’s happened has been a tragic event,” Simon Scott,
Lonmin’s acting chief executive officer, told reporters in
Johannesburg on Sept. 20. “There’s been a lot of concern by
shareholders through this period, particularly international
shareholders who often find it difficult to contextualize what’s
happened.”  The discovery of gold and diamonds in South Africa in the
1800s underpinned the country’s industrialization and the  mining
industry  still accounts for 8.8 percent of gross domestic
product and about two-thirds of exports.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
estimated in 2010 that South Africa had the world’s richest
mineral deposits, worth $3.5 trillion.  More Protests  Protests aren’t confined to the mining industry. Poor,
mainly black, township residents staged 113 protests against a
lack of housing, sanitation and other services in the first
seven months of this year, more than in any other year since
monitoring began in 2004, according to  Municipal IQ , an
independent local government research group in Johannesburg.  About 10 million people, or a fifth of the population, lack
proper housing, 18 percent don’t have proper sanitation and 24
percent are without electricity, government data shows.  “When you live in a shack with no electricity or running
water you feel dirty, you feel naked, you lose self-esteem,”
Malesa Mohlala, 24, a resident of Tembisa township near
Johannesburg, said in an interview as he hawked the writings of
Argentine revolutionary Che Guevara to unionists at a
conference. “I’m very angry with the ANC.”  Known Devil  Mohlala says he will still vote for the ANC because there’s
no viable opposition and at least the party is “the devil you
know.” The  ANC  played a leading role in ending white
segregationist rule, garnering loyalty from black South
Africans, who make up 79 percent of the population. The ANC’s
dominance is reinforced by its alliance with the 2.2-million-
member Congress of South African Trade Unions, the biggest labor
grouping.  The number of households with formal accommodation almost
doubled to 11 million in 2010 from 5.8 million in 1996, while
those with access to electricity increased to 11.9 million from
5.2 million over the same period, the Johannesburg-based South
African Institute of Race Relations said in a Sept. 11 report.  Even so, income inequality has widened since 1994, while 35
percent of the population still lives on less than $51 a month.
The Gini coefficient, a measure of inequality in which a reading
of zero means society is totally equal, worsened to 0.63 in 2009
compared with 0.59 in 1993, according to the  World Bank .  Widening Gap  Corruption is also undercutting the ANC’s credibility.
Prosecutors dropped a graft case against Zuma less than a month
before he was elected president in 2009, while Schabir Shaik,
his former financial adviser, was convicted of trying to secure
a bribe for him in 2005. Since 2010, Zuma has fired two police
chiefs after they were implicated in graft. He also removed
Public Works Minister Gwen Mahlangu-Nkabinde in October 2011 for
failing to cooperate in a corruption probe.  Ramaphosa, 59, is chairman of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s
biggest mobile-phone company, and a non-executive director of
Lonmin. He owns listed shares worth more than 3 billion rand,
according a survey published on Sept. 16 by the Sunday Times.  Sexwale, 59, who was picked by Zuma to be housing minister
in 2009, founded Mvelaphanda Holdings Ltd. 14 years ago. It went
on to spawn companies with stakes in gold and platinum producers
and the nation’s biggest Sunday newspaper.  Sexwale spokesman Xolani Xundu said in a text message on
Sept. 28 that he may respond later. Ramaphosa was unavailable
for interviews, Maureen Mphatsoe, spokeswoman for his
Johannesburg-based  investment company , Shanduka Group, said in
an e-mail yesterday.  “What you’ve seen in Libya, what you’ve seen in Egypt,
with ordinary people leading themselves, it’s possible it can
happen here,” Thobile Ntola, president of the South African
Democratic Teachers Union, said in an interview in Johannesburg.
“It’s a very dangerous situation and if leaders are not dealing
with these questions it’s a ticking time bomb for all of us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at
 fwild@bloomberg.net 
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  