-- Male Athlete Dies in New York City’s Ironman Triathlon Debut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-12T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/male-competitor-dies-in-new-york-city-ironman-triathlon.html
A 43-year-old man competing in the
inaugural  Ironman U.S. Championship triathlon  in  New York  died
after being pulled from the  Hudson River , police said.  The participant, who wasn’t identified by police or Ironman
officials, experienced “distress” yesterday during the 2.4-
mile swim leg of the 140.6-mile (226-kilometer) race, Ironman
officials said.  “We are deeply saddened to confirm the death of an athlete
at today’s Ironman U.S. Championship,” World Triathlon Corp.,
which owns Ironman, said in a statement. “The athlete received
immediate on-site medical attention and was transported to a
nearby hospital.”  The cause of death was unknown and an autopsy will be
performed, according to the statement.  New York Police Department public information officer Sgt.
Carlos Nieves said the participant was a 43-year-old man.  The death comes 13 months after two competitors died during
the swim portion of the Olympic-distance New York City
Triathlon. That race included a 1.5-kilometer swim in the Hudson
River, followed by a 40-kilometer bicycle leg and then a run of
10 kilometers, finishing in  Central Park .  In yesterday’s race, about 2,500 competitors had to swim
2.4 miles, followed by a 112-mile bike ride on the closed
Palisades Interstate Parkway in  New Jersey  and New York before
finishing with a 26.2-mile run that ended in  Manhattan .  The event’s swim leg was in question after a broken sewer
line in Sleepy Hollow, New York, led to a controlled discharge
of 3.4 million gallons of chlorinated raw sewage into the river
three days ago. The race was allowed to continue after health
officials said the river passed a water quality test.  American Jordan Rapp, 32, won the men’s professional race
in 8 hours, 11 minutes, 17 seconds. Mary Beth Ellis, a 35-year-
old from Rehoboth Beach,  Delaware , won the women’s race in 9
hours, 7 minutes, 46 seconds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  