-- Apple’s Jobs Confronted Samsung Over Galaxy, Witness Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/apple-executives-were-shocked-by-samsung-galaxy-witness-says.html
     Aug. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Jobs ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s late co-
founder, confronted  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. executives in 2010
after the South Korean company introduced its Galaxy smartphone,
Apple’s patent licensing director testified.  Boris Teksler, director of patent licensing and strategy,
was called as a witness yesterday in Apple’s multibillion-dollar
intellectual property trial against Samsung in federal court in
 San Jose , California. He said Apple made a presentation to
Samsung executives in August 2010 intended to warn the company
against copying the iPhone.  “We were quite shocked,” he said. “They were a trusted
partner of ours and we didn’t know how a trusted partner would
build a product like that.”  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011. Apple and Samsung are the
world’s largest makers of the high-end handheld devices that
blend the functionality of a phone and a computer. The trial is
the first before a U.S. jury in a battle being waged on four
continents for dominance in a smartphone market valued by
Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  While the companies are bound by lucrative commercial ties,
each is trying to convince jurors that its rival infringed
patents covering designs and technology.  During cross-examination, Teksler confirmed that he wasn’t
at the August 2010 meeting. He also acknowledged that at least
five of the seven Apple patents at issue in the trial didn’t
appear on a list Apple identified to Samsung in the 2010
presentation.  Utility Patents  The 2010 presentation “doesn’t say anywhere that Apple
would not license its utility patents to Samsung?” asked
Samsung’s lawyer, Victoria Maroulis.  Teksler agreed. His testimony is scheduled to continue Aug.
13.  Earlier yesterday, a witness for Apple testified that 21
Samsung smartphones copy patented technology for
“rubberbanding,” the way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to
bounce when a user scrolls to the end of a file.  Ravin Balakrishnan, a  University of Toronto  professor hired
as an expert witness, told the jury yesterday at the companies’
intellectual property trial that Apple’s innovation was designed
to tell users “you’ve reached the edge, the system is still
alive, and it’s not frozen.”  Other Apple patents covering technology that let users
pinch and expand images on a screen and allow for
“repositioning and rightsizing” are infringed by more than 20
Samsung products, Karan Singh, Balakrishnan’s colleague at the
university, testified.  Online Newspaper  The rightsizing technology lets users re-size, enlarge and
reposition articles in an online newspaper, for example, to
“make that piece of information available,” he said.  Samsung’s lawyers attempted during cross-examination to
cast doubt about what, exactly, Apple’s patents cover, and show
that  Samsung’s products  don’t infringe them.  Attorney  Kevin Johnson  showed Balakrishnan a video of an
online newspaper being scrolled on a computer tablet and the
content stopping, without bouncing, at the end of the image.
Balakrishnan testified that the image must not always bounce
back for the device to infringe the patent at issue.  Edward DeFranco, another lawyer for Samsung, got Singh to
agree that a user must scroll images with one finger, not two,
to infringe a patent he testified about.  DeFranco then displayed a video of someone scrolling on a
tablet computer using two fingers in an attempt to show that
Samsung can’t be infringing Apple’s patent.  ‘Jittering Spasmodically’  “The content is jittering spasmodically,” Singh said,
adding that the result is proof, “technically,’” that Apple’s
product is being infringed.  In addition to patent infringement, Cupertino, California-
based Apple contends that Samsung’s copying of the look of the
iPhone and iPad has diluted the values of its iconic brands.  Apple is using market survey research to try to show the
jury that Samsung has copied its devices so closely that a
consumer seeing products made by the South Korean company would
actually believe them to be made by Apple. Samsung is trying to
demonstrate that there is little actual confusion among
consumers between its and Apple’s products.  A hired expert witness for Apple told the jury yesterday
that a “substantial portion” of consumers that he surveyed
confuse Samsung tablet computers and smartphones with Apple
products.  Consumers Confused  Kent Van Liere  of NERA Economic Consulting said he
concluded from his surveys that 37 to 38 percent of consumers
confused the Samsung Fascinate and Galaxy SII Epic 4G
smartphones with Apple’s iPhone. He said a “net rate” of 12
percent of consumers confused Samsung’s tablets with Apple’s
iPad.  Under cross-examination by a lawyer for Samsung,  William
Price , Van Liere acknowledged that the surveys he did for Apple
marked the first time he examined consumer confusion in a
“post-sale environment” instead of at “point of purchase.”  “You can’t use your survey to show confusion when they
bought” the product? Price asked. Van Liere said he can’t.  Price elicited testimony from Van Liere that consumers
surveyed about tablet computers saw videos of those products and
didn’t touch them.  ‘Neon Apple’  “You’ve been in cafes, where you see people with Apple
computers” and see “that big neon Apple on the top of
computer?” Price asked. “You can see that pretty easily?”  Van Liere said that he had seen the logo, and that his
surveys didn’t include the views of Apple products Price asked
about. He said he reconstructed only the “allegedly
infringing” conditions outlined in Apple’s complaint.  Apple seeks as much as $2.88 billion for its claims that
Samsung infringed patents and trademarks, according to a court
filing this week. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , also
wants to make permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales
of a Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , countersued and will
present claims that Apple is infringing its patents.  Apple sold 8.34 million iPhones in the U.S. in its most
recent quarter, fewer than the previous two periods, according
to a court filing Aug. 9.  Sequential Decline  The fiscal third-quarter total for the U.S. compares with
10.7 million iPhones sold in the preceding three months and the
record 15 million sold in the last three months of 2011, the
filing showed. The sequential decline is in line with a slowdown
seen before in iPhone sales ahead of the release of a new model.  Apple has sold 86 million iPhones in the U.S. since the
product debuted in 2007. The filing showed Samsung sold 21.3
million smartphones from mid-2010 to mid-2012.  Apple plans to finish presenting its evidence and rest its
case on Aug. 13, Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for the company,
told U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh yesterday. It will then be
Samsung’s turn to call witnesses.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  