-- Syrian Rebel Leader Calls for Creation of Border No-Fly Zone
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-08-12T21:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/arab-foreign-ministers-meeting-to-discuss-violence-in-syria.html
A leader of rebel forces in Syria
called for the creation of a no-fly zone to provide safe havens
in border areas as the forces of President Bashar Al-Assad
stepped up attacks in cities including Homs and Aleppo.  The president of the Syrian National Council, Abdelbaset
Sieda, said yesterday that such a move by the international
community would show Al-Assad’s regime that his opponents are
serious, the  Associated Press  reported.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met Aug. 11 with
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  in Istanbul and warned
of the growing tide of refugees from the conflict and the rising
threat of terrorism. The two announced the creation of a working
group to deal with threats emanating from the deteriorating
regime, including the potential use of chemical weapons.  Rebel fighters battled government troops in clashes
throughout the country yesterday, including in Aleppo, Syria’s
largest city, and Homs, the Local Coordination Committee, an
opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement.  More than 21,000 people have been killed in the conflict,
according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights ,
as fighting becomes increasingly sectarian. Another 1.5 million
have been displaced. The rebels are largely members of the
majority  Sunni Muslim  community while Assad is a representative
of the minority Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  A planned “urgent meeting” yesterday of Arab foreign
ministers in  Saudi Arabia ’s Jeddah to discuss the conflict was
postponed, Egypt’s Middle East News Agency reported, citing Arab
League Assistant Secretary-General Ahmed Ben Helli. It didn’t
provide the reasons or a new date for the meeting.  Annan Replacement  The Arab ministers were due to discuss the appointment of a
replacement for former UN Secretary General  Kofi Annan  as joint
UN-Arab League special envoy for Syria, the state-run MENA
agency reported, also citing Helli. Annan, who resigned when his
mediating effort failed to stem the bloodshed, may be replaced
with former Algerian Foreign Minister Lakhdar Brahimi, diplomats
said Aug. 9. Brahimi has represented the UN in countries
including Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan.  The 57-member Organization of Islamic Cooperation is
meeting in the Muslim holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia this
week. The Saudi government has invited Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , a close ally of Assad, to the summit.  Clinton said Aug. 11 the U.S. was giving $5.5 million more
in humanitarian aid to refugees that have fled the violence into
 Turkey , bringing the U.S.’s total financial support since the
start of the crisis to $82 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  