-- Cohen Says ‘No-Fly’ Zone Possible in Syria (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2012-08-11T00:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/cohen-says-no-fly-zone-possible-in-syria-transcript-.html
Former U.S. Defense Secretary
 William Cohen  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
the U.S. and its allies will probably impose a “no-fly zone”
over  Syria  and take other “more aggressive action” against the
Syrian regime.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with former defense secretary
and chairman and CEO of the Cohen Group, William Cohen. Thank
you for being with us, Mr. Secretary.  WILLIAM COHEN: Good to be with you, Al.  HUNT: Syria, there’s growing complaints that the Obama
administration is AWOL as the violence and mayhem get worse. The
Guardian reported there was a protester in Syria carrying a sign
saying, “ Russia  a Shameless Bitch, USA a Hypocritical Bitch.”
Is it now time for the U.S. to intervene and stop this mayhem
and get rid of the dictator?  COHEN: Well, the  United States  has been providing some
assistance. There’s been a reluctance, obviously, having been
engaged in two major wars in the region, at a substantial cost
in lives and money, to be sure, treasure, and I think there’s a
natural reluctance. Number one, we don’t know who we’re
supporting here. Some elements of al-Qaeda coming in. You have
Russia that is aligned with Syria. You have  Iran  aligned with
Syria. So getting in, you really have to know what comes after
step one.  If you were to take military action, for example, now, what
follows the next step? If Russia or Iran then becomes involved
militarily, do we then start up the escalator to greater
involvement?  HUNT: So too many risks right now.  COHEN: I think that the administration has tried to play it
in the way of saying, look, there are other elements, groups in
the region, other countries, the Arab states who are, and the
gulf states who are supporting Syria,  Saudi Arabia , UAE, Qatar,
providing military means, the United States providing
intelligence, providing humanitarian support, providing
communication systems.  I think there’s been a general reluctance. I think we’re
coming to the point, however, where the violence is getting so
severe, I think that you’ll see a movement towards setting up
those no-fly zones...  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: You had experience with that in  Yugoslavia  and with
air strikes, too. What are the parallels? And is it harder in
Syria?  COHEN: Well, they’ll have to be along the Turkish border.
They’ll have to be along non - and, you know, built-up areas,
otherwise you really run the risk at that particular point of
having lots of collateral damage. The question is political, in
the sense that, OK, assuming there’s a no-fly zone, what do
other countries then do? What does Russia do? Does Russia say,
we’re going to then provide S-300s in shooting down American
planes? What do the Iranians do?  HUNT: They wouldn’t do that.  COHEN: Well, who knows what they would do? They haven’t
been particularly helpful in...  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: No, they sure haven’t been. Would we do a no-fly zone
alone? Would we do it with others?  COHEN: I don’t think so. I think that the United States is
not going to go into this alone. That’s why we’ve been working
with the gulf states, trying to find a way to have Assad step
away and to have some kind of a transition to a representative
government.  But there’s been a reluctance, and I think that the
pressure’s coming now because of the level of the violence,
because there are more...  HUNT: To do the no-fly zone?  COHEN: To do the no-fly zone and to, to take more
aggressive action.  HUNT: Let me turn to Iran, which you mentioned a minute
ago. The Israeli ambassador to the U.S.,  Michael Oren , wrote
this week that the window to prevent an Iranian nuclear
capability is almost closed. Is this just more saber-rattling?
Or do you think there’s a probability the Israelis will take
action this year?  COHEN: I think the Israelis are more inclined -- I would
say it’s a little bit better than 50/50 -- that the Israelis
would take action. The rhetoric is starting to get ratcheted up.
Now, that could be tactical, in order to see if they can’t put
more pressure on Iran and, again, Russia and  China  to be more
serious about putting sanctions against Iran, to break their -
their desire to go forward.  Hard to say at this point. There was a report most recently
that Ehud Barak, former prime minister, defense minister, said
he has been reading some intelligence reports from the United
States that indicate that U.S. intelligence now is more in line
with Israeli intelligence. Now, whether that’s a breach of
security or a relationship in terms of disclosing this or
whether it’s, again, more hyperbole, I don’t know.  HUNT: We’re skipping around the globe, but that’s because
you know so many -- expert in so many countries. China you know,
you’ve been there a lot. You know a great deal about China, a
lot of convulsion going on there, changes taking place. They’re
meeting now to set up the -- you know, new -- new regimes. What
do you think is happening? And how’s it going to affect U.S.-
China relations?  COHEN: I think the relationship that we have established is
still a stable one. I think we have to be careful in terms of
the campaign rhetoric. I know the Chinese watch us very
carefully. I met with a number of them when they came here most
recently, and I had to really advise them that the amount of
rhetoric coming out of the political campaigns was quite small
compared to what it normally would be in an election year.  HUNT: But  Mitt Romney  said he’s going to declare them a
currency manipulator on day one.  COHEN: Well, that’s, that’s one of the challenges. I think
you have to be careful during political campaigns that you not
make a pledge which you will then be forced to, to reject.  HUNT: And that’s what Romney’s doing?  COHEN: I think there’s a real danger that the first thing
he’s going to do is declare them to be a currency manipulator. I
think that that would certainly cause some real challenges to
the relationship. I think the Chinese want a better relationship
with the United States. I think their new leadership wants that.
They need it for their own security and stability.  And I think what we do will have a major influence on
whether or not there’s a sense of nationalism, increased
nationalism in China that will then be provoked to say the
United States is treating us as an enemy, therefore, we’re going
to take more aggressive action in dealing with the United
States.  So I think we have to be careful, not deferential, but be
careful how we use language and what policy positions we stake
out during a campaign, because you may have to end up really
rejecting your own stand. And that will undermine the
credibility of  Governor Romney , should he become president.  HUNT: Mr. Secretary, you watch these things closely. From
what you see and hear, what would be the difference in national
security of a Romney administration versus the Obama
administration?  COHEN: It’s hard to say at this point. I think Governor
Romney has stated he’s going to take a much more aggressive
posture. But then I have to ask, well, what does that mean? Does
that mean you will be more aggressive in dealing with Iran?
Well, how so? Does that mean you’re prepared to take military
action, either alone or with -- in conjunction with the
Israelis? Does it mean that you’re going to now start treating
China in a much more aggressive way as opposed to trying to find
commonality of interests, as opposed to exploiting...  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: I gather from what you’re saying it would be -- that
that might be a mistake, some of those...  (CROSSTALK)  COHEN: I think it would be. I think what we have to do is
saying, look, China doesn’t have the same interests as we do on
a number of issues, but we have a lot of issues that we do have
something in common with in dealing with the environment, in
dealing with the global warming, in dealing with trafficking of
drugs, in dealing with piracy. There are major issues that we
can deal with the Chinese very effectively, and with Russia.  But if you start staking out that they are the enemy, they
are a new  Soviet Union , or the new Russia is the old Russia, or
the old Soviet -- then I think we’re going to find ourselves in
a situation where everything is going to be very competitive and
antagonistic. That doesn’t necessarily work to our benefit.  HUNT: As you know, Mr. Secretary, that on January 1, a so-
called sequestration of spending cuts is supposed to take effect
if Congress can’t reach any kind of deficit reduction deal,
would be big, big cuts in -- in defense. Everybody from  John
McCain  to  Leon Panetta  says that that’s -- that’s dangerous, is
too much.  I suspect you agree with that. You also have been a real
fiscal hawk and said we’ve got to get our fiscal situation in
order. So they’re - they’re sort of clashing. What - what would
you - what should Congress and the administration do right now,
in the next four months?  COHEN: They should pass an agreement in which they agree on
$1.2 trillion cuts over the next 10 years. The super-committee
of 12 people couldn’t agree on how to come up with $1.2
trillion. That’s why the axe is falling. That is a totally
irresponsible act on the part of Congress. You need -- you can
cut programs -- any program can be cut, but it should be cut
consistent with your national objectives, your national security
objectives.  HUNT: Would those cuts, sequestration cuts hurt American
national security?  COHEN: Oh, I think they will. And that’s one of the real, I
think, pathetic situations that we’re facing. On the one hand,
both parties are using this for a political purpose at this
point. Republicans are not going to do anything that’s going to
give President Obama any kind of a victory in this. The
president’s not going to take any action that would ease
pressure on Republicans or defense spending.  So each one is kind of playing a game. President Obama is
saying, you know, to the American people, the -- Governor Romney
and  Rush Limbaugh  want their tax cuts as opposed to providing
for national security. And Governor Romney is going to say that
President Obama wants to wage war against rich people, class
warfare, rather than protect our national security.  HUNT: Should those spending cuts be accompanied by some tax
increases?  COHEN: Yeah, I think so. I believe that the Simpson-Bowles
proposal is the one that should have been embraced. I think - I
blame both parties, both the president and the Congress, for
failing to come up with that. I think we’ll end up there
eventually, but we’ll do some damage to our credibility in the
international - the  capital markets  and our rating agencies, et
cetera. I think we’re making a big mistake.  I think both parties are to blame. There’s a way to avoid
that, and that’s to take the exit ramp off this highway that we
are rushing down, traveling down with no one driving, and we’re
going down the wrong way.  HUNT: Secretary Cohen, thank you so much for being with us.
And when we return, keeping it negative in the race for the
White House. Bloomberg reporters are next.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100 PERCENT ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS
PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND
PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE.
BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO
LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS,
LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL
OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING,
PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION
NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A
SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR
COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT
NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP. 