-- Democratic Platform Mirrors Obama and Backs Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-11T19:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/democratic-platform-mirrors-obama-and-backs-same-sex-marriage.html
Democrats unanimously voted today to
endorse same-sex marriage in their party’s platform, the first
time a major political party has supported the issue in its
statement of policies.  Today’s action at the platform committee meeting in Detroit
sends the document for ratification by delegates to next month’s
Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina.
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, said in May that he supports
same-sex marriage. Presumptive Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  doesn’t.  A drafting committee included the same-sex marriage
provision in the platform last month. Platform committee members
raised no objections.  “The 14th Amendment is very clear -- equal protection
under the law,” said the platform committee co-chairman,  Cory Booker , the mayor of Newark,  New Jersey . “We as a party have
really embraced the president’s ideas.”  While calling the action “very significant,” Booker told
reporters after the committee meeting that the top issue in the
presidential campaign would be the economy, not same-sex
marriage.  “It may repel some, it may attract others,” he said.
“This campaign is not going to turn on gay marriage.”  Immigration Overhaul  The platform also calls for “comprehensive immigration
reform,” citing the Dream Act, legislation that would allow
children brought to the U.S. by undocumented-immigrant parents
to get legal status if they go to college or join the military.
Congressional Republicans have blocked the legislation. Obama
said June 15 that his administration would no longer deport some
young adults brought to the U.S. illegally as children.  Senate Democratic candidates in  Arizona , Nevada and New
Mexico had asked that Dream Act provisions be part of the party
platform.  While the platform promises to “preserve Americans’ Second
Amendment right to own and use firearms,” it also says that
“the right to own firearms is subject to reasonable
regulation,” such as restoring the ban on assault-style weapons
and strengthening background checks.  Twelve people were killed and at least 58 were injured on
July 20 when a gunman opened fire during a midnight showing of
“The Dark Knight Rises” in an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater.
Seven people, including the alleged gunman, died in a shooting
at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek,  Wisconsin , on Aug. 5.  Corporate Donations  The platform also addresses the  Supreme Court ’s 2010
decision in  Citizens United  v.  Federal Election Commission ,
which removed restrictions on corporate and union independent
expenditures and has led to an increase in campaign spending by
outside groups, many of which don’t disclose their donors. The
platform calls for “immediate action” to overhaul the campaign
finance system, including requiring nonprofit groups running
political ads to disclose their contributors.  “You have huge amounts of secret money coming in and
changing every level of government,” said Matthew Lesser, a
state representative in Connecticut and a member of the platform
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Detroit at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at  
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 