-- ECB Bond-Buying Won’t Solve Spain, Italy Woes, Coene Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-08-11T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/ecb-bond-buying-won-t-solve-spain-italy-woes-coene-says.html
European Central Bank bond purchases
won’t solve  Spain  and  Italy ’s difficulties maintaining investor
confidence, ECB Governing Council member Luc Coene said in an
interview with  De Tijd  and  L’Echo .  Bond yields have been rising because financial markets
don’t trust Spanish and Italian authorities to take the measures
necessary to repair their economies, Coene said in the
interview, published today in the two Belgian newspapers. As a
result, he predicted few benefits from any ECB action.  “It makes no sense for the ECB to start financing those
countries,” said Coene, who also heads  Belgium ’s central bank.
“It would only lead to the ECB taking on the whole public debt
of Spain and Italy onto its balance sheet. That would in turn
weaken the ECB and do nothing to resolve the underlying
problems,” he was quoted as saying.  Coene told the newspapers that the central bank’s
experience a year ago demonstrates why the ECB should remain
reluctant to step in.  “We haven’t forgotten what happened in August of last
year: We bought Italian bonds and right after that the Italian
government reneged on its pledges,” he was quoted as saying.
“The conclusion is clear: When you take away the market
pressure, you take away the pressure on politicians to act.”  Spanish two-year yields climbed yesterday to the highest
level in a week amid speculation an ECB plan to buy the debt of
so-called peripheral nations won’t be enough to stem the
financial crisis.  Government Debt  The market for Spanish and Italian securities improved
earlier this month after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the
Frankfurt-based central bank may buy government debt along with
the euro-area bailout funds. The ECB said this week that it may
take such measures only if troubled nations commit to improving
their economies and fiscal positions.  Coene said the ECB is divided on what conditions should be
assigned and not on the overall strategy for when to intervene,
according to the newspapers. The ECB will preserve its
discretion and not introduce a policy with any sort of automatic
action, they cited him as saying.  “Every board member, including the Spanish and Italian
ones, knows that our actions will have a short-lived effect”
and that market turmoil “will stop only when there’s no more
Spanish and Italian bonds in the market,” Coene was quoted as
saying. “We all agree specific conditions must be met before we
can intervene. About those conditions, the ECB board members do
have different opinions from time to time.”  Currency Union  At the same time, the Belgian central banker said it
remains in the interest of all 17 euro members to keep the
currency union intact.  Germany , home to the euro zone’s biggest
economy, is willing to assist if other nations take necessary
measures, he said.  If  Greece  were to leave the euro, “it would be the worst
solution,” Coene was quoted as saying. “It would raise a
question about euro membership for everybody, not only for
Greece.”  In Belgium, the government’s  budget deficit  will miss the
2012 target and exceed the European Union’s ceiling of 3 percent
of gross domestic product as the economy slides into a
recession, Coene said.  Belgium’s economy will probably shrink this year, pushing
the budget deficit “slightly above” 3 percent of GDP, Coene
was cited as saying. Following a 0.6 percent economic
contraction in the second quarter, the remainder of the year
will likely be “more negative than positive,” Coene said.  Economic Growth  Coene urged Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s government to cut
spending, saying expenditure growth that is outpacing economic
growth is one of the key structural weaknesses of Belgian public
finances. Belgium should be “very careful” not to get caught
up in the turmoil of the debt crisis again, Coene was quoted as
saying.  Rising  oil prices  haven’t affected the inflation outlook or
monetary policy for the euro area, Coene said. There has been no
evidence of so-called second-round effects whereby higher crude
prices are passed through to other parts of the economy, he
said.  “Until now, from all that we have seen in the past, there
haven’t been any second-round effects,” Coene was quoted as
saying. “So the fact that oil prices are rising right now,
which is astonishing by the way because global demand isn’t,
does not immediately affect inflation expectations or our
monetary policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net . 