-- Euro Falls Amid Concern Crisis Worsening, Global Growth Slowing
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-11T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/euro-falls-amid-concern-crisis-worsening-global-growth-slowing.html
The euro declined versus the dollar
for the first time in three weeks as signs of slowing global
economic growth added to concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
is worsening, damping appetite for riskier assets.  The yen rose against the 17-nation currency as investors
sought haven after  China ’s export growth collapsed, while
economists forecast data next week will show the euro bloc’s
economy contracted for a second straight quarter. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week the ECB plans
to buy debt to stem the turmoil. The Canadian dollar gained
versus most of its peers as oil climbed for a second week.  “Risk-on was a little stronger in the beginning of the
week following the previous week’s comments out of Europe,”
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Reality set in that it’s
all about the implementation. After the soft China data, people
probably put things into neutral and maybe reversed a bit
heading into the weekend.”  The 17-nation currency declined 0.8 percent to $1.2289 this
week in  New York  in its first loss since the five days ended
July 20. The euro depreciated versus the yen for the first time
in three weeks, falling 1.1 percent to 96.17.  Japan ’s currency
rose 0.2 percent to 78.28 per dollar.  Futures Positions  Futures traders decreased bets the euro will fall against
the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 131,711 on Aug. 7,
compared with 138,994 a week earlier. Net shorts reached a
record 214,418 on June 8.  Norway’s krone was the biggest winner among major
currencies. It climbed 1.8 percent to 7.2702 per euro and
touched 7.2502, the strongest since January 2003. The currency
advanced 1.1 percent to 5.9149 per dollar.  The Swedish krona reached the highest level versus the
shared currency in 12 years. It touched 8.1784 per euro
yesterday, the strongest since June 2000. For the week, it
appreciated 1.5 percent to 8.1821, and rose 0.7 percent to
6.6575 per dollar.  Refuge Demand  “There’s a lot of focus on these currencies as safe havens
with strong fundamentals,”  Niels Christensen , chief currency
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said in an Aug. 8
telephone interview. “There’s a double effect of demand for
these currencies and a weak euro.”  The euro fell this week against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg except the Danish krone.  The shared currency slid yesterday against the yen and
dollar after  Germany ’s economy ministry said the outlook for
faster growth was fading amid the financial crisis that began in
 Greece  almost three years ago and has spread. Economists in a
European Central Bank survey this week cut their 2013 growth
forecast to 0.6 percent from 1 percent.  Gross domestic product in the euro area may have contracted
0.2 percent in the quarter through June, after falling 0.1
percent in the previous period, according to the median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The European Union’s
statistics office will report on Aug. 14.  Euro Forecast  “Structurally, I’m looking for the euro to go to parity,”
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
Aug. 8 on “Countdown” with Linzie Janis. “It will take about
a year, but we are heading in that direction.”  The currency gained last week after the ECB’s Draghi said
following a policy meeting that officials are working on a plan
to buy enough  government bonds  to ease the turmoil. Details will
be released in coming weeks, he said.  The  Federal Reserve  said Aug. 1 it “will provide
additional accommodation as needed” to spur growth and
employment. It refrained from action this month.  “There’s a lot of talk from central banks, but no
actions,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said Aug. 9 in a
telephone interview. “The risk momentum that we’ve been
experiencing ever since the Fed and the ECB stepped up their
rhetoric is becoming slightly deflated.”  Aussie Level  Australia ’s dollar fell yesterday from the strongest level
in more than four months as the Chinese report damped the
outlook for the South Pacific nation’s exports. The data
outweighed the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s decision to raise its
2012 growth forecast on stronger-than-projected consumer demand.  China’s exports rose 1 percent in July from a year earlier,
following an 11.3 percent increase in June, the customs bureau
said in Beijing. That compared with the median estimate of
economists for an 8 percent gain.  The Aussie was little changed at $1.0577 this week after
climbing Aug. 9 to $1.0613, the strongest level since March 20.
The currency fell 0.2 percent to 82.79 yen.  Canada ’s dollar strengthened versus the greenback for a
fifth straight week, the longest winning streak since October
2010, amid an increase in crude oil, the nation’s biggest
export.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
waterfowl on the one-dollar coin, gained 1 percent to 99.11 U.S.
cents. Crude for September delivery increased 2.2 percent to
$93.39 a barrel in New York.  Canada Trend  The loonie rose 3.6 percent during the past six months, the
best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro was the
biggest loser, dropping 5.4 percent, while the dollar rose 2.4
percent.  The euro’s risk-adjusted loss of 0.57 percent against the
dollar this year was the second-largest among major currencies,
after the  Singapore dollar ’s, the Bloomberg Riskless Ranking
showed. The loonie was the third-worst performer, falling 0.410
percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  