-- Mexico Denies Brazil in Men’s Soccer to Win First Olympic Gold
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-11T17:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/mexico-denies-brazil-in-men-s-soccer-to-win-first-olympic-gold.html
Mexico beat Brazil 2-1 in the men’s
soccer Olympic final, winning its sole gold medal of the London
games and denying the record five-time  World Cup  champion its
first title in the event.  Oribe Peralta took advantage of a defensive error by
Manchester United’s Rafael to score in the first minute at
Wembley Stadium. The 28-year-old then headed in a goal in the
75th minute from a free kick. Hulk, 26, scored in the first
minute of injury time as Brazil scrambled for a tie.  It was Mexico’s first appearance in an Olympic soccer
final, and continues a drought at the games for the world’s most
successful soccer nation. Brazil hasn’t won the final in its
three attempts, losing to  France  in  Los Angeles  in 1984 and to
the  Soviet Union  four years later in  Seoul . It came third in
Beijing in 2008.  “This has been the highest point of my career. To sing the
national anthem with a gold medal around your neck is
priceless,” said Mexico coach Luis Fernando Tena after the
match. “Winning this gold medal on the sacred pitch of Wembley
makes it even more special. This is a fair reward for my 18
warriors.”  Mexico took the lead 28 seconds after the kickoff. The 22-
year-old Rafael’s poorly placed pass was intercepted by Javier
Aquino, who quickly moved the ball to Peralta, who scored the
quickest goal of the Olympic soccer tournament.  “They scored a goal at the beginning,” Brazil captain
 Thiago Silva  told reporters. “When that happens you change
everything you planned during the week.”  First Chance  Brazil had to wait almost 20 minutes for its first chance
when Leandro Damiao, the competition’s top scorer with six
goals, weaved into the edge of penalty box and passed to his
Internacional teammate, Oscar. The 20-year-old’s tame left foot
shot was collected by Mexico’s captain and goalkeeper Jose
Corona.  With 32 minutes gone, Brazilian coach Mano Menezes put Hulk
in to bolster the attack. The Porto striker made a difference as
Corona struggled to deal with his 30-yard drive shortly before
the half.  Brazil finished the opening period with three shots on
target, failing to make their 61 percent possession and three
attackers on the field count.  Mexico  began the second half almost as badly as Brazil in
the first. Hulk won a free kick after he was fouled by Diego
Reyes. It earned the Mexican a yellow card, but the Brazilian
failed to pressure Corona with the shot.  Brazil continued to fire shots at the goalkeeper, including
two from Neymar.  Mexico absorbed almost 20 minutes of attacking pressure
from Brazil before its first chance of the second half fell to
Marco Fabian. A deflection off Brazilian goalkeeper Gabriel teed
up the ball for a bicycle kick from the Mexican forward, which
hit the crossbar.  Peralta was denied a second goal on 68 minutes after he was
ruled to be offside following his short range shot past Gabriel.  Brazil  replaced Tottenham midfield Sandro with AC Milan
striker Alexandre Pato as it tried to increase the tempo in
Mexico’s half.  Marcelo fouled Hector Herrera outside the penalty box. The
free kick into the box was headed in by the unguarded Peralta,
giving him four goals in the tournament.  Mexico reached injury time leading 2-0, but a long ball
from Brazil’s defense reached Hulk, who scored to throw drama
into the last few moments of the final.  “In the end, it didn’t happen as we expected,” Silva
said. “Brazil always have a big chance but it’s hard for us
because we have never won.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane at Wembley Stadium on 
at  cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 