-- Hiring McKinsey; Insider Trading: Top Business Books
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2013-10-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/geithner-lobs-f-bombs-procrastinators-win-top-business-books.html
In “Circle of Friends,” Charles
Gasparino gives us all the elements of the insider-trading
genre: bundles of cash, informants wired by the FBI, bickering
regulators.  The only problem, he says, is that those regulators were
investigating the wrong thing.  Here’s a list of recommended business books.  “After the Music Stopped: The Financial Crisis, the
Response and the Work Ahead” by Alan S. Blinder (Penguin
Press). Blinder, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve,
proves adept at making accessible the complex events leading to
the financial crisis and the ways in which policy makers
responded.  “Antifragile: Things That Gain From Disorder” by  Nassim Nicholas Taleb  (Random House). The author of “The Black Swan”
returns with a book about thriving amid disorder. He focuses on
systems that aren’t resistant to stress but actually profit from
it. The human body, for example, gets stronger with the stress
of exercise, weaker with indolence.  “Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google?” by  William Poundstone  (Little, Brown). A guide to brain-bending interview
questions asked at Google and other innovative companies. “You
are shrunk to the height of a nickel and thrown into a
blender,” one begins. What do you do in the 60 seconds before
the blades start whirring?  “The Art of the Sale” by Philip Delves Broughton (Penguin
Press/Portfolio). The journalist who brought us “Ahead of the
Curve,” a chronicle of how he earned an MBA at Harvard Business
School, uncovers the dark arts of sales -- a discipline absent
from the HBS curriculum.  “Bailout” by  Neil Barofsky  (Free Press). The former
special inspector general policing the $700 billion Troubled
Asset Relief Program lifts the lid on the U.S. Treasury and
settles scores in this angry yet illuminating memoir.  “The Battle of Bretton Woods” by Benn Steil (Princeton
University Press). This masterful account dismantles the idyllic
picture of the 1944 Bretton Woods international economic
conference, situating it firmly in the tense atmosphere of the
final months of World War II.  “The Billionaire’s Apprentice” by Anita Raghavan
(Business Plus). The Galleon Group insider-trading scandal
involving Raj Rajaratnam and  Rajat Gupta  featured arrogance,
greed and, ultimately, prosecution. To Raghavan, that’s a sign
that Indian-Americans have finally arrived.  “The Buy Side” by Turney Duff (Crown Business). A memoir
by a former Galleon Group trader details his drug and alcohol-fueled implosion while providing a timely window into sleazy
practices that have become the focus of federal prosecutors.  “Circle of Friends” by Charles Gasparino (Harper
Business). While the markets were coming undone in 2008,
securities regulators were busy investigating the wrong crime,
Gasparino says. Instead of digging into the fraud that helped
fuel the crisis, they were on a crusade to end insider trading.  “A Disposition to Be Rich” by Geoffrey C. Ward (Knopf).
Ferdinand Ward, the Bernie Madoff of the Gilded Age, comes to
life in this elegant and perversely fascinating biography of the
swindler who ruined  Ulysses S. Grant .  “Down the Up Escalator: How the 99 Percent Live in the
Great Recession” by Barbara Garson (Doubleday). Garson writes
less about the terrible things that have happened to Americans
since the crash than about the resigned/resourceful ways they’re
coping.  “End This Depression Now!” by  Paul Krugman  (Norton). The
Princeton economist makes his case for more government spending
and less austerity. You can almost hear his teeth gnash as he
takes on the “Austerians.”  “Engines of Change” by  Paul Ingrassia  (Simon & Schuster).
Ingrassia, who shared a 1993 Pulitzer Prize for writing on
management turmoil at General Motors Co., presents a quirky
history of American culture as seen through 15 cars.  “Finance and the Good Society” by Robert J. Shiller
(Princeton). The influential Yale University economist argues
that finance, for all its manifest failings of late, remains a
force for good in society.  “Financial Turmoil in Europe and the United States” by
 George Soros  (PublicAffairs). This is a compilation of op-ed
articles that the billionaire investor wrote as the euro crisis
boiled up. As a retread, it displays Soros’s knack for assessing
market linkages and psychology on the fly.  “The Firm” by Duff McDonald (Simon & Schuster). McDonald
has put together an instructive history of McKinsey & Co.,
though he never quite answers the question of whether hiring the
global fix-it firm is worth it.  “Getting It Wrong” by William A. Barnett (MIT). Poor
monetary data were a root cause of the financial crisis, argues
Barnett, a University of Kansas economist and former Federal
Reserve Board staff member.  “Hedge Hogs” by Barbara T. Dreyfuss (Random House). Brian
Hunter’s out-of-control trading in the natural-gas market led to
the collapse of Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund Amaranth
Advisors LLC. Dreyfuss does a great job of providing the
historical context.  “The (Honest) Truth About Dishonesty” by Dan Ariely
(Harper/HarperCollins). We like to think of ourselves as honest.
Yet experiments show that we all cheat, says the behavioral
economist.  “The Hour Between Dog and Wolf” by  John Coates  (Fourth
Estate/Penguin Press). During his 12 years at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Merrill Lynch & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG, Coates
began to wonder whether testosterone and other hormones were
impairing the judgment of traders -- and fueling bubbles and
busts. So he retrained as a neuroscientist and conducted tests
on trading floors. He synthesizes his findings in this highly
speculative and absorbing book.  “The Idea Factory” by Jon Gertner (Penguin Press). A rich
history of Bell Labs, a hothouse of 20th-century innovation.  “Lean In: Women, Work and the Will to Lead” by Sheryl
Sandberg (Knopf). The Facebook executive offers advice to women,
urging them not to pull back from career challenges years before
having children.  “Luck” by  Ed Smith  (Bloomsbury). Serendipity molds
everything from sports to politics and finance, argues the
former cricketer.  “A Nation of Deadbeats” by Scott Reynolds Nelson (Knopf).
The U.S. was founded by bankers who used their political
connections to make lots of money. Sound familiar?  “The New Geography of Jobs” by Enrico Moretti (Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt). A persuasive look at why some U.S. cities
have prospered in recent decades while others have declined.  “Octopus” by Guy Lawson (Crown). Hedge-fund manager Sam
Israel, who faked suicide in 2008 to escape a prison sentence
for running a $450 million Ponzi scheme, was himself the victim
of a con artist.  “Other People’s Money: Inside the Housing Crisis and the
Demise of the Greatest Real Estate Deal Ever Made” by Charles
V. Bagli (Dutton). Buying Stuyvesant Town/Peter Cooper Village
was an ill-advised deal for Tishman Speyer and BlackRock even
before the financial crisis. Bagli recounts the horror story
with clarity and authority.  “Plutocrats” by Chrystia Freeland (Penguin Press).
“Being self-made is central to the self-image of today’s global
plutocrats” Freeland says. “It is how they justify their
luxuries, status and influence.”  “The Power of Habit” by Charles Duhigg (Heinemann/Random
House). Dipping into neurological case studies, Duhigg explores
how our brains form habits and how we can change them. Examples
range from murderous sleepwalkers to Goldman Sachs.  “The Price of Inequality” by  Joseph E. Stiglitz  ( Allen
Lane /Norton). Economic growth and democracy suffer when the top
1 percent of Americans earns a fifth of the country’s income and
controls more than a third of its wealth, the Nobel Prize-winning economist says.  “Red Ink” by  David Wessel  (Crown Business). The Wall
Street Journal economics editor presents a slim primer on the
people and politics driving the U.S. budget war.  “Wait” by  Frank Partnoy  (Profile/PublicAffairs). From F-16 pilots to speed traders, the best performers are those who
learn to delay their responses, argues Partnoy, a former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  banker.  “What Money Can’t Buy” by Michael Sandel (Allen Lane/
Farrar, Straus and Giroux). The Harvard University professor who
wrote “Justice” explores the moral limits of markets in civil
society, from baseball to death bonds.  “White House Burning” by  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak 
(Pantheon). A survey of how the U.S. government, ignoring
Alexander Hamilton’s precepts, piled up more than $15 trillion
in debt.  “Winner Take All” by Dambisa Moyo (Allen Lane/Basic).
China has embarked on a “commodity crusade,” making it the
pre-eminent buyer of resources ranging from metals to food, says
the former Goldman Sachs banker. The result may be “famine,
conflict and worse” for everyone else in the decades to come.  “Why Nations Fail” by  Daron Acemoglu  and  James Robinson 
(Crown/Profile). Why do some nations prosper while others remain
mired in poverty? The answer lies in politics, the two
economists argue in this compelling and readable study.  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 