-- Given Imaging’s Tumble on Colon Pill Overdone to Maxim
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-12T13:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/given-imaging-s-tumble-on-colon-pill-overdone-to-maxim.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) ’s worst weekly
slump in a year was overdone as the Israeli maker of pill-sized
cameras for diagnosing digestive ailments isn’t looking to
replace colonoscopies, Maxim Group LLC said.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company tumbled 9.3
percent to $13.60 last week in  New York , the most since August
2011. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli
companies trading in the U.S. was little changed at 85.15 on
Aug. 10, posting a weekly advance of 1.4 percent.  EZchip
Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  tumbled 20 percent last week after the
revenue forecast from the maker of processors trailed analysts’
estimates. Given gained 1.1 percent in Tel Aviv today, while
EZchip lost 2 percent.  Given tumbled 9.9 percent on Aug. 8 after saying it won’t
submit its PillCam Colon 2 for general screening approval to the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  following the completion of an
885-patient clinical trial. The company will submit the device
for visualizing the colon in patients who are unable to undergo
or complete colonoscopies, it said. The decision won’t reduce
Given’s long-term  revenue  target, Maxim Group and  Cantor
Fitzgerald  LP said.  “The stock is oversold as a lot of people don’t understand
the entire story,” Bryan Brokmeier, an analyst at Maxim Group,
said by phone from New York on Aug. 10. “They were going to
have a number of hurdles to use the PillCam as a general
screening tool and were anyway going to capture a share of the
market in which they are focusing now.”  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. index has added 4.8 percent this
year, compared with a 16 percent gain for the Nasdaq Composite
Index. The gauge of Israeli stocks listed in New York trades at
14.4 times estimated earnings, below the 16.4 average multiple
for companies on the Nasdaq index. Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped
0.6 percent today, trimming the advance for the year to 1.4
percent.  ‘Perception Versus Reality’  The PillCam Colon capsule  contributed  $1.8 million to
Given’s total sales of $178 million in 2011. It was cleared for
marketing by the European Union in 2006 and in Israel two years
later, according to the company’s  website .  “The issue here is one of perception versus reality,”
Jeremy Feffer, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said by phone
from New York. “The reality of this opportunity has not
changed. The early revenue opportunity was always going to come
from this diagnostic patient population.”  Physicians are more likely to embrace the company’s product
with patients who are unable to undergo the regular process,
Nachum Shamir, Given’s chief executive officer, said in an Aug.
8 call with investors. The company expects to reach at least
$450 million in revenue by 2016, he said.  The  Tel Aviv  shares gained to 53.54 shekels, or the
equivalent of $13.41. The shares retreated 7.4 percent last
week.  Colorectal Cancer  Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-
related deaths in the U.S., with 142,950 people diagnosed with
the cancer in 2008, the latest year for which data is available,
 according  to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  An estimated five million people in the U.S. undergo
colonoscopy, an examination of the colon, according to a report
from Maxim Group.  “Given views PillCam as complementary to colonoscopy and
they have said they are not out to replace it,” Feffer said.
“I think they could have done a better job of communicating
this and that is why the stock has been punished.”  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  EZchip Tumbles  Yokneam, Israel-based EZchip tumbled last week to $29,
after the company reduced its forecast for third-quarter
revenue. The Tel Aviv shares fell to 115.6 shekels, or $28.95,
today.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)  plunged 14 percent on Aug. 9 after
shares in Tel Aviv lost 13 percent. The maker of customized
chips reported a second-quarter loss and said this quarter’s
sales will fall short of analysts’ estimates.  The Tel Aviv shares slumped 8.8 percent today to 33.10
shekels, or the equivalent of $8.29.  “Ultimately end-market demand drives chip companies’
revenue growth,”  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director of equity
research at Chardan Capital Markets LLC, said by phone from New
York. “Macro conditions are not driving demand and that is
affecting several companies that are subject to the drop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  