-- Inside-Trader Jiau Sues Over Drug Program Expulsion
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-11T00:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/inside-trader-jiau-sues-over-drug-program-expulsion.html
Winifred Jiau, convicted of insider-
trading crimes last year, sued the federal prison where she is
incarcerated over claims she was improperly expelled from a
drug-abuse program.  Jiau claimed a substance abuse program staffer at the
Dublin,  California , prison humiliated her and retaliated against
her in response to answers she provided during a “journal
group” about her crimes. The staffer said she couldn’t be in
the treatment program while appealing her conviction, according
to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in San
Francisco.  Jiau said she was an alcoholic seeking help and throwing
her out of the program makes her ineligible for early release
and deprives her of her constitutional rights.  “Didn’t you profit billions of dollars for  hedge funds ?”
Jiau said she was asked by the staffer on July 2. “There were
alleged avoided losses over millions, but no billion-dollar
profits,” she said she responded, according to the court
filing.  Expulsion  Jiau said she referred the staffer to her attorney for
further information about her case and appeal. Her progress in
the program was reviewed July 10 “due to lack of participation
in community, not completing activities on treatment plan in a
timely manner, not processing in groups and refusing to discuss
her crime,” according to prison documents in the filing. She
was expelled from the program July 25.  She seeks a hearing and reinstatement to the program. A
call to the general number at the prison in Dublin, California,
wasn’t answered.  Jiau, a former consultant at Primary Global Research LLC,
was sentenced in September to four years in prison for selling
inside information on technology companies to fund managers who
made millions of dollars trading on the tips.  The case is Jiau v. Poole,  12-04193, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  