-- Third-Quarter 3-Pointers Lift U.S. Into Olympic Final With Spain
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-11T00:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/third-quarter-3-pointers-lift-u-s-into-olympic-final-with-spain.html
The U.S. men’s basketball team used
another third-quarter spurt to keep its record perfect at the
London Olympics and set up a gold-medal rematch with Spain.  Kevin Durant , 23, of the National Basketball Association’s
Oklahoma City Thunder led the U.S. with 19 points, including
five 3-pointers, in a 109-83 win last night against Argentina.
LeBron James, 27, of the  Miami Heat  and  Carmelo Anthony , 28, of
the  New York  Knicks added 18 points each for the Americans. Manu Ginobili, 35, of the  San Antonio Spurs  led Argentina with 18
points.  The U.S. led 47-40 at halftime before outscoring the
Argentines 27-17 in the third quarter. Pau Gasol of the  Los
Angeles Lakers  had 16 points as Spain beat Russia 67-59
yesterday in the semifinals. The Americans beat Spain for the
championship in Beijing four years ago.  “In the third quarter, we just really got good rhythm and
started pushing the ball a bit more,” U.S. coach  Mike Krzyzewski  told reporters. “We started hitting shots and that
was infectious, we got on a big roll.”  Argentina, the Americans’ opponent in a third-straight
Olympic semifinal, kept the margin within single digits before
the third-quarter flurry of 3-point shooting, including four by
Durant.  “In a matter of two or three minutes at the end of the
third quarter, they hit a string of successful 3-pointers,”
said Argentina guard Pablo Prigioni. “In two minutes they shoot
from anywhere and they score, and they get a lead that is very
difficult to overcome.”  NBA Trade  The semifinal contests came on the same day that a four-
team NBA trade was announce in which  Dwight Howard  moved from
Orlando to the Los Angeles Lakers. As part of the deal, U.S.
team member  Andre Iguodala  went from the  Philadelphia 76ers  to
the  Denver Nuggets .  Iguodala, 28, had a dramatic dunk in the game’s final
minute that brought the crowd to its feet. He said the trade
didn’t affect his game.  “It’s my responsibility to my teammates to be ready to
play,” Iguodala said in an interview. “When I go out there on
the court, they rely on me to bring what I bring to the table
and I’ve got to be ready for it.”  The U.S. has won 13 gold medals in the 16 Olympic
tournaments it has entered. The Americans have won their London
2012 games by an average margin of 36 points.  Players Injured  The Spaniards have won five of the seven games they’ve
played in the tournament, losing only to Brazil and when they
first took on Russia. The team has struggled with injuries to
key players.  “We haven’t been 100 percent ever in this championship,
but competitively we will be there,” coach Sergio Scariolo
said. “Together we will be there, team spirit we will be there
and with these weapons we will try to compete against any
opponent.”  The defending champions last lost at the games in the 2004
semifinals, when  Argentina  won 89-81 before going on to claim
gold.  The U.S. won 118-107 four years ago in a game that Gasol
said was very competitive and very emotional. He said the 2012
final will present a similar challenge.  “We understand that the U.S. team is an extremely
powerful, talented team, so they’re very hard to beat,” he
said. “We understand it’s going to be a difficult game. It’s a
huge opportunity and very few people get a chance to compete in
an Olympic final.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  