-- This Is Now the Most Important Election Since 1980
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-08-11T16:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/this-is-now-the-most-important-election-since-1980.html
The Obama campaign wasted no time
blasting  Mitt Romney ’s selection of Representative  Paul Ryan  as
a running mate.  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, had not finished his
acceptance speech when President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
manager,  Jim Messina , released a  statement  blasting him for
favoring “new budget-busting tax cuts for the wealthy, while
placing greater burdens on the middle class and seniors.” Ryan’s
“radical” budget plan, Messina added, “would end Medicare as we
know it by turning it into a voucher system, shifting thousands
of dollars in health-care costs to seniors.”  Romney could have run away from this fight. Plenty of
Republicans have been telling him not to distract voters from
their unhappiness about the economy by presenting far-reaching
plans of his own -- and especially not to elevate the issue of
Medicare, on which Democrats traditionally have an advantage.  With Ryan’s selection, Romney has rejected this advice. As
Messina’s statement shows, this campaign will now be about
something big: the future of the welfare state.  The Democratic attack on Ryan and his budget plan is, at
best, ignorant. “Budget-busting” tax cuts? The Ryan budget plan
envisions taxes running at a higher level of GDP than the
average of the last few decades. It brings the budget to long-
term balance -- something that Obama has never proposed. (As his
Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  admitted to Ryan  in February :
“We’re not coming before you to say we have a definitive
solution to our long-term problem. What we do know is we don’t
like yours.”)  Ryan’s Medicare plan doesn’t put greater burdens on seniors
or shift health-care costs to them, either. The Democrats’
criticism was arguably true of Ryan’s 2011 plan. The 2012
version of the plan -- the one Romney endorsed -- includes
changes to meet that criticism. That’s how it won the support of
Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon .  Under the original Ryan plan, retirees would have chosen a
private health plan and the government would have contributed
money toward the cost. The amount of money would have depended
on the beneficiary’s age and health status. Over time the
average amount of money would have risen with inflation.  Critics pointed out that health-care costs have risen
faster than inflation for a long time. If competition failed to
change this trend, senior citizens would indeed have been left
paying more.  The new version of the plan cleverly fixes the problem.
Insurers would submit competitive bids to see who could cover
Medicare’s traditional benefits for the lowest premium. The
average amount of financial assistance would be equal to the
second-lowest bid. So seniors will always have an option that
leaves them with no higher costs than now. If they pick
something even cheaper, they will come out ahead.  Ryan’s budget includes a failsafe to make sure the plan
saves money even if competition doesn’t lead to restraint in
premium growth: Total spending on Medicare would be limited to
the growth of the economy plus inflation plus 0.5 percent.  That failsafe doesn’t rescue the Democratic attack,
however, because the Obama administration caps Medicare spending
at the same level. There is no scenario under which Medicare
recipients have to pay more under the Romney-Ryan plan than they
have to pay under the Democratic plan. The Obama campaign is, in
short, responding to new thinking with stale talking points.  The Ryan budget isn’t perfect. The better criticism of it,
though, is that it doesn’t go far enough on entitlements.
Although Ryan has endorsed reforms to restrain the growth of
Social Security, the budget he got  House Republicans  to support
does not include those reforms. Too large a share of the budget
restraint therefore comes from domestic programs other than
entitlements. This isn’t, unfortunately, a criticism that the
Democrats have any interest or credibility in making.  Beneath Messina’s distortions lies a real and important
debate. Is our welfare state basically healthy, just in need of
a few tweaks to restore its fiscal health? Democrats believe, or
claim to believe, that if we just raised taxes on the rich and
let experts redirect Medicare spending, we could keep the open-
ended entitlement programs on which we have come to rely.  Republicans, on the other hand, tend to think that our
entitlement programs are structurally flawed in a way that
neither tax increases nor better management can solve.
Republicans do not want to abolish these entitlements. Their
view is that they should be limited, and made to work with
rather than against markets.  The Democratic view has a strong base of support among
voters. Even those who share the Republican view, as I do,
cannot be sure it will win in the court of public opinion. If
Romney and Ryan do prevail in November, it will mean that voters
accept the need to modernize the welfare state -- and this
election will end up having been the most important one since
1980.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 