-- Novartis Unit Sued by Oriel Shareholders Over Buyout
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/novartis-unit-sued-by-oriel-shareholders-over-buyout.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s largest
drugmaker by revenue, was sued by investors in Oriel
Therapeutics over claims one of its units defrauded them as part
of an acquisition of the U.S. maker of respiratory drugs.  Officials of Novartis’s Sandoz AG’s generic-drug business
made “fraudulent misrepresentations” in connection with the
2010 purchase of Durham, North Carolina-based Oriel and those
statements prompted Oriel investors to sell their shares too
cheaply, lawyers for former shareholders said in complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  The purpose of the alleged misrepresentations was “to
induce the Oriel Shareholders to sell Oriel’s securities and to
do so at an artificially deflated price,” lawyers for the
investors said in complaint.  Novartis, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , agreed to buy
closely held Oriel seeking to gain generic medicines for asthma
and smoker’s cough and a potential share of a $32 billion
market,  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich,
said in a 2010 note to investors.  Julie Masow, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Novartis,
declined to comment on the Oriel shareholders’ lawsuit.  Novartis officials last month reported second-quarter
profit declined less than analysts forecast, helped by
increasing sales of new products such as the  Gilenya  treatment
for multiple sclerosis and the  Afinitor  cancer drug.  Inhaler Products  Earnings excluding some costs fell 6 percent to $3.36
billion, or $1.38 a share, from $3.56 billion, or $1.48 a year
ago, the drugmaker said in a statement July 19. Analysts
predicted profit of $1.33 a share, the average of 14 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Novartis officials said in 2010 they acquired Oriel for an
undisclosed price to get access to three projects targeting
“leading medicines” in the area of respiratory drugs. It also
gave Novartis the rights to Oriel’s  FreePath drug delivery 
system and the Solis disposable dry powder inhaler.  Medicines accounting for about 50 percent of the $32
billion market for asthma and smoker’s cough are expected to
lose patent protection by the end of 2016, Novartis said at the
time of the purchase. It cited “industry estimates” for the
value of the market for such drugs.  In July 2009, Oriel’s directors decided to seek a buyer for
the drugmaker and later entered into “exclusive negotiations”
with Novartis’ Sandoz unit, according to the suit. The companies
closed the deal in June 2010.  ‘Adverse Facts’  Oriel shareholders later learned Sandoz executives duped
them into selling their shares by “misrepresenting and
concealing adverse facts,” lawyers for the former shareholders
said in the suit. Many of the investors’ claims were redacted,
or blacked out, of the complaint.  “Defendants had the opportunity and the motive to defraud
plaintiffs into selling Oriel’s securities,” the attorneys
said. “Sandoz used improper means to obtain Oriel for less than
fair consideration.”  Oriel’s investors at the time of the buyout included  New
Leaf Venture Partners ,  Thomas McNerney & Partners , HealthCare
Ventures and CHF Medical Partners.  The case is Shareholder Representative Services LLC v.
Sandoz Inc., 12-cv-06154, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  