-- Obama-Ryan History One of Sharp Words on Vision for U.S.
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2012-08-11T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/obama-ryan-history-one-of-sharp-words-on-vision-for-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  long has had
 Paul Ryan  in his sights.  Obama has spent months critiquing the fiscal plan proposed
by the Wisconsin congressman who Republican  Mitt Romney 
yesterday named as his presidential running mate as “radical”
and a “prescription for decline.”  The Ryan plan “makes the Contract with America look like
the New Deal,” Obama said in an April 3 speech in Washington,
referring to former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s Republican
program in Congress the 1990s.  “Disguised as a deficit-reduction plan, it’s really an
attempt to impose a radical vision on our country,” Obama said
of Ryan’s proposal. “It’s nothing but thinly veiled social
Darwinism.”  The rhetorical heat had been building for more than two
years, and Ryan hasn’t been shy about returning fire.  One of the early confrontations between the two men
occurred Feb. 25, 2010, at a White House summit on the health-
care legislation. Ryan, sitting across from Obama, said the
president’s plan was full of “gimmicks and smoke and mirrors”
and “does not control costs” or reduce deficits.  Ryan went on to deliver a point-by-point dissection of the
budgetary impact of the health-care overhaul, which Obama signed
into law about a month later, and its effect on Medicare and
Social Security. He concluded by saying the public didn’t want
it.  “We all talk to our constituents,” Ryan said. “And if
you think they want a government takeover of health care, I
would respectfully submit you’re not listening to them.”  Obama Waits  While Obama glared, he kept his response confined to one
aspect of Ryan’s critique and didn’t directly engage him. That
cool posture has changed as Ryan’s profile rose during the
budget debate that has consumed much of the give-and-take
between the White House and congressional Republicans.  In April 2011, a week after Ryan, as House Budget Committee
chairman, released his fiscal plan and said Obama’s budget would
“accelerate this country’s descent into a debt crisis,” the
president delivered a speech at George  Washington  University in
Washington.  With Ryan sitting in the crowd, Obama lit into the
congressman’s proposal to cut the deficit by $4 trillion over a
decade and revamp Social Security and Medicare.  While lauding those as “worthy” goals, Obama said the
Republican’s vision “is less about reducing the deficit than it
is about changing the basic social compact in America.”  ’Nothing Serious’  “There’s nothing serious about a plan that claims to
reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts
for millionaires and billionaires,” Obama said, foreshadowing
what has become the central message of his re-election campaign.  He characterized Ryan’s plan for Medicare, the government
insurance program for those 65 and older as, “tough luck;
you’re on your own.”  Ryan wants to replace the current system with one giving
seniors a fixed amount of money to buy private coverage. The
theory is that competition among health insurers for their
business will bring down spiraling costs. After first proposing
a phase-out of traditional Medicare, he has since said he would
offer seniors a choice between the two plans.  In his own news conference afterward, Ryan called Obama’s
speech “a political broadside from our ‘campaigner in chief.’”  Pressing His Case  Obama, 51, kept up the argument a week later at a town-hall
event at the headquarters of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in  Palo Alto ,
 California . He called Ryan’s budget “radical” and “short-
sighted.”  “Nothing is easier than solving a problem on the backs of
people who are poor, or people who are powerless and don’t have
lobbyists or don’t have clout,” Obama said.  Ryan, 42, has ratcheted up his rhetoric against the
president, as well.  Last October, he accused Obama of “sowing social unrest
and class resentment” and “pitting one group against another”
in promoting a $447 billion jobs agenda, which would be financed
with a new surtax on millionaires.  “Instead of appealing to the hope and optimism that were
the hallmarks of his first campaign, he has launched his second
campaign by preying on the emotions of fear, envy and
resentment,” Ryan said in a speech at the  Heritage Foundation 
in Washington.  He accused Obama of misrepresenting the differences between
the parties, quoting the president’s remarks a week earlier that
Republicans support “dirtier air, dirtier water, fewer people
on health care.”  ’Straw Men’  “He’s going from town to town, impugning the motives of
Republicans, setting up straw men and scapegoats and engaging in
intellectually lazy arguments as he tries to build support for
punitive tax hikes on job creators,” Ryan said.  Obama retorted in his April 3 speech in Washington with a
line he’s also used at campaign events.  The Ryan plan reduces federal deficits by “gutting the
very things we need to grow an economy that’s built to last,”
Obama said. “That is not class warfare. That is not class envy.
That is math.”  He also directly linked Romney to Ryan, jabbing at the
speaking style of the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee at the same time.  “He even called it ‘marvelous,’ which is a word you don’t
often hear when it comes to describing a budget,” Obama said of
Romney’s endorsement of the Ryan budget plan. ‘It’s a word you
don’t often hear generally.”  The extended, long-distance debate between the congressman
and the president raises a key question for Romney, said
Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg School for Communication in
Philadelphia. “The interesting question is, does this make the
debate about the future as envisioned by Ryan instead of the
future envisioned by Romney?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  