-- Paul Ryan Is Thoughtful, Handsome and Misguided
-- B y   P e t e r   R .   O r s z a g
-- 2012-08-11T18:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/paul-ryan-is-thoughtful-handsome-and-misguided.html
As a fellow budget wonk, I like Paul Ryan a lot. But his policy proposals fall far short of his
winning personality.  Ryan, the Wisconsin representative Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  announced today as his running mate, is
both thoughtful and prolific. I could have many policy debates
with him on a range of issues. Today, though, I’m going to focus
on health care. Ryan’s approach to health care is somewhat akin
to a doctor observing that an arm is finally showing some signs
of healing -- and then deciding to amputate it.  Over the past several years, health-care costs have
decelerated dramatically -- suggesting our broken arm may slowly
be starting to heal. But rather than reinforcing that progress,
Ryan would chart a drastically different course, one that would
not only shift substantial risk to beneficiaries but also,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office , actually raise
health-care costs.  First, the good news.  A report  released last week by the
Altarum Institute estimates that health-care costs have risen
less than 4 percent over the past 12 months. The conventional
wisdom to date has been that this slowdown, which has persisted
for years now, is due to the weak economy. As the economy
recovers, under this view, cost increases will spike again --
and if so, Ryan’s toxic medicine could be seen as worth a try.  Doubt Cast  A growing body of evidence, though, casts doubt on this
cyclical explanation. Altarum Institute researchers, in  a
separate report  published last week in the New England Journal
of Medicine, note that the slowdown predates the recession,
making it difficult to argue it is solely due to the downturn.
Evidence from Medicare suggests the same thing: A simple
analysis shows no statistically significant relationship between
Medicare spending trends across states between 2007 and 2010 and
the rise of unemployment in each state over that period,
suggesting something other than just the economy is at play.  Instead, as I  have written , a number of structural changes
-- including actual and anticipated payment reform, and the
expanded use of  information technology  to drive clinical
decisions -- are playing at least some role in slowing the
growth of health-care costs. Along with others, I have put
forward numerous proposals to reinforce these trends.  Our proposals have three core attributes: They build on
recent progress, they recognize there is no one simple solution
to increase value in health care, and they emphasize the role of
providers rather than insurance companies in improving that
value.  Ryan, by contrast, ignores the recent progress -- which in
some sense is understandable, lest he diminish the energy for
his own radically different course. Ryan is enamored with one
big but wrong idea: that all we need to do is reshuffle risks
and health-care costs will magically decelerate. He would shift
risk onto Medicare beneficiaries through his premium support
proposal and onto state governments by block-granting Medicaid.
Both would rely substantially on insurance companies to make
them work, and neither is likely to turn out the way he says.  Let’s start with the Medicaid proposal. Under the Ryan
budget, states would receive a fixed grant to run Medicaid
programs, rather than sharing in the cost with the federal
government. The grants would not keep pace with economic growth,
let alone with projected health-care costs. Voila! Problem
fixed, right? Under current law, federal Medicaid spending is
projected to rise from about 2 percent of GDP today to about 4
percent by 2040. Under the Ryan budget, it is instead projected
to fall from 2 percent of GDP today to about 1 percent by 2040.  Spending Reduced  But how will this change reduce total Medicaid spending by
anything like 75 percent of projected expenses? One explanation
is that states will turn to insurance companies to help manage
more of their beneficiaries. That is unlikely to produce
anything like the necessary savings. And if it doesn’t, states
will find themselves ever more on the hook for the difference.  Ryan provides no explanation for how state governments,
already facing threatening fiscal gaps, will be able to handle
the growing gap.  One more point: A substantial share of the apparent federal
deficit reduction over the next few decades under the Ryan
budget is due to this Medicaid risk shift. Without any details
about how implausibly large reductions will be achieved in
practice, the whole Medicaid proposal appears as a massive magic
asterisk rather than a bold idea.  What about Medicare? Under the Ryan budget, after some
time, the government would issue payments that would allow new
Medicare beneficiaries to purchase insurance from private firms.
The payments would not keep pace with currently projected
health-care spending (notice a theme here?), and as a result
would appear to reduce costs for the federal government.  We don’t have a full analysis from the CBO of the most
recent rendition of the Ryan plan, so I’m forced to rely on
CBO’s analysis of his plan from 2011. (If Ryan believes that
changes to his plan since then would result in any different
conclusions, he should request that CBO publish an updated
analysis.)  CBO’s analysis , not surprisingly, confirms that federal
expenditures under the Ryan Medicare plan would be reduced
sharply. Federal payments for a typical beneficiary by 2030, for
example, would be more than 20 percent lower than current
projections.  But CBO also analyzed a more relevant question: What would
happen to total health-care costs, including the extra costs for
the beneficiaries as the federal share was reduced? Total costs
are what matters, since simply shifting costs around without
altering the total does not accomplish much.  Costs Shared  According to CBO, Ryan’s plan would not reduce total
health-care costs. Instead, it would increase the total, because
more cost-sharing for consumers doesn’t do that much to
constrain spending and because private plans have higher
administrative costs and less negotiating leverage than the
federal Medicare program.  You read that right: According to CBO, the Ryan Medicare
plan would increase health-care spending. In 2030, total health-
care spending for the typical beneficiary would be more than 40
percent higher under the Ryan plan than under existing Medicare.  Again, I like  Paul Ryan . But that doesn’t mean his Medicare
and Medicaid ideas make any sense. They’d shift too much risk to
individuals and states at a time when we’re finally making solid
progress in slowing health-care costs, and the rhetoric
surrounding them claims savings that are never going to
materialize. That makes Ryan’s proposals problematic,
unnecessary and misleading.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 