-- Romney Announcing Vice Presidential Running Mate Later Today
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-11T06:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/romney-to-announce-vice-presidential-running-mate-aug-11.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  will announce his choice for a vice presidential
running mate later today in Norfolk, Virginia, with signs
pointing toward U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin .  NBC News and the  Associated Press  are reporting that Romney
has picked Ryan. Romney told NBC News Aug. 9 that that he wants
a running mate with “a vision for the country that adds
something to the political discourse about the direction of the
country.”  Romney’s headquarters said in a release that the
announcement would be made at about 9 a.m. East Coast time on
the USS Wisconsin, a battleship on display in Norfolk.  The ship’s name and location created immediate speculation
about who the vice presidential pick might be. Ryan, the House
Budget Committee chairman who authored a Republican deficit
reduction plan, is a favorite of the party’s anti-tax Tea Party
wing, and some Republicans have been pushing Romney in recent
days to make a bold pick that creates a clear vision for the
economic recovery that contrasts with President  Barack Obama .  Multiple Romney aides and Republican officials contacted
today wouldn’t confirm news reports that the former
Massachusetts governor has chosen Ryan, and two people who
declined to be named said they couldn’t discuss Romney’s choice,
saying Romney planned to announce it via his social media
application.  Portman Call  Last night, Romney, 65, called Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio
Republican who was another frontrunner for the running mate
position, to inform him he was not being selected, according to
a Republican official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The
first-term senator was planning to participate today in a bike
ride in his home state to raise money for  cancer research .  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , also a frontrunner,
told NBC News that he will be keeping his schedule of
campaigning for Romney in New Hampshire today.  “I didn’t enter this thinking I was going to be the VP
candidate, so I’m not disappointed,” Pawlenty said.  Ryan, 42, endorsed Romney in March as he was still working
to secure his party’s nomination, and Romney has said the House
budget committee’s deficit-reduction blueprint will serve as a
model for his administration. Ryan accompanied Romney on the
campaign trail for five consecutive days before the April 3
Wisconsin presidential primary, and the two men have enjoyed a
friendly relationship.  Democrats’ Plans  Democrats plan to frame the choice as a capitulation to the
fiscally conservative  Tea Party  movement and as evidence that
Romney lacks strong backing within the grassroots of his party,
according to a person close to the Obama campaign who wouldn’t
comment publicly on the selection until it is announced. The
campaign plans to use Ryan’s budget blueprint to cast him as an
ideologue uninterested in working across the aisle, the person
said.  Romney’s announcement comes as the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee prepares to embark on a four-day, four-
state bus tour aimed at taking the campaign directly into areas
Obama won in 2008.  The campaign’s bus tour will start in Virginia and include
stops in  North Carolina , Florida and Ohio, all battleground
states. That fact that Romney is making the announcement in
Virginia underscores the state’s importance in this year’s
presidential election. Obama won the state in 2008, becoming the
first Democrat in 44 years to win the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Norfolk, Virginia at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Norfolk, Virginia at   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  