-- Rupee, Won Lead Weekly Gains in Asia on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-11T00:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/rupee-won-lead-weekly-gains-in-asia-on-stimulus-speculation.html
India’s rupee and  South Korea ’s won
led gains in Asian currencies this week as foreign funds
increased holdings of emerging-market assets amid speculation
global central banks will ease monetary policy to spur growth.  China’s exports increased 1 percent in July, less than the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey for an 8
percent gain and June’s 11.3 percent pace, official data showed
yesterday. Inflation in the world’s second-largest economy was
1.8 percent last month, the least since January 2010, according
to an Aug. 9 report. Germany backed European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying plan this week to tackle
the region’s debt crisis.  “Asian currencies continue to gain ground against the
dollar, pricing in a higher probability that the  Federal Reserve 
and ECB will satisfy expectations for further significant
monetary easing,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior
currency strategist at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
said yesterday. “Slower inflation definitely does add to
speculation of easing in China.”  The rupee strengthened 0.8 percent this week to 55.2850 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. South
Korea’s won rose 0.4 percent to 1,130.45, Malaysia’s ringgit
advanced 0.2 percent to 3.1194, and the  Thai baht  gained 0.3
percent to 31.48. China’s  yuan  appreciated 0.2 percent to 6.3600.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched 115.73 on
Aug. 9, the highest level since May 15, and was little changed
from a week earlier. Global funds pumped more than $4 billion
into stocks in South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia in
the first four days of this week, exchange data show.  Bond Inflows  Emerging-market debt funds attracted inflows of $720
million in the week ended Aug. 9, Morgan Stanley said in a
report, citing data from U.S.-based research firm EPFR Global.  The rupee had its biggest weekly gain in six weeks amid
speculation the nation’s new finance minister will announce
measures to narrow the  budget deficit  and attract investment.  Palaniappan Chidambaram, in his first speech after taking
office, said Aug. 6 that he will unveil steps for fiscal
consolidation and clarify tax laws. Disinvestment Secretary
Mohammad Haleem Khan said Aug. 8 the government may start its
asset-sale program next month to boost revenue. India plans to
narrow its budget shortfall to 5.1 percent of gross domestic
product from 5.8 percent the previous year, according to
estimates released in March.  Malaysian Exports  Malaysia’s ringgit rose for a second week after trade data
released Aug. 8 boosted optimism the Southeast Asian nation’s
economy is withstanding the global slowdown. Exports rose 5.4
percent in June from a year earlier, exceeding economists’
estimates for a 3.1 percent increase. Factory output gained 3.7
percent, an 11th straight month of expansion, government figures
showed Aug. 9.  “The Malaysian data was generally positive and that should
feed into a fairly robust GDP growth outcome,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore.
“We’re seeing money coming back into Asia, with the prospect of
fresh stimulus from the major economies.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar was little changed this week at
NT$29.990 against its U.S. counterpart, Indonesia’s rupiah and
the Philippine peso slipped 0.1 percent to 9,478 and 41.890,
respectively. Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,853.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  