-- Relay Record for Bolt, Jamaica; U.S. Basketball Women Are Golden
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-11T23:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/russia-s-kirdyapkin-wins-men-s-race-walk-in-olympic-record-time.html
Usain Bolt won his third gold medal
at the  London  Olympics, anchoring Jamaica’s record-setting 400-
meter relay team, as the women’s basketball team helped the U.S.
top 100 medals.  Bolt, who also took the 100- and 200-meter races, ran the
final relay leg last night as Jamaica finished in 36.84 seconds.
That broke its own mark of 37.04, set at the 2011 World
Championships in  South Korea . It’s the second straight Olympics
in which Bolt has won gold in all three events.  “It was a beautiful feeling to end like this,” Bolt, 25,
said. “The team came out and gave it their all. I knew a world
record was possible.”  Candace Parker had 21 points and 11 rebounds as the U.S.
routed  France  86-50 for its 41st straight Olympic victory. The
Americans broke the game open by outscoring the French 26-12 in
the third quarter.  “It’s really hard to put into words,” said U.S. coach
Geno Auriemma, 58. “This is an unbelievable group of players to
coach.”  The U.S. tops the medal standings with 44 golds and 102 in
total. China is second with 38 golds among its 87 medals.  Gold medals will be awarded in 15 events on today’s final
day of competition. The U.S. takes on  Spain  in the men’s
basketball final, while  Russia  and  Brazil  meet for the men’s
volleyball gold medal.  Bolt ran away from Ryan Bailey down the stretch on the
Olympic Stadium track. The U.S. won the silver medal and tied
the old world record, with  Trinidad & Tobago  taking the bronze
after  Canada  was disqualified.  “When I took the baton, I was thinking, ‘Run, run, run for
my life,’ but Usain Bolt is a monster,” Bailey, 23, said.  Relay Gold  The U.S. won the women’s 1,600-meter relay, where DeeDee
Trotter, 200-meter champ Allyson Felix, Francena McCorory and
400-meter winner Sanya Richards-Ross beat Russia by more than
three seconds.  Britain’s Mo Farah won the 5,000 meters seven days after he
took the 10,000 meters. The 29-year-old is the sixth man to win
both races at the same Olympics.  “It’s unbelievable,” Farah said. “Two gold medals, who
would have thought that?”  Russia won six gold medals yesterday as Elena Lashmanova
broke the world record in the women’s 20-kilometer race walk and
Sergey Kirdyapkin set the Olympic mark in the men’s 50k event.  Russia’s other golds came from Mariya Savinova in the
women’s 800 meters, Evgeniya Kanaeva in rhythmic gymnastics,
Yury Postrigay and Alexander Dyachenko in kayak, and Anna
Chicherova in the women’s high jump.  U.S. Diver  David Boudia of the U.S. won the men’s 10-meter platform
diving competition, and Keshorn Walcott of Trinidad & Tobago
took the men’s javelin gold. Boxing gold medals went to
Britain’s Luke Campbell,  China ’s Zou Shiming, Cuba’s Ronoiel
Iglesias Sotolongo, Ukraine’s Oleksandr Usyk and Japan’s Ryota
Murata.  Mexico  beat Brazil 2-1 for its first men’s soccer gold
medal as Oribe Peralta scored two goals. Brazil did win gold in
women’s volleyball, beating the U.S. in the final for the second
straight Olympics.  Britain’s Ed McKeever won the men’s 200-meter kayak single;
Ukraine’s Yuri Cheban, 26, won the men’s canoe single and New
Zealand’s Lisa Carrington, 23, took the women’s kayak single.  Germany  beat the Netherlands 2-1 in the men’s field hockey
final and  Norway  defeated Montenegro 26-23 in the women’s team
handball final. Serbia’s Milica Mandic, 20, and Carlo Molfetta,
28, won gold in taekwondo.  Azerbaijan won two wrestling golds as Toghrul Asgarov took
the 60-kilogram division and Sharif Sharifov won the 84kg title.
Uzbekistan’s Artur Taymazov, 33, won his third straight 120kg
wrestling title.  David Svoboda of the  Czech Republic  won the men’s modern
pentathlon; Julie Besset of France, 23, took the women’s cross-
country mountain bike competition, and Spain captured the
women’s Elliott 6-Meter sailing gold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  