-- Ryan Pick Sharpens Romney Duel With Obama Over Budget
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-12T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/ryan-pick-sharpens-romney-duel-with-obama-over-fiscal-policy.html
Mitt Romney  moved a partisan split
over budget cuts and government’s size front and center in the
presidential race by selecting  Paul Ryan  as his running mate,
choosing a lawmaker seen by Republicans as a policy visionary
and by Democrats as a fiscal extremist.  Along with energizing his base, Romney’s vice presidential
decision shifts a campaign he has sought to frame as a
referendum on President  Barack Obama ’s economic record into a
contest between two radically different visions of government’s
role. The former Massachusetts governor’s pairing with Ryan, the
fresh-faced  Wisconsin  congressman who is the architect of
Republican congressional budget plans, sharpens the ticket’s
contrast with Obama and promises a lively debate on whether and
how to curb spending and overhaul U.S. entitlements,
particularly Medicare.  “You could not have a better contrast than this, so we’re
going to offer to you, our fellow citizens, a choice,” Ryan
told voters today at the NASCAR Technical Institute in
Mooresville,  North Carolina . “Do you want the American idea --
that opportunity society with a safety net?” Ryan asked. “Or
do we go with the status quo? Do we go with a debt crisis, a
welfare state, a nation in decline?”  Campaign Question  With Ryan’s selection, Romney’s campaign faced questions
about how thoroughly to embrace his budget blueprint --
including its proposed Medicare overhaul -- at a time when the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee is trying to reach
out to independent voters and disillusioned Democrats. A top
aide said today that it was Ryan who would be following Romney’s
lead -- not the other way around.  “The thing you have to remember about these campaigns is
that  Governor Romney  is at the top of the ticket, and that the
governor’s vision for the country is something that Congressman
Ryan supports,” Romney adviser  Kevin Madden  said.  Romney has endorsed Ryan’s budget and talked generally
about a fiscal plan that shares much in common with it,
including slashing federal spending by $500 billion by 2016 and
Medicare changes that would allow seniors a choice of staying in
the traditional program or using subsidies to buy private
insurance. Romney, though, hasn’t provided specifics about what
 government spending  he would cut or how he would finance
individual and corporate tax cuts amounting to $5 trillion over
a decade.  New Signs  Thousands of cheering voters waving American flags and
newly printed “Romney Ryan” campaign signs greeted the pair as
they toured North Carolina by bus today, while on television
talk programs political partisans dueled to define the ticket.  Obama’s campaign strategist  David Axelrod , appearing on
ABC’s “This Week,” branded Ryan a “right-wing ideologue” who
wants to “lavish” the wealthy with tax cuts while cutting
spending on programs that help the middle class, students and
senior citizens.  “He wants trillions of dollars of more budget-busting tax
cuts skewed to the wealthy,” Axelrod said during an appearance
on the NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “This is a
prescription for economic catastrophe.”  Republicans countered that Ryan was a bold choice who would
animate Romney’s bid and clarify his message.  ’Big Things’  The pick “demonstrates that Governor Romney is very
serious about doing big things for this country, and wants this
campaign to be about big things and a discussion about the
future of the country,” Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota
Republican, said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  Ryan represents “everything conservatives had hoped for,
in terms of a real contrast as we head into this fall
campaign,” Thune said.  Romney, 65, announced Ryan, 42, as his running mate
yesterday at a rally in Norfolk,  Virginia , and made stops with
him on a bus tour elsewhere in the state and then today in North
Carolina. The pair is to appear together at a rally this evening
in Waukesha, Wisconsin, before Romney departs for Florida and
 Ohio  for two more days of a bus tour while Ryan heads to the
Iowa state fair.  Romney at their Mooresville stop sought to combat the
criticisms of Ryan as an extremist, describing him to voters as
someone who has set himself apart in  Washington  by working with
Democrats.  “Instead of throwing brickbats, and attacking and
demonizing other people, he recognized that honest people could
have honest differences, and so he worked with them and
convinced them,” Romney said of Ryan, whose House-passed budget
didn’t receive a single Democratic vote.  Medicare Option  Ryan, a seven-term congressman, has led the charge among
Republicans for spending cuts and the Medicare overhaul that
would shift the program from one in which the government pays
for seniors’ care to one in which it gives beneficiaries
subsidies to buy private insurance. He has also collaborated
with Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, on adding an option
for the elderly to stay in the traditional program.  Three times in two days, Romney has praised Ryan for his
work with Wyden. “He has a plan, for instance, for Medicare, to
make sure we can save Medicare. And guess what -- he’s one of
the two co-sponsors, the other’s a leading Democrat. He found
ways to bring people together to do good things,” he said at the
Absolute Style furniture warehouse in High Point, North
Carolina.  Substantive Race  The selection of Ryan, a budget and policy expert with a
penchant for drawing charts to drive home key points, has the
potential to transform the presidential campaign -- dominated of
late by attack ads and petty taunts -- into a more substance-
driven race. It also answers calls from Republicans for Romney
to dispense with the cautious approach that has marked his
candidacy, by going beyond criticizing Obama’s economic record
and fleshing out his own.  Vice President  Joe Biden  called Ryan yesterday to
congratulate him and “welcome him to the race,” an Obama
campaign official said. At about the same time, the president’s
campaign released an advertisement attacking the congressman’s
budget plan.  “Paul Ryan is the mastermind behind the extreme G.O.P.
budget plan,” the spot says, as video shows Ryan describing his
proposal as about “rewriting the health-care system, Medicare,
Social Security, our entire tax system.”  The ad then shows Romney saying, “I think it’d be
marvelous if the Senate were to pick up Paul Ryan’s budget and
to adopt it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in High Point, North Carolina, at 
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  