-- Ryan Ranks as Top House Fundraiser With Backing by Banks
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-12T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/ryan-ranks-as-top-house-fundraiser-with-backing-by-banks.html
Paul Ryan ,  Mitt Romney ’s choice for
vice president, is one of the top political fundraisers in
Congress, with backing from the employees of banks and insurance
companies that would benefit from his actions on financial
regulation and Medicare.  Ryan, who represents southeastern  Wisconsin , has more than
$5.4 million in his campaign account, about $2 million more than
the next highest House member, according to Federal Election
Commission data. The Romney campaign raised at least $2 million
after he announced Ryan as his running mate, according to Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman.  While the Ryan re-election committee’s cash-on-hand can’t
be spent directly by the Romney campaign, the money can be
transferred to the  Republican National Committee  to use on
behalf of the presidential ticket.  Ryan voted against the 2010 financial regulation law that
imposed new rules on an industry blamed for contributing to the
worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Romney has
called for repealing the law, opposed by the financial industry.  Lobbyists whose clients include the American Banking
Association and the Financial Services Roundtable scheduled a
January 2011 fundraiser for Ryan’s leadership political action
committee, which he uses to help elect other Republicans to
office, according to the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based
research group. Ryan’s Prosperity PAC had $724,265 in the bank
at the end of June, according to FEC reports.  In December 2009, lobbyists for lenders that make short-
term loans online held a fundraiser for Ryan’s re-election
campaign, according to the Sunlight Foundation. Such lenders are
being regulated under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
created in the financial-regulatory overhaul.  Insurance Industry  Ryan’s budget proposal to end traditional Medicare for
future generations would benefit private insurers, an industry
that has been one of Ryan’s top campaign contributors over the
years.  Insurance employees and their families have given $815,328
to Ryan’s election efforts over his career, more than any other
industry, according to data from the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based group that tracks donations.  Employees of  Northwestern Mutual  Life Insurance Co., based
in  Milwaukee , and their families have been Ryan’s top donors
throughout his political career, giving more than $89,000.
Employees of the National Beer Wholesalers Association and
members of their families make up Ryan’s second-largest donor
pool, contributing $75,000 over the years.  Medicare  Bringing private insurers into Medicare is crucial to
holding down costs and reducing the federal  budget deficit , Ryan
said on Bloomberg Television in April 2011.  “If you do not address health care, you do not fix the
budget,” Ryan said. “We want a bunch of providers competing
against each other for our business. That gets rid of waste,
increases productivity, and is better for the beneficiary.”  Ryan, 42, has never held a traditional private-sector job.
His career in  Washington  -- first as an aide on  Capitol Hill  and
for almost 14 years as a member of the House -- has resulted in
a net worth of about half that of the average member of
Congress.  Net Worth  His assets totaled between $927,100 and $3.2 million in
2010, while the average member of Congress has a net worth of
$5.9 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Ryan and his wife, Janna Little Ryan, have financial
stakes, worth between $350,000 and $800,000, in her family’s
Oklahoma-based land and energy companies, according to Ryan’s
2011 financial disclosure forms, filed in May.  The companies are Ava O Limited, which has mining
interests; Blondie & Brownie LLC, which has gravel interests;
Little Land Company, an oil and gas corporation; and Red River
Pine Limited, a timber company, the forms show. Also listed on
the forms are mining rights in  Oklahoma .  Janna Little Ryan earned between $100,000 and $1 million in
2011 from an annual distribution of her late mother’s trust,
according to an addendum to the 2011 disclosure, filed in June.  Ryan reported a $250,001 to $500,000 mortgage on his house
in Janesville, Wisconsin, the town where he was born and raised.  “I never really left it, it’s our home now,” Ryan said of
Janesville after being introduced by Romney as his running mate
during an event in Norfolk, Virginia.  Ryan has been a member of Congress since 1999. He graduated
in 1992 from Miami University in  Ohio  with a degree in economics
and political science and came to work in Washington, first as
an aide to Wisconsin Republican Senator Bob Kasten.  Early Career  He then was employed as a speechwriter for Empower America,
a Republican-leaning advocacy group. In 2004, Empower America
was folded into Citizens for a Sound Economy, a group founded by
billionaire industrialists Charles and  David Koch , to form
FreedomWorks, which is still active today.  Ryan has compared being a congressman with running a small
business. Every two years he must raise money for his re-
election.  As a House candidate this election cycle, Ryan has 2,296
disclosed donors, 453 of whom had already given to Romney,
according to an analysis of campaign finance information by
Bloomberg News. The analysis found that of the three often-
discussed vice-presidential picks -- Ryan, former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty  and Ohio Senator  Rob Portman  -- Ryan had
the least to offer Romney in terms of new donors.  Top Contributors  In 2012, Ryan’s top five campaign contributors were
employees of two accounting firms, Baker Tilly Virchow Krause
LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP; Northwestern Mutual; a
financial services company,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ; and a
pharmaceutical company,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.  Employees of hedge fund manager Elliott Management Corp.,
financial lender  UBS AG (UBSN)  and home-improvement company  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  round out the top five donors to Ryan and his PAC.  Wells Fargo, Elliott Management and UBS employees are among
the top contributors to Romney’s presidential campaign,
according to the center  Ryan now pivots his campaign fundraising efforts to the
presidential campaign. A tentative schedule, obtained from the
Romney campaign by Politico, shows 10 Ryan events this month.  He’s scheduled to start tomorrow with a dinner reception in
Denver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 