-- Spanish, Italian Two-Year Notes Drop on ECB Plan, Growth Concern
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-08-11T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/spanish-italian-two-year-notes-drop-on-ecb-plan-growth-concern.html
Spanish and Italian two-year
government notes fell for the first time in three weeks amid
concern a plan by the  European Central Bank  to cap the nations’
borrowing costs by buying their debt may founder.  German 10-year bunds snapped a two-week decline as
investors sought the safety of  Europe ’s benchmark securities.
Reports showed  China ’s exports, inflation and industrial
production slowed, adding to evidence the global economy is
losing steam.  Spain  and Italy’s two-year notes underperformed
their 10-year equivalents.  “Worries have resurfaced in the past few days and seen the
core market start to trade a bit better again,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  London . “Europe needs all the help it can get from the
stronger global environment and if that fades away it’s going to
be even harder for these peripheral markets to dig themselves
out of trouble.”  Spanish two-year note yields rose 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 4.19 percent at 4:05 p.m. London time
yesterday, the first weekly gain since the five days ended July
20. The 4.75 percent bond due July 2014 fell to 101.03.  The Italian two-year rate climbed 26 basis points to 3.39
percent. The securities were boosted along with their Spanish
peers in the previous two weeks on speculation the ECB will step
in to buy them after President  Mario Draghi  said in a July 26
speech that policy makers would do “whatever it takes” to save
the currency bloc.  Spanish Spread  The  additional yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds over two-year notes narrowed for four straight days.
The spread had widened to a record 343 basis points on Aug. 6
after Draghi last week said any bond purchases would focus “on
the short end of the yield curve.”  German  10-year yields  slid five basis points this week to
1.38 percent as a report showed inflation in Europe’s largest
economy unexpectedly slowed in July. Advance second-quarter data
on Aug. 14 is forecast to show the euro-area economy shrank 0.2
percent from the previous three months.  Spanish government debt has handed investors a loss of 4.3
percent this year according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds returned 3.2 percent and  Italy ’s rose 9.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 