-- Standard Chartered Said to Agree to N.Y. Monitor Demand
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-08-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/standard-chartered-said-to-agree-to-n-y-monitor-demand.html
Standard Chartered  Plc has agreed to
a  New York  Department of Financial Services demand that the bank
hire an outside monitor to ensure compliance with U.S. anti-
money laundering laws, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  The agreement on the monitor, mandated by the regulator in
an Aug. 6 order, stems from negotiations between the bank and
state officials ahead of an Aug. 15 hearing at which Standard
Chartered will be asked to explain why its license to do
business in New York shouldn’t be revoked.  New York banking Superintendant  Benjamin Lawsky  alleged
London-based Standard Chartered flouted U.S. banking laws as
part of a decade-long deception, helping launder about
$250 billion in Iranian funds in contravention of U.S. statutes
and without proper disclosure. Lawsky is said to seek as much as
$700 million to settle the investigation, another person
familiar with the case said.  The regulator’s threat panicked the bank’s investors, sent
its share price down about 16 percent the day after and provoked
a defiant response from Standard Chartered Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Sands , who said the vast majority of wire
transfers identified by Lawsky complied with federal law. The
bank’s stock fell about 10 percent last week.  According to the terms of the order, the state regulator
will select the monitor, and the bank will pay for it and
provide access to all compliance and transaction records.  Hasn’t Decided  Lawsky hasn’t yet decided which outside monitor should be
hired, said the person familiar with requirement, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are confidential.  The loss of Standard Chartered’s New York license would
significantly damage the bank’s corporate banking model and
could result in a 40 percent drop in earnings, said Chirantan Barua, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in  London . Barua
has had an underperform rating on the stock since at least March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered fell 2.7 percent on Aug. 10 to 1,326.50
pence in London trading. The bank, which had $17.6 billion in
income and $5 billion in profit last year, has $40.8 billion in
assets associated with its New York branch, according to
Lawsky’s order.  ‘Key Period’  Lawsky said in the order that  Deloitte & Touche , hired by
Standard Chartered to provide regulators with an independent
report on bank practices, complied with a bank request to remove
from a draft “any reference to certain types of payments that
could ultimately reveal SCB’s Iranian U-Turn practices.” Lawsky
said Deloitte’s actions “apparently aided” the bank with its
effort to hide dealings with  Iran  during the “key period” of
2004 to 2007.  Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman for Deloitte, said in an e-
mailed statement that “Deloitte FAS had no knowledge of any
alleged misconduct by any Standard Chartered Bank employees and
categorically denies that it aided in any way any violation of
law by the bank.”  “Deloitte FAS absolutely did not delete ‘any reference to
certain types of payments’ from its final written report,”
Gandal said in his statement. “Deloitte FAS did not include in
its final written report a particular recommendation which was
included in an earlier draft.”  Lawsky and Julie Gibson, a spokeswoman for Standard
Chartered, didn’t respond to calls or e-mails seeking comment on
the monitor agreement after regular business hours.  Grounds to Shut  The New York regulator has grounds to shut Standard
Chartered in the state even if he accepts the firm’s argument
that it illegally laundered only a fraction of the $250 billion
he claims. As the state’s top banking regulator, Lawsky has
power to act in his discretion against any financial institution
he deems untrustworthy, according to the charter of his year-old
department.  The potential settlement figure he is said to be
considering would match the amount HSBC Holdings Plc set aside
last month to resolve allegations of similar behavior.  Since Lawsky’s  order , Standard Chartered has focused its
defense on the amount it laundered, saying it involved less than
1 percent of the 60,000 Iranian wire transfers asserted by
Lawsky.  Even if Standard Chartered’s position is legally sound, the
order’s disclosure of internal e-mails suggesting a conspiracy
to hide the identity of Iranian clients from regulators has
given Lawsky grounds to act, according to legal experts.  E-Mails  Standard Chartered’s e-mails, cited by Lawsky, provide
suitable grounds for his action, said Owen Watkins, a partner
with the London law firm Lewis Silkin.  “Making and publicizing the order was within the power
conferred on Mr. Lawsky by section 39 of the New York Banking
Law,” Silkin said. “On the basis of the order, you can see
that the superintendent has an arguable case, with the e-mails
and the comments made by certain Standard Chartered staff
internally.”  Standard Chartered CEO Sands said Aug. 8 that the normal
practice in resolving such allegations is a “coordinated
approach by the different agencies.”  As of Aug. 8, the U.S. Treasury Department, which has
ultimate jurisdiction over whether Standard Chartered’s wire
transfers complied with the law, said it was coordinating its
efforts with other regulators in the case, which include the
Federal Reserve, the  Justice Department , the New York District
Attorney and Lawsky’s department.  Leads Nowhere  Even if the coordination leads nowhere and Lawsky ends up
taking action against Standard Chartered alone, the arguments
presented in his order, and Standard Chartered’s history with
the New York banking supervisor, suggest he would be on firm
ground.  “Willful non-compliance is very serious,” said Tariq
Mirza, a former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. official now
with  Grant Thornton . “If those allegations can be substantiated,
regulators throw the book at institutions.”  Standard Chartered’s apparent effort to conceal the
identity of its Iranian counterparties violated the terms of a
2004 settlement between it and the state of New York, in which
the U.K. bank pledged “to ensure compliance with all record
keeping and reporting requirements,” according to the order.  For almost a decade starting in 2001, Standard Chartered
operated under what Lawsky’s order called a “deceptive business
plan” designed to conceal from regulators that it was
processing money transfers for Iranian clients, including the
central bank’s U.S. dollar transactions related to oil sales.  Internal Documents  The order cites bank e-mails and other internal documents
to support its accusations.  Even before 2001, the order states, the bank’s general
counsel “embraced a framework for regulatory evasion” by
keeping its New York branch in the dark about Iranian
transactions.  The bank allegedly accomplished this goal by stripping out
the name of Iranian clients so as not to slow down transfers
that might have to be reviewed for compliance with U.S. economic
sanctions. Those restrictions allowed some transactions but not
others as long as non-Iranian banks were involved on both ends.  In addition to evading federal controls, Standard Chartered
covered up its plan to grab market share in the Iranian funds
market by falsifying business records, making false statements
to the department, maintaining inaccurate books, obstructing
department oversight and failing to report misconduct promptly,
according to the order.  Stripped Out  The bank stripped out references to Iranian clients in
directions for Society of Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunications (SWIFT) wire payments made in U.S. dollars
through its New York branch, according to the order.  The bank’s outside legal counsel advised that this system
wasn’t in compliance with U.S. economic sanctions and that the
New York branch needed to be able to verify that transfers were
permissible, according to the order.  Between 2004 and 2007, Standard Chartered was subject to
formal departmental action over other regulatory compliance
failures related to the Bank Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering
policies and procedures and regulations of the U.S. Office of
Foreign Assets Control, the main overseer of Iran transactions.  In a 2004 agreement with the department and the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of New York, the bank promised to monitor and
improve money-laundering controls. The restrictions of the
agreement were lifted in 2007 because the bank provided a
“watered-down” report of compliance that made no mention of
the doctored SWIFT directions, according to the order. Bank
statements “misled” the department into lifting the
restrictions of the 2004 agreement, the order stated.  ‘Rogue Institution’  All this alleged misconduct by “a rogue institution” had
an effect on the “safety and soundness” of its New York branch
and on the department’s confidence in the unit’s “character,
credibility and fitness as a financial institution licensed to
conduct business under the laws of this state,” according to
the order.  Accusing the bank of “being motivated by greed,” the
department’s order concludes that Standard Chartered’s “most
senior management designed and implemented an elaborate scheme
by which to use its New York branch as a front for prohibited
dealings with Iran -- dealings that indisputably help sustain a
global threat to peace and stability. By definition, any banking
institution that engages in such conduct is unsafe and
unsound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 