-- Svoboda Captures Pentathlon Gold in Centennial Olympic Event
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-11T20:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/svoboda-captures-pentathlon-gold-in-centennial-olympic-event.html
David Svoboda of the  Czech Republic 
captured the first gold medal for his country in the men’s
 modern pentathlon , a century after Pierre de Coubertin
introduced the sport to the Olympics.  Svoboda, 27, finished the five-part event with 5,928
points, ahead of  China ’s Cao Zhongrong at 5,904. Adam Marosi of
 Hungary  won the bronze medal at 5,836.  The competition began with 35 fencing bouts, followed by
200-meter freestyle swimming, both at the main Olympic Park in
east London. The athletes then traveled to Greenwich Park for
the riding, running and shooting phases. For the first time in
Olympic history, athletes replaced traditional pellet guns with
laser pistols in a combined shoot-and-run to the finish line.  The pentathlon of the games in ancient  Greece  included
running, jumping, spear and discus throwing, and wrestling. The
selection of sports for the modern version was based on the
legend of a military officer sent to deliver a message, a
mission that required shooting, fencing, swimming, equestrian
and running.  Svoboda, wearing a blue bandana for luck, started the day
strongly, winning 26 of 35 fencing bouts and finishing with
1,024 points to tie the Olympic record.  Swimming Win  Cao drew ahead during the swimming phase with a time of 1
minute, 58.93 seconds. In Greenwich, the competitors were given
20 minutes and five practice jumps to get to know their horse
before facing 12 fences. Pentathletes are docked points for
falling, having their horse refuse or knock down a jump, and not
completing the course in the allotted time.  South Korea ’s Woojin Hwang fell before starting when his
horse reared up and went over. Hwang remounted and was loudly
applauded across the finish line by the Greenwich crowd. Svoboda
retopped the leaderboard after the ride, in spite of being
penalized for knocking down three fences and finishing two
seconds beyond the time limit.  The Czech athlete’s first-place score after the first three
phases of the event converted into a one-second head start over
Cao going into the run. The two fell in and out of the lead
position before Svoboda pulled ahead in the last 1,000 meters.  In its debut at the 1912 Stockholm Games, the event
attracted 32 men from 10 countries including U.S. Army General
George Patton, who as a then-lieutenant placed fifth. The
women’s event tomorrow will be the last of the  London  2012
Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  