-- U.S. Wins Fifth Straight Olympic Women’s Basketball Championship
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-08-11T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/u-s-wins-fifth-straight-olympic-women-s-basketball-championship.html
The U.S. defeated  France  86-50 to
win its fifth straight Olympic women’s basketball title, setting
a record for most consecutive Olympic gold medals in a women’s
team sport.  Candace Parker, with 21 points, and team captain Sue Bird,
with 11, were the only U.S. players to score more than 10 points.
But all 12 players in the squad had at least three points.  The U.S. came into the game heavily favored, having won
medals in every Olympic women’s basketball tournament except for
1980, when it boycotted the games in Moscow.  The Americans won their 41st straight Olympic game. France
was going for its first Olympic medal in a women’s team sport,
ever. The outcome was settled in the third quarter, when the
Americans outscored the challengers 26-12 to pull away.  “We just wanted to come out with a lot of energy,” Parker
told reporters. “We knew the French team is a great team. They
didn’t get to the gold medal match without reason. We knew we
couldn’t play scared.”  France started the final quarter down 28 points, and the
U.S. made 67 percent of its shots in the period, making sure the
European squad couldn’t get the gap below 30 in the last 8
minutes.  The Americans have won seven Olympic gold medals since the
sport debuted at the Montreal Games in 1976. They placed second
in 1976 and won a bronze at the 1992 Barcelona Games. It is the
second Olympics for Parker and third for Bird, Tamika Catchings
and Diana Taurasi.  In men’s team sports, the U.S. basketball team won seven
straight titles, and  India  has won six in hockey.  France’s Edwige Lawson-Wade and Sandrine Gruda each scored
12 points.  Australia defeated  Russia  83-74 for the bronze, winning a
women’s basketball medal in its fifth consecutive games.  Members of the French team, which beat Russia to reach the
final, said they were pleased with outcome silver medal.  “I feel so good, so happy, so excited,” France’s Emmeline
Ndongue said. “There is so much joy here. This is four years of
hard work. We are so proud to be here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  