-- U.S., Turkey Boost Cooperation on Syria, Clinton Says
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-08-12T12:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/u-s-turkey-strengthen-cooperation-on-syria-clinton-says-1-.html
(corrects title in third paragraph of story published
yesterday.)  The U.S. will keep pressure on the
Syrian regime and plans stronger cooperation with Turkey on how
to respond to the 17-month-old conflict as it deteriorates, U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  The U.S. and Turkey will create a working group to deal
with the impact of refugees from Syria, terrorism and the
potential threat of chemical weapons, Turkish Foreign Minister
 Ahmet Davutoglu  said at a joint press conference with Clinton in
Istanbul today. Clinton is in the country to hold talks with
Turkish President  Abdullah Gul , Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and Syrian opposition groups.  The Obama administration yesterday announced new sanctions
on Assad’s regime to hasten the end of the conflict that’s left
more than 21,000 people dead and displaced another 1.5 million.
The U.S. is shifting its strategy on Syria from diplomacy
through the  United Nations  to one that’s focusing on supporting
opposition groups seeking to topple Assad. The U.S. may impose a
“no-fly zone” over Syria and take “more aggressive action”
against the regime, former U.S. Defense Secretary  William Cohen 
said yesterday.  “The number of refugees will keep increasing,” Clinton
said, according to comments broadcast on Turkish television and
translated into the local language. “No one can predict when
this regime will end. But the Syrian people should take measures
to keep their unity, rebuild their economy and secure all
dangerous weapons, including chemical weapons.”  Humanitarian Aid  Clinton announced an additional $5.5 million in
humanitarian aid to refugees that have fled the violence into
Turkey, bringing the U.S.’s total financial support since the
start of the crisis to $82 million.  Davutoglu said some of the attacks by Syrian government
forces are  war crimes . The U.S. and Turkey are also taking
necessary steps to ensure that terrorist groups, such as the
Kurdistan Workers’ Party and al-Qaeda, don’t take advantage of a
power vacuum in Syria, he said.  “It is our most basic wish that determined steps be taken
to stop this tragedy in Syria,” Davutoglu said. “We and the
United States have a joint perspective that we should take all
necessary measures against terrorist groups.”  Clinton’s meeting with Turkish officials comes a day before
Arab foreign ministers are set to meet in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
to discuss the conflict in Syria, according to Egypt’s Middle
East News Agency. The talks are aimed at finding a replacement
for  Kofi Annan , who resigned as the United Nations- Arab League 
special envoy for Syria, MENA reported today, citing Ahmed Ben
Helli, assistant secretary-general of the Arab League.  An explosion shook Damascus as rebels attacked government
troops in the capital today, Al Arabiya television reported,
citing activists. The Syrian state-run television reported that
an “armed terrorist group” had blown up an explosive charge in
al-Marjeh area in Damascus.  The U.S.’s sanctions announced yesterday target the Syrian
state-run  oil company , Sytrol, and Hezbollah, the militant
Islamist group with close ties to Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  