-- McIlroy, Singh Lead at Rain-Suspended PGA; Tiger Woods Is 5 Back
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-12T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-11/woods-tied-with-singh-pettersson-halfway-through-windy-pga.html
Rory McIlroy and  Vijay Singh  hold a
one-stroke lead in the PGA Championship, golf’s final major of
the season, where a thunderstorm postponed the conclusion of the
third round until today.  McIlroy, 23, the 2011 U.S. Open winner from  Northern
Ireland , and Singh, 49, a two-time PGA winner from Fiji, are at
6 under par at the Ocean Course in Kiawah Island,  South
Carolina , one stroke ahead of  Adam Scott  of  Australia  and two in
front of Carl Pettersson of  Sweden .  Tiger Woods  is at 1 under for the tournament through seven
holes of the third round after three bogeys in a four-hole
stretch. He missed three of the first six fairways with his tee
shots and will have a par putt from about eight feet on the
eighth hole when play resumes today at 7:45 a.m. local time.  ``I got off to a rough start today and couldn't get
anything going,'' Woods said. ``I’ll come back tomorrow morning
and see what happens. There are a lot of holes left to play.''  McIlroy birdied five of his opening eight holes before
dropping a shot with a bogey on the par-4 ninth.  “It was a great start, the start I was looking to get off
to,” McIlroy told reporters after play was stopped. “That’s
all I can really ask for. I’m happy with where I am.”  On the par-4 third hole, McIlroy’s tee shot became embedded
in the trunk of a dead tree on the left side of the fairway.
After searching for the ball for several minutes, McIlroy was
told by television personnel that it was in the tree.  “It had wedged itself in between the tree bark and the
actual tree,” he said. “That’s the first time a ball has ever
got stuck up in a tree on me. Hopefully it doesn’t happen
again.”  After taking a penalty stroke for an unplayable lie,
McIlroy reached the green on his next shot and sank the par
putt.  Final-Round Play  Final-round play is scheduled to begin three hours after
third-round play resumes, with players teeing off in threesomes
from the 1st and 10th tees.  Woods, Singh and Pettersson were tied for the lead entering
the third round.  Woods, 36, an American seeking his first major title since
the 2008  U.S. Open , bogeyed holes 4, 5, and 7 yesterday after a
1-under 71 in the second round. Singh birdied the 1st and 7th
holes. Pettersson, a 34-year-old from Sweden, bogeyed the third
and birdied the fifth hole to start the third round after a 2-
over 74 a day earlier.  Play began yesterday under a clear sky with light wind. An
approaching storm halted play at 4:50 p.m. local time. Third-
round action was suspended at 6:30 p.m. Wind and rain has
plagued the tournament throughout the week.  “Unfortunately, the weather gods turned against us,”
Kerry Haigh, the PGA of America’s managing director of
championships, said in a news conference.  Weather Forecast  Haigh said he expects the tournament to be able to finish
today.  “The forecast is very positive,” Haigh said. “Our
weather people tell us we can expect a very good day.”  Strong winds in the second round raised the scoring average
to 78.12, the highest single-round stroke average at a  PGA
Championship  since 1991, after being 73.33 a day earlier. The
last time a single-round stroke average at a U.S. PGA Tour event
was above 78 was in the final round of the 2004 U.S. Open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  