-- ‘Fiscal Cliff’ Is Key Phrase After Obama Win: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-11-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/-fiscal-cliff-is-key-phrase-after-obama-win-chart-of-the-day.html
News stories show record interest in
the impending U.S. budget wranglings following the re-election
of President  Barack Obama  last week.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that articles mentioning the
phrase “fiscal cliff” surged last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Obama won a second four-year term as U.S.
president on Nov. 6.  “Now that the election’s out of the way, everyone’s
concerned political wrangling will stall a deal to avert the
fiscal cliff,” said James Butterfill, who helps oversee about
$64 billion as global equity strategist at Coutts & Co. in
London. “Our stance is that this is a high risk, low
probability event. Ultimately some of the elements of the fiscal
cliff will kick in, but it won’t push the U.S. into recession.”  Congress will meet from tomorrow to try to agree on a deal
that will stop $607 billion of automatic spending reductions and
tax increases coming into force next year. The  Congressional
Budget Office  has said the  U.S. economy  would slow by as much as
0.5 percent next year if Congress fails to keep the increases
from taking effect.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  sank 2.4 percent the day
after the election, its biggest decline in almost a year. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the gauge known
as the VIX that tracks expectations for U.S. stock swings,
jumped to its highest level since July.  “While markets may price some wild scenarios between now
and the end of the year, leading to a lot of volatility, the
outcome will be positive,” Butterfill said. “No politician
wants to be responsible for sending the U.S. into recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 Axydias@Bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  