-- ‘Skyfall’ Reaps Record $88 Million After Global Bond Push
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-11-12T22:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/-skyfall-reaps-record-88-million-after-global-bond-push.html
In the new James Bond film
“Skyfall,” the British secret agent starts out in Istanbul,
travels to  London  and flies to Shanghai and Macau before
returning to his ancestral home in  Scotland .  Agent 007’s journey could also have been the movie’s
release schedule.  With international ticket sales a big chunk of Hollywood’s
revenue, more films now play overseas first to take advantage of
peak demand while building buzz in the U.S. “Skyfall,” the
23rd Bond, grossed $346.8 million in more than 80 countries
before opening in the U.S. and Canada on Nov. 9. The movie
pulled in $88.4 million in its domestic debut for  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., the most ever for the franchise.  “We’ve seen this become more and more routine,” said Jeff Bock, box-office analyst at Exhibitor Relations Co. “High-
profile Hollywood blockbusters opening overseas first as the
U.S. becomes just another territory.”  Historically, consumers outside the U.S. waited months to
see current releases, according to Robert Marich, author of the
book “Marketing to Moviegoers.” Today, opening pictures widely
overseas reduces the temptation for consumers to seek pirated
versions, and takes advantage of studio marketing campaigns that
travel worldwide via the Internet, he said.  International ticket sales -- defined by Hollywood as sales
outside the U.S. and  Canada  -- rose 7 percent last year to $22.4
billion, according to the Washington-based trade group the
Motion Picture Association of America. Domestic sales fell 4
percent to $10.2 billion.  U.S. Boost  One reason the overseas box office has become more
important is that many markets have modern theaters that offer a
bigger percentage of box office sales, Rob Rader, an
entertainment attorney at Schwarcz Rimberg Boyd & Rader LLP in
Los Angeles, said in an interview.  Releasing “Skyfall” overseas first may have boosted the
U.S. box office this weekend by $15 million, Rader said, citing
increased awareness of the movie.  “They played to their strength internationally and picked
a weekend with no other wide releases to compete with,” Rader
said.  “Skyfall” beat the $76 million estimate of
BoxOfficeGuru.com. The previous top-grossing Bond opener was
“Quantum of Solace” in 2008 with $67.5 million,  European Time  The late-October international release of Bond was planned
to take advantage of midterm school breaks in the U.K. and other
holidays in western  Europe , when people are more likely to go to
the movies, according to Rory Bruer, president of worldwide
marketing for Sony Pictures Entertainment.  “It really is about picking the best date,” Bruer said in
a telephone interview.  This past weekend, the third for “Skyfall” in many
markets outside the U.S., brings the worldwide box office total
for the picture to $518.6 million, according to Sony.  While some pictures such as Bond have built-in
international appeal, others can’t pursue the same strategy
because they are more relevant to U.S. audiences, according to
Peter Sealey, a former marketing executive at Columbia Pictures.  “This would not work on a film such as ‘Lincoln,’” Sealey
said in an e-mail.  Steven Spielberg ’s “Lincoln,” from the director’s
DreamWorks Studios and distributor   Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , opened in
limited release and expands nationally next week.  Bond is the fifth-largest movie franchise of all time. Its
23 previous films, dating back to 1963’s “Dr. No.,” have
averaged $204.7 million in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales when
adjusted for inflation, according to Box Office Mojo.  Craig, Bardem  “Skyfall” is the 23rd Bond picture from Eon Productions,
which holds the rights to Ian Fleming’s novels. Some
researchers, including Box Office Mojo, count 24 to include
“Never Say Never Again,” released by Warner Bros. in 1983 and
starring Sean Connery.  In “Skyfall,” Daniel Craig plays Bond for the third time.
The agent is assumed dead after being shot accidentally by an
MI6 colleague. After a surprise return, he battles a new
villain, played by Javier Bardem, who battles with agency chief
M, portrayed by Judi Dench, and has stolen a list of Western
intelligence agents.  The movie, which cost $200 million to produce, according to
estimates from researcher Box Office Mojo, has earned critical
acclaim, including a 93 percent positive ranking from reviewers
as of Nov. 9, according to Rottentomatoes.com.  Worldwide, the highest-grossing Bond was 2006’s “Casino
Royale.” The first one starring Craig, it generated $594.2
million in global ticket sales.  No Guarantee  Other films enjoying overseas success include Walt Disney
Co.’s “Marvel’s The Avengers.” The picture grossed $218
million and set records in 12 countries before its May 4 release
in the U.S.  Releasing a film first internationally is no guarantee of
success. “Battleship,” a Universal Pictures action film
released this year, grossed a disappointing $65 million in the
U.S. when compared with the $237 million it brought from
overseas, according to Keith Simanton, managing editor of
researcher Imdb.com.  “The bad word-of-mouth and scathing reviews from critics
wafting early from across the Atlantic helped torpedo its
domestic debut here,” Simanton said.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Nov. 9 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  