-- Advent International Raises $10.8 Billion for LBO Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-11-12T17:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/advent-international-raises-10-8-billion-for-lbo-fund.html
Advent International Corp., a
Boston-based buyout firm that invests in  Europe  and the U.S.,
raised 8.5 billion euros ($10.8 billion) for its latest fund,
the largest pool raised for private-equity investments in two
years.  Advent International GPE VII LP, which began gathering
money in March, is the biggest since  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  closed
on $16.2 billion in 2010, according to London-based researcher
Preqin Ltd. Advent, which had originally set a target of 7
billion euros, in October increased the maximum amount it could
raise to 8.5 billion euros, a person with knowledge of the
decision said at the time.  Advent’s fundraising stands out in a crowded market where
large buyout funds are struggling to secure commitments. Permira
Advisers LP, the London-based buyout firm that last month
acquired Ancestry.com, has yet to hold an initial close on a
fund it has been marketing for more than a year, people familiar
with the matter said last month. Cinven Ltd., the  British
private-equity firm that owns Pizza Express, took 13 months to
gather 80 percent of its target and  Nordic Capital , a Stockholm-
based firm that invests in Northern Europe, is seeking 25
percent less than the 4 billion euros it initially targeted.  Advent, founded by Peter Brooke, invests primarily in  North
America  and Europe. Fund VII will invest in control buyouts and
recapitalizations in continental Europe, the U.K. and North
America, the firm said today. The new fund has closed on one
investment so far, the purchase of a majority stake in AOT
Bedding Super Holdings, the maker of Serta & Simmons mattresses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  