-- Mainstream Renewable Plans $636 Million of South African Plants
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-12T10:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/mainstream-renewable-plans-636-million-of-south-african-plants.html
Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd. will
begin building one wind and two solar plants costing 500 million
euros ($636 million) in  South Africa  within weeks after agreeing
power-purchase, funding and implementation deals with the state.  “We see South  Africa  as integral to our further plans in
Africa,” Chief Executive Officer Eddie O’Connor said by phone.  The continent’s largest economy plans to increase renewable
capacity by seeking bids for developments after state-run Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., which mainly uses coal, suffered shortages
that led to power cuts and mine closures in 2008. The country
chose 28 renewable projects costing about 47 billion rand ($5.4
billion) in the first round of bidding and plans a third round.  “We see a power starved lower continent which needs a
renewable energy solution,” O’Connor said in an interview.  The Dublin-based company, which won licenses for projects
in December bidding, agreed a 4.1 billion-rand debt deal and
sold shares in the sites to investors led by Globeleq Generation
Ltd. to fund its plan, O’Connor said. It will retain about a 10
percent stake in each, he said. Old Mutual Plc’s  IDEAS Managed
Fund  and Thebe Investment Corp Pty Ltd. also invested, as well
as local community trusts and engineering companies.  Absa Group Ltd., majority-owned by Barclays Plc, acted as
debt lead arranger, with contributions from  Development Bank  of
Southern Africa Ltd. and three other lenders, O’Connor said.  The developments, the 138-megawatt Jeffreys Bay wind farm
in Eastern Cape and the De Aar and Droogfontein solar parks both
with 50 megawatts in the Northern Cape, are expected to produce
enough power for 48,000 households from 2014, he said.  Siemens AG (SIE)  will supply  wind turbines  and Suntech Power
Holdings Co. solar panels, O’Connor said. Eskom will buy the
power, with guarantees from the government, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  