-- Taiwan Stocks Tumble at Fastest Pace on Record Valuations
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-11-13T07:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/taiwanese-stocks-tumble-at-fastest-pace-on-record-valuations.html
Taiwanese stocks are tumbling at the
fastest pace in Asia as record high valuations versus the region
and slumping exports prompt foreign investors to sell.  The benchmark  Taiex Index (TWSE)  has lost 7.5 percent since the
end of September, leading declines among Asia’s developed and
 emerging markets , after its average valuation reached 18 times
estimated earnings, 43 percent higher than the  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index (MXAP) ’s multiple. Overseas investors sold a net $803.5 million
of Taipei-listed shares this quarter to yesterday, the second-
biggest outflows after South Korea among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Taiwan ’s falling exports have spurred China Merchants
Securities Co.’s Ronald Wan to sell the island’s shares in the
past two months and increase holdings of Chinese companies in
Hong Kong, where the benchmark index for mainland equities is
valued at a 51 percent discount versus the Taiex. While price-
earnings ratios usually climb as growing investor confidence
boosts stocks, Taiwanese valuations increased as earnings in the
Taiex gauge slid 27 percent this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Given the slower growth, I think the Taiwanese market is
not cheap,” Wan, the Hong Kong-based managing director of China
Merchants Securities, wrote in a Nov. 10 e-mail. “If the global
market slows down, the Taiwan economy will be affected.”  Biggest Drop  Wan’s firm manages money for China Merchants Group, a
state-owned conglomerate with $970 billion of assets.  Daphne Roth , the Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN
Amro Private Bank, also prefers Hong Kong-listed Chinese shares
as well as equities in South Korea, where the Kospi Index’s
price-to-estimated earnings ratio is 44 percent lower than the
Taiex’s 17.2 times.  The Taiex sank 1.8 percent today, the most among Asian
benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg, to 7,136.05, the lowest
close since Oct. 29. Taiex trading volumes today were 31 percent
more than the three-month daily average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan dollar forwards fell the most in
two weeks as traders said the central bank was tightening
restrictions on purchases of the local currency to limit
appreciation that may hurt exports.  “I am still quite cautious on Taiwan,” Roth, whose firm
oversees about $207 billion, said by phone on Nov. 6. “Exports
have come off quite a lot for the year. The visibility isn’t
there yet.” Roth has a neutral view on Taiwanese equities.  Acer (2353)  Inc., Asia’s second-largest computer maker, and  HTC
Corp. (2498) , the region’s No. 2 smartphone producer, both reported
falling shipments in the third quarter.  Disappointing Profit  HTC shares tumbled as much as 18 percent after the Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based company forecast on Oct. 26 its lowest quarterly
sales since 2010 for the three months through December. The
stock slumped 6.8 percent today, snapping a five-day, 25 percent
surge, after the stock exchange said it’s probing trading in HTC
shares before the Nov. 11 announcement of a patents settlement
with Apple Inc.  Acer posted third-quarter profit on Oct. 22 that missed
analysts’ estimates amid declining sales and market share. The
Taipei-based company’s shipments in the period slumped 10.2
percent from a year earlier, more than the 8.3 percent drop in
global shipments as estimated by Gartner Inc. Acer shares are
down 13 percent since the results.  Among Taiex companies that reported  quarterly profit  since
the Sept. 30, 58 percent missed analyst estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. UBS AG, top ranked for Taiwan equity
research in 2011 by Institutional Investor magazine, said in a
Nov. 6 report it may downgrade its 2013 Taiwanese profit growth
forecast.  “To turn positive on the market, we may need to wait for
an inflection point in tech shipment,” wrote  William Dong  and
Camellia Cheng, Taipei-based analysts at UBS.  ‘Cyclical Noise’  The slump in stocks is luring Howard Wang, JPMorgan Asset
Management’s Hong Kong-based head of Greater China, who favors
property developers. He declined to name specific companies.  “I’m a buyer,” Wang, who oversees about $7.5 billion,
said in an Oct. 30 e-mail. “There are lots of cheap equities in
Taiwan once you remove the cyclical noise. They also tend to
have higher dividend yields.” The Taiex has a  dividend yield  of
3.76 percent, the highest among Asia’s 10 largest markets.  Overseas  institutions  were net buyers of equities in five
of the seven days through yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. They were net sellers in all but eight trading days in
October, the data show. Foreign investors accounted for 33.69
percent of Taiwanese stock trading in the week to Nov. 2,
according to data from the island’s stock exchange.  Slowing Economy  Taiwanese exports fell 1.9 percent in October, the eighth
monthly decline this year. Overseas shipments will slump 2.5
percent this year, the government forecast on Oct. 31,
increasing an earlier prediction for a 1.72 percent drop. The
government cut its 2012 economic growth estimate to 1.05 percent
from 1.66 percent as  gross domestic product  expanded a lower-
than-estimated 1.02 percent in the third quarter.  Bank Julius Baer & Co., which manages about $294 billion
globally, is advising clients to favor stocks in  Thailand  and
the  Philippines , on expectations their economies are more
protected than Taiwan’s from the global slowdown. Declines in
Taiwanese stocks can be “more pronounced” during a global
sell-off, said Kevin Pollack, a managing director at Paragon
Capital in New York, said by e-mail on Nov. 8.  “There is investor concern that Taiwanese companies, and
demand for their products and services, may be more negatively
impacted by weakening economic activity in  Europe  and negative
global forecasts for Asian markets,” Pollack said. “Profit-
taking is to be expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  