-- Aletheia Research Files for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-12T17:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/aletheia-research-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Aletheia Research & Management Inc.
filed for bankruptcy after co-founder Roger Peikin sued co-
founder Peter Eichler in a dispute arising from a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission probe into the  investment
adviser , according to court documents.  Aletheia listed assets and liabilities of $10 million to
$50 million in a Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Los Angeles . Chapter 11 of the federal
 bankruptcy code  is typically used by companies that plan to keep
operating while they reduce debt and reorganize.  Eichler, the chief executive officer, forced Peikin, who
holds 30 percent of the company, out of the day-to-day
operations in June 2010 by “hijacking control of Aletheia’s
board,” Peikin claimed earlier in a lawsuit in state court in
Los Angeles County.  The “final break” between the founders “came when Peikin
objected to Eichler’s handling of an ongoing investigation by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,” Peikin said in
his complaint.  Peikin first sued Eichler in November 2010, claiming
wrongful termination. He updated the allegations twice with more
details. The latest version of the complaint was filed in July.  Eichler didn’t return a call requesting comment on the
bankruptcy and Peikin’s lawsuit.  Barnes & Noble  Aletheia was the third largest shareholder of  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  when  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. was fighting to add a
slate of candidates to the bookseller’s board of directors. The
Barnes & Noble board was concerned about Aletheia’s
collaborating with Yucaipa on a takeover bid, according to court
documents.  The takeover never happened, and Aletheia is no longer
listed as a major shareholder of Barnes & Noble.  The biggest unsecured debts listed in the bankruptcy
petition included $5.5 million owed to William C. Mow of Los
Angeles, $16 million in legal damages claimed by Proctor
Investments of New York and $2.5 million claimed by the
California Franchise Tax Board. The Proctor and Franchise Tax
claims are disputed by Aletheia.  The bankruptcy case is In re Aletheia Research & Management
Inc., 12-bk-47718, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles). The lawsuit is Peikin v. Aletheia
Research & Management Inc., BC450058, Superior Court of
California, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 