-- Altimo May Obtain Most VimpelCom Seats, Renaissance Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-11-12T16:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/altimo-may-obtain-most-vimpelcom-seats-renaissance-says.html
Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman
is poised to win a majority of board seats at  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
after his stake in the mobile-phone company overtook that of
investor  Telenor ASA (TEL) , analysts at Renaissance Capital said.  Fridman’s Altimo holding company raised its voting stake in
Amsterdam-based VimpelCom, Russia’s third-biggest mobile-phone
service, to 47.9 percent versus Telenor’s 43 percent, according
to an Oct. 29 filing. VimpelCom plans its annual shareholders
meeting for Dec. 21 to re-elect the board of directors, the
operator said in a filing on Nov. 9.  “Since the shareholder agreement between Altimo and
Telenor has ended, the board structure no longer requires three
Telenor, three Altimo and three independent members,” Alexander Kazbegi, an analyst Renaissance Capital in Moscow, said today in
a research report. “With a higher stake in VimpelCom, Altimo
would be able to place more representatives on the board.”  Telenor, the Nordic region’s biggest phone company, and
Altimo have struggled since February for influence over
VimpelCom, with both buying shares from Egyptian billionaire
Naguib Sawiris, then the third-largest investor in the mobile
operator.  Russia ’s Anti-Monopoly Service prevented Telenor in
April from adding to its stake in VimpelCom, which has strategic
assets in the country, to exceed local shareholders’ ownership
without state approval.  Dividend Decision  VimpelCom, which has 208 million customers in Russia and
 Italy  as well as in African and Asian markets, postponed a
decision on a dividend distribution in late May after a Moscow
court handling the antitrust watchdog’s claim banned the
operator’s Russian unit from making payouts to the parent
company.  Altimo’s role as VimpelCom’s largest shareholder should
enable “restoration of corporate governance,” resolution of
court claims and resumption of dividends at the mobile operator,
Altimo Vice President Evgeny Dumalkin said Oct. 30.  The Dec. 21 annual meeting will take place as long as
injunctions are lifted before Nov. 27, VimpelCom said in its
filing.  That may allow a final dividend payment for 2011, and
“possibly” an interim payment for this year, said Kazbegi of
Renaissance Capital.  Bobby Leach, a spokesman for VimpelCom, said board members
are elected based on a cumulative vote, declining to comment on
whether Altimo may receive more seats than Telenor.  Dividend payments are solely a matter for the board and not
the annual meeting, Leach said in an e-mail.  Altimo’s Dumalkin declined today to comment on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  