-- Among the Syrian Rebels, Heartbreak and Blood
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-11-12T23:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/among-the-syrian-rebels-heartbreak-and-blood.html
Saturday night on the border between
Jordan and  Syria : Colonel Nawaf Tahrawi, a commander of the
Royal Jordanian Border Guard, climbed to the top of a three-
story concrete watchtower, built next to a scrub-filled
streambed.  In the cold dark of a cramped room, Tahrawi asked
a soldier operating a sophisticated thermal camera system if he
had seen any movement in his sector. Just packs of dogs, he
said, but he added that activity would no doubt pick up soon.  The cameras fixed atop the watchtower were aimed into
Syria. Their operator, a 23-year-old corporal, was looking for
Republican Guardsmen loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
and for the Free Syrian Army rebels fighting Assad’s forces.
Tahrawi said the two sides have been shooting at each other just
across the border, their fire sometimes straying into Jordanian
territory. “The shooting is all over the place,” he said.  The cameras were also scouring the dark for refugees. The
previous night, the colonel said, more than 1,000 of them had
scrambled across the Jordanian border, 500 or so over the hard
ground in front of us. He expected a similar number tonight:
“They’re coming faster and faster now.”  The Refugees  The Syrian uprising began last year in Daraa, a few miles
from this border post. The city and surrounding district have
been systematically emptied of civilians by Syrian government
oppression. Many of the city’s survivors are warehoused in the
Zaatari refugee camp a few miles away. As of last week, Zaatari
was housing some 42,000 Syrians in 5,000 tents.  Jordan  is now
the temporary home of at least 200,000 Syrian refugees.  We waited. “Here,” the operator said. “Here are the
trucks.” We watched as a line of six trucks, which appeared as
white blocks moving against a gray-black background, departed
the village of El-Taebah, about two miles inside Syria. The Free
Syrian Army operated the trucks. First, Tahrawi said, the rebels
would deliver their wounded. The Jordanian army had ambulances
stationed nearby. A line of refugees would be following behind,
he said, carrying suitcases and children on their backs. The
operator repositioned his cameras. Soon enough, we could see the
outlines of people, hundreds, huddled in knots. They were seated
on the ground. Then they rose, seemingly as one, and began
moving slowly across the screen.  “They’ll be here soon,” Tahrawi said. “Let’s go and greet
them.” We climbed down from the tower and walked across brown
fields in the frigid air. We descended into a wadi, a dry
riverbed, and waited. We might have been on Syrian territory;
the border is unmarked, and although the Jordanians are
assiduous about keeping to their side of the border, it’s an
impossible task in the dark.  Soon we heard a truck engine -- the first delivery of the
wounded. The truck stopped before us. Gunmen hopped off. They
were bearded, armed with AK-47s, and their nerves were torn. The
Jordanians introduced me. “Weapons!” one rebel yelled. “Tell
Obama we need weapons!” A second rebel said, “I only have 60
bullets! Sixty! What can I do with this?”  The shabiha -- pro-Assad militiamen -- were all around. The
delivery of refugees was becoming more hair-raising by the
night.  The rebels began unloading the wounded. “This man was
tortured,” one of the rebels said, pointing to a man prone on a
stretcher. “Look what they did to him!” One of the rebels pulled
down the man’s pants; his buttocks had been whipped, the skin
shredded. Another man was carried off the truck. A government
sniper had shot him in the abdomen a few hours before. His
clothing was soaked with blood.  “I don’t think he will live,” one of the Jordanians said
quietly.  A Cataclysm  About 40,000 people have been killed in the Syrian uprising
so far, according to some estimates. Assad uses jet fighters and
helicopters to strafe his own cities. The war is a humanitarian
cataclysm. Intervention, even through air power alone, poses
enormous challenges and dangers for the West. But standing idly
by also comes with a terrible price.  One of the rebels took me by the hand. We walked into the
darkness. “I am not al-Qaeda” he said, though I hadn’t asked.
“When we kill Bashar, I will shave off my beard. I’m a law
student, but I have no choice. Bashar killed my brother.”  In the dark, it was nearly impossible to see. It got quiet
again. Then we heard them. First came the sound of children
crying. Then the sounds of people shuffling and stumbling. They
passed before us. Women in black hijabs, their faces covered by
scarves, carrying their children, bundled against the cold. Some
of the children were still asleep. It seemed like a procession
without end. Old men came out of the dark, staggering and
breathless. Most of the refugees were panting and wide-eyed.
When they understood they had nearly crossed over into Jordan,
many broke into a run.  One man couldn’t seem to move. Tahrawi came forward to help
him. The man was crying. His son, he said, was an army defector.
Assad’s forces came to their village to hunt him down. When they
couldn’t find the son, they tortured the father. He showed us
his wrists, where he had been bound. He doesn’t know, he said,
where his son is. He assumes that he is dead.  One of the soldiers put his arm around the man. “You’re in
Jordan now,” he said. “You’re safe.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  David Petraeus and e-mail
intelligence  and on  France’s dangerous competitiveness gap ;
William Pesek on the rise of  Japan’s political right ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on the root of all  Republican electoral problems ;  Amity
Shlaes  on the narcissism trap; Cass R. Sunstein on  Lincoln’s
lesson  for the  Supreme Court ; Gunnar Hokmark on why bank rules,
not a supervisor, are  what Europe needs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 