-- Angels’ Trout, Nationals’ Harper Win MLB Rookie of Year Awards
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/angels-mike-trout-is-unanimous-choice-for-al-rookie-of-year.html
Mike Trout and Bryce Harper were
teammates in the  Arizona  Fall League a year ago. Now they’re
 Major League Baseball ’s Rookie of the Year award winners.  Trout, the Los Angeles Angels’ outfielder who turned 21 in
August, yesterday became the youngest American League Rookie of
the Year after a season in which he became the only first-year
player to hit 30 home runs and steal 40 bases. He was the eighth
unanimous selection in AL history.  Harper, the Washington Nationals’ outfielder who turned 20
last month, won the National League award after living up to the
hype that’s followed him since he was on the cover of “Sports
Illustrated” magazine while in high school. The second youngest
NL winner, Harper hit 22 home runs and scored 98 runs for a
Nationals team that had baseball’s best record.  “Both of us had the same intentions coming into the
league,” Trout, who last November played alongside Harper with
the Scottsdale Scorpions, said in a media conference call. “We
knew what we were capable of and we both got the opportunity to
play. Pushing each other to be the best is the way to do it.”  Trout and Harper both made their 2012 season debut on April
28 after starting the year in the minor leagues.  Trout was called up to the majors with the Angels at 6-14
and in last place in the AL West. The team went 83-59 after his
arrival and finished four games out in the wild-card race.  Immediately inserted into the leadoff spot in the batting
order, Trout led the AL with 129 runs scored and 49 stolen bases.
He batted .326, hit 30 home runs and drove in 83 runs, playing
center field well enough to be named the  AL’s Defensive Player
of the Year  by Wilson sporting goods, which uses statistical
metrics to measure who had the best season.  Power Surprise  “The power numbers definitely surprised me a little bit,”
said Trout, a native of Millville,  New Jersey . “I knew my power
was there, I just didn’t know it would come so quick. Probably
some of it was the adrenaline rush, playing in that atmosphere
every night and having fun. I enjoyed myself.”  Trout, received all 28 first place votes and a perfect 140
points in balloting by the  Baseball Writers’ Association of
America . Points were awarded on a 5-3-1 basis. Oakland Athletics
outfielder Yoenis Cespedes finished second with 63 points and
Texas Rangers pitcher  Yu Darvish  had 46 points.  Trout is the first Angels’ player named AL Rookie of the
Year since Tim Salmon in 1993 and the first unanimous winner
since the  Tampa Bay Rays ’ Evan Longoria in 2008. Salmon, Nomar Garciaparra,  Derek Jeter , Roberto Alomar,  Mark McGwire  and
Carlton Fisk were also unanimous AL winners.  ‘Chosen One’  Harper was the first overall pick in the 2010 draft and
featured on the cover of Sports Illustrated magazine as a high-
school sophomore alongside the headline “Baseball’s Chosen
One.”  He finished his rookie season with a .270 batting average,
22 home runs, 59 runs batted in, 98 runs scored and 18 stolen
bases as the Nationals won the NL Eastern Division title and
made the playoffs for the first time.  “This year was a lot of fun and I had a great group of
guys around me,” Harper said on a conference call. “I was just
trying to be that guy who played the game hard, played the game
the right way and get the fans in D.C. excited.”  Harper, the first Washington player to get the honor, was
named on 16 first-place ballots and received 112 points, seven
more than Arizona Diamondbacks pitcher Wade Miley, who got 12
first-place votes. Cincinnati Reds infielder Todd Frazier
finished third with 45 points.  The rest of the BBWAA’s annual awards will be announced
this week, starting with AL and NL Managers of the Year today.
Trout is also a finalist for AL Most Valuable Player award,
which will be announced on Nov. 15.  “I’m definitely anxious and there’s been a debate since
the end of the season about me and Cabrera,” Trout said,
referring to the Detroit Tigers’  Miguel Cabrera , who became the
first Triple Crown winner since 1967. “It’s going to be fun to
watch and I’m just incredibly honored to be in the discussion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  