-- Haredi Job Rates Same as Israeli Grade-School Dropouts'
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/haredi-job-rates-same-as-israeli-grade-school-dropouts-.html
Employment rates among ultra-
orthodox men in  Israel  are similar to those of male elementary
school dropouts, with both showing a “sharp” decline over the
past three decades, according to a study released today.  Because haredi boys don’t study non-religious subjects
beyond eighth grade, their preparedness for the modern labor
market is similar to that of secular Jewish and Arab Israelis
with no or almost no education, according to the study by the
Jerusalem-based Taub Center for Social Policy Studies in Israel.  “At the end of the 1970’s, when Israel’s standard of
living was relatively low, education was not imperative for
finding a job,” Dan Ben-David, executive director of the  Taub
Center , said in the statement. “Today, in a competitive and
global Israeli economy, employment rates among the uneducated
are below 50 percent.”  The research, which focuses on men age 35-54, shows that
employment rates for non-haredi Jews and Arabs are nearly
identical, both among the highly educated and the least educated
groups. Rates for those with academic degrees have hovered
around 90 percent in the past three decades.  On the other end of the spectrum, rates among those with
fewer than four years of education, which were between 80
percent to 90 percent 30 years ago, have decreased to between 35
percent and 50 percent. Haredi male employment rates have been
nearly identical to those of this group, the study shows.  The low labor-participation rate among ultra-orthodox men
and the education of boys in this community have become divisive
issues in Israel, as the relatively high birth rates of this
community mean they make up an increasingly larger percentage of
the population. While haredim make up approximately 8 percent to
10 percent of the population, more than 20 percent of the
children in elementary school belong to this community.  “The data reflect the increasing lack of employment
opportunities that the Haredi education system provides its
sons,” Ben-David said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  