-- Mariner Health Sues Troutman Sanders Over Sale Payment
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-11-12T21:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/mariner-health-sues-troutman-sanders-over-sale-payment.html
Mariner Health Care Inc., the
nursing-home operator, sued its former law firm for allegedly
allowing $40 million from an asset sale to go to another client
and trying to paper over the payment after the fact.  The money, from the $50 million sale of a medical-supply
unit to  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , wound up going to Rubin Schron, an
investor who bought some of Mariner’s real estate through a
company he controlled, according to a complaint filed Nov. 9
against the law firm, Troutman Sanders LLP, in Georgia state
court in Atlanta. Mariner and Schron’s company were both
represented by lawyers who eventually joined Troutman Sanders,
according to the complaint.  Mariner received $10 million directly for the medical-
supply sale, while the rest was to be paid through an
intermediary. The lawyers didn’t complete documents recording
payment for the Omnicare deal until after they got a subpoena
from the U.S. Justice Department, which was investigating the
transaction for possible violation of kickback laws, Mariner
alleged.  “If Troutman could account for the missing $40 million
payment on ‘paper,’ then Schron could avoid the risk of being
found guilty of violating the Anti-Kickback Statute,” according
to the complaint. Atlanta-based Mariner is seeking $40 million
and punitive damages.  This isn’t the only lawsuit involving Schron and Troutman
Sanders. He sued in  New York  state court 2010, accusing the law
firm of breaching fiduciary duties. That case is pending. Schron
isn’t a defendant in the Mariner lawsuit.  ‘Without Merit’  Troutman Sanders today issued a statement calling Mariner’s
claims “without merit” and saying the firm will fight the
Georgia lawsuit. Steve A. Engel, an attorney for Schron, called
the Georgia lawsuit “baseless.”  The law firm of Jenkens & Gilchrist represented Schron in
the 2004 purchase of the Mariner real estate, according to the
Georgia complaint. A few months later, most of the firm’s New
York office left to join Troutman Sanders, according to the
complaint. Atlanta-based Troutman Sanders was Mariner’s
“outside general counsel” from April 2005 to April 2012,
according to the complaint.  In 2006, the Justice Department issued a subpoena to
Troutman Sanders, the  Georgia  suit says.  “The DOJ believed that the $40 million paid by Omnicare
for MMS LLC and taken by Schron from the Mariner Merger
transaction escrow account was a violation of the federal Anti-
Kickback Statute,” according to the complaint. Troutman Sanders
tried to account for the $40 million that had gone to Schron by
characterizing it as repayment of a loan from another company he
controlled, according to Mariner’s complaint.  Kickback Allegation  In a 2009 civil action, the Justice Department accused
Mariner, Schron and others of soliciting $50 million in
kickbacks from Omnicare in exchange for the right to continue
providing pharmacy services to the Mariner nursing homes. The
kickbacks were disguised as a $50 million “payment to acquire a
small Mariner business unit that had only two employees and was
worth far less than $50 million,” the Justice Department said.  Mariner, Schron and other defendants agreed to pay
$14 million to  settle  the case in February 2010.  L. Lin Wood, an attorney for Mariner, said today in a phone
interview that the sale of Mariner Medical Supply to Omnicare
wasn’t a disguised kickback. Mariner Medical Supply “was not a
shell company,” Wood said. “It was a fair price for the
company and Mariner is owed the $40 million.”  The case is Mariner Health Care Inc. v. Troutman Sanders
LLP, State Court of Fulton County, Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley4@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  