-- Armstrong Case Doesn’t End Anti-Doping Work, Wada Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-12T17:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/armstrong-case-doesn-t-end-anti-doping-work-wada-says.html
Professional sports may never be
entirely clear of doping, and needs help from pharmaceutical
companies to catch cheats, the head of the  World Anti-Doping
Agency  said.  “We are getting better, but doping is still out there, and
more than I wish it was,” WADA President John Fahey told
reporters during a press conference in Paris today. Sports
“isn’t cleaner” after the Lance Armstrong case, he said.  The Texan cyclist was stripped of his 1999-2005 Tour de
France victories and banned for life from competing in
sanctioned events by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency. The American
body cited a career “fueled from start to finish by doping”
when it released a 202-page summary of its investigation into
the rider and the U.S. Postal Service cycling team on Oct. 10.  “We can be proud of what has been achieved so far,”
French Sports Minister Valerie Fourneyron said during a doping
conference in Paris today. The USADA’s “exceptional” work
“led to the fall of a man who pretended to be the world’s best
cyclist, but in fact was nothing but the biggest cheat.”  On Oct. 22 the International Cycling Union said it endorsed
the USADA decision and wouldn’t appeal it to the Court of
Arbitration for Sport.  WADA wants more blood tests among athletes, as it’s the
only way to find some performance-enhancing substances, and the
agency is pushing for the creation of so-called blood passports,
David Howman, WADA’s director general, said in an interview in
Paris today.  Police Help  Still, urine tests and blood samples aren’t enough to
uncover cheating, Howman said. WADA is working more closely with
Interpol, police and customs officers to “gather evidence in
other ways,” he said.  “Testing is not the ultimate panacea,” Howman said. In
the Armstrong case, “there’s not much from the scientific
analyses that led to the downfall of the whole conspiracy,” he
said.  “It’s not just Armstrong,” Howman said. “We talk a lot
about the athlete, but there were the trainer, the doctors” and
the rest of the cyclist’s entourage. The cheating was “all”
discovered “through information received from witnesses,” he
added.  Large drugmakers and smaller biotechnology companies also
need to get more involved to help find ways to stop athletes
from improperly using medicines to cheat, Fahey and Howman said.  New Chances  Athletes use approved medicines but they also resort to
experimental drugs to enhance their performance. Any information
on products in the early phases of clinical testing can help
develop screening tests more quickly, Howman said.  “We are running a campaign of door knocking,” to contact
major drugmakers for help, he said, declining to cite specific
company names.  “The benefit for the pharmaceutical industry is that we
also become aware of things that are being used in the black
market and the black market is something the industry wants to
clamp down on,” Howman added.  London-based drugmaker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has an agreement
with WADA to alert the agency to any performance-enhancing
compound in its drug pipeline, including a compound’s chemical
structure, to help WADA “begin work on detection methods,”
Philip Thomson, Glaxo’s senior vice president for global
communications, said today.  New Compounds  Glaxo is working with WADA on three molecules in its
pipeline, including one at a more advanced stage of development,
Thomson said.  “Through this work, we’ve learned that our initial
questions, such as how much of our scientists’ time will this
take, and will we be able to maintain confidentiality, have all
been answered positively,” Thomson said. “We believe this
initiative can be taken forward more broadly across the
industry.”  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  also is helping WADA in its fight against
doping, said Philippe Van der Auwera, global head of  drug safety 
at the Basel, Switzerland-based company.  Still, convincing other drugmakers to share sensitive
information on their experimental molecules won’t be easy,
Howman said.  “It’s a significant impediment because to earn their
confidence you have to show you deserve the confidence,” he
said. “A lot of people take some time to be convinced.”  Titles  The  International Olympic Committee  on Nov. 1 opened an
investigation into Armstrong’s bronze medal at the 2000 Games in
Sydney. The Texan faces losing the medal he won in the time-
trial event after being stripped of his Tour titles.  Armstrong, who has denied doping and said he never failed a
drug test, declined to take the USADA case to arbitration.  Doping is increasingly becoming an issue as athletes now
have easier access to performance-enhancing substances through
the Internet, turning this into a public-health problem, Howman
said.  “If parents knew what their kids were taking from people
that hand stuff out at the gym, they would be absolutely
horrified,” Howman said.  Armstrong is not the only athlete touched by tougher anti-
doping policies. In August, the IOC stripped  Tyler Hamilton  of
the U.S. of his time-trial gold medal from the 2004 Athens games
after he admitted doping. Russian silver medalist Viatcheslav
Ekimov was awarded the gold instead.  “We need a new deal for a cleaner sport,”  Getachew
Engida , deputy director general of the UN cultural agency,
UNESCO, said today. “There are no chemical shortcuts to
victory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  