-- Arsenal’s Wenger to Strengthen Squad in January: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-12T06:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/arsenal-s-wenger-to-strengthen-squad-in-january-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal Targets  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has been given permission to
strengthen his squad in January and made Crystal Palace winger
Wilfried Zaha and Manchester City striker Edin Dzeko his top
targets, the  Daily Mail reported .  Wenger has identified a goalkeeper, wide attacker and
central striker as requirements and also is interested in
Athletic Bilbao’s  Fernando Llorente ,  Atletico Madrid ’s Adrian
Lopez and Swansea ’keeper Michel Vorm, the newspaper said.  New Move  Manchester United may make a new move for  Robert
Lewandowski  after the Polish striker’s contract talks with
Borussia Dortmund were put on hold, the  Daily Mirror reported .  United was willing to pay 16 million pounds ($24.4 million)
for Lewandowski in the off-season before signing Robin van Persie, and manager  Alex Ferguson  remains an admirer and wants
to be kept informed of the contract stand-off, the Mirror added.  Terry Injury  Chelsea captain John Terry may have escaped a serious knee
injury during a collision with  Luis Suarez  in yesterday’s 1-1
draw with Liverpool, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Blues’ medical staff believe the injury looked more
serious than it is and are said to be hopeful that a scan will
reveal only minor damage to Terry’s right knee, the Mail added.  Terry, who left Stamford Bridge on crutches with his knee
in a protective brace, may have suffered serious ligament damage
that could sideline him for as long as six months,  according to
the Sun .  Hughes’s Job  Queens Park Rangers manager  Mark Hughes  said he may keep
his job for only one more game after presiding over the club’s
worst start to a top-flight season, the  Independent reported .  Last-place QPR hosts second-from-bottom Southampton on Nov.
17 in a Premier League match seen as a make-or-break moment by
Hughes, the newspaper added.  “Everyone knows the significance of that game now,” the
Independent cited Hughes as saying. “I have confidence in the
players to turn this round, but it needs to happen next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  