-- Ascent Solar Rises on Strategic Shift to Consumer Devices
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-11-12T18:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/ascent-solar-rises-on-strategic-shift-to-consumer-devices.html
Ascent Solar Technologies Inc. (ASTI) , the
U.S. solar manufacturer that’s shifting its focus to consumer
electronics, rose the most in almost a month after announcing a
portable charging device.  Ascent gained 5.9 percent to 90 cents at 12:53 p.m. in New
York. Earlier it climbed 9.4 percent, the most intraday since
Oct. 16. The company has gained 118 percent this year through
Friday, compared with a 40 percent loss for the 17-member
 Bloomberg Global Large Solar Index. (BISOLAR)   Ascent, based in Thornton,  Colorado , introduced the
EnerPlex Kickr IV, a portable solar charger suitable for mobile
phones and other consumer electronics, according to a statement
today.  The device complements existing products aimed at retail
shoppers, and continues a strategic shift that began in June
when the company announced a charging case for Apple Inc.
iPhones. The company’s thin-film solar products are well suited
for consumer applications, said Robert Stone, an analyst at
Cowen & Co. in  Boston .  “There are a meaningful number of external battery cases
that extend the lives of smartphones,” Stone said today in an
interview. Ascent’s thin, light solar cells “may serve as a
differentiator compared with several competitors.”  Ascent hasn’t reported a profitable quarter since it went
public in 2006, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Chief
Executive Officer Victor Lee said in September that the company
will be profitable by the third quarter of 2013, with consumer
products generating as much as 80 percent of revenue. The
company is also pursuing aerospace, transportation and off-grid
product applications.  Plunging Prices  Prices for standard, photovoltaic panels made from
polysilicon have dropped 55 percent in the past year to 79 cents
a watt. That’s made it hard for Ascent to compete for volume
shipments to developers planning large-scale solar farms, Stone
said.  “If you look at consumer products, you’re talking about
much smaller devices, for which the price per watt is not a
relevant figure,” he said.  “It’s a question of how much volume this business can
generate,” Stone said. “They’re going in the right direction.
We’ll have to wait and see how the next couple of quarters play
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  