-- Most Stocks Fall on Greece, Fiscal Cliff as Metals Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-11-12T21:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/asian-stocks-drop-as-japan-gdp-shrinks-euro-near-two-month-low.html
Most U.S. stocks fell, following the
worst weekly drop since June, as investors awaited budget talks
in Washington and results of a European meeting on Greek aid.
Industrial metals rallied as China’s exports topped forecasts.  About seven stocks dropped in the U.S. for every six that
advanced. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which tumbled 2.4
percent last week, closed little changed at 1,380 at 4 p.m. in
 New York .  A gauge of industrial metals in the S&P GSCI Index of
commodities increased 1.4 percent as aluminum, zinc and copper
jumped. The  yuan  reached a 19-year high. Australia’s currency
gained against 15 of 16 major peers as New Zealand’s dollar rose
versus all 16, while the euro traded near a two-month low.  Investors watched for developments in the U.S.  federal
budget  debate as lawmakers from both parties and firms such as
Pacific Investment Management Co. predicted an agreement to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff. China’s exports jumped 11.6
percent last month, the customs administration said on Nov. 10.
European finance ministers meet today after Greek lawmakers
passed a 2013 budget needed to unlock bailout funds.  “We’re watching the news headlines which will all be about
the fiscal cliff for the next six weeks,”  Thomas Nyheim , a
Wilmington, Delaware-based fund manager for Christiana Trust,
which oversees about $15 billion, said in a phone interview.
“There’s a high probability that they will do a deal. It’s more
a matter of the timing. The longer it goes, the more they seem
to be in disagreement before cutting a deal, the more negative
the market will begin to react.”  U.S. bond markets were closed today for the Veterans Day
holiday. About 4.6 billion shares changed hands in the U.S.
today, 24 percent less than the three-month daily average.  NYSE Issue  Fewer than  292 million shares  of New York Stock Exchange-
listed companies changed hands on the NYSE, the least in
Bloomberg data going back to 2003, as the Big Board canceled
trading and closing auctions in 216 securities after an outage
in a computer that matches orders and processes transactions.  Telephone, health-care and industrial companies led gains
among the 10 main  industry groups  in the  S&P 500 , while utility,
technology and consumer-staples companies retreated.  Microsoft Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Travelers Cos. led
losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , while gains in
United Technologies Corp. and AT&T Inc. left the gauge little
changed. Jefferies Group Inc. jumped 14 percent after Leucadia
National Corp. said it will buy the investment bank. Titanium
Metals Corp. surged 43 percent after Precision Castparts Corp.
agreed to buy the maker of melted products.  Fiscal Cliff  The S&P 500 has slumped more than 3.3 percent since
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election set up a showdown with the
Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  over the fiscal
cliff, which threatens to trigger $607 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts. Obama invited the top Democratic and
Republican leaders in Congress to the White House this week to
begin talks on a budget plan.  Should policy makers fail to reach an agreement, the
automatic spending cuts and tax increases could send the U.S.
into a recession and trigger a second credit downgrade,
according to Oppenheimer & Co. S&P cut its AAA rating in August
2011 after an impasse on the debt ceiling.  “Even though the U.S. has already weathered a downgrade
earlier in the process of the current economic recovery, a
second downgrade might not be as easily digested or received by
the markets and foreign investors as the first,” John
Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, wrote in a
note today.  S&P 500 Forecast  David Bianco , Deutsche Bank AG’s chief U.S. equity
strategist, said the next 5 percent move in the S&P 500 is
likely up and advised clients to use the dip to buy  growth
stocks . He cut his 2012 estimate for the benchmark index to
1,450 from 1,475, while reiterating a 12-month forecast of
1,500.  “We still believe that the fiscal cliff will be averted
with compromise legislation, but President Obama’s re-election
and a larger Democrat majority in Senate raise the likely amount
of tax hikes vs. spending cuts in the new legislation,” Bianco
wrote in a Nov. 9 report.  Metals Gain  Copper rebounded from near the lowest close since August
and aluminum and zinc surged more than 2 percent. China is the
biggest buyer of copper and aluminum. Oil in New York slipped
0.6 percent to $85.57 a barrel. Soybeans declined 3.2 percent to
a four-month low of $14.05 a bushel on signs of increasing
supplies in the U.S. Midwest and South America.  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent versus the U.S.
currency and New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.5 percent. The
euro was little changed at $1.2712, near a two-month low.  China’s yuan strengthened to 6.2295 per dollar. The central
bank raised its  reference rate  and the securities regulator said
a government quota will be increased to allow more yuan raised
overseas to be invested in domestic  capital markets .  In Europe,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  climbed 4.2 percent as a
person with direct knowledge of the bid said Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , founder of  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE) , offered to purchase a stake in the Italian phone company.
 Cobham Plc (COB)  tumbled 9.7 percent as the world’s largest maker of
airborne-refueling equipment forecast weaker sales and
profitability next year.  Greece’s Needs  Greece may need as much as 32.6 billion euros ($41 billion)
in extra financing through 2016, putting pressure on a German-
led bloc of creditors to make concessions in order to prevent a
renewed flareup of the  European debt crisis .  Plans to give Greece two more years to meet deficit-
reduction targets would open up financing gaps of 15 billion
euros through 2014 and 17.6 billion euros in 2015-2016,
according to an assessment by the country’s creditors that was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The MSCI Asia Pacific dropped 0.4 percent and the Nikkei
225 Stock Average slid 0.9 percent after a report showed Japan’s
economy contracted last quarter by the most since the earthquake
and tsunami in early 2011.  Four stocks fell for every three that gained in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which slipped 0.2 percent. India’s
Sensex lost less than 0.1 percent after industrial production
unexpectedly fell, while Russia’s Micex Index increased 0.5
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa index lost 0.5 percent, South Korea’s
Kospi Index slipped 0.2 percent and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
climbed 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  