-- Aussie Dollar Rises, Snaps 3-Day Drop, Before Wages Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-11-12T07:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/aussie-dollar-stays-higher-before-home-loans-wages-data.html
Australia’s dollar advanced,
snapping a three-day loss, amid speculation a wage report this
week will back the view that  interest rates  won’t decline.  The  New Zealand dollar  and the so-called Aussie gained
against most of their major peers after a bigger-than-estimated
 trade surplus  in China brightened prospects for commodity
exports, and data today showed Australian home-loan approvals
rose for a second month.  Government bonds  in Australia climbed,
sending 10-year yields to the lowest in almost four weeks. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia kept rates at 3.25 percent on Nov. 6.  “The recent inaction by the RBA, and the statement that
accompanied that, all signaled that the RBA has an easing bias,
but seems to be more data-dependent than it had been
previously,” said Gavin Stacey, a Sydney-based strategist at
Barclays Plc. “If the wages come out on the stronger side,
maybe the rate cut scenario dies and that would then be
supportive of the Aussie dollar.”  The Aussie dollar rose 0.2 percent from last week to
$1.0412 as of 6:06 p.m. in Sydney and strengthened 0.2 percent
to 82.75 yen. It touched $1.0480 on Nov. 7, the highest since
Sept. 21.  New Zealand ’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 81.62
U.S. cents and added 0.2 percent to 64.87 yen.  Australian bonds advanced, pushing the yield on benchmark
10-year debt down three basis points to 3.07 percent. It earlier
touched 3.06 percent, the lowest since Oct. 16.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific index  of stocks lost 0.4 percent.  Housing Data  Australia’s  home-loan approvals  rose 0.9 percent in
September from the previous month, when it grew by a revised 2.1
percent, the statistics bureaus said in Sydney today. The
nation’s  wage price index  probably increased 0.8 percent in the
third quarter from the prior three-month period, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
before the data on Nov. 14.  “Rates are probably now on hold until February, a cut
needing a moderate Q4 inflation, some clearer reversion to
domestic economic weakness and continuing anemic global
growth,” David de Garis, a senior economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, wrote in research today.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 60 percent chance the central bank will lower its
benchmark to 3 percent next month. That compares with a 68
percent chance indicated on Nov. 7.  Aussie Longs  Futures traders increased their bets that the Australian
dollar will rise against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a gain in Australia’s dollar compared
with those on a drop --  so-called net longs  -- was 60,317 on
Nov. 6. Net longs were 52,090 a week earlier.  In China, the customs administration said Nov. 10 the
nation’s exports exceeded imports by $32 billion in October,
compared with a $27.3 billion trade surplus estimated by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  Some indicators are rebounding and the economy is
stabilizing,  Zhou Xiaochuan , head of the People’s Bank of China,
said Nov. 8 in Beijing at a briefing during the Communist
Party’s 18th Congress.  “The Chinese story improving would tend to be somewhat
supportive of Australian dollar strength going forward,” said
Barclays’s Stacey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  