-- Australia to Decide on Funding Solar Projects Within Six Months
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-12T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/australia-to-decide-on-funding-solar-projects-within-six-months.html
The Australian Renewable Energy
Agency , which plans to allocate A$2.2 billion ($2.3 billion) in
government funds to help the industry, expects to decide within
six months whether to invest in two solar projects.  The government agency, set up last year, said it’s in
discussions with Pacific Hydro Pty and Fotowatio Renewable
Ventures about funding their proposed solar plant in New South
Wales and is talking with  Infigen Energy (IFN)  and  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  about another solar project in the state.  While a venture including  Areva SA (AREVA)  abandoned plans for a
A$1 billion solar-thermal project in  Australia  after failing to
get funding from the renewable agency, other solar ventures are
going ahead as the country moves toward a target of generating
20 percent of its power from clean energy by 2020.  “Why hasn’t more solar happened?” Ivor Frischknecht, who
started as chief executive officer of the renewable energy
agency in August, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Large-
scale solar today still needs a subsidy, and various subsidy
programs haven’t been as successful as everybody would have
hoped, but I think we’ve learned a lot from the past.”  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  in June won A$129.7
million in government funds to build a 159-megawatt solar
project across two sites in New South Wales.  Silex Systems Ltd. (SLX) 
announced last year it would get as much as A$75 million in
federal funds for a solar plant in the state of Victoria.  ‘Waiting to Happen’  “There are a number of projects out there waiting to
happen or proceeding on schedule,” he said. Decisions on the
solar photovoltaic ventures in Australia’s most populous state
will be made “as soon as possible,” he added.  Australia had 1,936 megawatts of solar projects using
photovoltaic panels to convert sunlight into electricity,
including just 19 megawatts at large-scale plants, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said last month. A large-scale solar project is
defined by BNEF as having capacity of more than 1 megawatt.  By comparison, Germany and  Italy  installed more than 7,000
megawatts each last year, making them the world’s two biggest
markets for the technology.  The Australian renewables agency released its funding
strategy yesterday, seeking to encourage clean energy projects
in locations where consumption is forecast to increase and
fossil fuel-based generation costs are the highest.  “We’re trying to further the penetration of renewable
energy particularly into diesel-powered areas of remote
Australia,” said Frischknecht, previously investment director
of Australian venture capital fund Starfish Ventures.  Solar PV  ARENA’s board decided it wouldn’t fund the 250-megawatt
Solar Dawn project proposed by Paris-based Areva and Wind
Prospect Group Ltd. partly because the  Queensland government 
withdrew A$75 million of funding, said Frischknecht, who started
as the agency’s CEO in August.  “The relative cost of PV to solar thermal has moved so
dramatically, and that was such a large project, it just didn’t
seem fantastic value for money,” Frischknecht said.  The agency also plans to make smaller investments,
potentially A$10 million or less, in emerging renewable energy
technologies across the country, he said.  “There’s a lot of activity at the smaller end of town,”
he said. “We are getting applications on a weekly basis, if not
more frequently, and I would be disappointed if we weren’t able
to announce some of those in the next few months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  