-- Bank of Korea May Buy European Rescue Fund Bonds, Choo Says
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-11-13T02:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/bank-of-korea-may-buy-bonds-of-european-rescue-fund-choo-says.html
The  Bank of Korea  may buy the bonds
of  Europe ’s new financial rescue fund as the notes have the
highest debt ratings and the issuer is backed by governments,
according to the manager of the Asian central bank’s reserves.  Securities sold by the European Stability Mechanism, set up
last month to replace the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility, are perceived to be safe as recent policy measures
including an unlimited bond-buying program have eased the risk
that Europe’s financial crisis will worsen, Choo Heung Sik, head
of the South Korean central bank’s reserve management group,
said in an interview in Seoul yesterday.  “ESM bonds are an appropriate target for central bank
investment given their AAA rating,  capital structure  and
liquidity,” said Choo. “We already hold EFSF bonds and can
consider buying ESM bonds.”  The Bank of  Korea  is diversifying its foreign-exchange
 reserves , which almost tripled in the past decade to a record
$323.5 billion, away from the dollar to improve returns as the
 Federal Reserve  keeps its benchmark interest rate near zero to
counter a global slowdown. Dollar assets accounted for 60.5
percent of South Korea’s reserves at the end of 2011, the
smallest proportion since 2007, according to the central bank’s
latest annual report.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced an
unlimited debt-purchase program in September to regain control
of  interest rates  in the euro area and fight speculation of a
breakup of the single currency. The region’s two bailout funds
will run in parallel until the EFSF, which has committed 192
billion euros ($244 billion) of its 440 billion euros in loans
to Ireland, Portugal and Greece, is phased out by mid-2013.  Diversifying Reserves  South Korea is considering purchases of ESM bonds after
 China  and Japan signaled support for the 500 billion-euro fund
last month and pushed for faster measures to solve the European
sovereign debt crisis. The ESM is rated AAA by Fitch Ratings and
Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service, indicating the highest level
of safety. The future recapitalization of banks through the ESM
is an “important step” to convince investors of stable
conditions in Europe, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday.  The BOK, which has diversified its portfolio to a
“comfortable” level in terms of asset types and currencies,
set up a team of three officials in August to explore long-term
investment opportunities in  emerging markets , Choo said. The
team currently handles bond investments in China, while the
central bank has hired other asset managers to buy equities in
Asia’s largest economy, according to Choo.  Investing in China  The Korean central bank said in January that it won
approval from the People’s Bank of China’s to buy bonds and
obtained an investment quota under the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor, or QFII, program.  The BOK has used a “considerable amount” of its 20
billion  yuan  ($3.2 billion) limit for purchases of Chinese
government and central bank debt, Choo said. In addition, a $300
million allocation for Chinese stocks has been fully utilized,
he said.  Yuan-denominated sovereign bonds have returned 2.5 percent
so far this year, compared with a 6.9 percent gain for South
Korea’s local-currency debt, according to indexes compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc. The yuan has appreciated 2.1 percent since
June and touched a 19-year high of 6.2262 per dollar today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won advanced 5.1
percent in that time.  “Investment in China has started as a long-term strategy
to diversify our portfolio,” Choo said. “We may buy more
Chinese assets, but can’t say how soon and how much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  