-- Barclays Contingent Capital Securities Risk Shareholder Conflict
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-11-12T09:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/barclays-contingent-capital-securities-risk-shareholder-conflict.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to sell bonds
that turn the traditional order of stakeholders upside down as
the second-largest U.K. bank seeks to bolster its ability to
absorb losses in a crisis.  The lender is meeting investors in  Europe ,  Asia  and the
U.S. for a sale of contingent capital notes that would be
written down to zero to soak up losses if its common equity Tier
1 capital ratio falls below 7 percent, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Investors are concerned the new notes may create conflict
between debt and equity investors because it might be in
shareholders’ interests to trigger the bonds and have the debt
written off to avoid a rights issue to rescue the bank. Barclays
is issuing the notes in response to regulators’ demands that
banks shore up balance sheets against a crisis in the euro zone.  “It’s certainly unusual to impair bondholders before
equity,” said Robert Montague, a credit analyst at ECM Asset
Management Ltd. in  London . “The perceived conflict of interest
in this is likely to put a lot of people off. Institutional
take-up will depend very much on whether bondholders are being
compensated sufficiently for this risk.”  Phillippa-Jane Vermoter, a spokeswoman at Barclays,
declined to comment.  Absorb Losses  Bonds designed to absorb losses before a lender collapses
are a product of the 2008 financial crisis, when debt investors
were made good while banks had to be propped up by taxpayers.
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. is still paying debt holders even after
propping it up forced Ireland to take a bailout.  The Barclays notes are “going concern” capital designed
to keep the lender in business as it raises money to recover,
and will be awarded “minimal” equity content,  Standard &
Poor’s  said Nov. 9. S&P grades the notes BBB-, its lowest
investment-grade rating.  Unlike contingent securities issued by banks such as  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Rabobank Groep the new Barclays
bond combines a 7 percent trigger with a complete write-off,
leaving holders with nothing if its activated.  “The full write-off with the high trigger makes this a
harsh product,” said Steve Hussey, a London-based credit
analyst at AllianceBernstein Ltd. “You could get a situation
where equity and junior bonds remain whole while these are
written off.”  Credit Suisse CoCos  Credit Suisse’s contingent convertible notes, or CoCos,
combine a 7 percent trigger with conversion into equity, giving
holders a stake in the recovery of the lender. While UBS issued
bonds that have to be marked to zero, that happens when capital
falls below 5 percent. Rabobank’s contingent senior notes are
written down by 75 percent and investors repaid the rest of
their money at a 7 percent ratio.  Barclays bonds “don’t look more attractive than other CoCo
bonds,” said Daniel Bjork, one of the managers of Swisscanto
Asset Management’s $120 million Bond Invest CoCo fund. “A high
trigger level is dangerous. The question is whether you get the
extra yield premium to compensate you for that.”  The bonds are expected to mature in 10 years and will rank
equally with other so-called Tier 2 debt until the trigger point
is reached, according to  Simon Adamson , an analyst at
independent debt research firm CreditSights Inc. in London. He
said they are expected to be denominated in dollars.  While a 7 percent trigger is “quite high,” Barclays
estimates that its common equity Tier 1 ratio will be 9.1
percent in January, according to Adamson. The bank would have to
lose 10.25 billion pounds ($16.3 billion) to trigger the write-
down, he said.  Yield Premium  Investors demand a a yield premium of 176 basis points more
than benchmark  government bonds  to hold bank bonds in euros,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EUR Corporates,
Banking index, compared with 405 basis points at the beginning
of the year.  Barclays will probably offer a coupon of about 7 percent,
according to Adamson, making the notes attractive to some
investors.  “We’d expect  hedge funds , high-yield funds and retail to
get involved,” said Hussey at AllianceBernstein. “For more
traditional investors like insurers, say, it’ll be all about the
pricing. The timing is good, though, because of the grab for
yield we’re seeing now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  