-- Batista Bets Shakeup Stems $15 Billion Stock Slide
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-12T19:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/batista-bets-shakeup-stems-15-billion-stock-slide.html
Eike Batista  is counting on
executive changes at his commodities and energy companies to
boost shareholder confidence after earnings disappointments and
output delays  wiped out  $15 billion in market value this year.  The 56-year-old billionaire is introducing the management
team, including oil producer  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) 
Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro, to investors in New York
this week. Carneiro is one of at least five top executives the
Brazilian tycoon has named since June. OGX shares fell 64
percent this year before today.  The decline prompted Batista to pledge as much as $2
billion in cash to shore up the finances of OGX and his
shipbuilding company, sell stakes to foreign investors and offer
to take his port operator private. His four biggest listed
companies reported a combined loss of $198 million before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the first nine
months of the year, short of Batista’s promise in March that the
group would generate $1 billion in  earnings  in 2012.  “Eike is a wonderful entrepreneur, he is a great salesman
and I think he sold earlier gains and profits in a lot of his
companies than have in fact materialized,” said  Arthur Byrnes ,
who manages about $800 million at Deltec Asset Management LLC in
New York and plans to attend the panel with Batista and his
team. “He has over-promised and under-delivered.”  Confidence Undermined  OGX, the biggest of Batista’s six publicly traded
companies, tumbled this year after reducing output targets for
its first two wells by as much as 75 percent. The shares  rose  1
percent to close at 4.90 reais in Sao Paulo today. Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index fell 0.5 percent, paring its gain this
year to 0.6 percent.  His MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA iron-ore producer  lost  40
percent this year after prices for the steel-making material
slumped, while port operator  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)   fell  30 percent,
power utility  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  slid 14 percent and the  OSX Brasil
SA (OSXB3)  shipbuilding unit dropped 8.7 percent.  CCX Carvao da Colombia
SA (CCXC3) , the coal project that Batista spun off of MPX in May,
 tumbled  74 percent.  LLX and CCX are pre-operational and didn’t report Ebitda.  Under the revised management team, the group is reducing
its drilling fleet to focus on already made discoveries while
Batista’s $2 billion pledge gives OGX and OSX additional
firepower to compete for new opportunities. The  EBX Group Co. 
holding company has about $9 billion in cash, enough to
guarantee development of all projects, the company said Nov. 9
in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Unparalleled Access’  At this week’s meetings with Batista, Carneiro and the
other executives, including CEOs and finance chiefs of his six
listed companies and his private gold, real-estate and
entertainment ventures, investors will have “unparalleled
access to senior management,” according to the event’s  website .  Carneiro replaced Paulo Mendonca as CEO of OGX, Batista’s
most valuable company, in June after it announced the oil output
target cuts. OGX slumped to the lowest in almost four years last
month and is the second-worst performer amid the 818 stocks of
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  in 2012. Carneiro was previously
the CEO of shipbuilder OSX, which replaced him with Carlos
Bellot, a 57-year-old chemical engineer with three decades of
experience at state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   MMX appointed Ricardo de Souza Assef as chief financial
officer on Sept. 3 after the resignation of Guilherme Amado. CCX
last month named Jose Gustavo de Souza Costa as CEO after the
resignation of Leonardo Moretzsohn. EBX named Otavio Lazcano as
CFO on Aug. 6, replacing Nicolau Chacur.  ‘Stumbles’  “Given the couple of stumbles the group has had achieving
and executing the goals, it has lost all sort of credibility,”
said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage about $37 billion at Van Eck
Associates Corp. and who doesn’t hold any shares of Batista’s
companies at his Van Eck  Emerging Markets  Fund. “We took a
wait-and-see approach and it has worked out for us so far.”  The tycoon’s net worth fell from a peak of $34.5 billion on
March 27 to $19.7 billion on Nov. 9, according to  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , making him the world’s 28th richest person.  Batista remains unfazed. He’s raising his bet on
commodities, buying back shares and adding assets. He acquired a
four percent stake in  Canadian mining  company Ivanplats Ltd.
last month, and his AUX gold venture in October bought two
Toronto-based mining exploration companies with assets in
Colombia, Galway Resources Ltd. and Calvista Gold Corp. The
billionaire also boosted his stake in MMX to 46.4 percent from
41.4 percent last month.  ‘Quality Assets’  He has pledged to inject $1 billion in OGX and as much in
OSX through stock purchases.  “This option underpins my confidence in OGX’s technical
expertise and quality assets, as well as the new opportunities
that the oil and gas sector offer to OGX,” Batista said in an
Oct. 25 statement.  Batista’s six listed companies, based in Rio de Janeiro,
had a combined net loss of 1.68 billion reais in the first nine
months of this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Batista making a face-to-face presentation to investors in
the U.S. is an important step to restore confidence and show
progress is being made, said Laurence Balter, who oversees $100
million including OGX shares at Oracle Investment Research in
Fox Island,  Washington .  “Unfortunately many investors are impatient and run for
the hills the moment a stock drops,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There are untapped billions in his
assets. If you have a horizon of five or more years, OGX can
grow to the size of a ConocoPhillips one day.”  ‘Longer Shots’  Batista’s businesses have also been hurt by slowing
economic growth, declining commodity prices and Brazilian
President Dilma Rousseff’s measures to tighten the government’s
grip on electricity and telecommunication, reducing appetite for
the country’s securities, said Deltec’s Byrnes.  Growth in  Brazil , the largest emerging economy after  China ,
will average 1.5 percent this year, less than the U.S. or  Japan ,
according to 30 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Oil
dropped 12 percent in New York trading this year. Iron ore for
delivery to China’s Tianjin port also lost 12 percent, according
to The Steel Index Ltd.  “When risk becomes questionable in Brazil, the longer
shots are the ones that people withdraw from the most,” said
Byrnes, who doesn’t hold shares in any of Batista’s companies
since selling OGX stock when the oil producer restated targets
in June. “I’ve got to wait until OGX begins to restore some
credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  