-- BBC News Director Steps Aside as Abuse Scandal Expands
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-12T20:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/bbc-news-director-steps-aside-as-abuse-scandal-expands.html
British Broadcasting Corp.’s two
most senior news executives stepped aside, expanding the fallout
from errors in child sex abuse investigations that caused
Director General George Entwistle to quit over the weekend.  News Director Helen Boaden and her deputy, Stephen
Mitchell, have given up their responsibilities during a probe
into why a  BBC  “Newsnight” program investigating sex abuse
claims against former entertainer Jimmy Savile was canceled last
year. Entwistle quit this weekend after a separate “Newsnight”
investigation erroneously implied that a senior politician had
molested a boy.  The scandal has thrown the license-fee-funded broadcaster
into disarray and intensified criticism against the 90-year-old
institution that runs the U.K.’s most-watched TV channels. The
head of BBC’s supervisory body called for a “radical overhaul”
of the corporation as it seeks to justify the annual 3.6 billion
pounds ($5.7 billion) it gets from U.K. households.  “Entwistle is right to step down and I’m not surprised
Helen Boaden has stepped aside, but it’s premature to conclude
the BBC is a broken and valueless institution and that the
management structure is at fault,” said Claire Enders, a media
analyst at Enders Analysis in  London .  Temporary Replacements  Boaden and Mitchell are being temporarily replaced by Fran
Unsworth, head of BBC news gathering, and Ceri Thomas, editor of
BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program.  BBC said that Boaden and Mitchell had nothing to do with
the “failed ‘Newsnight’ investigation,” which wrongly implied
child abuse by politician Alistair McAlpine. Still, the probes
into the BBC’s practices will mean some officials would be
“unable to exercise their normal authority.”  The broadcaster is conducting two investigations, one
addressing the culture and practices of BBC when Savile worked
there and one on why the episode of “Newsnight” discussing
Savile was canceled. The inquiries also will look into the role
of executives such as  Mark Thompson , Entwistle’s predecessor.  BBC needs a “thorough, radical, structural overhaul” of
its management,  Chris Patten , chairman of the panel that
oversees the corporation, the BBC Trust, said on BBC’s “Andrew Marr” program yesterday. If the corporation loses public trust,
“it’s over,” he said.  Entwistle, who served also as editor-in-chief and took over
from Thompson less than two months ago, resigned after a recent
“Newsnight” report erroneously implied a senior politician had
molested a young boy. Entwistle cited unacceptable journalistic
standards involved in the “Newsnight” broadcast in his
resignation statement. Entwistle first joined London-based BBC
in 1989 as a broadcast journalism trainee.  Internal Inquiry  BBC Scotland Director Ken MacQuarrie, who was asked by the
broadcaster’s Executive Board to investigate the circumstances
around the recent “Newsnight” story, said “basic journalistic
checks were not completed,” citing a lack of clarity around who
was responsible for the news process.  In response to MacQuarrie’s findings, the board said in an
e-mailed statement that it would immediately create a new
editorial chain of command, with Karen O’Connor taking charge of
“Newsnight,” and disciplinary proceedings starting soon. The
board also said it would be seeking Entwistle’s replacement
outside BBC, with “a proven track record of overseeing
journalism.”  Year’s Salary  Entwistle will receive a full year’s salary of 450,000
pounds in return for his resignation, the BBC Trust said in a
statement. Patten said the payment was justified to resolve the
matter quickly and maintain Entwistle’s cooperation on topics
including inquiries into Savile.  Patten said he would have had to speak to trustees about
firing the director general if Entwistle hadn’t resigned.  “The alternative was long drawn-out discussion and
continuing uncertainty at a time when the BBC needs all of its
focus to be on resolving fundamental issues of trust in BBC
journalism,” Patten said in a statement today.  Maria Miller, the U.K. secretary of state for culture,
media and sport, said the payout was difficult to justify
considering the circumstances around Entwistle’s resignation.  Speaking in Parliament today, Miller said BBC needs “a
long-term period of stability” as it is in the “midst of the
most serious of crises.”  BBC, with about 22,000 employees, runs operations span
international news gathering to entertainment, sports and
educational shows. The broadcaster is affectionately nicknamed
“Auntie” in the U.K. for its familiarity to generations of
viewers. In the year through March, BBC got more than 70 percent
of its 5.09 billion-pound income from license fees paid by U.K.
households with TVs.  ‘Single Management’  BBC said today it will “re-establish a single management
to deal with all output” to “address the lack of clarity
around the editorial chain of command.”  Acting Director General Tim Davie is expected to outline
his plan for handling issues around the “Newsnight” program on
McAlpine today “as a first step in restoring public
confidence,” the BBC Trust said.  The “Newsnight” errors were “accidents waiting to
happen, given the structure of the BBC,” said Lis Howell, who
teaches TV journalism and is director of broadcasting at City
University London. “It’s a bloated management structure and
there are too many generals. This is just another example of
confusion there.”  Scandal Years  The BBC turmoil follows a scandal-ridden couple of years
for the U.K. press. London police, in addition to investigating
claims that Savile may have used his position as a TV host and
volunteer to sexually abuse more than 300 people as far back as
1959, are still looking into claims that reporters at  News
Corp. (NWSA) , owner of the most-read U.K. newspapers, hacked into
mobile phones and bribed police for stories.  Thompson, who led BBC for eight years until September, has
said he wasn’t aware of the abuse allegations and didn’t
participate in stopping “Newsnight” from airing its Savile
segment. Thompson started his new position as chief executive
officer of  New York Times Co. (NYT)  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  