-- College Football’s Four-Team Playoff System Gets Final Approval
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-11-13T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/bcs-presidents-ratify-four-team-college-football-playoffs.html
College football’s four-team playoff
system will begin in the 2014-15 season after being ratified by
university presidents and conference commissioners.  The group also agreed yesterday in Denver to share revenue,
with a higher portion going to conferences of the four playoff
schools. Part of the payout -- as much as 10 percent, according
to a report on  CBSSports.com  -- will depend on the teams’
academic performance, officials also said in a news release.  “Everything is on track so fans can enjoy the postseason
they’ve been asking for,” Virginia Tech President Charles Steger, chairman of the Presidential Oversight Committee, said
in the release. “College football, with its great regular
season, is strong and popular -- it’s about to get stronger and
more popular.”  Yesterday’s vote ratified a playoff plan given preliminary
approval in June. The national semifinals will rotate among six
bowl games, setting up two playoff games along with four other
major bowls each season. The location for the national
championship game will be up for bid each year, similar to the
process for the National Football League’s Super Bowl.  Additional details, such as the name of the new structure,
details of the selection committee, and location for the first
playoff games, including the championship, remain undecided.  Big Loser  The biggest loser in the new, six-bowl Bowl Championship
Series system will be the Big East Conference,  ESPN  reported,
citing unidentified people.  In the current system, the biggest portion of BCS revenue
is shared among the six most powerful conferences -- Atlantic
Coast, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and Southeastern. One
team from each automatically qualifies for a BCS bowl game.  Under the new format, a second tier will be created, known
as the Group of Five, which will comprise a demoted Big East
along with Conference USA, the Mountain West, the Sun Belt and
the Mid-American, ESPN said. The highest-ranked team will get an
automatic invitation to an at-large BCS bowl.  The ACC, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and SEC will still get one
automatic spot in one of the BCS bowls in the new system.  A television contract for the four games and championship
may be worth $7.3 billion over 12 years, Sports Business Journal
reported.  “We are closing in on the final aspects of what will be a
superb television agreement,” ACC Commissioner John Swofford
said yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  