-- Clapton Watch Fetches $3.6 Million; Beckham’s Boat Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-11-12T14:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/beckham-speedboat-sale-chinese-auctions-shrink-art-buzz.html
A platinum  Patek Philippe  watch
owned by  Eric Clapton  sold today at an auction in  Switzerland 
for 3.4 million Swiss francs ($3.6 million) with fees.  The guitarist’s 1987 perpetual calendar chronograph with
moon phases was one of the star lots at a Christie’s
International auction of collectable watches at the Four Seasons
Hotel des Bergues, Geneva. It had been valued at between 2.5
million Swiss francs and 4 million Swiss francs, based on hammer
prices.  Clapton has been selling high-value items with big-ticket
brand names. At Sotheby’s,  London , on Oct. 12, he sold the 1994
Gerhard Richter painting “Abstraktes Bild (809-4)” for a record
21.3 million pounds ($34.2 million) -- more than 30 times what
he paid for it in 2001.  Tomorrow in Geneva, Christie’s jewels sale will include the
Archduke Joseph Diamond, estimated at as much as $25 million.  The gem was originally sourced from the Golconda mines in
 India , which produced the 105.6-carat Koh-i-Noor of the U.K.
Crown Jewels.  Internally flawless and weighing 76.02 carats, this
colorless stone is the largest perfect Golconda diamond to have
appeared at auction, Christie’s said in an e-mailed statement.
It has a low estimate of $15 million. The upper valuation of
$328,861 per carat is a record for a colorless diamond.  The diamond is named after Archduke Joseph August of
 Austria  (1872-1962), a member of the royal House of Habsburg,
whose family owned the stone until the 1930s.  It was last seen at auction in November 1993, when it sold
for 9.7 million Swiss francs. The identity of the current owner
hasn’t been divulged by Christie’s.  Jagger Letters  Love letters written by  Mick Jagger  to the African-American
singer, model and actress Marsha Hunt are being auctioned in
London in December.  Offered by Hunt in the Sotheby’s English literature sale on
Dec. 12, the cache of 10 handwritten letters dates from the
summer of 1969, when the Rolling Stones singer was in  Australia 
filming “Ned Kelly.” The letters are estimated to raise
between 70,000 pounds ($111,000) and 100,000 pounds.  Hunt became the face of the London production of musical
“Hair,” and inspired the 1971 hit “Brown Sugar.” Her
relationship with Jagger was kept secret at the time. The
letters, which include song lyrics and a Rolling Stones play
list, refer to the first moon landing, the Isle of Wight
Festival, and  John Lennon  and  Yoko Ono .  Olympics Ceremony  The speedboat piloted by  David Beckham  during the opening
ceremony of the 2012 London Olympics is estimated to sell for
about 250,000 pounds at an auction next month.  The heavily customized 2008 “ Torchbearer ” Bladerunner BR
RIB 35 will be included in a Bonhams classic car sale at
Mercedes-Benz World, Brooklands, Surrey, on Dec. 3.  Offered by an unidentified company in southern  England , the
boat retains its original smoke-emitting rockets and dozens of
LED lights, the London-based auction house said in an e-mailed
statement.  An estimated global television audience of a billion people
watched the English soccer star power down the river Thames
during the July 27 ceremony, staged by the movie director  Danny Boyle , according to the  BBC .  Art Fund  Berenberg Bank said it has founded a 50 million-euro ($63.6
million) art fund to give investors willing to pledge a minimum
of 100,000 euros access to a different asset class at a time
when stocks and bond markets are plagued by economic insecurity.  “Tangible assets remain firmly in investors’ focus,”
Raymund Scheffler, the manager of Berenberg Art Advice and head
of the bank’s Dusseldorf branch, said in an e-mailed release.
“Because their value moves independently of classic investments
like shares, bonds or even real estate, an art investment can
complete every well-structured portfolio.”  The bank will cooperate with museums and collectors to
identify top-quality artworks, according to the bank’s
statement. The  Fine Art Fund Group , an art investment company
established in London by  Philip Hoffman  in 2001, will advise it
on acquisitions.  Chinese Art  Auctions of Chinese art have fallen by almost half in
London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as buyers get
increasingly selective.  Sales of art and antiques from  China  at the main branches
of Sotheby’s, Christie’s International and Bonhams -- part of
the 15th annual Asian Art in London promotion -- raised 29.6
million pounds last week, 48 percent down from the record 57.4
million pounds in 2011.  “There’s more caution around at the moment,” Stuart
Marchant, a partner in the Kensington dealers  Marchant , said in
an interview. “The purse strings of Chinese buyers aren’t as
loose as they were two or three years ago.” He said that
“maybe business will come back” as the country names a new
Politburo Standing Committee and general secretary.  Chinese art and antiques were the fastest-growing auction
market in 2011, raising 9.8 billion euros, as against 6 billion
euros in 2010, the Netherlands-based Fine Art Foundation said in
a report published in March. Buyers became choosier in 2012 as
the Chinese government cracked down on the illegal importation
of artworks. The world’s second-biggest economy is recovering
from a seven-quarter slowdown.  Rare and decorative 18th-century wares with imperial
associations continue to set the remaining high prices. A
polychrome-enameled “Magpie and Prunus” moon flask sold for a
top bid of 1 million pounds with fees at  Sotheby’s (BID)  auction of
“Treasures from the Qing Court” on Nov. 7. It was the only
auction lot of the week to reach seven figures.  Successful Ceramics  Sotheby’s three-catalog auction of Chinese ceramics and
porcelain works of art was the most successful of the week,
raising 14.7 million pounds with fees against a low estimate of
7.6 million pounds, based on hammer prices. Christie’s and
Bonhams raised 8.2 million pounds and 6.7 million pounds
respectively from Chinese material on Nov. 6 and Nov. 8. No lot
exceeded 500,000 pounds at either auction.  “It was a combination of a softer market and owners
reluctant to sell good pieces,” the London-based dealer  Roger
Keverne  said in an interview. “Buyers are concentrating on the
best things.”  Eskenazi Ltd . made big-ticket sales in its exhibition of 20
pieces of imperial-quality Qing porcelain acquired from an
unidentified European private collection.  A Qianlong-period pair of blue and pink-enameled ewers sold
for “several million pounds,” and a similarly dated moon flask
decorated with a red dragon, priced at more than 1 million
pounds, were among the confirmed sales. An 18th-century imperial
ruby ground “famille rose” vase valued at 7.5 million pounds
had yet to find a buyer.  Selling Exhibitions  Eskenazi and Marchant were among a record 54 dealers
staging selling exhibitions during the  Asian Art in London 
event, which finished at the weekend. Within the first five
days, Marchant sold about a third of the 38 pieces of blue-and-
white porcelain it was offering from the collection of San
Francisco-based Lowell Young, Stuart Marchant said. Prices
ranged from 10,000 pounds to 285,000 pounds.  Two years ago, at the height of the then-booming market for
Chinese ceramics, Eskenazi sold a puce-colored Qing dynasty
imperial vase with a price tag of about $25 million.  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and
 John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 