-- Bed Bugs Dying After Merck Drug Suggests Possible Weapon
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-11-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/bed-bugs-dying-after-merck-drug-suggests-possible-weapon.html
Bed bugs died after feeding on
people treated with  Merck & Co.’s (MRK)  Stromectol, a treatment
typically used against parasitic worms, in the first study to
investigate the drug’s potential to control the blood-suckers.  Three out of five bed bugs died after blood meals from
people who had taken Stromectol, also called ivermectin, three
hours earlier, according to research presented at a scientific
meeting in Atlanta yesterday. The pill, along with conventional
measures such as pesticides, may improve chances of eliminating
the pest, said John Sheele, an emergency physician at Eastern
Virginia Medical School in Norfolk, who led the study.  Stromectol is used to treat diseases caused by worm
parasites such as  river blindness , one of the leading causes of
preventable blindness, and  elephantiasis , or lymphatic
filariasis, which causes certain parts of the body to become
enlarged. Sheele’s research suggests its pesticidal properties
may also fight bed-beg incursions, experienced by more than
400,000  New York  City residents in 2009.  “Ivermectin is effective against a broad range of insects
-- body lice, head lice, scabies,” Sheele said in an interview.
“What I’d like to be able to do is a real-world experiment
where we find people who have bed bugs, treat them with the
regimen and see does it get rid of their infestation.”  Bed bugs are small, flat insects that feed solely on the
blood of people and animals while they sleep. The reddish-brown,
wingless parasites are found across the globe from North and
South America, to Africa, Asia and  Europe . While they aren’t
known to spread disease, bed-bug bites can cause itchy welts,
excessive scratching of which can lead to skin infections,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  Blood Meals  Sheele tested ivermectin, sold as Mectizan outside the
U.S., on himself and three colleagues over five bed-bug blood
meals. They allowed three adult and three juvenile bed bugs to
feed on them before taking the drug. Then, using the same
combinations of different insects, the test subjects allowed
feeds 3, 8, 22 and 54 hours after consuming a standard dose,
equivalent to 200 micro grams per kilogram of bodyweight.  Within three hours of feeding on ivermectin-laced blood,
the apple-seed-sized critters were falling sick and dying,
Sheele said. Ivermectin was most lethal for both juvenile and
adult bed bugs on the first day of treatment, though it killed
42 percent of adults 54 hours after the drug was taken.
Ivermectin also hampered the ability of beg-bug nymphs to shed
their outer exoskeleton -- a key step in their development.  The research, funded by Eastern Virginia Medical School’s
department of emergency medicine, was presented at the American
Society of  Tropical Medicine  and Hygiene’s annual meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Atlanta at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  