-- Bharti, Vodafone Stay Away From Metros as Airwave Sale Kicks Off
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-11-12T15:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/bharti-vodafone-stay-away-from-metros-as-airwave-sale-kicks-off.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  and three other bidders at an Indian airwave auction avoided
nationwide licenses and two of the biggest cities, raising
concern the government may fall short of a targeted $7.3 billion
in revenue from the sale.  Operators bid 92 billion rupees ($1.7 billion) on smaller
zones and stayed away from  New Delhi  and Mumbai, Department of
Telecommunications Secretary R. Chandrashekhar told reporters in
the nation’s capital at the end of the first day. The two cities
account for about 78 percent of the funds Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram is counting on to help narrow the  budget
deficit  to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product by March 31
amid threats of a credit downgrade to junk by Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings.  The government’s game plan of pricing the airwaves almost
nine times their original cost at a 2008 sale may have backfired
amid waning demand from weary carriers saddled with a combined
debt of more than $23 billion, said New Delhi-based Rajan Mathews, director general of industry group  Cellular Operators
Association of India . Chidambaram may raise not more than 130
billion rupees when the auction ends, he said, an amount that is
only 33 percent of the goal.  “The government-created artificial scarcity and inflated
prices were completely unwarranted,” Mathews said in a
telephone interview. “The best case scenario now is that the
government learns from its mistake and re-evaluates its pricing
for future auctions.”  ‘Money Power’  The auction will resume on Nov. 14 after tomorrow’s holiday
for the Hindu festival of Diwali, Chandrashekhar said. The 1800
megahertz band was made available after the  Supreme Court 
earlier this year said spectrum must be auctioned rather than
sold and canceled 122 licenses, saying their original allocation
had been corrupted by “money power’’ and some buyers’ “ability
to manipulate the system.’’  Chidambaram is seeking to curb the  budget deficit  to an
almost decade low of 3 percent of GDP in five years as S&P and
Fitch reduced the outlook on  India ’s credit rating to negative
from stable earlier in 2012, bringing the nation a step closer
to non-investment grade.  “We have high expectations for aggressive bidding to bring
as much as possible to the kitty,”  Kapil Sibal , India’s
minister for telecommunications told reporters in New Delhi on
Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  