-- Billionaire Roekke’s Aker Urges Det Norske to Grow Business
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-11-12T08:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/billionaire-roekke-s-aker-urges-det-norske-to-grow-business-1-.html
Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  needs to
increase its workforce and retool its business to become a fully
fledged producer, said  Aker ASA (AKER) , the investment holding company
of billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke.  “An improvement in operated exploration activity is
needed,” Oeyvind Eriksen, chief executive officer at Aker,
which owns 49.99 percent in Det Norske, said in a Nov. 9
interview in Oslo. “We would like to see a new CEO who not only
can maintain and improve exploration activity, but also lead Det
Norske through field development and production stages.”  Erik Haugane, who founded Det Norske in 2001, announced in
October he will step down as CEO even after the company’s share
price more than  tripled  since late 2011. The Trondheim, Norway-
based company is part of a group that owns the  North Sea  Johan
Sverdrup field, which was discovered in 2010 and may hold 3.3
billion barrels of oil. That’s the biggest find off  Norway ’s
shores in almost 40 years.  Det Norske has been an “outstanding” investment, Eriksen
said. “Nevertheless, we think the company must improve
operationally, and that’s why we encourage the board now to
strengthen the team, not only the CEO position but the whole of
the organization.”  Det Norske’s shares were little changed at 84.95 kroner as
of 9:48 a.m. in Oslo. Aker rose 2 percent to 207 kroner.  The next CEO should be “in place early next year,” said
Eriksen, declining to comment on possible candidates for the
job.  Missteps  The  shares  also received a boost in September when Det
Norske and partner  Statoil ASA (STL)  struck oil at nearby Geitungen,
which may be linked to Sverdrup and add more than 200 million
barrels of crude. Statoil, Norway’s largest oil and gas
producer, was named working operator of the Sverdrup oilfield in
March.  “We need to improve and increase our competencies and
develop from being a simple exploration company to a fully-
fledged  oil company ,” Det Norske Chairman Svein Aaser said by
mobile phone on Nov. 9. The company is hiring at all levels of
the organization, he said.  The company has paid for its lack of experience. It took a
1.9 billion kroner pretax charge on its North Sea Jette
development in the third quarter after “technical challenges”
raised costs and reduced volumes.  “We’ve had significant challenges there,” Aaser said. In
hindsight we should have perhaps made organizational changes
before development of Jette, he said.  Company Costs  Because of Jette and higher-than-anticipated exploration
costs, the company posted a net loss of 588.9 million kroner
($103 million) in the third quarter, exceeding the 100.1 million
kroner average estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg.  Aker, a holding company that’s 66.66 percent owned by
Roekke, on Nov. 9 reported net income fell to 98 million kroner
in the quarter from 523 million kroner a year earlier as its
operating expenses increased.  Sverdrup, potentially the third-biggest discovery offshore
Norway since oil was first found in 1969 and the biggest since
Statfjord in 1974, is a combination of two North Sea finds by
Statoil and  Sweden ’s  Lundin Petroleum AB. (LUPE)  The partners in
Sverdrup, which are in talks about how to develop the find, will
issue an updated resource estimate for the field in early 2013,
Statoil Chief Financial Officer Torgrim Reitan said on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  