-- Brazil Analysts Cut 2013 Year-End Selic Call for Third Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-11-12T10:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/brazil-analysts-cut-2013-year-end-selic-call-for-third-week-1-.html
Analysts covering Brazil lowered
their forecast for the benchmark rate at year-end 2013 for the
third straight week, as the economy struggles to gain speed in
response to government stimulus measures.  Brazil’s  Selic rate  will be 7.25 percent at the end of next
year, according to the median estimate in a central bank survey
of about 100 analysts published today. Analysts had forecast a
2013 Selic of 7.63 percent the previous week. This week marks
the first time economists have predicted the central bank will
hold the rate steady for all of next year.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has broadened
measures aimed at helping consumers and companies in the world’s
second-largest market. Since August 2011, the central bank has
reduced the Selic rate more than any other G-20 nation to a
record low 7.25 percent. Policy makers have also increased
public spending, implemented tax cuts worth 45 billion reais
($22 billion) and pressured banks to lower lending rates to spur
consumer demand.  Economists in the survey maintained their forecast for
gross domestic product growth this year and next at 1.54 percent
and 4 percent, respectively.  Industrial Output  Some sectors of the economy have been slow to respond to
the stimulus measures.  Brazil ’s industrial production in
September fell for the first time in 4 months, as companies
reduced machine and equipment investments. Consumer default
rates in September remained at the highest level since November
2009 despite near record-low rates on bank loans.  Still, vehicle sales jumped 18.6% in October over the month
prior, as consumers took advantage of tax reductions, car
dealership association Anfavea said last week. President
Rousseff’s economic team forecasts that the economy expanded the
fastest in more than two years in the third quarter, at a 5
percent to 6 percent annualized pace, a government official said
on Oct. 23.  Inflation rose in October at the fastest yearly pace since
February on food supply shocks. Keeping the benchmark Selic rate
unchanged for a “prolonged time” is the best strategy to
ensure inflation will slow to target next year, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said in an interview on Nov. 7. The
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points. Economists in the survey predicted inflation
of 5.46 percent this year, up from the previous week’s estimate
of 5.44 percent.  “Our projections are still valid: the convergence of
inflation to the mid-point of the target in the third quarter of
next year with this monetary policy strategy,” Tombini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  