-- Brazil Said to Prefer Interest Rate Raise Over Credit Curbs
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-11-12T12:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/brazil-said-to-prefer-rate-raise-over-credit-curb-to-tame-prices.html
Brazil ’s central bank does not see
macro-prudential measures as a substitute for raising  interest
rates  to combat inflation, a government official with knowledge
of the bank’s monetary policy said.  While the bank expects consumer price increases to ease in
the remainder of the year and converge to its 4.5 percent target
by the third quarter of next year, policy makers wouldn’t
hesitate to raise the benchmark  interest rate  if it were
necessary, said the official in an interview, asking not to be 
identified because the discussion is not public.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.91 percent at 9:28
a.m. in  Sao Paulo , as traders increased bets the central bank
will have to boost rates next year.  “This means the central bank won’t be able to avoid an
interest rate increase,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist with WestLB do Brasil SA. “This news is giving
futures an upward trend,” Rostagno said by telephone from Sao
Paulo.  The central bank declined to comment in a text message.  ’Prolonged Time’  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini in a Nov. 7
interview said maintaining the record low benchmark rate of 7.25
for a “prolonged time” is the best strategy to ensure
inflation will slow to its target by next year. Some economists,
such as Enestor dos Santos at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA) , said the comments signal the government would adopt
alternative measures, such as tax cuts and macro-prudential
measures, to keep inflation tamed without raising rates.  The central bank sees interest rates as the best instrument
to combat inflation and macro-prudential measures, such as
higher capital and reserve requirements to curb credit growth,
only as complementary to monetary policy, the official said.  Consumer prices  rose 0.59 percent in October, up from 0.57
percent in September. Annual inflation accelerated to 5.45
percent.  The central bank has cut the benchmark rate since August
2011 by 525 basis points, the most among the Group of 20
nations, in a bid to revive economic growth that is forecast to
slow to 1.5 percent this year from 2.7 percent last year,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  