-- Brazilian Stocks Squeezed by Rousseff as Valuations Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-12T20:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/brazil-stocks-squeezed-by-rousseff-as-valuations-hit-9-year-high.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
efforts to improve the lives of her 200 million citizens are
coming at the expense of the nation’s biggest companies, causing
profits to drop 52 percent, doubling stock market valuations and
sending international investors to the exit.  Foreign money managers  sold  a net $2.6 billion of equities
in the past two months, the biggest outflows since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, according to data
compiled by BM&FBovespa SA and Bloomberg. The benchmark stock
index’s price-earnings ratio jumped to 19 from 9 in September
2011 and reached a 36 percent premium versus the  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD) , the biggest gap in nine years.  Rousseff hasn’t persuaded investors that her decisions to
cut electricity rates, reduce consumer borrowing  costs , cap fuel
prices and increase competition in the mobile-phone industry
will get Latin America’s biggest economy expanding fast enough
to lift  equities . While price-earnings ratios usually climb as
growing investor confidence boosts stocks, Brazilian  valuations 
increased because profits fell at the fastest pace since 2002.  Government intervention “clouds the earnings outlook for
industries such as utilities, telecom and finance,” Phil Langham, who manages the $1.4 billion RBC  Emerging Markets 
Equity Fund from London and holds fewer Brazilian shares than
are represented in benchmark indexes, said in a Nov. 1 phone
interview. “This has been an interventionist government and
that’s unlikely to change.”  BRIC Stocks  Valuations in Brazil surpassed those of Russia, India and
China this year for the first time since 2003, when Rousseff’s
mentor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva won the presidency. Share
prices surged that year as Lula curbed the  budget deficit  and
kept up payments on the government’s overseas debt, instead of
defaulting as some investors had predicted.  Rousseff’s policies have failed to impress shareholders.
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index has  fallen  17 percent since she took office in
January 2011, compared with a 1.9 percent drop for the MSCI All-
Country index. The Brazilian  gauge  rose 1.1 percent this year,
while the MSCI measure gained 8.4 percent.  The Bovespa fell 0.5 percent to 57,064.31 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo.  Shares of utilities, including  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  and  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , were among
the biggest losers in the Brazilian benchmark index since Sept.
6, falling at least 27 percent as Rousseff announced plans to
cut electricity rates to reduce customers’ costs and make
Brazilian companies more competitive.  Bank Rates  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4)  and  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , the nation’s
biggest wireless providers by subscribers, have declined at
least 3.3 percent since July 18 as regulators temporarily banned
sales of mobile-phone plans by some carriers and approved new
rules designed to increase competition.  State-controlled  Banco do Brasil SA  has dropped 16 percent
since Sept. 6, when Rousseff said in a nationally-televised
speech she “won’t rest” until banks cut consumer borrowing
costs.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , the government-run crude
producer, has been the worst performer among the world’s 20
biggest oil and gas companies during the past two years as
policy makers capped fuel prices to curb inflation.  Energy and raw-materials producers, financial firms,
telecommunications companies and utilities have a combined
 weighting  of about 70 percent in the Bovespa index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Consumer-related stocks comprise
about 23 percent.  Harsh Treatment  “There’s an increasing willingness of the government to
become more involved in a lot of these companies,”  Nick Robinson , who helps manage $15 billion in Latin American shares
at Aberdeen Asset Management, said in an Oct. 9 interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “It’s been a bit more harsh
in the way it treats  Petrobras (PBR) , and more recently with banks and
the utilities sector, doing these top down pronouncements on
companies to change the way they do business.”  Officials from Brazil’s presidential office and the
Ministry of Mines and Energy, who asked not to be identified
citing government policy, declined to comment on recent
interventions.  Sales of Bovespa-traded stocks and equity-linked
securities, including exchange-traded funds and options, by
overseas investors in September and October were the biggest
since the two months ended November 2008. Emerging-market equity
funds tracked by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
attracted about $10 billion during the same period. Mexican
stock funds had inflows of $179 million, according to EPFR.  Rebound Forecast  “You’ve had a very, very sharp and sustained decline in
earnings in Brazil,” Geoffrey Dennis, an emerging-market equity
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in an Oct. 30
phone interview. “Government policy may help the economy, but
it’s very confusing to foreign investors.”  Brazil’s domestic stock funds recorded inflows of 5.08
billion reais ($2.5 billion) this year through October,
according to the nation’s capital-markets association, known as
Anbima. That compares with outflows of 1.3 billion reais for the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Anbima.  Earnings in Brazil will probably rise as much as 25 percent
next year as record-low  interest rates  boost economic growth and
raw-materials companies such as  Vale SA (VALE3)  benefit from a recovery
in Chinese demand, Gabriel Wallach, the chief investment officer
for global emerging markets equities at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners in Boston, said in an e-mail on Nov. 2.  Stimulus Boost  Brazil’s central bank has cut the benchmark Selic interest-
rate by 3.75 percentage points this year, the most among the
world’s 20 biggest economies, to 7.25 percent. Economists
surveyed by the central bank on Nov. 1 predicted growth will
accelerate to 4 percent in 2013 from an annual rate of 1.54
percent this year.  “These apparent expensive multiples are caused by weak
results, and with the economic recovery, profits will grow
significantly,” Carlos Firetti, the head of equity research at
Bradesco BBI in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview on Nov. 5.
“Considering the stimulus the economy got -- on the fiscal and
monetary sides, interest rate reduction, credit expansion -- I
think it would be hard not to see the economy getting stronger,
and that is a driver for stocks.”  Earnings per share in the Bovespa will probably jump 30
percent in 2013, led by companies tied to the local economy,
Firetti said.  Rousseff’s efforts to increase Brazilians’ spending power
have helped boost earnings at consumer-related companies.  Relative Value  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3) , Brazil’s biggest clothing retailer, posted
a 20 percent profit increase last quarter and analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg predict earnings at the Porto Alegre-based company
will climb more than 20 percent next year.  A 30 percent earnings increase for companies in the Bovespa
index still wouldn’t be enough to reduce the gauge’s price-
earnings  ratio  to its historical mean. The 68-stock Bovespa
trades at a 39 percent premium versus its five-year average
multiple of 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa was valued at a 29 percent premium versus the
MSCI All-Country World index on Nov. 9. The gap hit a nine-year
high of 36 percent on Oct. 15.  The Brazilian index’s multiple of 19 times trailing
earnings compares with 16 for the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , 11
for the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  and 5.8 for Russia’s  Micex
Index (INDEXCF) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazilian equity
valuations are higher than all the world’s biggest markets
except for Japan and Switzerland.  Petrobras Earnings  “Profitability has deteriorated quite significantly in
comparison to other emerging markets,”  Jonathan Garner , the
chief Asia and emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley in
Hong Kong, said in an Oct. 29 phone interview. Garner said he
prefers shares in China and Russia to those in Brazil.  Earnings have declined during the past year for all 10
Brazilian industry  gauges  compiled by MSCI Inc. except for
technology companies as economic growth slowed to a 0.5 percent
annual pace in the second quarter from 3.3 percent a year
earlier. Profits at energy companies sank 68 percent for the
biggest drop.  More than 60 percent of companies in the Bovespa index that
reported quarterly earnings since the end of September have
 trailed  analysts’ estimates, the biggest proportion among
benchmark equity gauges in the world’s biggest markets after
India’s Sensex, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Third-
quarter profits at Bovespa companies have declined 19 percent,
versus a 1.9 percent increase in the MSCI All-Country index, the
data show.  Political Influence  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based oil producer is
known, posted its first quarterly loss since 1999 in the three
months ended June and reported third-quarter  earnings  that
trailed analysts’ estimates. The company sells imported fuel at
a loss because the government sets domestic prices artificially
low and local refineries can’t meet demand.  Petrobras is valued at 15 times reported earnings, a 36
percent premium over the  MSCI All-Country World Energy Index (MXWDOEN) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has traded at
an average discount of 27 percent during the past decade.  “Their recent results were horrible,”  Jim Chanos , who
oversees about $6 billion as the founder and president at
Kynikos Associates Ltd., said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York on Nov. 2. “Prices are kept low for
the consumers. That is a political decision that is hurting the
company’s shareholders.”  Chanos, the short seller known for betting against Enron
Corp. before the company collapsed in 2001, said he’s wagering
on declines in shares of both Petrobras and Vale.  ‘Civil Levels’  Eletrobras, as South America’s largest generator is known,
has tumbled 27 percent in Sao Paulo trading since Rousseff
unveiled measures to cut power rates by as much as 28 percent.
Analysts have reduced 2013 earnings  estimates  for the Rio de
Janeiro-based company by about 28 percent since the announcement
and now expect profits to fall 13 percent from this year’s
level.  Banco do Brasil has lowered consumer borrowing costs and
fees, steps that Rousseff said in September would reduce
lenders’  profits  to “civil levels.”  Brazilian consumers paid an average of 35.6 percent on
loans annually in August, down from 46.2 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by the central bank. Consumer rates
in the U.S. declined to 8.06 percent in August from 11.39
percent a year earlier, according to Bankrate.com.  Banco do Brasil’s adjusted  return on equity , a measure of
profitability, declined to 18.1 percent in the third quarter
from 20 percent a year earlier, the company said in a Nov. 8
statement. Shares of the Brasilia-based lender have dropped 12
percent this year.  “Investors have become much more wary of the impact of
state intervention on equity returns,” John-Paul Smith, a
London-based emerging market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in a Nov. 2 research report. “The big issue for investors
is the extent to which the state factor is priced in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  