-- Brazil Orange Sales to EU Halted After Fungus Found
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-11-12T20:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/brazil-orange-sales-to-eu-halted-after-fungus-found.html
Orange shipments from  Brazil  to the
European Union were suspended after EU officials found samples
with black spot fungus, a Brazilian government official said.  Brazil, the world’s largest producer, halted the shipments
on Oct. 24 after the EU reported that six containers of oranges
were found with traces of the fungus, Cosam Coutinho, director
of vegetable sanitation at the  Agriculture Ministry , said in a
telephone interview from Brasilia.  Brazilian orange shipments represent less than 10 percent
of the country’s citrus exports, which is mostly processed into
orange juice before it’s sold overseas. The halt is unlikely to
significantly affect orange juice futures since it only refers
to the fruit, John Ortelle, a vice president at McKeany-Flavell
Co., a broker in Oakland,  California , said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “We will have technical meetings with EU representatives
to show our progress in dealing with the fungus before March,
when the exports resume,” Coutinho said.  Orange juice  for January delivery fell 1 percent to settle
at $1.061 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The
price has tumbled 37 percent this year amid slowing demand in
the U.S. and higher production in Florida, the world’s second-
biggest citrus grower.  Brazil’s orange sales to the EU usually cease by November,
when European import tariffs for the fruit are raised to
encourage purchases from local suppliers, making exports less
attractive, Coutinho said. The fungus was found in six of 300
containers shipped to the EU, Coutinho said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  