-- Bristol-Myers Hepatitis C Combo Therapy Shows Promise
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-12T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/bristol-myers-hepatitis-c-combo-therapy-shows-promise.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , which took
a $1.8 billion charge in the third quarter after ending work on
a drug for hepatitis C, may have hope for a new regimen shown to
clear the liver infection from patients in a study.  Results from a 16-patient trial presented today at the
American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases in  Boston 
showed that combining three of the company’s experimental
medicines, daclatasvir, asunaprevir and BMS-791325, cleared the
hepatitis C virus in 94 percent of patients. Bristol-Myers plans
to take the therapy into final-stage trials in 2014.  Bristol-Myers is among several drugmakers including  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  that are competing to be
the first to market with a treatment for the liver disease that
doesn’t rely on yearlong, weekly injections of the drug
interferon. The new, experimental drugs inhibit the hepatitis C
virus’s ability to replicate, as opposed to existing therapies
that boost the body’s immune system to fight the disease.  Brian Daniels, Bristol-Myers’s senior vice president of
global development and medical affairs, called the results
encouraging. “We look forward to studying it further,” he said
in a statement.  Bristol-Myers’ trial studied 16 patients who hadn’t been
treated before. Fifteen were found to have cleared the virus
from their blood 12 weeks after stopping therapy, and the 16th
patient didn’t stay in the trial long enough for investigators
to count the data as a success, the company said.  In Competition  The positive results comes after New York-based Bristol-
Myers announced in August that it was ending development of the
drug it got with its February purchase of Inhibitex Inc., after
patients on the pill developed heart failure. Success for the
new combination therapy would put the company back in
competition with Gilead and Abbott for a slice of what could be
a $20 billion market by 2020.  Yesterday, Bristol-Myers also announced results from a
trial of 18 patients who got 12 weeks of daclatasvir and
asunaprevir. Of those, 78 percent had no detectible levels of
the virus 12 weeks after ending the drugs. The patients had
previously received interferon treatments for their disease and
hadn’t been cured. Bristol-Myers is trying to get the
combination approved in  Japan , where a subset of patients who
respond best to the combination are most common, according to
the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  