-- California Gasoline Drops as Exxon Scheduled to Finish Repairs
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-12T23:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/california-gasoline-drops-as-exxon-scheduled-to-finish-repairs.html
Spot gasoline in  California  tumbled
to the lowest level against futures in a week as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  was expected to finish maintenance on a unit at the
Torrance refinery in Southern California.  Flaring at the 150,000-barrel-a-day plant, related to
repairs on a unit, was scheduled to end today, a Nov. 2 notice
to the South Coast Air Quality Management District shows.
Daymond Rice, an Exxon spokesman in Torrance, declined by e-mail
to comment on the work, saying the company doesn’t discuss the
status of units at the plant.  Spot California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles
declined for the fourth day, losing 3 cents to 13 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange at 4:34 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest premium for the fuel
since Nov. 5.  Carbob in San Francisco also slipped by 2 cents, to a
premium of 2.5 cents a gallon.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle refinery
in Northern California was operating at “planned rates” after
performing unplanned maintenance last week, Tina Barbee, a
spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters in San Antonio, said
by e-mail today. The plant shut a unit on Nov. 8 after a vapor
leak, a filing with the Contra Costa County hazardous materials
division shows.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco fell 2
cents to 3.75 cents a gallon over Nymex heating oil futures, the
lowest since Oct. 24. CARB diesel in  Los Angeles  dropped 2.5
cents to a 10-cent-a-gallon premium to futures.  Portland Market  Conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol in  Portland ,  Oregon , weakened 1.5 cents to a discount of
10 cents a gallon against gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel in
Portland gained 1 cent to 23.5 cents a gallon over heating oil
futures.  BP Plc (BP/)  shut the 315,000-barrel-a-day Olympic pipeline for
work that’s expected to last for five days, a person with
knowledge of the situation said Nov. 7. The line delivers fuel
from refiners in northwest  Washington  to customers in  Seattle 
and other markets along the I-5 corridor and supplies jet fuel
to the Sea-Tac and Portland International Airports, the
company’s website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  