-- Campari Drops Most on Italian Index as Estimates Missed
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-11-12T16:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/campari-drops-most-on-italian-index-as-estimates-missed.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA, (CPR)  the maker
of Wild Turkey bourbon, fell the most on Italy’s benchmark index
after reporting earnings that missed estimates and giving a
downbeat assessment of its domestic market.  Campari dropped 5.9 percent to 5.86 euros at the close of
trading in Milan, the steepest decline today on the  FTSE MIB
Index (FTSEMIB)  of 40 companies and the biggest slide since Nov. 14, 2011.  Nine-month earnings before interest and tax and excluding
one-time items rose 2 percent to 213.9 million euros ($272
million), the Milan-based distiller said today. Third-quarter
profit on that basis was 66.5 million euros, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on the company’s six-month results.
That missed the 72.3 million-euro average Ebit  estimate  of eight
analysts. Campari didn’t report third-quarter figures.  The results were hurt by “a sudden change in September of
consumption and trading conditions in  Italy , poor trading in the
high seasonal summer period in Germany and a less favorable
macroeconomic environment” elsewhere in western Europe, Chief
Executive Officer Bob Kunze-Concewitz said in the statement.  Business conditions in Italy, where Campari gets almost a
third of  annual revenue , are likely to remain volatile in the
fourth quarter and early next year, the CEO said.  Consumer confidence in the country “will continue to be
adversely impacted by high unemployment, higher taxation and
increasing political uncertainty, whilst the recent
implementation of some legislation, which introduces
restrictions affecting commercial relationships, is likely to
generate trade destocking,” Kunze-Concewitz said.  The CEO said he expects “continued positive momentum” in
 North America  and Asia-Pacific, as well as improving performance
in Brazil and Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  