-- Carry Trades Lose Most Since ’11 as HSBC Gauge Warns: Currencies
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-13T18:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/carry-trades-lose-most-since-11-as-hsbc-gauge-warns-currencies.html
The foreign-exchange market is
signaling more pain ahead for currencies that benefit from a
sustained global recovery, five years after the onset of the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  HSBC Holdings Plc’s Global Hazard Indicator, which combines
implied volatility readings in options for the dollar, euro and
yen, shows wider price swings in currencies over the next year
than in the coming three months. If history is any guide, that
means the dollar and yen will strengthen and higher-yielding,
higher-risk currencies such as the Brazilian real and South
African rand will depreciate.  While reports in the U.S. show gains in jobs and  consumer
confidence , and data from  China  signal that services industries
are rebounding from 19-month  lows , foreign-exchange speculation
is a losing bet. The UBS V24 Carry Index that tracks profits
from the so-called carry trade, where money borrowed in low-
yielding currencies is used to buy those from nations with
higher rates, is at about the lowest level since early 2011.  “The market is not yet fully convinced that we are back to
normal trading conditions, and sees the potential for renewed
turbulence in 2013,” said  Daragh Maher , a strategist at HSBC in
 London . “There are plenty of potential triggers for renewed
volatility on the horizon,” he said, citing potential spending
cuts and tax increases in the U.S., the sovereign-debt crisis in
 Europe  and political change in China.  Easy Profits  Investing the proceeds of dollar-denominated loans should
offer easy profits because the Fed has said it probably will
keep the target rate for overnight lending between banks near
zero through mid-2015. The carry trade can lose money when the
currency used to fund the strategy strengthens, or the targeted
currency weakens, or some combination.  Instead, selling borrowed dollars to buy reais in Brazil,
where the target interest rate is 7.25 percent, has lost about 5
percent this year as the real tumbled 23 percent from its 2012
high in February as of 1:44 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The same trade with the rand has lost
about 4.8 percent.  “The ample provision of liquidity by central banks is at
least helping to calm markets and make them more stable than
they would otherwise be,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York, said in a Nov. 7
telephone interview. “The tendency for major currencies to be
driven by interest rates is somewhat diminished compared to
where it has been in the past.”  Declining Speculation  Foreign-exchange speculation is declining as $607 billion
in U.S. spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect Jan.
1, concern that European leaders aren’t moving fast enough to
fix the region’s debt crisis, and slowing growth in emerging
economies from China to Brazil weigh on sentiment.  The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
least since the 2009 recession, the International Monetary Fund
said on Oct. 9. The Washington-based IMF also said it sees an
“alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown.  Average daily volume in foreign exchange conducted through
ICAP Plc’s EBS trading system fell 46 percent in October from a
year earlier, the company said last week.  For all the efforts to restore confidence in the financial
system, the world’s foreign-exchange market, where $4 trillion
trades each day, is saying that the global economy can’t stand
on its own without the unprecedented stimulus by the Federal
Reserve, European Central Bank and  Bank of Japan. (8301)   Dollar Favored  The euro slid as much as 0.4 percent to $1.2662 today, the
weakest since Sept. 7. The yen gained against most of its major
counterparts, climbing 0.2 percent to 100.87 per euro and 0.1
percent to 79.40 versus the dollar.  Rising volatility may favor the dollar as investors seek
the haven of the world’s reserve currency. The euro will
depreciate to $1.25 next year, and the dollar will strengthen to
83 yen from 79.40, according to median estimates of more than 35
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  HSBC’s three-month hazard index was most recently at 10.3
percent, below the one-year level of 12.1 percent. The three-
month gauge topped the one-year measure by the widest margin in
October 2008, a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
for bankruptcy and pushed the financial system into crisis.  The amount by which the one-year index exceeded the three-
month measure peaked at 2.9 percent in March 2011, just before
the global economy faltered and the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
slid 18.3 percent over the next six months.  The discrepancy may be more a reflection of investors
paring bets, rather than speculation for a weakening economy,
according to Steven Englander of Citigroup Inc.  ‘Very Soft’  Investors who wagered on increased realized volatility may
be getting discouraged by a lack of price fluctuation, causing
them to unwind positions and artificially drive down near-term
contracts, he said.  “With realized volatility so low, everybody who bought
volatility sees their positions losing value, which means they
sell it back into the market,” Englander, head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup in New York, said in a Nov. 7
telephone interview. “Until that process is finished, you have
short-term volatilities looking very soft.”  Realized volatility on one-month euro-dollar options
reached its lowest level since 2007 on Oct. 31, dropping to 6.76
percent. Historical volatility for three-month euro-dollar
contracts fell to 7.42 on Nov. 6, also the weakest since 2007.  The euro will decline to $1.22 by the end of 2013,
according to Citigroup. Wells Fargo, the most-accurate currency
forecaster as of Sept. 20, also sees the euro slipping to $1.22
against the dollar over that period.  HSBC Euro  HSBC expects the opposite, with the greenback’s status as a
haven diminishing on the approaching fiscal cliff as investors
reduce dollar holdings linked to the U.S.’s mounting economic
burden, Maher said. The euro will rise to $1.40 by the end of
2013, HSBC projects.  Even with the extra stimulus by central banks, the IMF said
it sees a one-in-six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  The Bank of  Japan  added 11 trillion yen ($137 billion) to
increase its asset-purchase fund, it’s main policy tool, to 66
trillion yen on Oct. 30. The central bank also said it would
offer unlimited loans to banks.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Sept. 13 that the central
bank would purchase $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month until
an economic recovery is well-established, on top of two earlier
rounds of bond purchases totaling $2.3 trillion from December
2008 and June 2011.  ECB President Mario Draghi said on Sept. 6 that policy
makers agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program to regain
control of interest rates in the euro area and fight speculation
of a currency breakup.  ‘High Volatility’  “If you believe that an activist central bank will keep
fighting, that suggests growth, which also means high liquidity
and low volatility,” Shahab Jalinoos, a  Stamford , Connecticut-
based senior currency strategist at UBS AG, said in a Nov. 8
telephone interview. “If you think that you don’t have an
activist central bank, or have one whose hands are tied by
something, then you probably will see high volatility.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed to a five-year high
in November, while payrolls expanded by 171,000 workers in
October, exceeding the highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
China’s services industries rebounded in October from the
slowest expansion in at least 19 months, adding to manufacturing
gains.  Meanwhile, growth in  Brazil , the largest emerging economy
after China, will average 1.5 percent this year, less than the
U.S. or Japan, according to 30 economists’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The European Commission said the euro-area economy will
stagnate next year as the sovereign-debt crisis engulfing
southern Europe begins to slow export-driven  Germany .  “This is going to be a very slow recovery process,” Wells
Fargo’s Bennenbroek said. “Neither the official institutions,
nor the private investors, are looking for a strong rebound from
the major economies in any near- to medium-term time frame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  