-- Chengdu Tianqui Proposes Talison Bid to Trump Rockwood
-- B y   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-12T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/chengdu-tianqui-proposes-talison-bid-to-trump-rockwood.html
Chengdu Tianqi Industry Group Co., a
closely held Chinese battery maker, said it will make an offer
for Australian mining company Talison Lithium Ltd. that will
exceed an agreed takeover bid from  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC)   Chengdu Tianqi’s Windfield Holdings unit agreed to buy or
has already purchased an aggregate 15 percent stake in Talison,
the Chengdu, Sichuan province-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Chengdu Tianqi plans to submit a proposal for the
rest of the shares at a higher price than Rockwood’s bid of
C$6.50 ($6.50) a share, according to the statement.  Talison, based in Perth,  Australia , mines ore to produce
battery-grade lithium, which analysts at Dahlman Rose & Co. say
may double in demand during the next eight years on its use in
electric vehicles. Talison has the largest open-pit mine for
lithium with the highest grade ore in the world, according to
Jonathan Lee, an analyst at Toronto-based Byron Capital Markets
Ltd. Chengdu Tianqi purchases more than 90 percent of its
lithium raw material from Talison, he said.  “It’s basically vertical integration for them and securing
their source of supply,” Lee said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Talison rose 7.9 percent to C$6.96 in Toronto yesterday.  Talison dominates the market for technical-grade lithium
used in the glass and ceramics industries, he said. Tianqi is
the only distributor of Talison’s technical-grade lithium in
 China , according to the statement.  Australian Approval  “There’s a limited number of competitors in that space
that are vastly smaller than Talison,” Lee said.  Talison said yesterday in a statement it hasn’t received a
proposal from Chengdu Tianqi and recommends shareholders vote
for Rockwood’s bid. A voicemail message left with Princeton, New
Jersey-based Rockwood wasn’t immediately returned.  Talison will be able to grow its business and continue its
track record of innovation and development in Australia, Joshua Goldman-Brown, a spokesman for Chengdu Tianqi from public
relations company Kreab Gavin Anderson, said yesterday in an
interview.  A takeover by Chengdu Tianqi would have to be approved by
Australia’s Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act and may be
blocked because of the uniqueness of Talison’s resources, Lee
said. Goldman-Brown declined to comment on the details of the
approval process.  Chengdu Tianqi, which also makes agricultural machinery,
owns a 20 percent stake in Quebec City-based exploration company
Nemaska Lithium Inc., according to a Nov. 1 statement from
Nemaska.  Separately, Toronto-based Canada  Lithium Corp. (LTUM)  said
yesterday it agreed to a five-year agreement to supply China’s
 Tianjin Products and Energy Resources Development Co.  with
12,000 metric tons of battery-grade lithium carbonate annually.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in New York at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  