-- Chic Chinese Cuisine Rocks Sydney at Mr Wong, China Lane
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-12T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/chic-chinese-cuisine-rocks-sydney-at-mr-wong-china-lane.html
China  isn’t slowing in Sydney. Three
new restaurants, Mr Wong, China Lane and the Century, offer
three different interpretations of the Middle Kingdom’s ascent.  The clientele of 20 and 30-somethings in short skirts and
slim-fit shirts at Mr Wong’s attest to the influence of the
China-chic from a nation that’s morphed from drab communists to
cool urbanites.  Business patrons are lured to China Lane’s sleek “Shanghai
meets Mad Men” diner, while the Century caters to gamblers
looking to celebrate a win, or drown their sorrows over a loss.  Mr Wong is the latest addition to restaurant magnate Justin
Hemmes’s empire centered around the Establishment Hotel on
George Street. Executive chef Dan Hong also heads two other
Hemmes restaurants, Ms G’s and  El Loco .  Mr Wong’s quiet, back-lane setting sets a  Shanghai  1920’s
kind-of-mood upon approach, enhanced by glimpses of the basement
and ground-floor diner, which seats 240. Inside, dim lighting,
exposed wooden beams reflecting the building’s industrial past,
and discreet dashes of old China continue the theme.  Our party of four arrived on a Saturday at about 7:30 p.m.,
without a reservation, because the minimum is a party of six.
Then came the bad news: with a sympathetic grimace the maitre d’
told us we’d have to wait until about 9:30 p.m. for a table.  Tsingtao Beer  Needing a drink, we gave her our mobile phone numbers and
seated ourselves at the bar. A platter of Mr Koh’s delectable
fried, baked, poached and steamed dim sum convinced us to wait
it out. A couple of Tsingtao beers later, my phone rang with
news our time had come. At 9 p.m., we took to the bamboo-framed
wooden chairs at our wall-side table.  We were seated directly below a speaker with jazz-funk
tunes playing a little too loud for easy conversation. Otherwise
comfort reigned, with generous spacing between tables. A cozy
atmosphere is created by heavy wooden columns and the clever use
of screens to break up the restaurant’s vast space.  Scanning the Cantonese-inspired menu, a few must-have
dishes jumped out: roasted duck, wok-fried Pippies in XO sauce,
and hotpot of braised tofu and baby vegetables.  We took the waitress’s recommendation and added stir-fried
noodles with beef, and sweet & sour crispy pork hock. She knew
what she was about -- while all dishes satisfied, it was the
pork, with its sauce’s delicious, over-the-top sweetness and the
fatty meat’s full mouth, lingering flavor that had us diving for
seconds.  Downhill Service  From then on, the service went downhill. With a table full
of empty glasses, we had to ask for the wine list; the food’s
saltiness needed water we had to request; once our plates were
expired we had to ask for the dessert menu; and again we had to
conjure the list when searching for a wine to match.  Still, Mr Wong is new and such slips will no doubt soon be
addressed. On all other fronts, it’s a great addition to
Hemmes’s stable of diners offering broad appeal.  Business patrons may prefer the smaller China Lane,
concealed in Angel Place, off Sydney’s busiest strip, Pitt
Street. Outside, dozens of bird cages are suspended about 20
meters above a cluster of tables.  Inside, green leather bench seats, red lounges, and a 50s-
mod vibe give what its website perfectly describes as a “Mad
Men” look.  A friend and I arrived for a Friday lunch at the designated
time, only to find a packed restaurant and an apologetic host
explaining that our table wasn’t ready.  Thoughtful Drink  A flicker of annoyance was soon snuffed out as she found us
a place to wait at the bar and by her insistence that she “buy
us a drink.”  The rest of the staff was just as thoughtful, taking our
order while we drank our beers and making our table ready
soon after. A plate of delicious Sichuan chili chicken wings
came as we took our seats -- another freebie.  A salad of slow-roast pork belly with prawns and jellyfish
was deliciously crisp with pomelo (a Southeast Asian citrus
fruit) and coriander.  Like much of head-chef Ben Haywood’s menu, the dish is more
Chinese-inspired than Chinese, reflecting Haywood’s experience,
including time with  Raymond Blanc  (Petit Blanc and Le Manoir)
and  Heston Blumenthal  (Fat Duck).  Duck pancakes and prawn dumplings -- the most explicitly
Chinese dishes on the menu -- were tasty, but it was the spiced
slow braise of Wagyu beef shin that stole the show with its
delectable tenderness and gentle spice.  Chinesey Century  The Century, under the city’s casino, is the most Chinesey
of the new eateries. Fish tanks crammed with lobsters, crabs and
fish adorn the entry. Inside, round tables with Asian diners are
diligently tended by black-and-white clad waiters.  The Peking duck here eclipses China Lane’s for crunchiness
and depth of flavor, while its follow up san choy bow was just
as adroit. Little wonder, since chefs here draw from expertise
acquired from parent Golden Century, a Sydney staple since 1986.  The wine list caters to all fortunes -- for high rollers on
a hot streak there’s the 1825 Chateau Lafite Rothschild for
A$98,800 ($103,000). Those down on their luck can get a bottle
of Australian wine from A$32.  While  China’s economy  has cooled in 2012, there’s little
sign of that 5,000 kilometers to the south.  The Bloomberg Questions  Average cost per person for shared meals and a couple of
drinks? Mr Wong’s: A$80. China Lane: A$60. Century: A$70.  Sound level? Noisy at Mr Wong’s (peaking at mid-90
decibels), chatty at China Lane, quieter at the Century.  Inside tip? Arrive early at Mr Wong’s to secure a table.  Special feature? The Century’s wall of fish tanks.  Will I be back? Mr Wong’s: Yes, socially. China Lane: Yes,
for any occasion. The Century: unlikely.  Date place? Mr Wong’s: Yes for the 20 to early-30s bracket.
China Lane: Yes for the rest. The Century: No.  Rating? Mr Wong and China Lane **, The Century *.  Mr Wong, 3 Bridge Lane, Sydney, 2000. Information:
+61-2-9240-3000,  http://merivale.com.au/mrwong/   China Lane, Shop 2, City Recital Hall, 2-12 Angel Place,
Sydney. Information: +61 9231 3939,  http://chinalane.com.au   The Century, The Star, entry on Pirrama Road, Pyrmont,
2000. Information: + 61 9566 2328,  http://bit.ly/SeYyGo   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: City street. 80-85: Alarm clock at closest
range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Underground train.  ( Malcolm Scott  is writing for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater
and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney on 
 Mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 