-- Chilean Peso Fluctuates as Stable Rates Offset Global Concerns
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-12T15:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/chilean-peso-fluctuates-as-stable-rates-offset-global-concerns.html
Chile ’s peso fluctuated between
gains and losses today as expectations the central bank will
leave interest rates unchanged offset pessimism about the global
economy.  The peso weakened less than 0.1 percent to 480.01 per
dollar as of 12:11 p.m. in Santiago after earlier appreciating
as much as 0.3 percent to 478.33 per dollar. The currency has
traded between 477 per dollar and 484 per dollar since Oct. 23.  Chile’s peso has appreciated 8.2 percent this year, more
than any other currency except the Hungarian forint, as the
central bank held its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged since
January. The currency is being pushed lower by concern that
President  Barack Obama  won’t reach an accord with Congress to
avoid more than $600 billion in mandated spending cuts and tax
increases starting Jan. 1 that the  Congressional Budget Office 
has said could drive the U.S. back into recession.  “There are arguments in the domestic economy to support a
strong peso,” including stable interest rates, said Cristian
Donoso, a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.
“Yet offshore there’s the U.S fiscal cliff, the sagas of Greece
and Spain and weakening copper. Those things play a against each
other.”  Chile is the biggest copper producer in the world and the
metal, which made up 60.7 percent of the country’s exports last
month, reached a 12-week intraday low on Nov. 9.  Copper edged higher today on stronger-than-forecast exports
from  China , the biggest buyer of the metal. While the pick-up in
export growth may be a sign  China’s economy  is stabilizing, the
country’s trade outlook remains grim, according Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming .  The one-year interest-rate swap rate rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.99 percent today.  A holiday in the U.S. contributed to the weakening peso as
accounts that had bought the Chilean currency in the forwards
market in recent days were absent.  “There is real demand for dollars in Chile and the
offshore accounts aren’t here,” said Ignacio Ruiz-Moreno, a
trader at Scotiabank Chile in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  