-- China Solar Giants Likely to Get State Bailouts: Experts
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-11-12T19:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/china-solar-giants-likely-to-get-state-bailouts-experts.html
China’s $20 billion solar industry
is avoiding loan defaults and mergers by taking aid from local
governments, preserving jobs at money-losing companies such as
LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-biggest maker of solar cells.  LDK agreed last month to sell a 19.9 percent stake to a
renewable-energy investor part-owned by the city of Xinyu, home
to its headquarters.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s
largest solar-panel maker, got a $32 million loan in September
organized partly by Wuxi, the city where it’s based. The aid
helps as the companies prepare to report combined 2012 losses of
$987 million, analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  The moves counter efforts by the central government to
engineer mergers that create a handful of larger solar
companies, said Jeremy Haft, founder of BChinaB Inc., a New
York-based consulting company that specializes in Chinese
business practices. The country has previously pushed
consolidation to strengthen industries such as steel and coal.  Provincial governments mostly want solar manufacturers “to
keep the lights on and not lay people off,” Haft said. “There
are a lot of people unemployed” in  China  and local government
officials don’t want to see solar factories close up, he said.  Local aid efforts haven’t sparked a rally in LDK and
Suntech. They’ve  lost  27 percent and 12 percent, respectively,
in the last three months, outpacing the 8.4 percent loss for the
17-member Bloomberg Global Large Solar Energy index over the
same period. LDK gained 16 percent to $1.04 at 2:34 p.m. in  New
York . Earlier it climbed as much as 22 percent, the most
intraday since Oct. 27, 2011. Suntech rose as much as 19
percent.  At the same time  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the world’s
biggest solar-wafer maker, has increased 19 percent in the last
three months. The company has been mentioned in Chinese news
reports as a possible merger partner.  Encouraging Consolidation  The China Securities Journal said national government-run
 China Development Bank  Corp. is encouraging consolidation
between panel makers, pledging financial support for 12
companies. The move may lead other struggling solar
manufacturers to close their doors or agree to be bought, the
journal said in a Sept. 25 report.  China Development Bank is motivated to keep struggling
solar companies afloat, especially those that have borrowed from
it, said Melanie Hart, policy analyst at the Center for American
Progress in  Washington . The lender is putting pressure on local
governments to support companies so they will repay loans, she
said.  The bank is telling local officials “we won’t lend anymore
to anyone in your region until they pay us back,” she said.  Those local efforts contrast with China’s national goals,
which are commonly described as “grasping the big, letting go
of the small,” Hart said.  Biggest Obstacle  Help from local governments may be the biggest obstacle to
making China’s solar industry competitive, said Shyam Mehta,
solar analyst at the Boston-based consulting company GTM
Research.  “Until they stop supporting the uncompetitive
manufacturers, this won’t go away,” said Mehta. “If LDK was
allowed to fail, the market reaction would actually be
positive.”  Suntech is evaluating various financing options and cutting
costs, and in September temporarily reduced production in Wuxi,
Suntech spokesman Rory Macpherson said in e-mail. He didn’t say
whether the company expects additional support from the
community. Telephone calls to LDK spokesman Li Longji went
unanswered.  The country’s state-owned electricity distributor China
State Grid Corp. announced incentives Oct. 26 to encourage
smaller solar projects, with capacity of less than 6 megawatts,
such as rooftop systems. It will buy the electricity and exempt
owners from certain fees, which may spur sales at the strongest
panel suppliers.  Paying Debts  Neither LDK nor Suntech is profitable and both will have
trouble paying their debts, according to Pavel Molchanov, an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston. LDK is
expected to lose $518 million this year and Suntech may post
losses of $469 million, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  LDK and Suntech both have balance sheets “so egregious”
they would be “imminent bankruptcy candidates if they were
American or European,” Molchanov said in an interview. “But
they’re not, so we kind of have to look at them differently.”  “Every province, every city, every bank is going to try to
protect their vested interest as best they can,” he said.
“That’s why kicking the can down the road has been the dynamic
so far.”  Total Debt  Suntech’s total  debt  was about 2.8 times its total equity
at the end of the first quarter, the most recent figures
available. That’s more than doubled in a year, from 1.3 times a
year earlier. LDK’s  debt , almost 8 times its total equity at the
end of the second quarter, has more than tripled from 2.2 times
a year earlier.  Suntech has about $2.3 billion in  debt , including $541
million in convertible notes that are due in less than five
months.  The city of Wuxi set up a  task force  in September led by
the mayor to help the company and is holding talks to ensure
that lenders provide financial support, such as Bank of China
Ltd., which provided a 200 million-yuan ($32 million) loan. The
regional government pledged to “actively and firmly” support
Suntech.  LDK has about $3.6 billion in total  debt . The company
agreed Oct. 22 to issue new shares that will be bought by Heng
Rui Xin Energy Co., which is 40 percent owned by the Xinyu
State-owned Asset Management Co., giving it a 19.9 percent
stake.  Additional Support  That agreement was the second show of support for LDK from
the city in three months. Xinyu agreed in July to pay a portion
of the company’s debt owed to Huarong International Trust Co.
LDK didn’t say how much will be covered of the $79.4 million it
owed the lender as of the end of last year. LDK named five new
directors Nov. 5, including a provincial official and a
financial consultant with ties to the city.  Other Chinese communities are supporting local solar
manufacturers. A company controlled by Dongying, a city in
Shandong province, offered $10 million for a 50.38 percent stake
in  CNPV Solar Power SA (ALCNP) ’s sole asset, CNPV Dongying, on Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Todd White  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  