-- China Lags U.S. in Gold Holdings, May Raise Total, LBMA Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-11-12T09:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/china-lags-u-s-in-gold-holdings-may-raise-total-lbma-says.html
The Chinese government may add more
gold to its reserves as the precious metal accounts for a lower
share of total holdings compared with the U.S., according to the
London Bullion Market Association.  “When comparing  China  to the U.S., it would seem that in
China, gold  asset allocation  can only go in one direction,”
Chairman David Gornall told the association’s annual conference
in Hong Kong. “The country has only 2 percent of its reserves
in the form of gold compared with the U.S. at 75 percent.”  Gold is set for a 12th annual gain, supported by central-
bank buying and record holdings in exchange-traded products as
investors seek to preserve their wealth from falling currencies.
The People’s Bank of China hasn’t disclosed any changes to its
gold holdings since 2009, when it said they’d risen 76 percent
to 1,054 metric tons. While the U.S.,  Germany ,  Italy  and France
keep more than 70 percent of reserves in gold, China’s share is
less than 2 percent, according to World Gold Council data.  “Prices have recently been supported by official sector
buying,” Gornall said today, without listing any central bank.
“Will the gap between the amount of gold held in reserve by the
developing markets and that of the developed world close?”  Gold for immediate delivery, which climbed to a record
$1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6, 2011, traded at $1,734.85 at 5:02
p.m. in Hong Kong after rising 11 percent this year. The run of
annual gains, the best performance since at least 1920 in  London ,
has been supported by concern that stimulus programs around the
world including that backed by the U.S. Federal Reserve will
debase currencies and spur inflation.  Bank Buyers  Brazil ,  South Korea  and  Russia  are among countries that
added gold this year, data from the International Monetary Fund
show. Nations bought 254.2 tons in the first half and may add
close to 500 tons this year, the World Gold Council said in
August, exceeding the 456 tons added in 2011. China has the
world’s largest  foreign-exchange reserves , totaling $3.29
trillion in September, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  “Emerging-market economies from the G-20 countries are
looking to elevate their gold holdings,” Ashish Bhatia, manager
of government affairs at the producer-funded WGC, said in an
interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. There’s “renewed interest
from central banks on the demand side.”  U.S. holdings, the world’s largest, totaled 8,133.5 tons,
or 76.6 percent of reserves, according to WGC data for this
month. Germany, the second-biggest holder, had 3,395.5 tons,
representing 73.9 percent of reserves, it said. China’s gold
represented 1.8 percent of its total reserves, the figures show.  ‘Number One’  “China has, of course, been the world’s number one gold-
mining country for the past five years,” said Gornall, head of
metals trading at  Natixis SA. (KN)  “What is remarkable is the way
that this growth has continued while many of the other important
mining countries have struggled to maintain production.”  The Fed said on Oct. 24 it will maintain $40 billion in
monthly purchases of mortgage debt and probably hold interest
 rates  near zero until 2015 to spur growth and reduce joblessness.
The  Bank of Japan  expanded an asset-purchase program on Oct. 30
for the second time in two months and the  European Central Bank 
has said that it is ready to buy bonds of indebted nations.  The LBMA is a London-based trade group that represents the
wholesale market for gold and silver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  