-- Christie’s N.J. Tax Cut Threatened by Sandy Revenue Loss
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-11-12T19:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/christie-s-n-j-tax-cut-threatened-by-sandy-revenue-loss.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he isn’t sure whether he’ll still pursue a tax cut that was
the centerprice of his economic strategy because  Hurricane Sandy 
may have hurt state revenue in October and November.  Collections may pick up in the months ahead as New Jersey
residents replenish supplies to rebuild, Christie, 50, told
reporters today in Lincroft. He said he will decide whether to
push for lower taxes after seeing the latest revenue figures.  “In the short term, these past two weeks, I’m sure we’ve
experienced the diminution of revenue,” Christie said. “The
question is what will the revenue picture be.”  Christie, a first-term Republican, spent much of this year
touting a “Jersey Comeback,” a recovery plan that sought tax
cuts or credits. His revenue forecasts have been challenged by
Democrats, who control the legislature, and by  Standard &
Poor’s , which revised its outlook on the state’s debt in
September to negative from stable.  Collections for the first three months of the fiscal year
that began July 1 missed Christie’s forecast by 4 percent,
putting revenue about $175 million short of his targets.  Sandy slammed into the New Jersey Coast on Oct. 29,
smashing entire oceanfront communities and leaving more than
half the state in the dark. It crippled the biggest U.S. mass-
transit network, led to gasoline shortages and caused at least
100 deaths in the U.S.  More Money  Christie said revenue probably will be down for October and
November and he expects it will pick up from December through
June.  Asked whether the loss of revenue would lead him to delay
or scrap the tax-cut plan, Christie said: “Don’t know. I mean,
I still have to work with the treasurer on that.”  “Rebuilding is going to require the purchase of enormous
amounts of supplies, the employment of people who would not have
been otherwise, presumably, which means more taxes from them,”
Christie said. “And it would mean businesses have an
opportunity to, responsibly and within the law, make more money
than they would otherwise.”  Sandy helped to underscore why Democrats’ wait-and-see
approach toward a tax cut was prudent, said Assemblyman Vincent Prieto, a Democrat from Secaucus who is head of his house’s
Budget Committee.  Lawmakers set aside $183 million in the $31.7 billion
budget for the cost of the tax cuts, and have refused to release
it unless the state reaches Christie’s revenue targets.  Lost tourism will have an effect on New Jersey’s revenue
through at least next year, Prieto said in a telephone interview
today. The state’s 127 miles of beaches are the backbone of a
$38 billion  tourism industry , its third-largest.  “We had this devastation and although we’re going to get a
lot of money from the federal government, there’s probably going
to be a price tag for us,” Prieto said. “Right now is not the
time to be talking about a tax cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  