-- Clavis Falls After Ending Development of Cancer Drug: Oslo Mover
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-12T10:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/clavis-falls-after-ending-development-of-cancer-drug-oslo-mover.html
Clavis Pharma ASA (CLAVIS) , a Norwegian
cancer-drug developer, fell the most in six years after data
from trials of an experimental treatment for pancreatic cancer
prompted it to suspend all development work on the drug.  Clavis declined as much as 91 percent to 6 kroner, the
 largest drop  since its initial public offering in July 2006. The
stock was down 87 percent at 8.54 kroner as of 11:02 a.m. in
Oslo trading, cutting the company’s market value to 287.9
million kroner ($50.1 million)  The LEAP trial, run by partner  Clovis Oncology Inc. (CLVS) , showed
that there was no difference in overall survival between
patients taking the drug known as CP-4126 when compared against
those taking chemotherapy drug gemcitabine. All development work
with CP-4126 across all indications is now suspended, the
company said.  The results “are surprising and disappointing given the
evidence we have seen from previous studies reported in the
literature,” Chief Executive Officer Olav Helleboe said in a
statement. “Meanwhile, we continue to believe in the potential
of elacytarabine, our lead product, to become an effective new
treatment option for acute myeloid leukemia.”  Results from the late-stage “Clavela” trial on
elacytarabine will be released in the first quarter of next
year, according to the company.  “So far, the company’s technology has not delivered,”
said Carsten Loenborg Madsen, an analyst at Carnegie Investment
Bank in Copenhagen. “Metastatic pancreatic cancer has always
been one of the most difficult cancers to treat. We will have to
wait and see the results from the Clavela trial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  