-- CME Lawsuit Over CFTC Swap-Database Rule Faulted by DTCC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-12T20:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/cme-lawsuit-over-cftc-s-swap-registration-rule-faulted-by-dtcc.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s lawsuit over U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission swap-data rules will
undermine efforts to boost transparency following the 2008
credit crisis, the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. said.  The suit, filed in federal court on Nov. 8, “threatens to
dismantle and disrupt the entire regulatory regime statutorily
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act in order to preserve CME’s
exclusive access to data that it acquires through its role as a
derivatives clearing organization,” DTCC General Counsel Larry E. Thompson said in a letter to the CFTC yesterday.  CME, the Chicago-based exchange operator that runs a swaps
clearinghouse, is seeking an injunction against CFTC rules for
reporting private trade information, claiming that submissions
to so-called swap-data repositories would be redundant. DTCC,
based in  New York , is one of the firms given CFTC approval to
run data repositories for  interest rate  and credit-default
swaps, among other types of trades.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul,
directed the CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission to
write rules for swap-data repositories to give regulators a
better view on prices and volume in a $648 trillion market
dominated by banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Provisional Registration  The CFTC has granted provisional registration to DTCC Data
Repository LLC and ICE Trade Vault LLC, a repository operated by
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc. for information on
energy, interest rate, credit and other swaps.  “One of the essential parts of financial reform is
promoting transparency; transparency both to the public and to
regulators,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a Sept. 20
interview after the agency announced DTCC’s registration.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mail requests for comment while U.S. government
offices are closed for observance of Veterans Day.  CME said in the lawsuit that it is awaiting a response from
CFTC on its June 7 application to become a data repository. The
company said in its suit that it must comply with the cleared
swap reporting rules tomorrow.  “CME believes the cleared swap regulatory rules will
impose costly, cumbersome, and duplicative requirements” on
derivatives clearinghouses, Laurie Bischel, spokeswoman for CME,
said in an e-mail today.  The lawsuit and DTCC response highlight the revenue
potential from collecting market data, said  Darrell Duffie , a
professor at  Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business.
“Even if the fees are quite modest, at some point in the future
it could be quite valuable to be the owner of these data,”
Duffie said in a telephone interview.  Frequent Questions  After the data-repository rulemaking, the CFTC’s staff on
Oct. 11 published a  document  on frequently asked questions about
reporting. CME said the document contradicted the rules by
saying buyers and sellers of a swap would be allowed to decide
which database would get trade information.  “To the extent the FAQ requires CME to report nonpublic
regulatory data on cleared swaps to SDRs chosen by the original
swap counterparties, CME will suffer harm,”  Mark D. Young , a
Washington-based partner at  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP  representing CME, said in the lawsuit.  The financial industry has spent a year planning for the
new data repositories and invested hundreds of millions of
dollars to comply with rules, according to DTCC.  The DTCC data repository “has significant concerns with
the potential negative consequences of a judicial challenge or
commission action to remove the necessity for a legal dispute,”
Thompson said in the letter. “DTCC is currently considering its
possible responses to the suit and resulting Commission
activity, including possible judicial recourse.”  Undermining Dodd-Frank  Fragmented information about the market across multiple
data repositories risks undermining Dodd-Frank’s goals by
threatening regulators’ ability to view consolidated positions
and patterns of manipulative or abusive trading, according to
DTCC.  “It is critical that swap data is reported to and
maintained by one SDR throughout the life of the contract,”
Thompson said.  DTCC doesn’t object to CME or any other clearinghouse
“keeping a copy of the cleared trade as long as they send a
copy of the cleared trade to the SDR in accordance to their
customer’s choice,” Thompson said in an e-mail statement today.
“Copies of data are not an issue, however, customer direction
regarding where trades should be sent for official record-
keeping in the SDR is key.”  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  