-- Colorado Weed Law Raises Drug War Doubts, Costa Rica Leader Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-12T18:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/colorado-weed-law-raises-drug-war-doubts-costa-rica-leader-says.html
The legalization of recreational
marijuana use in the states of  Colorado  and  Washington  last week
will lead Latin America to increasingly question the merits of the
war on drugs, said Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla.  The first U.S. states to decriminalize will spur demand at a
time when Central American nations and Mexico are paying a high
price to halt shipments, Chinchilla said in an interview yesterday
in Queretaro, Mexico, at the Mexico Business Summit. Voters in
Washington and Colorado agreed in a ballot Nov. 6 to allow people
to hold one ounce (28.4 grams) of marijuana.  “This is an inflection point that is going to demand
something that some Central American countries have already been
doing, which is to analyze in a deeper way different scenarios in
the war on drugs,” Chinchilla said.  Calls among Latin American leaders for a legalization debate
have been growing after drug trafficking fueled violence in the
transit nations that sit between  Peru ,  Bolivia  and  Colombia , the
region’s biggest cocaine producers, and the U.S., the world’s top
drug consumer. Costa Rica, whose beaches and rainforest have made
the nation a tourist destination for decades, in 2010 was included
on the U.S. State Department’s list of major drug transit nations
for the first time.  President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto has said he favors a
legalization debate in Mexico, where more than 57,000 people have
died in drug-related violence since outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  sent the army to take on the cartels after taking office
in December 2006. Pena Nieto succeeds Calderon next month.  ‘Dissonance’  The moves in the U.S. will “create a dissonance between some
policies and others,” Chinchilla said. Some policies, “far from
containing demand, will stimulate it, while others are trying to
limit supply, at an extremely high cost.”  Costa Rica has decriminalized drug possession for small
quantities, meaning people are not punished for holding drugs at
levels deemed for personal use.  Chinchilla said she needs more information about the
consequences of making drug sales legal to decide whether that
would be a desirable policy. Such a step would only work if
regulations were established to prevent an “explosion” in use,
and for now  Costa Rica  will continue trying to stop the transit
and sale of narcotics, she said.  Belize is studying marijuana decriminalization, and
Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina has urged regional leaders
to consider it.  Bond Sale  Chinchilla said that Costa Rica’s economy “is showing
health,” and she expects the sale of as much as $1 billion in
bonds in “coming days” to be well received. The nation is making
increasing efforts to attract foreign investment from Japan,  China 
and South Korea, she said.  Costa Rica’s first overseas debt sale since 2004 will help
fund a fiscal deficit forecast to reach 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product by year end, according to a Nov. 9 statement by
Finance Minister Edgar Ayales.  The Costa Rican colon was little changed today at 499.67 per
 U.S. dollar  as of 11:45 a.m. in San Jose and has gained 2.4
percent this year, compared with a 5.6 percent appreciation in
Mexico’s peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Queretaro at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 