-- Consumer Bureau Deputy Date Plans Departure From Agency
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-11-12T22:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/consumer-bureau-deputy-said-to-plan-departure-from-agency.html
Raj Date, the deputy director of the
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is leaving the agency
at the end of January, Jen Howard, a bureau spokeswoman  said in
an e-mail.  Date, a former banker who ran the agency from August 2011
to early January, was an early hire to the bureau in the fall of
2010. During the debate over the Dodd-Frank law that created the
agency, he had argued for it alongside  Elizabeth Warren , the
Harvard University law professor who subsequently became an
Obama administration adviser charged with setting up the bureau.  Upon leaving, Date, 41, will have been out of the private
sector for about four years. He left Deutsche Bank AG in 2009 to
found the  Cambridge Winter Center  for Financial Institutions
Policy, a research institute that published work on financial
regulation. The organization became Date’s perch for
participating in the Dodd-Frank debate.  Date currently has no other plans, other than to spend time
with family, Howard said.  When Warren left the agency in July 2011, Date became its
head, as the special adviser to the Treasury secretary for the
CFPB. He had been the associate director for research, markets
and regulations. Warren has since been elected to the  U.S.
Senate  from  Massachusetts .  The timing of Date’s departure will leave him in place to
help wrap up several mortgage rules the CFPB is due to finalize
by January, notably one on so-called qualified mortgages. It
will also finish work on some mortgage service regulations.  Industry Liaison  As a former executive at  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and
Deutsche, Date served as Warren’s de facto liaison to the
financial services industry. Date also helped create the
structure of the CFPB, and hire its senior staff. When President
 Barack Obama  installed  Richard Cordray  as the bureau’s director
in January, Date became his deputy.  “As the agency’s first deputy director, Raj has helped to
lead the agency’s organizational, strategic, and policy
direction,” Howard said in her e-mail. “His legacy is a
consumer bureau grounded in data-driven analysis, market-based
pragmatism, and the real-world experiences of American
consumers.”  Date is scheduled to speak at an event in  Mountain View ,
 California , headquarters of search engine giant Google Inc., on
Nov. 14. It will mark the beginning of Project Catalyst, a CFPB
plan to encourage consumer-friendly innovation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  