-- Czech Premier to Ease Deficit Cuts After 2013 to Aid Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-11-12T16:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/czech-premier-to-ease-deficit-cuts-after-2013-to-aid-growth-2-.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas wants to
ease the pace of budget-deficit cuts after next year to boost
output in an economy that is in its second recession since 2009
due to weak domestic demand.  The government will aim to keep the public-finance  deficit 
below 3 percent of economic output until 2015 after it cuts the
shortfall to less than the European Union’s limit next year,
Necas said in a Mlada Fronta Dnes interview published Nov. 10.
The goals set in the latest convergence plan, a road map to
euro-area membership, envisaged a deficit of 1.9 percent of
gross domestic product in 2014 and 0.9 percent in 2015.  With the country facing the prospect of its longest
 recession  on record, Necas is trying to avoid the fate of
European leaders who were ousted as they pushed austerity
measures that stunted economies from  Romania  to  Spain . The
premier, who credits previous cuts with helping to reduce
borrowing costs, didn’t mention any new specific deficit goals.  “When we have economic growth of around 2 percent, we can
return to  deficit reduction  again,” Necas said.  The yield on Czech government five-year koruna bonds fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage points, to a record-low
0.70 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Weak Demand  The Czech  economy  is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised taxes to trim
the budget gap.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the third
consecutive contraction, after consumers responded to the
worsening economic outlook by spending less.  The Cabinet has cut investment, raised the  sales tax  and
curbed spending on public wages. The budget shortfall narrowed
to 3.3 percent of GDP last year from 4.8 percent in 2010. The
 Finance Ministry  estimates it at 3.2 percent this year.  Necas has refused to allow the deficit to exceed the target
in 2012 and 2013, adopting a series of measures that the central
bank says are constraining household spending.  The government, which lost its parliamentary majority in
April after personnel and budget rows, pushed through on Nov. 7
a new package of measures including increases in the sales
levies and a new income tax rate for the highest earners, as
Necas suppressed a revolt among his lawmakers that weakened the
government.  Borrowing Costs  The central bank reduced the main two-week  repurchase  rate
to a record-low 0.05 percent on Nov. 1, almost three-quarters of
a point below the euro-area benchmark, responding to falling
domestic demand that has tamed inflation. Most Czech central
bankers agree the main  interest rate  should be kept at
effectively zero until inflation risks rise significantly,
according to minutes from their last rate meeting.  The government’s fiscal package will slow economic growth
by about 0.8 percentage point next year, according to central
bank forecasts.  “The impact on the economy will come through the price
effect stemming from the higher value-added tax, as well as
through lower nominal disposable income, with both these factors
reducing real household consumption,” the central bank said in
the quarterly Inflation Report published Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  