-- De Guindos Says Cuts Hurting Spain More Than Expected
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-11-12T20:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/de-guindos-says-cuts-hurting-spanish-gdp-more-than-he-expected.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous quote in second paragraph.
See TOP CRIS for more on  Europe ’s financial crisis.)  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said Spanish budget cuts are hurting the economy more than he
expected.  “The impact of fiscal tightening is deeper than we
projected in the past,” de Guindos told European lawmakers in
Brussels today. “This is something we have to take into
consideration.”  De Guindos was defending  Spain ’s  budget  consolidation
efforts in front of a panel of European lawmakers after the
European Commission last week said his government will miss its
fiscal target every year through 2014. He told the committee
Spain’s economy is hamstrung by flaws in the design of the
monetary union that have added about 200 basis points to
borrowing costs.  A Spanish recovery “is practically impossible unless
doubts over future of euro are dissipated,” he said.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has pushed his
European partners to meet their self-imposed deadline for
establishing a banking union in the face of German opposition.
He wants greater European integration to persuade investors that
they don’t run the risk of the currency union breaking up when
buying bonds from nations on the region’s periphery.  The European Commission cast doubt on Spain’s deficit and
growth forecasts on Nov. 7, predicting shortfalls of 8 percent
this year and 6 percent in 2013. The deficit was 9.4 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, including the impact of measures
to support banks, and the government aims to cut that to 7.4
percent this year, or 6.3 percent excluding bank aid.  “The government maintains its budget deficit
projections,” de Guindos told reporters when asked to clarify
his position after the parliamentary session. “Budget revenue
is in line with forecast. We are making an effort on spending.
That will bring us to the objective we have committed to.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond rose six basis
points to 5.89 percent at 5:10 p.m. in  Madrid . That compares
with a euro-era high of 7.75 percent on July 25, a day after
Spain signed the conditions for bank aid. It has dropped 150
basis points since the ECB on Aug. 2 pledged to buy sovereign
debt of countries requesting aid and committing to austerity
measures.  The commission said the economy will shrink 1.4 percent
next year, compared with the government’s estimate of a 0.5
percent contraction. It said the economy will grow 0.8 percent
in 2014, in line with Rajoy’s forecast of a recovery after 2013.  “Everyone is agreed that Spain is doing everything it has
to do,” de Guindos said. “No one questions the effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Brussels at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  