-- Deal on Aviation Emissions Within Reach in 2013, EU Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-12T09:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/deal-on-aviation-emissions-within-reach-in-2013-eu-says.html
A global deal to curb greenhouse
gases from airlines is within reach as soon as next year after
the United Nations’ aviation body accelerated talks on tackling
emissions by the industry, the European Union said.  The EU “truly welcomes” the progress at last week’s
meeting of the council of the UN International Civil Aviation
Organization, which established a high-level group on market-
based mechanisms and plans to decide how to tackle emissions
next year, according to Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman
for the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.  “An ICAO deal is possible in 2013,” Valero-Ladron said by
phone today. “In the framework of a global deal we will
consider changes to the emissions trading system.”  The 27-nation EU, which is seeking to lead the global fight
against climate change, included foreign airlines in its
emissions-trading market this year after international
organizations failed to enact pollution curbs. Under the EU law,
the commission should consider whether changes to the emissions
program are necessary in the light of a global deal.  The progress at the ICAO meeting on Friday could allow the
EU to propose modifications to the bloc’s legislation on
emissions trading for airlines as soon as this week, the Wall
Street Journal reported today.  “The commission can’t confirm this information,” Valero-
Ladron said.  The expansion of the EU emissions trading system, or the
ETS, to flights to and from European airports triggered
opposition from countries including  China ,  India ,  Russia  and the
U.S., which said  Europe  should let the ICAO decide on
greenhouse-gas limits for the industry.  Key Shortcoming  Non-governmental organizations including Transport and
Environment said they “cautiously” welcomed the ICAO decision
to set a high-level group, which will then make proposals on the
framework for market-based mechanisms to be presented to the UN
panel’s assembly in September 2013.  “The key shortcoming is that it remains unclear what any
such proposal would contain, as there are no binding commitments
on substance,” the organizations, which also include the
Environmental Defense Fund and Aviation Environment Federation,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Under the EU ETS, airlines must surrender beginning in 2013
allowances equal to their emissions in the prior year. The
airlines were given free allowances for about 85 percent of the
industry cap and will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at
auctions. They can also trade between each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  