-- Decade’s Riskiest Debt at 12% Yields Enticing Junk Buyers
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-11-12T12:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/decade-s-riskiest-debt-at-12-yields-enticing-junk-buyers.html
The hunger for returns from yield-
starved investors is emboldening the riskiest Brazilian
companies to try selling bonds at the highest rates in more than
a decade.  Auto-parts maker Sifco SA is seeking to sell $200 million
of 5.5-year bonds to yield about 12.75 percent, according to
people familiar with the transaction. The  interest rate  would be
the highest paid by a Brazilian corporate borrower since 2000,
and comes after meatpacker Rodopa Exportacao de Alimentos &
Logistica Ltda.’s sale of 12.5 percent notes in October. Chinese
companies are also tapping into the demand, with six dollar-bond
sales at coupons of 11 percent or higher since Sept. 1, compared
with two in the first eight months of 2012.  Emerging-market issuers rejected by debt investors earlier
this year are attempting to lure money managers as bond buying
by central banks worldwide pushed down yields of corporate bonds
to a record 3.38 percent last week. With growth in Latin
America’s largest economy forecast to more than double next
year, creditors who shunned  Brazil ’s speculative-grade sellers
after at least $1.9 billion in overseas defaults in 2012 are
boosting sales from junk-rated borrowers to $1.75 billion since
October.  “As investors have sought higher yields in  emerging
markets  this year, many of these types of credits have benefited
by going to the market and refinancing,” Joe Bormann, a
managing director at  Fitch Ratings  in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. Companies such as Rodopa and Sifco “need a
stronger macroeconomic backdrop such as is being predicted for
Brazil in 2013 so that their credit profile can strengthen.”  Borrowing Costs  Overseas borrowing costs for emerging-market issuers rated
below investment grade by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch have
 plunged 2.63  percentage points this year to 7.43 percent,
according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Globally, average corporate bond yields across all
industries and rating categories fell to a record 3.38 percent
on Nov. 8, data compiled by Bank of America Corp. show.  Sifco plans to sell the bonds, half of which mature after
4.5 years, to pay off shorter-term secured obligations and
finance the tender of its $75 million of 11.5 percent notes due
in 2016, according to three investors familiar with the
transaction who asked not to be identified because they’re not
authorized to speak publicly on the offer.  The securities would yield more than any other Brazilian
overseas issue since 2000, excluding a post-default offering by
Independencia SA in March 2010.  B- Rating  Sifco, based in Jundiai, Brazil, and Rodopa are rated B- by
Fitch, just four levels above default. Issuers that share the
rating had an average five-year default rate of 7.8 percent
between 1990 and 2011, according to the rating company, more
than double the 3.9 percent rate for companies rated BBB-, the
lowest investment-grade ranking.  Rodopa scrapped debt offerings in April and September 2011
before selling its first overseas bond last month, while Sifco
failed in efforts to market notes to investors in July during a
six-month drought for Brazilian junk-rated issuers.  Speculative-grade companies are getting second and third
chances to tap international markets as central banks from the
U.S. to  Japan  expand bond-buying programs, pushing down
corporate debt yields.  The  Federal Reserve  said Oct. 24 it will maintain $40
billion in monthly purchases of mortgage debt and probably hold
benchmark interest rates near zero until mid-2015, while the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  increased its asset-buying fund, its main policy
tool, by 20 percent on Oct. 30 to 66 trillion yen ($830
billion).  Chinese Bonds  “There’s less risk even over a two- to four-year time
horizon that rates in developed markets will go up sharply,”
 Richard Segal , the director of the emerging-markets team at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“The thinking is, if you’re buying a relatively short tenor
Eurobond, you should go for the highest coupon you can.”  Chinese property developers have sold $4.4 billion of
dollar debt since the end of August with an average coupon of
7.85 percent. Half of the 12 issuers paid rates higher than 11
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rodopa plans to use proceeds from its debut offer to
lengthen its debt profile and finance expansion.  “Fund managers have the money and, as the crisis has
lessened, they are more willing to pay attention to what a
newcomer has to say,” Sergio Longo, the chief executive officer
of Rodopa, said in a Nov. 9 telephone interview from Barueri,
Brazil. “It doesn’t have to do solely with market conditions,
but also because over time we delivered the results that we had
forecast in our first attempt to sell debt.”  Extra Yield  A Sifco spokeswoman didn’t respond to e-mail and telephone
requests seeking comment.  Only seven other Latin American companies have sold dollar
debt abroad with coupons paying 12 percent or more in the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 151 basis points at
10:40 a.m. in  Sao Paulo , according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell one basis point to 103 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real was little changed at 2.0455 per dollar. Yields on
interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2014 increased
one basis point to 7.36 percent.  Quality Junk  While money managers will continue to snap up debt from the
highest-quality junk issuers from  Latin America , companies that
share Rodopa and Sifco’s B- rating will struggle to find
investors in the coming months, according to Jansen Moura, an
analyst at BCP Securities LLC in Rio de Janeiro.  “The market is open for high-yield issuers, but not so
receptive to the third- and fourth-tier companies,” Moura said
in a telephone interview. “These two specifically are companies
that no longer have credit availability in the domestic market.
They are tapping foreign investors as a last option to sort out
their liquidity issues.”  The outlook for faster economic growth in Brazil is making
investors more willing to look at lower-grade issuers, according
to Omar Zeolla, a fixed-income analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in
 New York . Gross domestic product will expand 4 percent next year
after rising 1.5 percent this year, according to the median
estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s a sense the Brazilian economy is doing better,”
Zeolla said in a telephone interview. “Investors will look at
anything that has yield these days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  