-- Denmark in Recession Mode as Budget Stunts Growth: Nordic Credit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-12T14:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/denmark-in-recession-mode-as-budget-stunts-growth-nordic-credit.html
Denmark’s weekend budget accord is
provoking a backlash among business groups and economists who
warn the measures agreed on risk depriving the flagging economy
of future growth drivers.  “Denmark is on the edge of a recession,”  Steen Bocian ,
head of economic research at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “This is not a budget that will
help Denmark boost growth.” Instead, “there’s a risk that the
measures agreed on will weaken incentives for people to work and
therefore will be negative for the economy in the long run,” he
said.  The accord aims to soften the fallout of economic decline
on the unemployed and instead push more costs on to the private
sector. While the government is seeking to galvanize growth
through long-term infrastructure investments, those measures may
not stimulate the areas of the economy that are most likely to
fuel a recovery here and now, the  International Monetary Fund 
said last week. The Washington-based fund urged more “direct”
stimulus to target growth.  The IMF’s advice has been rejected by Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager , who in an interview last week said there’s
no room for further adjustment in the government’s budget. The
Social Democrat-led coalition of Prime Minister Helle Thorning- Schmidt and the Red Green Alliance agreed yesterday to give the
unemployed six months extra access to benefits provided they
accept vocational training during the period.  ‘Deeply Worrying’  Denmark pays about about 23 basis points less than  Germany 
to borrow over 10 years, and the country’s 3 percent note due
November 2021 yielded 1.116 percent today. The government
charges investors to hold its two-year debt, which yielded minus
0.126 percent as of 3:12 p.m. in Copenhagen.  The weekend accord will also push the cost of business
training programs over to companies from the state, a step the
Confederation of Danish Employers called “deeply worrying.”
Measures designed to counter so-called social dumping, or what
the government characterizes as international employers’
preference for cheap labor, will also be enforced.  “Given the challenges facing Denmark, it’s a huge
disappointment that the government and parliament spent their
time on an accord that in no way creates the foundation for
welfare and growth,” Joern Neergaard Larsen, head of the
confederation, said in a statement. “The bottom line is that
the total package doesn’t take stock of the fact that Danish
companies are losing market share every day and Denmark is
losing its grip on future growth.”  ‘Optimistic’  The agreement follows the government’s budget proposal,
unveiled in August, that targeted 0.9 percent  economic growth 
this year and 1.7 percent expansion in 2013, forecasts that
 Fitch Ratings  in September labeled as “optimistic.” The
opposition Liberal and Conservative parties abandoned the budget
talks after disagreeing with the government over taxes.  The ruling coalition will remove a levy on unhealthy foods
and instead raise the  tax rate  for the lowest income tax
bracket. The combined effect will be neutral for household
incomes, while the  consumer price index  will grow 1.5 percent
next year, versus an estimate for 1.9 percent had the so-called
fat tax stayed in place, according to Danske Bank economist Las Olsen. Consumer prices fell 0.1 percent last month from
September and rose a smaller-than-estimated 2.3 percent on the
year,  Statistics Denmark  said today.  Losing Business  Denmark ’s gross domestic product contracted 0.4 percent in
the second quarter from the first, the statistics agency
estimates. According to the Confederation of Danish Industry,
the nation is probably in the grip of its second recession in
less than a year.  Trade data suggest Danish exporters are losing business, as
companies including turbine maker  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and
dry bulk transporter Torm A/S struggle to generate a profit.
Exports fell 5.3 percent in September from the previous month,
the statistics agency said last week.  “Export had more or less kept the Danish economy on its
feet,” the Confederation of Danish Industry said in a statement
last week. “But now exports are falling too and that’s a
warning signal that growth will remain sluggish in 2013.”  Yet Danish bonds have served as a haven from the  euro
zone ’s debt crisis as the government keeps its debt load at less
than half the average for  Europe ’s 17-member currency bloc.
Vestager said last week the government’s main priority is to
keep down its borrowing costs, based on an assumption that low
rates will ultimately boost employment and restore growth.  Keeping Jobs  Denmark, which pegs its krone to the euro, will post a 3.9
percent budget deficit of GDP this year, narrowing to 2 percent
next year and 1.7 percent by 2014, the European Commission said
Nov. 7. The krone traded at 7.4581 per euro at the end of last
week, versus 7.4595 a week earlier.  The 17-member euro zone will run a combined deficit of 3.3
percent of GDP this year, improving to 2.6 percent next year and
2.5 percent in 2014, according to the commission. The European
Union sets a deficit limit of 3 percent of GDP.  “We need to remember that trust in the economy translates
into low rates and low rates keep people in jobs,” Vestager
said Nov. 9. Unemployment, including people in vocational
training, rose to 6.3 percent in September, from 6.2 percent a
month earlier.  Though the “mildly contractionary” budget accord won’t
contribute to economic growth, it will “make it more likely
that Denmark will be able to meet EU’s criteria,” Bocian at
Danske said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  