-- Deutsche Bank Loses Bid to End U.S. Housing Agency Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-12T23:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/deutsche-bank-loses-bid-to-end-u-s-housing-agency-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  failed to persuade a judge to throw out
lawsuits by the Federal Housing Finance Agency over alleged
misconduct in the sale of mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan denied
requests by the banks to dismiss the suits, while rejecting some
claims against them, according to filings today. The FHFA is the
conservator for the U.S. government-sponsored housing
enterprises  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac.  “The facts alleged in the amended complaint are sufficient
to plead fraud with respect to the offering material’s
representations regarding mortgage underwriting standards,”
Cote said in the opinions on Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs.  The federal court is considering 16 suits by the agency
against banks over the sale of mortgage-backed securities
purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from 2005 to 2007. Cote
on Nov. 8 denied a motion by  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill
Lynch unit to dismiss the agency’s suit against it.  A trial in the cases against Deutsche Bank and Goldman
Sachs is set to begin in September 2014, according to today’s
filings.  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, declined to comment on
the ruling, spokeswoman  Renee Calabro  said in an
e-mail.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs also declined to comment, in a phone interview.  The fraud claims dismissed by the judge in each case relate
to loan-to-value ratios and owner-occupancy reporting.  The cases are Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Deutsche
Bank, 11-6192, and Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Goldman
Sachs, 11=6198, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net 