-- Dubai Has Overcome Its Financial Challenges: Sheikh Ahmed
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-11-12T09:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/dubai-has-overcome-its-financial-challenges-sheikh-ahmed.html
Dubai, the second-biggest emirate in
the  United Arab Emirates , has overcome its financial challenges
and could issue debt if it wanted, said the head of Dubai’s
Supreme Fiscal Policy Committee.  Dubai and Emirates Airlines are always seeking
opportunities to sell debt, though there is no urgency to do so
and much depends on “if it’s a good time or not,” Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum  told reporters at the  World Economic Forum 
in Dubai today.  “I believe we proved to the market that we overcame the
problem,” he said. “It’s very small when compared to other
countries. And we see in the last couple of years that there’s
growth in the tourism, aviation sector and banking sector.”  Dubai, which borrowed $20 billion from the central bank,
the Abu Dhabi government and its lenders in 2009 to avoid a
default, isn’t concerned about refinancing outstanding debt,
Sheikh Ahmed said. Asked about re-capitalizing the Dubai
financial support fund, he said: “No, we don’t need to do
anything like that. All the companies are doing well.”  Dubai’s credit risk receded this year as many state-linked
companies repaid and restructured debt.  “This is great news, but the market has also realized that
and that’s one of the reasons the stock market is up since the
beginning of the year,”  Haissam Arabi , chief executive officer
of Dubai-based hedge fund Gulfmena Investments Ltd., said by
telephone today. “This comes as an additional confirmation to
what investors have come to terms with.”  Dubai’s benchmark DFM General Index has gained 20 percent
this year. The emirate’s credit risk has plunged 205 basis
points, or 2.05 percentage points, this year to 240, says data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Economic growth in the emirate, one of seven in the U.A.E.,
will accelerate to 5 percent this year from 3 percent in 2011,
according to government forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  