-- Hearts Owner Romanov’s Ukio Bankas Shares Fall on Arena
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-11-12T15:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hearts-owner-s-ukio-bankas-shares-slump-on-arena-deal-correct-.html
AB Ukio Bankas, the Lithuanian bank
controlled by Edinburgh soccer club  Heart of Midlothian Plc 
owner Vladimir Romanov, fell to an eight-year low on the Vilnius
exchange, losing a quarter of its value in a month.  The shares fell as much as 12.4 percent today, closing down
7 percent at 0.12 euros ($0.15), the lowest since Oct. 28, 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volume of 766,022
shares was 11 times the three-month daily average. The shares
have lost 24.5 percent since Oct. 10.  The decline began after the bank reported a nine-month net
loss on Oct. 29, and accelerated on Nov. 6, when it said it took
over a Lithuanian sports arena developer from debtors. Swedbank
changed the shares to ‘no recommendation’ from ‘buy’ on Nov. 9,
citing a lack of information about the effect of the arena
transaction. Romanov owns 64.9 percent of  Ukio Bankas (UKB1L)  shares,
according to a note in the bank’s earnings report.  “Investors really question the valuation of that property
developer, which is a big part of the bank’s assets, and so they
don’t know how much its equity may be worth now,” Finasta
investment bank analyst Tadas Povilauskas said by phone. “And
if Romanov hasn’t rescued his soccer club and hasn’t increased
the share capital of Ukio Bankas as was planned some time ago,
it probably means he just can’t find the money.”  Tax Debt  Heart of Midlothian, which identifies Romanov as principal
shareholder on its  website , said there on Nov. 7 that it had
been issued with a  winding-up order  by a Scottish court due to
overdue tax payments of 449,692 pounds ($714,155). The club is
asking fans to buy shares and tickets in order to help it avoid
bankruptcy, according to an  open letter  its website.  Kaunas, Lithuania-based Ukio Bankas’s spokeswoman Aukse
Glodiene said no one was available today to comment on the share
performance.  Ukio Bankas said on Oct. 29 that Arnas Zalys, a former
deputy chairman, was replacing Gintaras Ugianskis as chairman of
the board and chief executive officer. Today the bank said in a
regulatory filing that two current board members and employees
of the bank were named deputy chief executives.  The bank’s shares were the most active by volume on the
Nasdaq OMX Vilnius exchange today. The OMX Vilnius stock index
fell 0.2 percent to 341.49, the lowest in almost four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  