-- Eastern European Credit Growth Stalls, Vienna Initiative Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-11-12T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/eastern-european-credit-growth-stalls-vienna-initiative-says.html
Eastern European credit growth has
ground to a halt because of the euro region’s recession and a
withdrawal of funding by the western lenders that dominate the
market,  the Vienna Initiative  group of international lenders and
regulators said.  Western banks stepped up a retreat from from emerging
Europe, excluding Russia and Turkey, in the second quarter,
bringing the cumulative amount withdrawn since mid-2011 to 4
percent of gross domestic product, the group said today in a
statement after a Nov. 9 forum on deleveraging and bank
resolution in Brussels.  “Tightening credit supply played a role, although weak
credit demand is also a driver at the moment,” it said. “It
was emphasized that supply-side constraints encompass both
international and domestic factors.”  The slump in the euro region, the top destination for
emerging Europe’s exports and the main source of its investment
and bank financing, is dragging down economic growth and credit
demand. Foreign lenders, including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , which
own three-quarters of banks in the continent’s east, are cutting
financing and capital to their units as stricter regulations
require them to repair balance sheets.  The Vienna Initiative group of banks, regulators and policy
makers helped prevent an east European financial collapse in
2008 and 2009 by persuading western banks to stay invested in
the region and roll over financing when needed.  In six countries western banks have reduced exposure by
more than 5 percent of GDP, the group said. Funding in  Hungary 
and Slovenia fell by 10 percent to 15 percent of GDP and by 5
percent to 10 percent of output in  Bulgaria ,  Croatia ,  Lithuania ,
and Serbia, according to the group.  Credit to households and companies increased by 1.3 percent
in the 12 months through June compared with 5.7 percent a year
earlier, the group said. Credit contracted in seven countries --
the Baltic nations of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, as well as
in Croatia, Hungary, Montenegro, and Slovenia.  The  European Investment Bank , based in  Luxembourg , the
Washington-based World Bank and the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  in London agreed on Nov. 9 to
provide eastern Europe with more than 30 billion euros ($38
billion) in loans and investments in the next two years to
shield it from the impact of the euro area’s debt crisis,
mimicking a plan they implemented in 2009.  The three international lenders pledged 24.5 billion euros
of loans and investments to prevent a banking-industry collapse
in eastern Europe in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy. They eventually disbursed 33 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  