-- EBay Returns to China in Xiu.com Deal to Sell Fashion
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-11-12T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/ebay-returns-to-china-in-xiu-com-deal-to-sell-fashion.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , which operates the
world’s largest online marketplace, is betting that a new
fashion-focused partnership in  China  will help it break into a
market where it failed five years ago.  EBay Style debuts in China today in a deal with luxury
online seller Xiu.com, featuring 5,000 brands in apparel,
handbags and shoes, said Steve Milton, a spokesman for EBay. The
arrangement lets consumers in China buy new items from EBay
merchants in the U.S. while Xiu.com handles sales, shipping and
customer service.  Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  needs to expand into
new markets to sustain growth that analysts predict will  top  20
percent for a second straight year in 2012 -- up from a single-
digit pace in the preceding years. At stake is the Chinese
electronic commerce market, which is poised to more than double
to $356.1 billion in 2016, according to  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   “They’ve been very successful going to developed
economies, but to continue to grow at those rates ten years from
now, they need to be in these larger  emerging markets ,”  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc., said in an
interview. “That’s a tall task because there are incumbents.”  Donahoe is refocusing on China after predecessor  Meg Whitman  had difficulty gaining traction in  Asia  a decade ago.
Facing competition from Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Taobao.com,
EBay closed its unprofitable Web auction unit and formed a
venture with billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Tom Online Inc. In 2002,
EBay withdrew from the Japanese market.  Luria estimates that less than 15 percent of EBay’s revenue
currently comes from Asia.  Middle Class  The online retailer still sees demand. Merchandise bought
by China’s consumers via EBay increased 40 percent in 2011 from
the preceding year. They spent 17 million hours navigating its
Web properties in 2012, Milton said.  “I would describe our approach as focused,” Milton said.
“We don’t want to attack the domestic market. We just know we
want to operate in the domestic market. The biggest risk is
competition.”  EBay is using its sellers’ inventory of western brands,
such as  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and  Coach Inc. (COH) , to appeal to
an estimated 15 to 20 million young, affluent locals -- part of
a growing middle class in China, Milton said. A team of about
800 at Xiu.com, which has expertise in importing into the
country, will help translate the site into Chinese and handle
shipping after U.S. sellers send purchases to a warehouse in
Dallas, he said. He declined to disclose financial terms.  Fashion Appeal  Pairing up with another company means EBay doesn’t have to
deal with fulfillment centers, inventory and other logistics
that were difficult hurdles for retailers in the country in the
past, said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
The company will also have to seek out other partnerships to
cater to a market with different tastes, he said.  “EBay should be able to leverage a stronger technology
platform, a more global buyer and seller base, and perhaps most
importantly, they will need partnerships that help them localize
the site and user experience,” Sebastian, based in San
Francisco, said in an e-mail.  The company may have trouble gaining traction with a domain
that’s secondary to Xiu.com -- ebay.xiu.com -- and shipping that
may be slower than the two-day delivery Chinese consumers are
used to, because the packages are coming from the U.S., said
David Zhao, founder of Shangpin.com, a Chinese e-commerce site.  Still, luxury fashion is a good starting point in a country
that has been difficult to enter, even for giants such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , said Victor Anthony, an analyst with Topeka
Capital Markets Inc. in  New York .  PayPal Advantage  “Starting with  luxury goods  is an excellent idea, given
the Chinese consumer’s insatiable appetite for brand name and
designer Western products,” he said. “The Chinese market is
challenging, and competition is rife, forcing companies like
Amazon to invest more in its Chinese subsidiary. With careful
execution, EBay stands a chance.”  Even if EBay is successful in new markets, the company has
warned in quarterly filings that it “often” expects operating
costs of new ventures in most countries to exceed net revenues
for at least 12 months.  EBay Style will be the company’s fourth business unit in
China. The other divisions are PayPal, an analytics and
engineering center and a marketplace that lets Chinese users
sell items to consumers in other countries.  EBay’s online payments service PayPal may also give it an
advantage in China, said Luria. Alipay, Alibaba’s online
payments competitor, can’t be used by U.S. sellers, making it
harder for Chinese consumers to buy U.S. goods.  To make sure consumers know about the marketplace, EBay is
starting an advertising campaign that will cost no more than $8
million this year, targeting social media and high-end fashion
magazines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  