-- EDF Plan to Toughen Concrete Base of Oldest Reactor May Be Model
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-12T08:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/edf-plan-to-toughen-concrete-base-of-oldest-reactor-may-be-model.html
Electricite de France SA ’s plan to
bolster the concrete base of its oldest reactor would be a world
first and could be extended to the rest of its French reactor
fleet, the atomic safety regulator said.  EDF, which operates all of the country’s 58 reactors, has
submitted a plan to the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire to carry
out a project to thicken the base of the 900-megawatt Unit 1 of
the Fessenheim plant in eastern  France . The regulator, which
ordered EDF to improve safety or shutter the reactor by the
middle of 2013, could rule within two months on whether the plan
is viable.  The utility is having to increase spending at reactors
after stricter safety measures were brought in following the
Fukushima disaster and also to extend the lives of existing
plants. The state auditor has estimated EDF will have to invest
55 billion euros ($70 billion) through 2025.  The concrete slab of the Fessenheim reactor, which began
operating in 1977, is thinner than those at other plants. When
the  ASN  watchdog gave the utility permission in 2011 to operate
the reactor for another decade to 40 years, it ordered the base
to be strengthened to contain a core meltdown and breach of the
reactor vessel. EDF has said the work will be carried out even
though the government has slated the plant for closure by the
end of 2016.  “No one has ever done this before,” Andre-Claude Lacoste,
outgoing head of the ASN, said in an interview. “It isn’t
extraordinarily complicated, but it will be very delicate
work.”  Catchment Zone  EDF’s choice of concrete and methods to limit the radiation
doses received by workers during the operation are among issues
being considered by the safety authority. Another is whether the
reactor base should be enlarged to allow a catchment area for
the spreading and cooling of the molten mix of nuclear fuel in
the event of a meltdown, Lacoste said.  The lava-like mixture, known as corium, accumulated at the
bottom of the reactor vessel in the 1979 Three Mile Island
accident in the U.S. In the case of Chernobyl, it spread into
the reactor building basement.  Areva SA (AREVA) ’s so-called third
generation EPR reactor model, which EDF is developing at
Flamanville in Normandy, has a metal corium recovery system
designed for catchment if the vessel cracks, according to its
 website . The barrier aims to prevent radioactive fuel from
leaking.  “The base at Fessenheim was originally built as a
foundation for the reactor, it wasn’t developed with the idea of
containment for the corium,” said Lacoste, who is retiring from
the ASN today.  A similar operation will “most probably” have to be
carried out on Unit 2 and the same deadline may apply, he said.  Reactor Extensions  The safety authority is considering EDF’s proposal to add
to Fessenheim’s corium containment and this operation “could be
an option” for all of the utility’s other reactors in order to
gain approval to operate them for 60 years, ASN director Jean- Christophe Niel said in a separate interview.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has said the
utility wants to operate its reactors for six decades. The
utility has estimated the cost of reinforcing the base of Unit 1
at Fessenheim would be about 15 million euros.  Jill Coulombez, a spokeswoman for EDF, confirmed the
utility’s plan for Fessenheim is being considered by the ASN,
although she declined to comment on whether the new safety
measure could be rolled out at other plants.  Permanent Shutdown  Fessenheim has emerged as a flashpoint for debate over
France’s future dependence on nuclear power. President  Francois
Hollande , who campaigned to cut reliance on nuclear generation
to 50 percent by about 2025 from more than three quarters at
present, has ordered a permanent shutdown of the plant at the
end of 2016. The safety authority said EDF won’t automatically
gain approval to operator reactors for 60 years.  “It’s not a given at this stage,” Pierre-Franck Chevet,
who will replace Lacoste, told a parliamentary hearing Nov. 6.
An answer will come at a “technical rendezvous” in 2015.  “The life extensions must take into account new generation
reactors with higher standards,” he said. “The French approach
is to try to get as close as possible to the best technology
available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  