-- Medicis, Village Voice, Sex Film: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-12T12:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/medicis-village-voice-sex-film-intellectual-property.html
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX)  was
sued by Q-Med AB to block transfer of rights to its wrinkle gel
 Restylane  to a competitor.  Q-Med filed the lawsuit, which it described in court papers
as “an action in aid of arbitration,” in federal court in
 Manhattan  on Nov. 7. Medicis disclosed Q-Med’s lawsuit in a
regulatory filing Nov. 9.  Medicis in September said it had agreed to be acquired by
Montreal-based  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  in a
transaction valued at $2.6 billion. In court filings, Q-Med
described Valeant as its “direct competitor.”  “Q-Med has informed Medicis that it will not consent to a
change of control of Medicis that would result in a transfer to
Valeant of the exclusive rights to market and sell Q-Med’s
dermal filler products” including Restylane in  North America ,
the Uppsala, Sweden-based company said in a filing.  Asserting it will sustain “irreparable harm” if those
rights are transferred while arbitration is pending, Q-Med asked
for a court order temporarily blocking the transaction.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan ordered Medicis to
respond to the injunction request by Nov. 14 and scheduled oral
argument for Dec. 3.  The media relations department of Scottsdale, Arizona-based
Medicis didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the suit.  While Valeant isn’t named as a defendant in the case, the
company assailed Q-Med’s claims in an e-mailed statement.  “Not only does Q-Med have no entitlement to the injunctive
relief it seeks, but its request for such an extreme remedy is
predicated on a systematic misreading of its contracts with
Medicis,” according to the Valeant statement.  The case is Q-Med AB v. HA North American Sales AB, 12-
cv-08071, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Nestle’s Purina Unit Allegedly Infringed Animal-Testing Patents  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Purina PetCare unit was sued for patent
infringement by a  California  nonprofit organization that
provides animal blood-bank and veterinary diagnostic services.  The Nestle unit is accused of infringing four patents
related to systems for determining a nutritional program for a
dog or cat, according to the complaint filed Nov. 2 in federal
court in  Santa Ana , California.  Four patents issued in 2011 and 2012 are the subjects of
the suit: 7,865,343, 8,060,354, 8,224,587 and 8,234,099.  Hemopet, a nonprofit organization based in Garden Grove,
California, according to its website, said Purina’s Veterinary
Diet JM and OM products infringe the patents. Hemopet claims it
has suffered irreparable damage as a result of Purina’s actions.  In addition to a court order barring further infringement
of its patents, Hemopet asked the court for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  St. Louis-based Purina didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mail request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Hemopet v. Nestle Purina PetCare Co., 12-
cv-01907, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Village Voice Dismisses Trademark-Infringement Suit Against Yelp  Village Voice Media Holdings LLC ’s trademark-infringement
suit against  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  has settled less than two weeks after it
was filed.  The suit, filed in federal court in Arizona Oct. 25, had
accused San Francisco-based Yelp of infringing the Voice’s
“best of” trademarks. The newspaper publisher said it has been
using these marks since 1979, and registered them with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  The Phoenix-based publisher objected to Yelp’s use of
“Best of Phoenix,” “Best of  San Francisco ,” “Best of
Miami,” and similar terms on its Web pages. To no avail, the
Voice said it sent Yelp a cease-and-desist letter on Sept. 18.  Yelp is the operator of the social networking user-review
site, and the Voice claimed that through the unauthorized use of
the trademarks, the San Francisco company was causing confusion
in the marketplace, and unfairly piggybacked on the fame and
goodwill the Voice has developed for its trademarks.  In its Nov. 11 filing, the Voice said simply that the
parties had reached an agreement and that it was voluntarily
dismissing the suit. Each party was to pay its own legal costs.  The case is Village Voice Media Holdings LLC v. Yelp Inc.,
2:12-cv-02285-MHB, U.S. District Court, District of  Arizona 
(Phoenix).  Strange Brewing Told by Strange Brew Company to Change Name  Strange Brewing Co. , a Denver-based craft brewery, has been
threatened with a trademark infringement suit by a  Massachusetts 
company that sells home-brewing supplies, Denver’s Westword
newspaper reported.  Strange Brew Beer & Wine Making Supplies  of Marlboro,
Massachusetts, sent the brewery a letter warning that its
customers were confused by the similarity of the names, and
demanding that Strange Brewing change its name, according to
Westword.  The brewery responded, noting there are numerous instances
to be found on the Internet of companies with “Strange Brew”
in at least part of their names, and offering a license
agreement with the brewing-supplies company, according to the
newspaper.  Westword published the Massachusetts company’s response
letter in which it said that the license offer was
“offensive,” and warning that if the brewery didn’t change its
name, there would be “ formal legal action without further
notice.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pirate Party in Russia on Verge of Registering, Runs Candidate  Although  Russia ’s anti-copyright Pirate Party is only now
preparing to register as a political party with that country’s
Ministry of Justice, it already fielded a candidate for mayor in
one Russian city, the Russian International News Agency
 reported .  Although candidate Dmitry Yevsyutkin received only 2.7
percent of the votes cast in the election for mayor of
Kaliningrad, party leaders considered it a good start, according
to RIA.  In Russia, the party will take on issues beyond copyright,
including governmental transparency, censorship and street-
cleaning, RIA reported.  Presently the Russian Pirate Party has about 500 members,
each of whom pays 1,000 rubles ($31) a year, according to RIA.  Two Arrested for Infringement Against Vision Group TV Unit  Two Uganda residents have been arrested in connection with
the copyrights of a news program running on  Bukedde TV , one of
Vision Group’s media outlets, that country’s  New Vision 
newspaper  reported.   Doreen Pacutho, an attorney for  Vision Group , Uganda’s
largest media company, told New Vision that unauthorized
downloading and reposting of content had gone on for more than
three months,  The alleged infringers had also used the logo for the
legitimate program -- Agataliko NfuFu -- and the logo for
Bukedde TV on their website, Pacutho said, and New Vision
reporter.  The two alleged infringers were arrested in a sting
operation with an official of Vision Group posing as a potential
client and assisted by plain-clothes detectives, according to
New Vision.  Hulk Hogan Says He’ll Copyright Sex Film Gawker Aired  Terry Jean Bollea, the professional wrestler known as
“Hulk Hogan,” is planning to register the copyright for a
video clip of himself having sex with Heather Cole, a woman who
isn’t his wife, the Tampa Tribune  reported .  The copyright filing is part of Hogan’s strategy in a suit
against Gawker Media LLC for putting the tape up on its
Gawker.com website, according to the newspaper.  In a suit filed in federal court in Tampa,  Florida , Hogan
has claimed posting the video infringes his privacy and could
damage his career, the newspaper reported.  Gawker is claiming that publication of the tape is
protected under the First Amendment, according to the Tribune.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Balough Offers Trade Secret Determination App through App Store  Balough Law Offices LLC , a Chicago firm, has developed a
iPhone and iPad application aimed at helping a company’s
employees learn guidelines on what a trade secret is.  The  application , which is available for free through  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s  App Store , covers trade secret policies and non-compete
covenants. It gives both employers and employees a series of
questions to answer relative to both those issues.  The firm added a caveat to the application’s description,
noting that the application is not legal advice, Balough isn’t
acting as the user’s attorney, and the app is “for information
purposes only.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  