-- Telecom Italia Breakup of Fixed Lines Seen as Bellwether
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-11-12T10:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/telecom-italia-breakup-of-fixed-lines-seen-as-bellwether.html
Europe ’s former phone monopolies,
built on copper wires linking virtually every home and business
in the region, are reeling from overwhelming debt, strict
oversight, and slowing sales as consumers switch to mobile.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , which owes creditors 30 billion euros
($38 billion) -- more than double its market value -- is
considering a way out of that conundrum: Spin off the fixed-line
network into a separate company.  Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  said Nov. 9. Telecom
Italia’s board will probably decide next month whether to
proceed with what would be an unprecedented move for a former
government-owned phone company in Europe.  A split would soften regulatory scrutiny of the Milan-based
carrier and let it focus on faster-growing services such as data
and wireless. Though Telecom Italia hasn’t given many details of
the plan apart from saying it wants to maintain control of the
new company, it has said it’s in talks to bring in external
investors. Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  has expressed
interest in buying new shares in Telecom Italia, the carrier
said today. Proceeds from any sale could help pay down debt and
fund a faster fiber network.  “There is no similar experience in Europe,” said Pietro
Candela, a partner at Booz & Co. in Milan. “It would become a
case history to watch for both incumbents and regulators.”  Telecom Italia in 2008 created  Open Access , a division that
manages the grid and offers access to competitors. That move
came about two years after  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  established a similar,
fully-owned unit called Openreach.  BT Lesson  Other former phone monopolies such as  Telefonica SA (TEF) , facing
slumping domestic economies and seeking to avoid a cut in their
debt rating, are likely to monitor developments in  Italy , said
James Britton, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “If TI achieved the spinoff and investors were supportive
of the structure, driving up its market value, then it is
possible that other management teams would review whether it
could make sense,” Britton said.  The fixed-line network is worth 13 billion euros to 15
billion euros, said Marco Fossati, whose family’s Findim Group
SA is Telecom Italia’s second-biggest shareholder, with a 5
percent stake. In a September interview, Fossati urged Telecom
Italia to do a spinoff.  Telecom Italia rose as much as 7.8 percent to 74.5 cents
and traded 4.9 percent higher as of 11:05 a.m. in Milan, paring
the stock’s decline this year to 13 percent. On Nov. 9, the
company posted its second straight quarter of  falling sales  and
a 13 percent decline in profit.  Regulatory Constraints  As owner of the underlying network, Telecom Italia faces
greater oversight than upstart rivals. The company must inform
Italy’s communications authority at least 30 days ahead of any
fixed-line phone and Internet offer so the watchdog can assess
whether rivals can replicate the offering. Changes in wholesale
prices can take more than two months.  Spinning off the network would ease that regulatory burden
since Telecom Italia would be a legally separate company that
buys capacity and offers service to subscribers, just as other
carriers do today.  In a similar move meant to reduce regulatory pressure and
costs, U.S. carrier  AT&T Inc. (T)  is investing $14 billion to move
customers over to wireless and fiber from its legacy network.
AT&T said it plans to eventually decommission the technology
carrying voice calls on its circuit-switched system in favor of
faster Internet-based standards.  State Backing  CEO Bernabe said in September that Telecom Italia was in
discussions with state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti
SpA about an investment in the grid.  “Telecom Italia’s problem is that with its debt and
deteriorating domestic market, it cannot afford to invest
without a partner,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .  Italy had roughly 22 fixed-broadband connections per 100
people in January, versus the EU average of 28, according to  the
European Commission.  Telecom Italia provided 53 percent of those
connections, 10 percentage points higher than the EU average for
incumbent carriers. The market’s No. 2, Wind Telecomunicazioni
SpA, had about 16 percent.  Share Loss  A spinoff risks market-share losses for that business,
which in the first nine months generated almost twice as much
revenue for the company as domestic mobile did despite dropping
4 percent, to 9.6 billion euros. In wireless, where there’s more
competition, Telecom Italia was No. 2 in Italy at the end of
2011, with 35 percent of the market versus 36 percent for the
Italian unit of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , according to the
communications regulator.  “Most telcos are very protective about their network and
would not want to go this route,” said Will Draper, an analyst
with Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London. “The network is
the basis for the entire cash flow of the retail and wholesale
revenue.”  By acting now, Telecom Italia could close a deal while the
network retains significant value, according to Massimiliano
Trovato, a fellow at the Bruno Leoni Institute and author of a
paper called “ The scrapping of the network .” Even as
subscribers move to newer technologies such as wireless and
fiber, the network will generate solid revenues until the
transition is complete, which could take years.  “Telecom Italia is seeking to cash in on an asset, the
copper network, which is set to become obsolete,” Trovato said.
“It would achieve lower regulatory pressure and raise cash to
cut debt today, and control of the strategic fiber network
tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  