-- EMC CEO Says VMware-Nicira Deal Put Strain on Cisco Alliance
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-12T21:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/emc-ceo-says-vmware-nicira-deal-put-strain-on-cisco-partnership.html
EMC Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Tucci said the purchase of Nicira Inc. by EMC’s majority-
owned  VMware (VMW)  Inc. put some stress on his company’s relationship
with  Cisco (CSCO)  Systems Inc., though they will remain partners.  VMware agreed to purchase Nicira for $1.26 billion in July,
gaining technology that runs networking equipment more
efficiently using software. Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of
computer-networking gear, is investing in that market as growth
slows for traditional switches and routers.  The deal put EMC and Cisco on a collision course in next-
generation networking, even as the two work together to offer
communications and storage gear to customers. While they’ll
compete in so-called software-defined networking, large
companies still need the products and services that both EMC and
Cisco offer, along with virtualization technology from VMware,
Tucci said today at the  Techonomy Conference  in Tucson,  Arizona .  “Cisco is our closest and most strategic partner, and
we’ll have a long, prosperous relationship,” Tucci said. The
Nicira deal put “a little stress on the relationship,” he
said.  When asked when EMC would fully spin out VMware into a
separate company, Tucci said, “never.”  EMC, based in Hopkinton,  Massachusetts ,  slipped  less than 1
percent to $24.10 at the close in New York. Cisco, based in San
Jose,  California , rose less than 1 percent to $16.86.  Separately, Tucci said he’s spending a lot of time talking
to legislators and consumers about macroeconomic issues, leaving
more company operations to senior executives. Avoiding the so-
called fiscal cliff would create a prosperous 2013, while
failure to do so would probably lead to a recession, he said.
The fiscal cliff threatens to trigger $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts starting in January if U.S.
lawmakers don’t come to an agreement.  “We need to raise revenue and we need to balance the
budget over time,” Tucci said. “How we do that has got to be a
compromise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  