-- Emirates A380 Makes Emergency Landing in Sydney on Engine
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-11-12T15:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/emirates-a380-makes-emergency-landing-in-sydney-on-engine.html
An Emirates Airbus A380 superjumbo
made an emergency landing in Sydney shortly after takeoff on its
way to Dubai following an engine fault.  “There was no fire, flames or smoke, however passengers
may have witnessed a spark and a noise from the engine,”
Emirates said in a statement.  The incident, which occurred yesterday with 380 passengers
onboard, is being investigated, said the airline, which took
delivery of its latest flagship plane yesterday.  Emirates, which has ordered a total of 90 of the double-
decker aircraft, has received 27 so far, making it the biggest
operator of the plane. It powers the model with engines built by
a joint venture of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  Passenger numbers at Emirates have surged fivefold in a
decade, making it the world No. 1 by international traffic. Hubs
in Paris, Frankfurt and  London  are already under pressure as the
carrier diverts long-haul passengers through Dubai. The airline
has also stepped up its use of the superjumbo to target the U.S.
market over the last year.  Engine Explosion  An engine explosion on a  Qantas Airways (QAN)  Ltd. A380 in 2010
involved a turbine built by  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , the other
engine provider for the plane. Emirates’ decision to go with
 power plants  provided by GE’s and Pratt’s Engine Alliance means
it’s not among the A380 users that have had to replace Rolls
engines in the wake of the Qantas incident.  “The Engine Alliance is investigating the root cause of
the engine event and will initiate prompt corrective action,”
the engine maker said in a statement. “The GP7200 has
demonstrated excellent reliability and performance on the Airbus
A380, and the Engine Alliance is committed to maintaining those
standards.”  Like other A380 users, Emirates has been impacted by the
discovery of cracks in some wings that have led to mandatory
inspections. European regulators are expected to approve a
permanent fix for the issue by around year-end, though the
repairs will mean planes will be out of action for as many as
eight weeks.  Starting in 2014, all new A380s delivered will come without
the fault, as Airbus aims to change the wing design.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  