-- Emirates Group First-Half Profit Climbs 68% on Passengers
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-11-12T06:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/emirates-group-first-half-profit-climbs-68-on-passengers.html
Emirates Group, which operates the
world’s largest airline by international traffic, posted a 68
percent increase in first-half profit as passenger traffic rose.  Net income climbed to $575 million for the six months ended
Sept. 30 from $343 million a year earlier, the Dubai-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Seat factor, a
measure of occupancy, increased to 80 percent, while revenue and
other operating income rose 17 percent to 38.25 billion dirhams
($10.4 billion). Emirates Group includes Emirates airline and
ground-handling unit Dnata.  Airlines will earn $4.1 billion in 2012, $1.1 billion more
than last estimated, as capacity curbs and mergers help boost
fares amid high fuel prices and sluggish demand, the
 International Air Transport Association  said in October. Net
income at the main Emirates airline unit more than doubled to
$464 million, while profit at Dnata fell 4 percent to $111
million, according to the Emirates Group statement.  “Emirates remained focused on its growth and global
expansion despite on-going fluctuating exchange rates and ever
lingering high fuel prices which accounted for 39 percent of our
expenditures, down 2 percentage points from last year,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al
Maktoum  said in the statement. Emirates added 15 new routes
since September last year, it said.  Emirates in September tied up with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,
which ended a 17 year tie-up with British Airways in order to
revive the Australian carrier’s unprofitable international
services by shifting its long-haul hub to Dubai. Emirates’
sales chief Thierry Antinori said last week the airline sees no
need to follow Persian Gulf competitors in establishing links
that could lead to membership of one of the industry’s three
global groupings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  