-- Empty Offices Loom in Sydney as Building Spree Meets Bank Cuts
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-12T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/empty-offices-loom-in-sydney-as-building-spree-meets-bank-cuts.html
Sydney’s office vacancies are set to
surge as  Lend Lease Group (LLC) ’s A$6 billion ($6.2 billion) financial
center opens and older buildings are renovated while big tenants
including Macquarie Group Ltd. cut jobs.  About 400,000 square meters (4.3 million square feet) of
space will hit the market in the next five years, including Lend
Lease’s Barangaroo redevelopment in the former docklands
district, according to UBS AG. That compares with 870,000 square
meters added over the past 20 years.  The expansion will push vacancies above 12 percent by late
2016, which would be the highest since at least 1999, from about
9 percent now, Zurich-based UBS estimates. Sydney, which
accounts for about 65 percent of the nation’s financial
activity, is bearing the brunt of job cuts at banks amid a
global economic slowdown and ebbing mining deals at home.
Macquarie cut about 1,625 jobs, or 11 percent of its staff, in
the year to September, and  Westpac (WBC)  Banking Corp. reduced its
workforce by 2,035 positions, or 5 percent, in the same period.  “The financial-services sector is slowing and they’re a
key occupant of offices,” said Daniel Ekins, who oversees $1.75
billion as managing director for Asia-Pacific region securities
at Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF real estate unit. “Rental rates are
unlikely to grow significantly and vacancy rates are likely to
increase.”  Acquisitions involving Australian natural-resources
companies fell by more than half this year to A$23.1 billion
from the same period in 2011, putting them on pace for the
slowest year since 2009. Initial public offerings in the country
have halved, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Australia ’s central bank cut its  cash-rate target  by a quarter
percentage point to 3.25 percent last month to revive demand
outside the resources industry, where growth may crest at a
lower level than previously expected.  Job Cuts  Sydney is home to the national headquarters of global banks
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
UBS. The nation’s two biggest lenders,  Commonwealth Bank (CBA)  of
Australia and Westpac, are based in the harbor city, as is the
Australian Stock Exchange. Sydney is among the top  10 cities 
globally for finance companies to locate to, according to Los
Angeles-based property broker CBRE Group Inc.  Employment at finance and insurance companies in Australia
fell by 9,800 jobs, or 2.3 percent, in the year to Aug. 30,
according to statistics bureau  data . Australian commercial banks
may shed 7,000 jobs in the next two years, UBS said in a January
report.  While constrained building kept the city’s office vacancy
rate below 9 percent even following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, that is set to change.  New Supply  Lend Lease , the nation’s biggest property developer, will
complete the first two commercial towers at Barangaroo in 2015,
adding about 166,000 square meters of lettable space. The third
building, to be finished in 2016, will have an additional
100,000 square meters.  About 140,000 square meters of refurbishments are planned
for Martin Place -- a pedestrian thoroughfare lined with
colonial buildings and the city’s original financial hub -- by
2016, according to estimates by Chicago-based property broker
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “We have reservations about existing landlords’ ability to
fill the space tenants leave behind as they move to the new
buildings, so we expect vacancies to pick up,” said Grant
McCasker, Sydney-based real estate analyst at UBS. “Fiscal year
2015 is the more difficult year, when the increase in supply
really begins.”  Vacancies will climb because white-collar employee growth
needs to be 2.3 percent in 2015, 6.6 percent in 2016 and 9.8
percent in 2017 to maintain occupancy at current levels, a
Morgan Stanley report said.  Declining Rents  Gross effective rents -- including the costs of maintaining
the properties and incentives -- will fall to A$568 per square
meter by December 2016 in current dollar terms from A$624 per
square meter now, Morgan Stanley analyst John Meredith said in
an e-mail.  Moves to new premises by three of the nation’s four-biggest
banks -- Commonwealth Bank,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and Westpac -- are spurring the upgrades at Martin
Place, according to Tim O’Connor, head of office leasing for New
South Wales state at Jones Lang LaSalle. Almost two-thirds of
the refurbishments, being undertaken by landlords to lure new
tenants, will be completed in 2015 and 2016, he said.  Bank Moves  Commonwealth Bank completed its move from Martin Place into
a building owned by Lend Lease on the city center’s western
fringe in February. ANZ Bank, which sold its New South Wales
head office at 20 Martin Place to Boston-based property manager
Pembroke Real Estate Inc. last year, will  relocate  to a new
building in the city center in 2013.  Westpac will vacate 60 Martin Place in December 2015 and
move to the first tower at Barangaroo. The bank agreed to lease
60,000 square meters, or 70 percent, of the first tower to
consolidate its nine sites in Sydney’s center into two, it said.  Investa Property Group , which owns half the building at 60
Martin Place, is considering its options for the property and
expects to refurbish and lease it in 2019, Michael Cook, group
executive of the Morgan Stanley-owned company, one of
Australia’s biggest office landlords, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  At Barangaroo, KPMG LLP and Lend Lease will move into the
second tower, taking the total space leased in the first two
commercial buildings to 71 percent, according to Lend Lease. The
third office building has not yet been leased.  Space Withdrawn  “We’re quite confident of having a substantial level of
pre-commitment across the three towers well before any of the
other new space is delivered,” Mark Lacey, Sydney-based
national director of office leasing at Colliers International,
one of the brokers marketing the towers, said. “And a lot of
the space vacated as tenants move into Barangaroo could be
withdrawn from the market.”  As banks move away, other industries are set to replace
them at Martin Place, Jones Lang LaSalle’s O’Connor said.  Sydney-based office landlord  GPT Group (GPT)  has seen “strong
demand” from legal, professional and communications firms for
its Martin Place property, the MLC Center, which it is
upgrading, said Mark Fookes, the company’s chief financial
officer.  Macquarie, Australia’s biggest investment bank, will be the
only major domestic bank to have its headquarters in Martin
Place, also home to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, the central
bank, which occupies a 1960s building at the eastern end.
Macquarie spokeswoman Navleen Prasad declined to comment.  Macquarie Headquarters  Macquarie will move its global head office in 2014 to 48
Martin Place and the adjacent 9-19 Elizabeth Street, both bought
from Commonwealth Bank in March.  The bank will occupy about 20,000 square meters at the two
buildings, according to O’Connor. That’s less than two-thirds
the space it takes up now at the 121-year-old GPO building, also
in Martin Place, based on filings from manager Charter Hall
Group.  “The new buildings that are coming online are more
efficient, so the tenants are likely to need less space,” UBS’s
McCasker said. “Martin Place is considered a high-quality
location, but over time it will need to reinvent itself to
attract tenants.”  Companies are also likely to need less space as firms shift
to open-space environments where employees share keyboards,
telephones and desks, said Stephen McNabb, Sydney-based head of
research at CBRE. For every 100 square meters of space taken
historically, tenants will lease 80 square meters in the future,
he said.  “Demand will have to pick up from where it’s currently at
to absorb the supply, but won’t be sufficient to compensate for
the lumps of supply that will come on,” McNabb said. “There’s
going to be a bit of a lid on rental growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  