-- Meningitis Risk at NECC Pharmacy Known by FDA in 2002
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/meningitis-risk-at-pharmacy-known-by-u-s-fda-in-2002.html
The risk of patient illnesses were
spotted by U.S. regulators more than a decade ago at the
pharmacy linked to this year’s deadly meningitis outbreak,
according to lawmakers investigating the government’s response.  Procedures at New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., known
as NECC, may not have met standards for sterility, according to
Food and Drug Administration  inspection records  from 2002
summarized by a House panel. At the time of the FDA’s
inspection, conditions at the Framingham,  Massachusetts ,
facility were found to be similar to a California compounding
pharmacy associated with three meningitis deaths a year earlier.  The regulators also said in 2002 that a hospital in
Rochester,  New York , linked an NECC pain-killing steroid,
methylprednisolone acetate, to meningitis-like symptoms in two
patients. The same drug is blamed for this year’s  outbreak ,
which has infected 438 people, killing 32. While the FDA in 2002
suggested suspending operations, the law kept it from acting and
the agency deferred action to Massachusetts authorities.  “The state would be in a better position to gain
compliance or take regulatory action against NECC as
necessary,” the FDA said in a February 2003 memo summarized
yesterday by a subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee. The decision was made even as the FDA cited “the
potential for serious public health consequences.”  Congressional Hearings  The Energy and Commerce subcommittee on oversight and
investigations plans a Nov. 14 hearing to ask FDA Commissioner
 Margaret Hamburg  why the agency didn’t pursue enforcement
actions and how Massachusetts officials allowed NECC to keep its
license. U.S. Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican
and chairman of Energy and Commerce, also sent a subpoena to
NECC co-owner Barry Cadden.  The Senate’s health committee plans a hearing Nov. 15.  NECC was a specialty pharmacy permitted to mix drugs on a
small scale that patients may not have been able to find
elsewhere, such as those without preservatives or in a unique
dose. It suspended operations Oct. 3 and recalled 17,676 doses
of methylprednisolone acetate after regulators determined that
tainted vials of the drug were responsible for  fungal meningitis
infections  in 19 states.  Inspections by the FDA last month showed the company knew
of elevated levels of mold and bacteria in January and “no
documented corrective actions were taken,” according to a
preliminary  report  that cited company documents.  The same steroid linked to the current meningitis outbreak
also was the subject of some of the 2002 inspections. FDA tests
in December 2002 found that four of 13 vials of
methylprednisolone acetate tested positive for bacteria, though
no deaths were linked to the products.  Ameridose Inspection  Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain
and spinal cord. The government has said about 14,000 people
received shots of the NECC steroid, which is injected into the
spinal cavity to relieve neck and back pain.  Ameridose LLC, a drug distributor with the same management
as NECC, also failed to investigate microbiological
contamination observed at least 53 times during sterility
testing of solutions intended for use in sterile injectable
drugs, the FDA said yesterday in a separate inspection  report .  The Westborough, Massachusetts-based company also received
33 complaints that drugs it made weren’t as potent as they
should be and were ineffective, the FDA said. The inspections
were from Oct. 10 through Nov. 9.  1999 Complaint  NECC’s relationship with regulators has been rocky from the
start. The first government complaint was filed against NECC by
Massachusetts regulators in 1999 -- less than a year after it
came into existence -- for providing doctors with blank
prescription pads referring to the pharmacy.  Massachusetts regulators waited until “well over a year”
after a February 2003 meeting with FDA officials to vote in
favor of presenting Cadden, NECC’s owner, with a consent
agreement that would detail policies and procedures to be
followed by the pharmacy. The agreement required an inspection
by an independent auditor, Pharmacy Support Inc.  In January 2006, the auditor said that while NECC had made
“significant upgrades in facility design for sterile
compounding” there were still “numerous significant gaps
identified.” In April 2006, the auditor’s final report said the
pharmacy had “demonstrated the ability to be compliant with all
state and federal regulations,” even though NECC should
redesign the clean room where sterile preparations were made.  Colorado Report  Massachusetts pharmacy regulators absolved NECC of the
terms of the consent agreement in May 2006 and didn’t share the
auditor’s report with the FDA, according to the document.  Despite dissolution of the consent agreement, FDA sent a
warning letter to NECC in December 2006 for allegedly copying
commercially available drugs and acting like a drug
manufacturer, particularly in ways that could cause microbial
contamination. Cadden responded in January 2007 that the letter
corresponded with an inspection FDA conducted starting in
September 2004 and some of the assertions no longer applied.  The FDA didn’t respond until October 2008 and said it would
confirm Cadden’s response in a follow-up inspection though the
letter was the last documented correspondence between the two
until the recent outbreak, according to committee’s report.  Recent revelations of a Colorado complaint that were
largely ignored resulted in the firing of James Coffey, director
of the Massachusetts’ pharmacy board, according to a Nov. 7
 statement  from Lauren Smith, interim commissioner of the state’s
Department of  Public Health . Coffey failed to initiate an
investigation after Colorado officials notified him in July that
NECC sold drugs without patient-specific prescriptions in the
state.  Susan Manning, counsel for the Massachusetts pharmacy board
whom Coffey forwarded his correspondence with a Colorado
inspector, was placed on administrative leave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  