-- Erdogan Urges Restoring Death Penalty in Violation of EU
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-12T13:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/erdogan-urges-restoring-death-penalty-in-violation-of-eu.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
said  Turkey  should consider lifting its ban on capital
punishment, a move that may deal a further blow to its stalled
European Union membership bid.  “In the face of killings, if needed the death penalty
should be brought back to the table,” Erdogan said on his
 Twitter account  today. “We do not think the state is entitled
to forgive a killer. This authority belongs to the family of the
victim and it can’t belong to us.”  Turkey lifted the death penalty in 2002 to meet EU
conditions before Erdogan’s party came to power. In recent years
Turkey’s bid to join the bloc has stalled amid opposition from
EU members including France and  Germany .  “The EU is crystal clear: abolition of the death penalty
is a condition for accession to the EU,” Marietje Schaake, a
Dutch member of European Parliament, said by e-mail. She said
Erdogan’s comment was “a direct indication that he is willing
to abandon this objective.”  Erdogan’s proposal follows an escalation in attacks by the
autonomy-seeking Kurdistan Workers’ Party or PKK on Turkish
soldiers in the country’s largely Kurdish southeast. Seventeen
Turkish soldiers were killed in a helicopter crash in the region
on Nov. 10.  Erdogan recently told members of his  Justice and
Development Party  that there were growing calls from the public
to restore the death penalty. He said today that the death
penalty is still on the statute books in the U.S.,  Russia ,  China 
and  Japan .  ‘Reforms Needed’  “Most of them are members of the UN Security Council,”
Erdogan said on Twitter. “In that case, we should reconsider
our position.”  Turkey lifted the death penalty amid intense debate over
whether to send imprisoned PKK chief Abdullah Ocalan to the
gallows. Dozens of people were on death row when the measure was
passed. Turkey has not executed anyone since 1984, although
courts were routinely imposing death sentences until 2002.  Schaake said the EU has already voiced concerns about
aspects of the rule of law in Turkey.  “Fair trial, due process and the independence of the
judiciary have all been explicitly mentioned as areas where
serious reforms are needed,” she said. “In general, but
especially in a country where improvements in the rule of law
are urgent, the death penalty should never be reintroduced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  