-- Hertz Said to Sell Counters for FTC’s OK on Dollar Thifty
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-11-12T16:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hertz-said-to-sell-counters-for-ftc-s-ok-on-dollar-thifty.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  agreed to
shed more airport locations, which may lead the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission to allow the $2.6 billion acquisition of  Dollar
Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  to go forward, two people familiar
with the negotiations said.  The FTC indicated it’s willing to approve the transaction
on the condition that Hertz sell at least a dozen extra airport
counters in order to make sure the deal doesn’t limit
competition in the rental-car market, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the negotiations aren’t public.  The acquisition had met resistance at the FTC over the
market share the combined company would command at airports,
people familiar with the matter have said. Hertz, with 8,750
outlets worldwide, has more than 3,900 U.S. locations, while
 Dollar Thrifty  has about 280 corporate-owned outlets in the U.S.
and Canada.  “It kind of feels like its heading to a conclusion,”
Chris Agnew, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst at MKM
Partners LLC, said in an interview. “I had fairly high
confidence that there might be the perception that going from
four companies to three is bad, but this industry is competitive
location by location, so this still will be a competitive
business.”  Nov. 16 Deadline  Last month, Hertz extended the FTC’s legal deadline for
ruling on the deal to Nov. 16 from Oct. 31 because the agency
hadn’t finished its review of information provided by the
companies,  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz said in a
statement. When Hertz announced the proposed $87.50 a share
acquisition on Aug. 26, it said FTC approval was expected by
mid-October.  Talks about 12 or more airport divestitures follow Hertz’s
agreement to sell its Advantage brand to  Franchise Services of
North America Inc. (FSN)  and Macquarie Capital. While the FTC staff
has raised concerns about the strength of the buyer and its
ability to become a viable competitor, those questions weren’t a
deal-breaker with regulators, the people said.  The bureaus of competition and economics have recommended
approval of the deal and sent their findings to the five FTC
commissioners, the people said. Approval requires a simple
majority. Hertz agreeing to sell the locations was reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Hertz, which has sought to take over Dollar Thrifty for
more than five years, agreed to sell its 62 Advantage brand
locations in the U.S. to address the FTC’s concern that going
from four major companies to three would crimp competition in
the rental-car market, the people said.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, and Richard Broome, a
Hertz spokesman, declined to comment.  The four largest companies -- Enterprise, Hertz,  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  and Dollar Thrifty -- control 80 percent of
the U.S. market, according to market researcher IBISWorld.  Dollar Thrifty, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , rose 2.3 percent
to $85.93 at 11:06 a.m., and Hertz jumped 1.5 percent to $14.55.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 