-- Messi Beats Pele Scoring Mark in Barcelona Victory; Inter Loses
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-12T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/messi-beats-pele-scoring-mark-in-barcelona-victory-inter-loses.html
Lionel Messi scored twice as
 Barcelona  beat Real Mallorca 4-2 to extend its unbeaten start in
Spanish soccer’s La Liga. Inter Milan lost ground on Italian
Serie A leader Juventus with a 3-2 loss at Atalanta.  Messi now has 76 goals in 2012, including matches for
 Argentina  and in all competitions for Barcelona, surpassing
Brazilian Pele’s career-best tally of 75 goals in 1958. He’s
nine goals short of Gerd Muller’s all-time record from 1972,
according to Infostrada Sports.  “His goal tally is spectacular,” Barcelona coach Tito Vilanova said of Messi on his team’s website. “It takes other
great players seven or eight seasons to score the amount of
goals he scores in one season.”  Xavi Hernandez and Cristian Tello also got goals at
Mallorca yesterday as Barcelona maintained its three-point lead
over Atletico  Madrid , which beat Getafe 2-0. Third-place Real
Madrid won 2-1 at Levante last night, with 20-year-old striker
Alvaro Morata getting the winning goal for the defending
champion in the 84th minute.  Atalanta striker German Denis scored twice in the second
half to give his team the win against Inter, which fell four
points behind Juventus. The defending champion, which had its
unbeaten league record ended by Inter last weekend, won 6-1
against Pescara two days ago with Fabio Quagliarella scoring a
hat trick.  Yesterday, AC Milan slipped to a 3-1 defeat against
visiting Fiorentina and is 13th in the standings. Napoli won 4-2
at Genoa to hold third place from Fiorentina, while Lazio
defeated Roma 3-2 in their derby match.  Bayern Clear  Bayern Munich remains seven points clear in  Germany ’s
Bundesliga after a 2-0 win against Eintracht Frankfurt two days
ago. Second-place Schalke defeated Werder Bremen 2-1.  Bayer Leverkusen lost 3-1 at Wolfsburg yesterday, missing
the chance to move above Eintracht into third. Borussia
Moenchengladbach beat Greuther Furth 4-2 and Hanover defeated
Stuttgart by the same score in yesterday’s other matches.  Paris Saint-Germain failed to take full advantage of a 2-2
home tie between Marseille and Nice in  France ’s Ligue 1, as it
drew 1-1 at defending champion Montpellier last night.  PSG leads Marseille by goal difference atop the standings
with both teams on 23 points, though Marseille has played one
game fewer.  PSV Eindhoven won 5-2 against Heerenveen to move atop the
Eredivisie as FC Twente was held to a scoreless tie at Vitesse
Arnhem. PSV leads Twente by one point, with Vitesse another four
points back.  In  Norway , Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s Molde secured back-to-
back championships with a game to spare after it beat Honefoss
1-0 and Stromsgodset lost.  “There was much talk of us not being able to win the
league again, but we have proved them wrong,” Solskjaer, who
rejected offers from English Premier League clubs to remain as
Molde coach, said on UEFA’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 