-- Met’s ‘Masked Ball’ Is Seductive as Airport Parking Lot
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-11-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/met-s-masked-ball-is-seductive-as-airport-parking-lot.html
I expected a lot from David Alden, a
director who once turned Tchaikovsky’s “Mazeppa” into a
chainsaw massacre.  On Thursday, the American Alden, 63, made his belated debut
at the Metropolitan Opera in New York with Verdi’s “Un Ballo in
Maschera” (A Masked Ball).  What a plum assignment. Here’s a richly layered story about
politics and passion culminating with the assassination of a
king (Gustavus III of  Sweden ) after several scenes full of grand
melodies. There’s a pulsing love duet for tenor and soprano,
several fine arias and a long, long death scene in which the
king forgives everyone for his murder.  The historic king actually had his assassin tortured for
three days, then decapitated. Imagine what Alden could have done
with that! As it was, the show proved curiously undramatic.  In the past, Met directors have set “Ballo” in 18th
century Sweden or moved the show to New England, which is where
censors initially displaced Verdi’s opera at the opening night
in 1859.  Alden’s production, with sets by Paul Steinberg, also
making his Met debut, is a blend of hyper-modern and ornate,
like the lobby of a Philippe Starck hotel.  A sizable painting of Icarus falling to earth dominates the
show beginning with the opening scene, which finds the king
seated in a leather club chair. There’s a touch of Weimar -- and
also Jil Sander -- in the costumes, though I am not sure just
what the story has to do with  Germany  or with Icarus for that
matter.  Brooding Malevolence  Still, the expressionistic side lighting added a suitable
air of brooding malevolence.  As Gustavo, tenor Marcelo Alvarez wore a jacket and slacks
reminiscent of a 19th century banker and cavorted through his
scenes with his page Oscar. The jolliness was undercut by
Kathleen Kim, who sounded wanly underpowered as she stumbled
around in a white tuxedo and heels.  I hoped the fortune teller would bring good news to this
production, but this was not to be. All we got was Dolora Zajick
blasting her way through one of her well-worn crazy roles. At
least she had a flask.  Later, Gustavo and his love Amelia met in what could pass
for a parking lot at an airport Hilton. The libretto calls for a
gallows, which Alden evoked with a jagged I-beam.  Long Walk  After standing on opposite sides of the stage for what
seemed like an eternity, the two walked carefully toward each
other. Was this in any way sexy?  Sondra Radvanovsky had the vocal goods, though her tone
lacked lushness.  That leaves baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky, as her husband
Renato or Anckarstrom, who did get to wrestle with his wife
in a rare moment of action. He brought anguish to “Eri tu,”
and of course looked dashing in his gray suit and tie.  Fabio Luisi was on the podium, picking up speed after the
first half. What a frustrating night, right until the end when
Anckarstrom stabbed Gustavo at the masked ball. Gustavo fell,
got up, strolled around a bit, then dropped again for his last
addio.  The curtain calls brought cheers for the singers and a
mixed reception for Alden.  Runs through Dec. 14 at Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln
Center. Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metoperafamily.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 