-- EU May Scrap Plan to Hand ECB Sole Power on Bank Licenses
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-11-12T18:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/eu-may-scrap-plan-to-hand-ecb-sole-power-over-banking-licenses.html
The European Union may scrap plans
to give the European Central Bank sole power to grant and
withdraw banking licenses in the euro area as nations tussle
over the details of setting up a single supervisor.  Some EU countries insist “that the key issue of access to
and removal from the market should remain within the remit of
national authorities,” for at least as long as the EU does not
have a central system to handle failing banks, according to  a
document  on the bloc’s website. The concerns mean current
proposals must be revised, according to the document prepared by
Cyprus, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU.  Because setting up the new supervisor is so complex, EU
finance ministers also may decide to lengthen the period over
which the ECB would assume its new powers. “Political guidance
is needed to finalize the necessary timelines,” according to
the document, which was prepared for a meeting of EU finance
chiefs tomorrow in Brussels.  The squabbling may derail the EU’s bid to reach agreement
by year-end on how to make the ECB a supervisor and risk
stalling plans to break the bank-sovereign link that has
worsened the region’s debt crisis. The supervisor must be in
place before banks can receive direct aid from the euro area’s
firewall funds.  Some nations seek “a more flexible phasing-in
arrangement,” the document said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, has called for ECB oversight to phase
in between Jan. 1, 2013, and Jan. 1, 2014.  U.K. Concerns  Barnier’s plan calls for the ECB-based supervisor to
represent the euro area on many issues in the European Banking
Authority, which coordinates financial rule-making across all 27
EU nations. This drew concerns from the U.K., which opposes
measures that would allow the ECB to take a dominant role in EBA
rule-making at the expense of countries outside the common
supervision bloc.  The U.K. is comfortable with the direction of negotiations
on how EBA voting will take shape. Cyprus is still seeking to
iron out splits over EBA voting rules, according to the
document.  “A number of  member states  consider that the voting rules
should still be further (thoroughly) reviewed, and allow for
additional safeguards,” according to the document. Cyprus will
seek solutions so that “all competent authorities, including
the ECB acting in its supervisory capacity, will be treated
equally.”  ‘Political Solution’  Other areas of disagreement include how to give a voice to
non-euro nations that volunteer for ECB supervision and how to
divide up tasks between the ECB and national regulators,
according to the document.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  and Eurogroup President Jean- Claude Juncker have called for the single supervisor to be the
first step in a banking union, which would eventually have
coordinated backstops for handling failing banks.  “Whatever political solution is found in the near term to
paper over the various disagreements, progress towards a bank
union will be a very long and tortuous process, subject to much
argument and amendment,”  Richard Reid , research director for
the International Centre for Financial Regulation in  London ,
said in an e-mail.  “The longer this process takes of course, the more
uncertainty it creates for financial markets and, of course, for
 Europe ’s debt crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  