-- EU Carbon Prices Slump After Commission Unveils Permit-Glut Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-13T17:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/eu-plans-delay-of-900-million-carbon-permits-to-curb-surplus.html
European Union emission permits
dropped, erasing most of yesterday’s gains, after the region’s
regulator proposed to delay sales of 900 million allowances to
curb an oversupply in the world’s biggest carbon market.  Permits for December slid as much as 8.9 percent, their
biggest drop since July 18, after gaining 9 percent yesterday on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London. The European
Commission is seeking to postpone sales during the three years
through 2015 to the last two years of the next trading phase,
which ends in 2020, according to a  draft document  published
yesterday on an EU website.  Carbon permits for December sank to a record in April,
losing 83 percent since peaking in 2008, as the region’s
financial crisis cut demand from polluters. The glut of permits
next year may be as much as 2 billion metric tons, or about a
year’s supply in Europe’s trading system, according to a draft
EU document obtained by  Bloomberg News  in October. The
commission plans to publish a report tomorrow setting out
permanent changes to the program to meet its 2050 pollution-
reduction target.  The regulator may be forced to soften its plan because of
opposition from some countries, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Given the opposition to this proposal that exists in some
quarters, the risk is that this time frame is over-optimistic,
and the 900 million number proposed by the commission may be
subject to revision in the negotiations that will now follow,”
 Mark Lewis , an analyst for the bank in Paris, said today in an
e-mailed report. Should it be mandated, permits may rise above
15 euros a ton in the following 18 months, he said. The plan
will not be approved before April at the earliest, he said.  ‘Dangerous Proposal’  The allowances fell 7.3 percent to 8.42 euros ($10.70) a
ton at 3:57 p.m. in London. They yesterday closed above 9 euros
for the first time since March.  The number of permits to be delayed under the strategy
known as backloading is at the higher side of a range floated by
the commission in July, when it presented an outline of the
short-term plan to improve the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
market. The options drafted at the time were postponing 400
million, 900 million and 1.2 billion allowances.  “This is a very dangerous proposal where the commission
plays with fire,” Per Lekander, UBS AG’s global head of
utilities research in Paris, said yesterday by e-mail. “This
could drive the price very high and then it crashes. Here, there
is no genuine scarcity.”  Front-Loaded Backloading  Under the plan, 400 million tons may be removed from next
year’s supply, more than the 300 million tons in 2014 and 200
million tons in 2015, according to Paolo Coghe, an analyst at
Societe Generale SA in Paris.  “Between now and the end of the year there will be a very
substantial amount of auctions to keep the market well
supplied,” Coghe said today in an e-mailed note.  The draft measure needs qualified-majority support from
national governments to become law. Its formal adoption, which
also requires a three-month review by  member states  and the
European Parliament, will take place only after the parliament
votes on a separate law change to reassert the commission’s
right to decide about the timing of auctions, Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said yesterday in Brussels. The
parliament is tentatively scheduled to vote on the legislative
amendment in April.  “The figure of 900 million allowances has been put forward
in the light of views expressed by member states,” the
regulator said. It had planned to publish the proposal tomorrow.  December Vote  Hedegaard has said the commission was aiming for a decision
on the backloading plan before the end of this year.
Representatives of national governments in the EU Climate Change
Committee are scheduled to discuss the measure at their next
meeting on Nov. 15 and may hold a vote in December, according to
a senior EU official, who declined to be named, quoting policy.  Emission prices may climb to 15 euros a ton in the three
years starting in 2013, according to assumptions used by the
 commission  to assess costs to industry.  Assuming non-utility emitters receive 704 million tons of
free allowances, they may need to buy an additional 84 million
tons of allowances in the three years through 2015, the
commission said in an impact statement. That would cost 840
million euros at 10 euros a ton.  In the four years through 2011, most industries in the
program had surpluses, including “iron and steel” with 69
percent of its emissions and “pulp and paper” with 35 percent,
according to the impact statement. While some emitters will have
sold allowances, every 1 euro a ton of price gain will increase
the value of surplus permits held by non-power companies by at
least 704 million euros, the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  