-- EU's Semeta Urges `Quick Progress' on Transaction Tax
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-11-12T16:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/eu-s-semeta-urges-quick-progress-on-transaction-tax.html
European Union Tax Commissioner
Algirdas Semeta called on finance ministers to make “quick
progress” toward a financial-transaction tax for participating
nations.  All 27 nations and the European Parliament must agree for
the Brussels-based commission to design a tax for willing
nations under so-called “enhanced cooperation” procedures. The
commission requested clearance last month.  Semeta told lawmakers today he will urge finance
ministers gathering in Brussels to push the measure forward when
he addresses them tomorrow, with reassurances that the tax
proposal won’t hurt non-participating nations. “No time should
be lost in completing this procedural step, so that the real
discussion on the substance can start,” Semeta said in remarks
prepared for a European Parliament budget committee.  The EU’s new transaction-tax proposal will be based on a
previous plan that, when considered for all 27 EU nations, was
estimated to be able to raise 57 billion euros ($72 billion)
each year. Semeta said the EU would revise its revenue estimates
and also take into account concerns raised with the previous
initiative.  Eleven nations so far have said that they would like to be
part of the transaction-tax planning: France, Germany,  Austria ,
 Belgium , Portugal, Slovenia, Greece, Italy, Spain,  Slovakia  and
 Estonia . The Netherlands also has expressed interest, with Dutch
officials saying they will insist on getting an exemption for
their pension funds.  Semeta said EU lawmakers could consider the transaction tax
as early as a December plenary debate. He also called on EU
finance ministers to move ahead with a proposed savings tax that
has been stalled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  