-- EU to Stop Enforcement of Carbon Curbs on Foreign Flights
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-12T15:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/eu-to-stop-enforcement-of-carbon-curbs-on-foreign-flights.html
The European Union plans to freeze
implementation of greenhouse gas curbs on flights into and out
of the EU until September next year, while countries worldwide
negotiate a global pact to cut pollution.  The proposal to stop enforcement of EU limits on  carbon
emissions  from international flights is intended to “create a
positive atmosphere” for negotiations under the  United Nations ’
 International Civil Aviation Organization  to establish a global
market-based mechanism to cut carbon discharges, according to
Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard. Barclays Plc said demand
for aviation permits may fall 60 percent in 2012.  “I have just recommended in a telephone conference with
the 27 member states that the EU stops the clock when it comes
to the enforcement of the inclusion of aviation in the ETS to
and from non-EU countries until after the ICAO general assembly
next autumn,” Hedegaard told a conference in Brussels today.  The expansion of the EU emissions trading system, or the
ETS, into flights to and from European airports triggered
opposition from countries including  China ,  Russia  and the U.S.,
which said  Europe  should let the ICAO decide on greenhouse-gas
limits for the industry. The 27-nation EU, which is seeking to
lead the global fight against  climate change , included foreign
airlines in its emissions-trading market this year after
international organizations failed to enact pollution curbs.  EU aviation carbon permits rose 40 cents, or 5.3 percent,
to 7.90 euros ($10.05) a metric ton at 1:45 p.m. on  London ’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Draft Measure  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, intends
to present a formal proposal on stopping the implementation of
carbon rules on international flights “very, very soon,”
Hedegaard said. The draft measure will need support from member
states and the European Parliament to be enacted.  Progress made at a meeting of the ICAO Council on Nov. 9
makes a global deal on emissions from aviation “within reach”
next year, according to Hedegaard. Airlines will still have to
surrender allowances for flights within the EU, she said.
Aviation accounts for about 3 percent of global emissions.  “This is a chance; we create this phase for a positive
negotiations but it has to be used,” she said. “If this
exercise ends in nothing then needless to say we are back to
exactly where we are today with the EU ETS and we are back there
automatically.”  Athar Husain Khan, acting secretary general of the
Association of European Airlines, expressed satisfaction at the
European Commission’s decision. “Countries such as the USA,
Russia, China and  India  have repeatedly stated that the issue
should be dealt with in ICAO. Now they have the chance to show
that they mean it,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Sectoral Approach  Airlines for America, a Washington-based group that
represents airline carriers, said that it was “cautiously
optimistic.”  “We believe a global sectoral approach though ICAO is the
best way to address aviation emissions,”  Jean Medina , a
spokeswoman for the group, said in an e-mailed statement.  The group is still urging Congress to pass legislation
shielding U.S. airline carriers from the EU measure, she said.  The EU’s move is “a big concession,”  Tim Johnson , London-
based director of Aviation Environment Federation said in a
telephone interview. “We expect ICAO and the U.S. in
particularly to react in a positive way,” he said. AEA is a
U.K.-based lobby that promotes sustainable aviation.  The bloc’s decision may enable  EADS NV (EAD)  to step up
production plans for its widebody Airbus A330 jet.  Airbus Chief Executive Fabrice Bregier said in September
that China was withholding signature on 35 to 45 orders for
wide-body A330 planes as it awaited a signal from the EU that
plans to include global airlines in the emissions trading scheme
would be suspended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  