-- European Stocks Fall to Two-Week Low on Greek Meeting
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-11-12T17:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/european-stock-futures-little-changed-as-ministers-meet.html
European stocks  fell to a two-week
low as euro-area finance ministers met to discuss Greek aid and
concern grew that impending U.S. tax increases and spending cuts
will harm the world’s biggest economy.  Alpha Bank (ALPHA)  SA led Greek banks lower as the nation’s
creditors said the country may face a 15 billion-euro ($19
billion) financing gap.  Cobham Plc (COB)  slid 9.7 percent after the
world’s largest maker of airborne-refueling equipment forecast
weaker revenue and profitability.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  rose 4.2
percent as Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  offered to
purchase a stake in the company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.3 percent to 269.53 at
the close of trading, having swung between gains and losses at
least 25 times. The gauge has fallen for four straight days
since  Barack Obama ’s re-election as U.S. president focused
investor attention on the so-called fiscal cliff. That’s the
longest losing streak in more than three months.  “Until there is clarity on the fiscal cliff, markets will
be nervous,” said Nicolaas Marais, head of multi-asset
investments and portfolio solutions at Schroders Plc in  London ,
which oversees $320 billion. “There is a commitment to solve
the issues, but markets will have a wait-and-see mode and be
very cautious until that is in place. Between the fiscal cliff
and some of the challenges in Greece, you are in a risk-off mode
at the moment.”  Volume Falls  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 15 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
he would do everything to protect the euro and the  Federal
Reserve  opted for a third round of asset purchases. The volume
of shares in the index changing hands today was 18 percent lower
than the 30-day average, Bloomberg data show.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western-
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 dropped 0.4 percent,
while Germany’s DAX and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 were little changed.  Greece’s ASE sank 3.6 percent as Alpha Bank tumbled 14
percent to 1.56 euros.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the nation’s
largest lender, lost 14 percent to 1.51 euros.  Plans to give Greece extra time to meet deficit-cutting
targets would open up a financing gap of about 15 billion euros
through 2014 and 17.6 billion euros in the two following years,
the country’s creditors said. The so-called troika of the
European Commission, ECB and  International Monetary Fund 
supplied the estimates for tonight’s meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in Brussels, according to a document obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  Greek Vote  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras won a vote on Greece’s
2013 budget, with 167 lawmakers for and 128 against. The
nation’s fiscal plan, which forecasts a deficit of 5.2 percent
of gross domestic product and a sixth year of contraction, is
designed to regain the confidence of its euro-area and IMF
creditors.  Japan’s third-quarter  gross domestic product  fell an
annualized 3.5 percent, the most since the earthquake and
tsunami in early 2011, the Cabinet Office said. The median of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for a 3.4 percent drop.  In  China ,  new yuan loans  unexpectedly declined in October
from a year earlier, damping signs the world’s second-biggest
economy is recovering after a seven-quarter slowdown. Banks
extended 505.2 billion  yuan  ($81.1 billion) of local-currency
loans, the People’s Bank of China said. The median estimate was
590 billion yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 analysts.  Peripheral Rallies  European stocks most dependent on revenue from Spain,
Italy, Greece and Portugal are rising at the fastest pace in
five years, providing chances for short sellers after two
earlier rallies fizzled.  Firms with sales from those countries  surged  21 percent in
the 15 weeks to Nov. 2, compared with an average 5.3 percent
gain for exporters to the U.S., China and Europe’s strongest
economies, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. indexes show. Similar
rallies for companies serving so-called peripheral countries
heralded losses of as much as 44 percent through November 2010
and July 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cobham slid 9.7 percent to 190.6 pence, the biggest slide
since at least 1989. The company said sales next year will drop
“organically by low-to-mid single digits” with “slightly
lower operating margins” as U.S. defense revenue declines.  Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR)  dropped 5.9 percent to 5.86 euros
after the maker of Wild Turkey bourbon reported earnings that
missed estimates. Third-quarter profit before interest and taxes
and excluding one-time items was 66.5 million euros, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on the company’s six-month
statement. That missed the 72.3 million-euro average forecast of
eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Invensys Downgrade  Invensys Plc (ISYS) , which makes software that runs London
Underground trains, fell 5.7 percent to 221.3 pence. The stock
was downgraded to neutral from buy at UBS AG.  Telecom Italia climbed 4.2 percent to 72 euro cents.
Italy’s former phone monopoly received interest from Sawiris,
founder of Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, about an investment
“through underwriting of new stock,” the Milan-based company
said today. The offer is valued at more than 2 billion euros,
said a person familiar with the matter, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are confidential.  Banco Popular Espanol (POP)  SA surged 4.6 percent to 1.17 euros
as the Spanish bank said it plans to sell as much as 2.5 billion
euros of discounted shares to close a capital shortfall.  Opap Climbs  Opap SA (OPAP) , Greece’s largest gambling company, gained 1.3
percent to 4.76 euros. The Hellenic Republic Asset Development
Fund said it received eight expressions of interest for the 33
percent stake in the company held by the Greek state.  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  rose 1.3 percent to 14.11 euros, the
first advance in six days, as nine-month earnings more than
doubled after Germany’s largest residential landlord by market
value added apartments and sold others at a profit.  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  climbed 1.7 percent to 41.80 euros. The
world’s third-largest advertising company said so-called organic
revenue growth in October rose by more than 7 percent, helped by
growth in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  