-- Europe Needs Better Bank Rules
-- B y   G u n n a r   H o k m a r k
-- 2012-11-12T23:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/europe-needs-better-bank-rules-not-a-supervisor.html
The European Union’s collective
economy is the biggest on the globe, larger than the U.S. or
 China , yet it is being held back by the fragmented nature of its
markets. This has to change.  If  Europe  is to stimulate the competition and growth that
are essential for it to emerge from the current economic crisis,
then the world’s largest economy must also become the world’s
largest single market.  That’s why the growing discussion of how to create a so-
called multispeed EU of inner and outer cores, including the
proposal for a new euro-area banking supervisor within the
 European Central Bank , offers the wrong answer to Europe’s
troubles. We need to stick together and develop the union that
we have, and that includes building a single financial market
for all 27 member states.  For such a pan-European financial market to work, we do
need better bank supervision and safer systems for deposit
guarantees. We also need a common set of rules that clarifies
capital requirements and procedures for the recovery and
resolution of distressed banks.  As the European Parliament’s rapporteur on banking
resolution, this is my point of departure for the work that’s
now under way to create rules on how to recover or safely
dissolve troubled banks, a central part of the discussion on how
to create a banking union. The European Commission issued a
 draft directive  in June, and it is our job in Parliament to
amend it and later negotiate the final text with the  Council of
Ministers . We hope to reach a final agreement next spring.  Proposed Principles  In my  proposal  for the directive, currently up for
consideration in the Parliament, I have laid out the set of
principles that I believe should be followed.  First, recovery and resolution need to restore the basic
rule of capitalism that owners should not only be entitled to
profits but also bear potential losses. That means not using
public money to rescue bank owners when the authorities are
trying to protect the financial system or its critical
functions. Shareholders must risk losses, and failing banks must
run the risk of liquidation.  Second, management of distressed banks must be designed in
a way that forces creditors to scrutinize the creditworthiness
of those to whom they lend. Credits should not be granted on the
basis that a public backup system for rescuing failing
institutions exists, but because of trust in the bank’s ability
to repay its debt on commercial terms.  The commission’s proposal states that regulatory
authorities -- whether national or supranational -- should
intervene and force banks that get too close to solvency and
liquidity problems to change direction or management. In my
report, I set out explicit rules for when authorities should be
allowed to intervene in order to reduce the risk of arbitrary or
premature intrusion.  I have also excluded liquidity as a trigger for
intervention and instead sought to provide quantitative criteria
on the basis of the EU’s future rules on  capital requirements .
Liquidity-related triggers could further systemic risk, as the
mere expectation that an institution may end up in resolution
might provoke a liquidity crisis and thus be self-fulfilling.
Equally, severe liquidity problems often rapidly develop into
capital problems and would then be covered anyway.  The commission has also proposed that the resolution
authorities should be able to intervene when a bank is in a
crisis by: forcing the institution’s sale to a third party;
separating good and bad assets; setting up a bridge bank and
bailing in long-term creditors, for example by converting bonds
they hold to equity; or writing down the notional value of bank
liabilities.  Systemic Differences  Each of these tools is relevant for the management of
individual banks in crisis, but they may not be sufficient if an
economic and financial crisis were to hit the banking system.
So, I’ve proposed a clear distinction between what is required
when an individual bank is in trouble, and what might be needed
when a crisis threatens the banking system.  In the first example, it is often bad management or an
inferior business model that has led to excessive risk-taking.
In such cases, lost asset and collateral values will probably
not be possible to restore. Public money should not be spent and
the institution should be wound down.  In the case of a systemic crisis, by contrast, banks will
have ended up in smaller or bigger difficulties depending on how
their managements responded to challenges in the macroeconomy.
In most cases external factors, such as an overall economic
shock or the bursting of an asset price bubble, will have caused
the banking system’s crisis.  Asset values that deteriorate and undermine collateral as a
result of such a situation will probably revive as time goes on
and the economy recovers. The risk of an eventual taxpayer loss
associated with public intervention will therefore be smaller
than in the case of a bank that fails due to its flawed business
performance. At the same time, public intervention will protect
the economy and prevent a deepening of the crisis.  This is why I’ve proposed the possibility for EU  member
states  to intervene with a blanket guarantee, capital injection
or temporary public ownership of banks to ensure the maintenance
of critical functions in the financial system -- provided that
the shareholders of affected banks, as well as long-term debt
holders to an appropriate extent, have taken the associated
losses. I shall also work to ensure that national resolution
funds are pre-financed, thereby contributing to stability when a
crisis hits.  We can tighten the rules for the supervision and monitoring
of cross-border banks and systematically important banks. This
can be done by giving the  European Banking Authority , which is
based in  London  and covers all EU countries, a further mandate
to monitor and follow up on the supervision that’s performed by
national authorities.  Firm Framework  If the countries in the euro area, as a part of their
monetary union, want to consolidate their supervisory
authorities and create common deposit guarantee plans or, within
the requirements of  crisis management  for banks, want to use the
 European Stability Mechanism , then this should be done within
the framework of existing EU law. It would not require new
unions within the EU.  We don’t need to create new institutions to fix the EU’s
banking woes, a move that inevitably will risk dividing the EU
into those who sign up to the new bodies and those who don’t. We
should use and develop the union that we have and hold our 27
nations together rather than encourage division. This will
enable us to act now instead of getting lost in never-ending
treaty discussions.  (Gunnar Hokmark is vice chairman of the European People’s
Party group in the European Parliament, and responsible for the
report on the recovery and resolution directive. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  David Petraeus and e-mail
intelligence  and on  France’s dangerous competitiveness gap ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on meeting the  Syrian rebels ; William Pesek on
the rise of  Japan’s political right ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the root
of all  Republican electoral problems ; Amity Shlaes on the
 narcissism trap ; Cass R. Sunstein on Lincoln’s  lesson for the
Supreme Court .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gunnar Hokmark at  Gunnar.hokmark@europarl.europa.eu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 