-- Euro Close to 2-Month Low on Greek Aid Needs; Kiwi Strengthens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-11-12T22:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/euro-approaches-two-month-low-before-eu-ministers-meet-on-greece.html
The euro traded close to a two-month
low against the dollar as a draft policy makers’ report said
 Greece  may require an extra $15 billion during the next two
years and there are “very large risks.”  Europe ’s shared currency traded at almost a one-month low
against the yen after the report about the so-called troika as
European leaders prepare to meet to seek a plan to maintain
Greece’s solvency. The  New Zealand dollar  rallied after a
bigger-than-estimated trade surplus in  China  improved prospects
for exports. South Africa’s rand declined as global stocks and
commodities weakened.  “We saw headlines surrounding the troika draft indicating
that there will be a financing gap for Greece, which comes as no
surprise, but how to fill that gap is still unclear,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
New York. “The euro’s price action has been relatively calm,
which indicates a degree of comfort by investors that some
accommodation will be found.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2710 at 5:01 p.m. New
York time after falling to $1.2690 on Nov. 9, the weakest since
Sept. 7. It was little changed at 101.03 yen, after sliding 2.1
percent last week. The yen was little changed at 79.50 per
dollar.  Bennenbroek said he expects the euro to stay above 
$1.2650.  Troika Draft  A draft document from the  European Central Bank , the
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund , known
as the troika, was obtained by  Bloomberg News . Giving Greece a
two-year extension to meet budget targets would ease the impact
of austerity measures, the troika said.  “It’s looking like another near-default for Greece and I
definitely think they won’t be granted the bailout from the
euro-finance ministers today,” said Eimear Daly, a currency
market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in  London .  The euro has fallen 3.4 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes after the yen, which has
declined 4.8 percent. The dollar has dropped 1.3 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 4.5 percent this
year, the best performer, the Bloomberg correlation-weighted
indexes show.  China Economy  China’s exports exceeded imports by $32 billion in October,
the customs administration said Nov. 10, compared with a $27.3
billion  trade surplus  estimated by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. China is  Australia ’s biggest trading partner.  The so-called kiwi rose against all its major counterparts,
gaining 0.4 percent to 81.75 U.S. cents and advancing 0.4
percent to 64.99 yen. The so-called Aussie rose 0.4 percent to
$1.0428.  China buys 28 percent of Australia’s exports and 14 percent
of New Zealand’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  yuan  strengthened 0.26 percent to close at 6.2291 per
dollar in  Shanghai , the biggest gain since Sept. 28, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  South Africa’s rand fell 0.4 percent to 8.7435 per dollar.
The MSCI World Stock Index was 0.1 percent weaker and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell 0.3
percent.  The euro zone is the second-biggest trading partner for the
largest African nation.  Euro Meetings  Finance ministers from the 17-member euro-region will meet
at 5 p.m. in Brussels after Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
gained enough support from lawmakers in his three-party
coalition to pass the 2013 budget. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said today euro area finance chiefs may have to
return to Brussels later this week to finalize a decision on
Greek rescue aid.  The ministers intend to prevent a five-billion-euro ($6.35
billion) Greek bill redemption on Nov. 16 from triggering an
accidental default, while they’re unlikely to ratify a 31.5
billion-euro payment to Greece that has been frozen since June,
a European official said Nov. 9.  “Although the Greek budget vote passed parliament
comfortably, the European Union could decide to delay the
payment of the 31.5 billion euro tranche to Greece until the end
of the month,” Morgan Stanley strategists led by  Hans Redeker ,
the London-based head of foreign-exchange strategy, wrote in a
note to clients. “We expect the euro to remain under pressure
in the near term,” against the dollar, they wrote.  The 17-nation common currency will fall toward its 100-day
moving average at $1.2639, they predicted.  Peso Trades  Mexico ’s peso rose as much as 0.3 percent against the
dollar, gaining for the first time in four days. The peso has
turned from the world’s strongest major currency into the
weakest of the past month amid growing investor concern the
economy will slow as demand diminishes from the U.S.  The pound fell against most of its major counterparts,
declining 0.1 percent versus the euro to 80.05 pence and 0.1
percent to $1.5877.  The Bank of England’s quarterly report is due in two days
and may provide room for further asset purchases to boost
growth. The central bank refrained from adding more stimulus at
its most recent policy meeting, minutes from which are due next
week.  The pound may extend declines to a 10-week low against the
dollar should it drop through its 200-day moving average between
$1.5873 and $1.5851, Credit Suisse Group AG said, citing trading
patterns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  