-- Exxon Mobil Cleaning Up Oil Spill on Nigerian Coast
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-11-12T14:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/exxon-mobil-cleaning-up-oil-spill-on-nigerian-coast.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (CVX) ’s Nigerian unit
said it began cleaning up part of the nation’s southeast coast
after a pipeline from an offshore facility spilled at least 200
barrels of crude at the end of last week.  Exxon Mobil shut the pipeline on Nov. 10 and is
investigating the cause of the spill in the state of Akwa Ibom,
the company said late yesterday in a statement from Lagos, the
commercial capital. Dispersants and booms are now being deployed
in work involving more than 100 personnel.  The nation’s authorities don’t yet have an estimate for the
amount of crude released. An aerial inspection will be carried
out before an estimate on volumes is made, Peter Idabor,
director-general of National Oil Spill Detection and Response
Agency, said today by phone from Abuja, the Nigerian capital.  “It is not enough for Mobil to say they are cleaning up;
they have to tell us what dispersants they are using,” Nnimmo
Bassey, executive director of Environmental Rights Action, an
affiliate of Friends of the Earth, said today by phone from
Benin City, Nigeria. “Their continuous spilling in the area has
destroyed the fisheries economy and general livelihoods of the
people.”  Exxon Mobil , the second-largest producer in Nigeria, is the
operator of a joint venture in which it holds a 40 percent
stake, with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
holding the rest. The company was involved in Nigeria’s worst
offshore spill that dumped an estimated 40,000 barrels into the
sea from its Idoho platform in January 1998.  “Our teams are being mobilized to clean up the area,”
Mark Ward, managing director of Exxon’s Nigerian unit, said in
the statement. The company regrets this incident and apologized
for the inconvenience it has caused, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  