-- Flaherty Budget Update May Project Larger Canada Deficits
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/flaherty-budget-update-may-project-larger-canada-deficits.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  may project higher deficits than he budgeted earlier
this year because of lower commodity prices and slower growth,
in an update of the government’s fiscal plan to be released
tomorrow.  Flaherty, 62, will update his projections during a speech
to the chamber of commerce in Fredericton,  New Brunswick  at
about 12 p.m.  New York  time, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who spoke on condition he not be identified because
the plan isn’t public.  Flaherty said Oct. 29 that lower than expected prices for
the country’s commodities are damping government revenue growth
and will affect the country’s fiscal outlook. He has since
declined to say whether the government still plans to balance
the budget in 2015 as forecast in his March fiscal blueprint.  “I’m not obsessed with this year or that year for the
balancing of the Canadian budget,” Flaherty told reporters on
Nov. 4 in Mexico City, where he was attending a meeting of
finance ministers from Group of 20 countries. “I am obsessed
with balancing in the medium term.”  Weak global demand and a strong Canadian dollar, boosted in
part by the country’s reputation as a haven for investors,
prompted Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  in recent weeks to
damp expectations for rate increases.  Carney said last month that interest-rate increases are
“less imminent” due to risks to economic growth, including
moderate global demand and record domestic debt burdens. The
central bank forecast that growth slowed to an annualized 1
percent rate in the third quarter of this year, following two
consecutive quarters with an expansion rate below 2 percent.  Quarterly annualized growth averaged 3 percent between the
end of the recession in 2009 and the end of last year.  Firing Workers  Flaherty’s March 29  budget , which forecast surpluses
beginning in 2015, projects the deficit for the fiscal year that
began in April will drop to C$21.1 billion ($21.1 billion) from
C$26.2 billion in the previous fiscal year. Flaherty’s balanced-
budget goal hinges on his government firing 12,000 workers and
deferring defense spending.  “You’ll see the numbers and we’re pretty close to
balancing,” Flaherty said in Mexico City, referring to the
fiscal update. “When you are looking at a budget of C$275
billion and you are looking at a few billion dollars of deficit
you are pretty close.”  Flaherty last month lowered the forecast for growth in
nominal gross domestic product to 3.4 percent in 2012 from 4.6
percent in March, and cut the 2013 outlook to 4.0 percent from
4.4 percent. The forecast of the average growth rate for nominal
GDP in the 2012-16 period was reduced to 4.2 percent from 4.4
percent. Changes in nominal GDP more accurately reflect swings
in the government’s tax base.  Revenues Off  “We know the revenues are off, they are not dramatically
but they are off a bit, and we’ll have to adjust for that,”
Flaherty said on Oct. 29. “They are not off enough that I need
to worry about the fiscal track.”  Flaherty has also said the Canadian government would be
pragmatic and respond further if an external shock triggers
another recession.  The country’s economy grew by 5.9 percent in 2011 in
nominal terms. The slowdown in 2012 reflects in part falling
prices for the country’s commodities. The Bank of Canada
Commodity Average  Price Index  has averaged 637.94 this year, 5.1
percent lower than the 2011 average.  Real GDP, which measures volumes and excludes the impact of
falling commodity prices, will average 2.3 percent between 2012
and 2016, the same as the March budget, Flaherty said last
month. He lowered his estimate for 2013 growth to 2 percent from
2.4 percent, while raising it over the following three years.  Helping offset the impact of any revenue slowdown are lower
borrowing costs. Ten-year government  bond yields  have averaged
1.89 percent this year, compared with budget forecasts for an
average 2.2 percent in 2012. A one percentage-point increase in
interest rates would raise debt charges by about C$1.7 billion
and boost the deficit by C$600 million, the 2012 budget
estimated. It didn’t say if lower  interest rates  would yield
similar-sized savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  