-- Frugal Brown Vows Thrift as Californians Open Checkbook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-11-12T05:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/frugal-brown-vows-thrift-as-californians-open-checkbook.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
likes to brag about how frugal he is. He refused to live in the
state mansion during his first term three decades ago and
shunned the office’s Cadillac limousine for a Plymouth Satellite
sedan.  Now the 74-year-old, who trained to be a Jesuit priest,
vows he’ll be as sparing with the $47 billion in higher  tax
revenue  approved by citizens of the most populous U.S. state
last week. Yet he must contend with fellow Democrats who -- when
all votes are counted -- may have a veto-proof two-thirds
majority in the legislature, giving them unchecked power on
taxes and spending.  “The voters have trusted their elected representatives,
even trusted me to some extent, and now we’ve got to meet that
trust,” Brown told reporters at a statehouse news briefing the
morning after the Nov. 6 election. “We’ve got to make sure over
the next few years that we pay our bills, we invest in the right
programs and that we don’t go on any spending binges.”  Proposition 30 , the first voter-approved state tax increase
in eight years, gives Brown a chance to mend the tattered
finances of the world’s ninth-largest economy. He has the
opportunity to restore  California ’s reputation for world-class
universities, schools and infrastructure built under his father,
Governor Edmund G. “Pat” Brown in the 1960s.  His plan, which passed with 54 percent of the vote,
increases the statewide sales levy to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent, and boosts tax rates on income starting at $250,000.
Those making $1 million or more will pay 13.3 percent, the most
of any state. The measures will raise an estimated $8 billion
this year and $6 billion annually before expiring by 2018.  Debt ‘Wall’  The taxes are part of a broader plan Brown brought to
office in January 2011 to forestall further deficits after the
state suffered through more than $213 billion in combined
shortfalls in the past 12 years. The budget gaps were papered
over with internal loans and fund shifts under Democratic
Governor Gray Davis and Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , building what Brown calls a “wall of debt.”  Standard & Poor’s , which rates the state’s credit A-, six
levels below AAA and worse than any other U.S. state, said the
tax increase was a positive development and puts California in
position to repay $34 billion of debt by 2016.  “The measure actually does more than just boost the
state’s revenues temporarily,” Gabriel Petek, a San Francisco-
based S&P analyst, said in an interview. “It adds credibility
to the governor’s plan to repay a lot of its budgetary debt and
liabilities over the next several years.”  Biblical Prudence  Brown, who was governor for two terms in the 1970s and
early 1980s, likened his task to that of Joseph in the Book of
Genesis. A Hebrew slave in  Egypt , Joseph interpreted the
pharaoh’s dreams as a warning that seven years of plenty would
be followed by seven of famine, and counseled the king to
stockpile grain during the time of abundance.  “We need the prudence of Joseph going forward over the
next seven years,” Brown said. “And I intend to make sure that
that’s the story that we look to for our guidance.”  Brown sold his tax increase in part by tying its fate to
the public schools, which would have suffered unprecedented cuts
had it failed. The budget he and Democrats passed in June would
have automatically slashed $6 billion from education in January
unless the ballot initiative passed.  Such a reduction, the equivalent of cutting three weeks off
the academic year, would dramatically deepen school financial
troubles that have seen per-pupil spending plummet to 35th
nationally from seventh when Brown was in office last.  No Deeper  “You know what he does? He tells it like it is,” said
Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from
 Sacramento . “He came into office and saw the deficit and said
we need half cuts and half revenue, so that the cuts are not any
more deeper than they need to be.”  Brown has burnished his reputation for penny-pinching.
Since taking office, he confiscated half of employees’ 96,000
state-paid mobile phones, trimmed the government’s fleet of
13,000 vehicles in half, froze hiring, and stopped agencies from
spending taxpayer money on giveaway promotional items such as
key chains, coffee mugs, t-shirts and squeeze toys.  When he travels to his office in  Los Angeles , the state’s
largest city, he usually flies coach on  Southwest Airlines. (LUV)   “I’m the only governor to ever take a vow of poverty,”
Brown, a seminarian in the 1950s before leaving for law and
politics, told a Los Angeles crowd Oct. 31. “I took a vow of
poverty, chastity, and obedience. I’ll just focus on the
poverty.”  Big Ticket  While Brown has touted his austerity, he hasn’t shied from
big-ticket spending. While he was asking voters to pay more in
taxes, he also was advocating a $68 billion high-speed rail line
to link  San Francisco  and Los Angeles, even though polls show
waning support amid the deficits and cuts.  Brown’s $91.4 billion budget for the fiscal year that began
July 1 is 5 percent larger than the previous one, mostly from
the tax increase. An overhaul of public-employee pensions Brown
signed into law in September failed to include a so-called
hybrid plan that would have made workers share some of the
capital-market risk now borne by taxpayers.  Bailout  Democrats have deflected calls for hard spending caps and a
larger reserve that Republicans have sought for years. Without
those, critics such as former Schwarzenegger press secretary
 Aaron McLear  say Proposition 30 doesn’t go far enough.  “Prop 30 doesn’t solve anything,” McLear, who was also
the spokesman for opponents of the tax increase, said in an
interview. “Prop 30 papers over our dysfunctional system. It’s
a bailout. It doesn’t have any reforms.”  Democratic leaders in the Assembly and Senate, where
neither party has held a two-thirds majority in both chambers
since 1933, say they don’t intend to use their new power to
raise taxes. They say they want to change the code to bring in
more revenue, such as by applying the  sales tax  to more
services.  For his part, Brown made it clear he won’t sign a bill that
raises taxes without voter approval.  “Desires will always outgrow the available money, and
that’s why we have a governor,” Brown said. “The machine can
speed up and get overheated. The governor is a mechanism to slow
it down as it attempts to speed it up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  