-- Fruity Margarita Tasting Results in Many Drinks, Long Day
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-11-12T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/fruity-margarita-tasting-results-in-many-drinks-long-day.html
When was the last time someone
offered you a creme de menthe, you know, the one that turns your
teeth bright green? Never?  I’m not surprised, since liqueurs, or cordials, are not as
high on most people’s list of after-dinner drinks as they were
when ladies retired to one room and men to another.  But a slew of apple, chocolate, even chili-based liqueurs
are now appearing in the market, fueled by bartenders crafting
high-end cocktails.  “These products are popping up in new cocktails because
they add novelty without upping the alcohol too much,” says
Rachel Burkons, senior editor of the industry magazine  The
Tasting Panel . (Most liqueurs range from 15 to 30 percent
alcohol.)  Yet the category is still led by orange liqueurs, with
plenty of competition capitalizing on the soaring popularity of
premium margaritas, which also drives the sales of high-end
tequilas. According to the  Distilled Spirits Council of the
U.S. , sales of “high end” tequilas rose 14.6 percent, “super
premium”, 11.3 percent and “pre-mixed cocktails” with tequila
12.2 percent in 2011.  Premium Tequilas  Mexico ’s Patron is now making a Citronge liqueur to add to
its line of premium tequilas, albeit at a high 40 percent
alcohol. Cognac maker Pierre Ferrand is trying to carve a niche
in the market with a “ancienne methode” Dry Curacao, which is
not so sweet and uses Ferrand’s fine cognacs instead of basic
brandy.  “A margarita has two iconic ingredients, tequila and
orange liqueur, and people have gotten very well versed in
them,” says Sean Beck, beverage director at  Hugo’s  Mexican
restaurant in Houston. “The orange liqueur segment has really
grown up, and I match the specific tequila, we have 60, to a
specific liqueur, like mixing a soft resposado tequila with
 Grand Marnier (MALA)  or  Royal Combier , both with a cognac base.”  Hugo’s does not even make frozen margaritas, which Beck
says is just a way for a bar to extend profit margins. “That
cold ice just masks the taste and aroma of the spirits, so they
use cheap Triple Sec,” he says.  Choosy Drinkers  Bar chef Abigail Gullo of the new  SoBou  bar-restaurant in
New Orleans says customers are very specific about the orange
liqueur they want in margaritas and other cocktails.  “With premium margaritas, cosmos and sidecars, you need
top ingredients like Cointreau and Grand Marnier, which people
request by name. There’s also a big resurgence of those
Polynesian-style tiki cocktails like mai tais that require
orange liqueur.”  At SoBou (short for South of Bourbon Street) the newest
featured cocktail is the New Orleans Yacht Club, made with three
kinds of rum, falernum, lime juice and curacao orange liqueur.  I myself swear by Cointreau, now owned by Remy Martin. It
was created in 1875 by Edouard Cointreau in Angers,  France ,
using sweet and bitter orange peels. (Many liqueur makers just
use orange flavoring.)  Once, on a tour of the  Cointreau distillery  (open to the
public by appointment), I could clearly smell the different
perfumes in the various orange peels, dried before distillation.
Today Cointreau sells 13 million bottles a year, in more than
150 countries.  Grand Marnier  What I love about Cointreau is that it is bittersweet and
shows itself in a mixed drink as more than orange-flavored
sugar. On its own, poured over crushed ice, it is a superb
after-dinner drink, as is Grand Marnier, created in 1880 by
Alexandre Marnier-Lapostolle using cognac, orange essence and
sugar.  Yet though they blend impeccably in cocktails, these two
products are expensive. Cointreau is about $35, Grand Marnier
about $40. (Premium bottlings of these same liqueurs cost much
more.)  So I assembled a range of orange liqueurs, some new to the
market, and tasted them on their own and in margaritas. It made
for a long afternoon. Here’s my report.  Mathilde Grande XO ($22). This is another, somewhat cheaper
Ferrand Cognac product from their Dry Curacao, and you can smell
and taste the brandy, with 40 percent alcohol. It has a fine
bitterness upfront that gives way to a cream sweetness, then
ends with a light sting of heat.  Patron  Citronge ($24). I was surprised this came across with so
much sweetness, perhaps made on the belief that Americans prefer
candy-like spirits. It’s rather like an orange Creamsicle, which
would not be my first choice in a mixed drink.  DeKuyper 03 Premium ($25). Made from Brazilian pera oranges by
one of the leading cordial producers, begun in Holland in 1695,
 John DeKuyper & Sons , this is a crystal-clear liqueur with a
pleasant, light citrus nose and, beneath a thick mantle of
sweetness, a good dose of orange flavor that goes well with a
basic blanco tequila or most mixed drinks.  Stock Orange Gran Gala  ($21). Made with VSOP brandy, this has a
lovely caramel orange color, but its bouquet smells and tastes
medicinal, with a chemical aftertaste.  Solerno Blood Orange ($30). This Sicilian bottling has plenty of
Italian style, starting with the gorgeous, punted, slim-necked
scarlet bottle and the fact that it’s made from blood oranges.  But the liquid is clear and colorless, the aroma quite
refined and the taste unique, with a berry-like flavor, medium
sweetness and a faint, pleasing burn. Its bitter component keeps
it clean and makes this an excellent, slightly cheaper
alternative to Cointreau.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Greg Evans on  television  and Dave
Shribman’s sport  book  round-up.  .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 