-- Gasoline Declines on Europe Debt Crisis and U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-12T20:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/gasoline-gains-on-concern-u-s-east-coast-supplies-will-decline.html
Gasoline slid, reversing an earlier
gain, on concern the  European debt crisis  will linger and U.S.
lawmakers won’t reach consensus on how to avoid a looming so-
called fiscal cliff, curbing growth and fuel demand.  Futures declined 0.9 percent as Euro-area finance ministers
met today in Brussels to discuss aid to Greece, which may need
further assistance from creditor nations. U.S. President  Barack
Obama  plans to begin budget talks with Congressional leaders
next week.  “There’s fears of the budget debate, uncertainty about how
the Europeans are going to handle Greece,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Gasoline for December delivery fell 2.29 cents to settle at
$2.6763 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Greece may need as much as 32.6 billion euros ($41 billion)
in extra financing through 2016, putting pressure on a German-
led bloc of creditors to make concessions in order to prevent a
renewed flare-up of the European debt crisis.  Obama will hold meetings this week with labor and business
leaders ahead of meetings with Congressional leaders next week
on how to forestall $607 billion in automatic spending cuts and
tax increases scheduled to take effect in January.  Prices touched $2.7468 earlier, the highest intraday level
since Oct. 31, on concern that East Coast supplies may shrink as
two refineries remain shut after  Hurricane Sandy ’s Oct. 29
landfall.  Refineries Shut  “The East Coast is still awaiting the restart of the
Phillips 66 Bayway and Hess Port Reading refineries,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “Now
that demand has returned with the reopening of gas stations and
the absence of long lines, the market will need to replenish
that shortfall.”  MasterCard Inc. may say in its SpendingPulse report
tomorrow that retail demand didn’t recover last week because of
continued supply disruptions on the East Coast, John Gamel, a
gasoline analyst and director of economic analysis for
SpendingPulse, said in an interview Nov. 9.  Gasoline demand sank 2.4 percent in the week ended Nov. 2
to an eight-month low and might have fallen more, except the
seven days covered in the report included the weekend before the
storm, when drivers were filling their tanks, Gamel said.  “There’s concerns about Europe and concerns about demand
still being weak after Hurricane Sandy,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Gasoline Demand  U.S. wholesale gasoline  demand  in the week ended Nov. 2
fell the most in Energy Department data since Jan. 7, 2005,
after Sandy shut filling stations and kept drivers off the road.
Inventories of gasoline in the East Coast, or Padd 1, slipped
1.25 million barrels to 46.6 million, 8.7 percent below a year
earlier.  “You’re not really seeing strong national levels of
demand,” McGillian said. “But we’re just over a week away from
the Thanksgiving holiday with all the driving that goes into
that.”  The U.S. Thanksgiving holiday is Nov. 22. AAA, the largest
U.S. motoring organization, will release its projections
tomorrow for travel during the four-day holiday period, which
begins Nov. 22.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.2
cent to $3.437 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest level since July 18. The pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.936 on April 4.  Prices Slip  Central Atlantic prices, which jumped after Sandy, are
beginning to moderate,  Michael Green , a spokesman for AAA in
Washington, said today. The average in  New Jersey  has fallen for
three straight days and Long Island prices are down for the
first time since Oct. 29.  The only place in the region where prices aren’t moderating
is  New York City  where the average rose 0.1 cent to $4.168 a
gallon yesterday and has increased every day since Oct. 31,
Green said.  December-delivery heating oil fell 0.63 cent to $2.9992 a
gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  