-- German Stocks Little Changed as Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-12T17:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/german-stocks-little-changed-before-finance-minsters-meet.html
German stocks  were little changed as
European finance chiefs met to prevent Greece from defaulting on
its next debt payment.  K+S AG (SDF)  led gaining shares on the  DAX (DAX)  Index.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,
Germany’s second-biggest bank, also rose. Kloeckner & Co. SE,
 Europe ’s largest independent steel trader, jumped 2.3 percent
after Exane BNP Paribas raised its recommendation on the shares.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  declined.  The DAX rose 0.1 percent to 7,168.76 at the close of trade
in  Frankfurt . The gauge dropped 2.7 percent last week on concern
that the U.S. will slip back into recession if lawmakers fail to
reach a budget compromise and as the European Commission said
the euro-area economy will stagnate in 2013. The broader HDAX
Index added less than 0.1 percent today.  Finance ministers from the 17-member currency zone met at 5
p.m. in Brussels following the Nov. 8 agreement by Greek
lawmakers to make cuts in pensions and benefits. While the
ministers are unlikely to finalize an updated aid package, a
European official said Nov. 9 that they’ll find a way to
overcome a gap in the country’s financing this week.  “Given the fact that there are few economic data releases
today, market participants are paying close attention to
headlines coming from the meeting in Brussels,” said Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities, in
 London .  Greek Budget  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras today won a vote on
 Greece ’s 2013 budget, with 167 lawmakers for and 128 against.
The nation’s fiscal plan, which forecasts a deficit of 5.2
percent of gross domestic product and a sixth year of
contraction, is designed to regain the confidence of its euro
area and International Monetary Fund creditors.  Plans to give Greece extra time to meet deficit-cutting
targets would open up a financing gap of around 15 billion euros
($19 billion) through 2014 and 17.6 billion euros in the two
following years, the country’s creditors said.  The “troika” of the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and IMF supplied the estimates for tonight’s meeting of
euro-area finance ministers in Brussels, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The report gave a mixed assessment of Greece’s progress
from debt to recovery, saluting the governing coalition for “a
significant catching-up” while saying that “risks to the
program remain very large.”  K+S, Europe’s largest potash producer, increased 2 percent
to 35.91 euros, for the biggest gain on the DAX.  Commerzbank advanced the second most, rising 1.2 percent to
1.35 euros.  Kloeckner jumped 2.3 percent to 8.04 euros. Exane raised
its recommendation on the shares to outperform, the equivalent
of buy, from neutral.  Deutsche Wohnen  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  gained 1.3 percent to 14.11 euros.
Germany’s largest residential landlord by market value raised
its forecast for funds from operations by about 8 percent after
adding apartments and collecting more rent.  FFO excluding sales, a measure of a property company’s
ability to generate cash, will be at least 65 million euros ($83
million) this year, the company said. That’s up from an August
forecast of 60 million euros.  ElringKlinger AG (ZIL2)  advanced 2.1 percent to 22.45 euros. DZ
Bank AG lifted its rating on the maker of automobile parts to
buy from hold.  BMW slipped 0.9 percent to 63.66 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  