-- German Stocks Advance Before Finance Ministers’ Meeting
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-12T10:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/german-stocks-advance-before-finance-ministers-meeting.html
German stocks  rose as European
finance chiefs prepared to meet to seek a program to maintain
Greek solvency after the country approved austerity measures.  Kloeckner & Co. SE,  Europe ’s largest independent steel
trader, jumped 5 percent after Exane BNP Paribas raised its
recommendation on the shares.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led
declining shares in the  DAX (DAX)  Index.  The DAX rose 0.3 percent to 7,181.70 at 11:35 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The gauge dropped 2.7 percent last week, following
stocks throughout Europe lower, on concern that the U.S. will
slip back into recession if lawmakers fail to reach a budget
compromise and as the European Commission said the euro-area
economy will stagnate in 2013. The broader HDAX Index added 0.2
percent today.  “The main focus today will be on the euro-zone finance
minister meeting,” Markus Huber, head of German sales trading
at Etx Capital, wrote in a note. “The main agenda will be
Greece, with ministers trying to find a way how to plug another
hole in  Greece ’s finances.”  European finance chiefs will seek a program to maintain
Greek solvency after the country’s parliament approved a raft of
austerity measures, even as the currency union confronts the
prospect of a worsening economy.  Finance ministers from the 17-member group will meet at 5
p.m. in Brussels following the Nov. 8 agreement by Greek
lawmakers to make cuts in pensions and benefits. While the
ministers are unlikely to finalize an updated aid package, a
European official said Nov. 9 that they’ll find a way to
overcome a gap in the country’s financing this week.  Kloeckner Upgraded  Kloeckner jumped 5 percent to 8.25 euros. Exane raised its
recommendation on the shares to outperform, the equivalent of
buy, from neutral.  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  rallied 2.3 percent to 14.25 euros.
Germany’s largest residential landlord by market value raised
its forecast for funds from operations by about 8 percent after
adding apartments and collecting more rent.  FFO excluding sales, a measure of a property company’s
ability to generate cash, will be at least 65 million euros ($83
million) this year, the company said. That’s up from an August
forecast of 60 million euros.  ElringKlinger AG (ZIL2)  advanced 1.8 percent to 22.38 euros. DZ
Bank AG lifted its rating on the maker of automobile parts to
buy from hold.  BMW slipped 0.9 percent to 63.67 euros for the biggest
decline in the DAX.  Symrise AG (SY1)  slipped 0.7 percent to 26.02 euros. The stock
was added to UBS AG’s list of least preferred shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  