-- German Banker Gains Support for Narrower Banking Union
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-11-12T23:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/german-banker-gains-support-for-narrower-banking-union.html
Georg Fahrenschon, who led Germany’s
savings banks in helping quash a proposal for Europe-wide
deposit guarantees, is now seeking to limit the remaining
aspects of a European banking union: a joint resolution fund and
central supervision of all the region’s lenders.  “I’m hard put to find anyone who speaks in favor of common
European  deposit insurance  these days,” Fahrenschon said in an
interview in Frankfurt on Nov. 9. He stepped down as Bavarian
Finance Minister last November and became president of the
German savings banks association, or DSGV. “It’s a commonly
held misconception that banking supervision, banking resolution
and deposit insurance all has to be structured centrally via
 Europe .”  Germany’s 423 savings banks and 11 landesbanks provide 43
percent of the loans to the small- and mid-sized companies,
known as Mittelstand, that power the country’s export-driven
economy. The lenders oppose a joint liability plan because they
say it would put German depositors at risk over bank rescues in
countries like Spain, where a real-estate collapse forced the
government to seek a European Union bailout for its banking
system.  “Our mandate is against that,” said Fahrenschon, 44.
“The savings banks have a mandate to operate regionally by
taking deposits and lending regionally.”  Savings banks make up one of the three pillars of  Germany ’s
financial system, which also includes more than 1,100
cooperative lenders and commercial banks such as  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG. (CBK)   Government Support  As European policy makers attempt to hammer out the shape
of a banking union, one question is whether lenders should be
overseen by national regulators or the  European Central Bank .
Fahrenschon is finding increasing support at home for keeping
savings and cooperative lenders outside a Europe-wide union.  Germany, joined by the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Finland,
sought last week to limit the ECB’s planned supervisory role to
the largest banks, according to a Nov. 6 document obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The approach contrasts with EU Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s plans to put the ECB in charge of
all euro-area banks. All 27 EU leaders last month affirmed their
pledge to establish ECB oversight of euro-area banks and set a
Dec. 31 goal for political agreement on the supervisor’s design.  “The German government supports our position and more
importantly, we’re increasingly experiencing more support from
within the European Parliament,” said Fahrenschon, a member of
the  Christian Social Union , a coalition partner of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats.  ‘Watered Down’  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has called for improved
supervision to help break the bank-sovereign link that has
prolonged the financial crisis, opening the door for direct bank
bailouts from the European Stability Mechanism if the countries
accept conditions. Draghi said last week that “financial union
does not have to imply the pooling of deposit-guarantee
schemes.”  German foot-dragging threatens to delay or scupper the
banking union, said  Simon Adamson , an analyst with CreditSights
in  London .  “The opposition by Germany and other nations puts the
whole banking union project at risk as the big roadmap agreed in
June -- banking supervisor, resolution fund and deposit
insurance -- is clearly watered down,” Adamson said in an
interview. “It is a typical EU project, with high ambitions in
the beginning and many problems with the implementation.”  Changing Times  Fahrenschon’s position differs from those of lenders in
 Italy , Spain and  France , which favor a broader banking union, as
well as those of Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s
largest banks.  A banking union is in everyone’s interest and Germany
should be willing to make “concessions,”  Deutsche Bank co -
Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  said in a speech in
Hamburg on Nov. 8.  Funds set aside to pay for rescuing or winding down
Europe’s systemically relevant banks in the event of a failure
should come from those banks themselves, Fahrenschon said.
Otherwise, there is the risk of “moral hazard,” whereby the
largest lenders take risks in the knowledge their smaller
competitors will have to pay, he said.  “The world has changed,” Fahrenschon said. The financial
crisis is heralding the end of the dominance of the largest
banks over smaller ones, he said. “The times of ‘hurrah
globalization, size is all that matters,’ in which small
entities were deemed to be standing in the way of European
champions, are gone.”  Smaller Banks  The advantages of a “boring” model of collecting deposits
and lending money to companies in the same region are becoming
apparent, Fahrenschon said, describing savings banks as “very
profitable and a stabilizing factor in the economy.”  The assets of banks in the EU make up 349 percent of gross
domestic product, while in the U.S. they account for 78 percent
of GDP, according to the European Banking Federation.  “If the liability regimes in Europe are too small for the
banks, there are two options,” said Fahrenschon. “Either one
increases the liability regimes or one makes banks smaller.”
Making banks smaller is the trend, he said.  Germany’s savings and cooperative banks had a combined
balance sheet of 2.16 trillion euros ($2.75 trillion) at the end
of 2011, almost matching that of Deutsche Bank, Europe’s biggest
lender by assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  