-- Gilead Climbs on Study Results of Hepatitis C Combination
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-12T21:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/gilead-climbs-on-study-results-of-hepatitis-c-combo.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s
biggest maker of HIV medicines, rose to its highest stock price
in 20 years after a combination of its experimental hepatitis C
therapies cleared the virus in all of the patients in a trial.  Gilead  gained  14 percent to $73.93 at the close in New
York, the largest single-day increase since October 2008 and the
highest price since the company first offered stock in 1992.
Shares have gained 81 percent this year. The  Foster City ,
California based company released clinical trial results over
the weekend at a meeting of the  American Association  for the
Study of Liver Diseases in Boston.  Gilead is among several drugmakers competing to develop
hepatitis C drugs that act faster with fewer side effects than
the current standard of care.  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  and
 Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , other developers of hepatitis C
therapies, dropped on the news.  Ravi Mehrotra, an analyst with Credit Suisse, lowered his
sales and royalties estimates for Vertex’s Incivek for 2013
through 2016 on concern that anticipation of Gilead’s therapy
would cause patients to hold off treatment with Vertex’s drug.  “In 2013, given that Gilead’s regimen has the best overall
profile (efficacy, safety, convenience), we anticipate a
significant amount of warehousing,” he wrote in a research
note, referring to patients waiting for treatment.  Rivals Decline  Achillion, based in New Haven, Connecticut, fell 12 percent
to $7.90, its biggest single-day decline in about seven months.
Vertex, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, slid 2.2 percent to
$44.  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  rose 12 percent to $4.65 after
the company said in a statement Nov. 10  that its evaluation of
its experimental hepatitis C drug, IDX184, found “no evidence
of severe cardiac findings.” U.S. regulators had placed the
medicine on clinical hold last August because of heart failure
concerns.  Vertex’s Incivek was approved last year, days after U.S.
regulators approved a drug from  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-
based  Merck & Co. (MRK)  They were the first medicines for hepatitis C
to win Food and Drug Administration approval in almost a decade.  Gilead spent about $10.8 billion in January to acquire one
of its medicines, GS-7977, known as sofosbuvir. The company
combined it with GS-5885 as well as the antiviral ribavirin and
gave it to 25 patients for 12 weeks. All of the patients, who
hadn’t received previous treatments, had undetectable levels of
the virus four weeks after they stopped taking the therapies,
Gilead said in a Nov. 10 statement.  ‘Home Run’  “This is starting to look like a home run as we now know
Gilead at least has a 100 percent cure all-oral regimen with its
own wholly owned drug with no partnering,”  Michael Yee , an RBC
Capital Markets analyst in San Francisco, wrote in a note to
clients.  Gilead has begun testing the combination without ribavirin
in the third of three trials typically required for U.S.
regulatory approval.  “This was the key datapoint that the street was waiting
for,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York,
wrote in a note to clients.  In addition to Vertex and Merck, Gilead is competing with
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Johnson &
Johnson to develop a new generation of hepatitis C treatments.
Rising deaths among  baby boomers  from the disease prompted U.S.
health officials to declare in May that the entire age group is
at risk and should be tested.  Abbott said it will take two different combination
therapies for hepatitis C into the final stage of testing, after
the new regimens of injection-free treatments showed promising
results in a study.  Abbott Data  Abbott said in a statement Nov. 10 that an experimental
treatment using three drugs, plus a booster call ritonavir,
cleared the hepatitis C virus in 87 percent of patients after 12
weeks of therapy. Its other regimen including ribavirin, a
standard hepatitis C drug, eliminated the virus in 97 percent.  Gilead’s combo requires fewer pills, “a clear
disadvantage” for Abbott, M. Ian Somaiya, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray & Co. in New York wrote in a note to clients.  Conventional therapy combines ribavirin with interferon, an
injected immune-boosting protein that can cause flu-like side
effects, for as long as 48 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  