-- Glencore-Xstrata Merger ‘Almost a Done Deal,’ Standard Life Says
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-12T14:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/glencore-xstrata-merger-almost-a-done-deal-standard-life-says.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s revised
$32 billion takeover bid for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  will probably be
approved by investors while retention payments to about 70
managers may be rejected, Standard Life Investments said.  “It’s almost a done deal,”  David Cumming , head of
equities at Standard Life, told the British Broadcasting Corp.
on Radio 4’s Today program, according to e-mailed interview
extracts sent by the insurer. Standard Life owns a 1.44 percent
stake in Xstrata, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shareholders are scheduled to vote Nov. 20 on plans to
create the world’s fourth-largest mining company. In the first
meeting of the day investors will be asked to consider two
resolutions, one to approve the takeover along with 144 million
pounds ($229 million) of retention bonuses for about 70 Xstrata
employees, and a second that excludes the pay question.  Glencore raised the bid Sept. 7 to 3.05 of its shares for
each one in Xstrata from 2.8 shares offered in February. That
followed demands from investors including 12 percent Xstrata
shareholder Qatar Holding LLC for more. Standard Life will vote
for the deal without the retention payment, Cumming said.  Qatari Prime Minister  Sheikh Hamad  bin Jassim Al Thani on
Oct. 15 said the Gulf state looked favorably on Glencore’s
sweetened bid for Xstrata. “We’re looking in favor of doing
something between the two companies,” Sheikh Hamad told
reporters in Doha, asked whether Qatar supported the offer.  Qataris Supportive  “The fact the Qataris are supportive of the deal suggests
that the deal will go through,” Cumming said. “I do think that
incentive package should be voted down, I think it’s unnecessary
and, to be honest, I think it’s a combination of a rather
rapacious management team and a weak board, and we will be
voting against it but you can vote against it and the deal still
will go through and I think it will go through.”  Xstrata declined to comment on Standard Life’s comments.  As few as 16.48 percent of shareholders can block the deal
because U.K. takeover rules prevent Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore from voting its 34 percent stake in Xstrata, the
world’s largest thermal coal exporter. The deal must be backed
by a vote of 75 percent to be approved.  Xstrata’s board on Oct. 1 recommended shareholders back the
revised deal and vote for the packages to retain the managers
responsible for the industrial assets that will account for
about 80 percent of the combined company’s earnings.  Xstrata also placed advertisements in weekend newspapers,
repeating its recommendation and informing its investors that
they may vote by proxy by Nov. 16 or in person on Nov. 20.  Unusual Advertising  “It is unusual to see companies advertising for
shareholders to vote,” Cumming said. “But I think the Xstrata
management are a bit worried about their incentive package being
voted down and there are scenarios where that could scupper the
deal.”  Apart from the two resolutions in the court meeting on Nov.
20, Xstrata shareholders will also be asked to vote for two more
resolutions in the extraordinary general meeting to be held
about half an hour later. The first vote will be to empower the
Xstrata board to complete the deal and the second to approve the
retention package in a stand-alone vote, requiring 50 percent
support.  The outcome of the retention payment vote will define which
of the first two resolutions will be acted upon.  If the vote is yes, the result of the resolution for the
deal with the retention package will be used and if the vote is
no, the result of the resolution for the transaction without the
bonus package will govern the outcome of the whole deal.  Scottish Widows  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, owner of about 1.1
percent in Xstrata, on Nov. 9 said it supports the deal and the
retention payments. “SWIP is supportive of the merger and the
revised incentive arrangements,” Anne Fraser, head of corporate
governance, said in an e-mailed statement. “The merger will
bring together two different but complementary businesses.”  The offer by Glencore, the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, to take over Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata’s copper, coal and zinc mines has also divided
shareholder advisory groups.  Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd.  recommended
shareholders oppose the deal because of a lack of due diligence
and board independence at Xstrata. While Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. and  Glass Lewis  encouraged investors
to support the takeover, they called for the resolution on
retention bonuses to be voted down.  The  Association of British Insurers  lowered its concern
rating for the deal to amber from the “red top” it gave it in
June that highlighted a breach of best practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  