-- Global Downturn Danger Looms From Inaction, IMF’s Lipton Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ' D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-12T16:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/global-downturn-danger-looms-from-inaction-imf-s-lipton-says.html
International Monetary Fund Deputy
Managing Director David Lipton said the world faces the danger
of a renewed downturn if officials in the U.S. and  Europe  don’t
succeed in “careful policy steering” to avoid that outcome.  The Washington-based fund’s forecast for global growth of
3.6 percent next year depends on euro-area policies being
implemented decisively to restore confidence, and U.S. lawmakers
avoiding the so-called “fiscal cliff” and raising the nation’s
debt ceiling, Lipton said at Chatham House in  London  today.  “Absent such actions, the world could slide into another
downturn, with deep recession in the euro area periphery, and
contraction or stagnation in the core and other advanced
economies,” he said. “This requires very careful policy
steering.”  The twin threats stem from the persisting crisis in the
euro region, which has raged for three years, and $607 billion
in tax increases and spending cuts in the U.S. that will take
effect starting in January if lawmakers don’t agree on a
compromise.  “In the United States, if timely action is not taken to
avoid the fiscal cliff and raise the debt ceiling, fiscal policy
could tighten by over 4 percent of GDP in 2013, pushing the
country into a recession with large international spillovers,”
Lipton said. “The lack of a strong medium-term fiscal
adjustment plan also weighs on business confidence.”  Lipton said that in the euro zone, policy makers also have
their work cut out for them.  “In the euro area, implementation challenges remain large
and future EMU architecture is still taking shape, with the
roadmap toward a banking union and greater fiscal integration
yet to be fully agreed,” he said.  Lipton also said that fiscal disagreements in  Japan  also
present a further complication for the world economy.  “Political impasse over budget funding and the lack of a
sufficiently strong medium-term fiscal adjustment plan
(notwithstanding the recent approval of a timetable for
consumption tax increase) also contribute to uncertainty,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  