-- Globe Seeks to Ally With Lopez's ABS-CBN to Tap Content
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-11-12T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/globe-seeks-to-ally-with-lopez-s-abs-cbn-to-tap-content.html
Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  may collaborate
with  Lopez Holdings Corp. (LPZ) ’s broadcasting unit  ABS-CBN Corp. (ABS)  as
the Philippines’ second-largest mobile-phone company seeks to
add media content to boost wireless usage by its subscribers.  Globe and Lopez are in talks to cooperate and maximize
profit, President Ernest Cu said in an interview at his office
in  Manila  on Nov. 9. “We’re looking at other avenues to
partner” including Globe’s plans to seek control of Lopez unit
Bayan Telecommunications Inc., he said.  Globe joins bigger competitor  Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Co. (TEL)  in seeking to add services and content to attract
customers and boost network usage as intense competition and a
shift to social media hurt mobile operators’ earnings. While
Bayan’s spectrum will help Globe to increase users and extend
broadband reach, ABS-CBN’s content could boost sales, Cu said.  “Mobile has become a widepsread platform of communication
and one thinking that has taken root is that telephone companies
can boost revenue from connectivity by securing exclusive
content,” said  James Lago , head of research at PCCI Securities
Brokers Corp. in Manila. The deal with Bayan will give Globe
assets to expand its networks, he said.  The  venture  of  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  and  Ayala
Corp. (AC)  said on Nov. 6 it was offering to purchase debt of Bayan
and a unit. The company is in talks with the owner of the
smaller rival on a wide range of commercial arrangements,
including a potential stake purchase, Globe said at the time.  Shares of Globe have declined 0.5 percent this year,
 compared with  the Philippine benchmark stock index’s 25 percent
advance. The  stock  fell 1.4 percent to 1,127 pesos at the close
in Manila trading yesterday.  Profit Decline  Net income at the telecommunications carrier  fell 26
percent  to 1.84 billion pesos ($44.8 million) in the third
quarter as expenses related to a $790-million network
modernization program outpaced the growth in revenue, according
to a company filing on Nov. 8.  Philippine mobile-phone companies have reported slowing
profits in recent quarters as bucket-priced subscription plans
triggered by intense competition hurt earnings, while the
popularity of sites such as those of Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc. prompted big investments in network upgrades.  PLDT Chairman  Manuel Pangilinan  said Nov. 6 that
competitors were trying to “copy” its plans. PLDT will pursue
its media strategy by building on its investments in TV 5, the
nation’s third-largest television network, and in Cignal TV, a
satellite television service, Pangilinan said last month after a
retirement fund venture ended talks to buy a controlling stake
in  GMA Network Inc. (GMA7)   Execution Key  “The key to a successful convergence is not the
strategy,” Cu said referring to Pangilinan’s comment. “The key
is the execution.”  In addition to a possible alliance with ABS-CBN, Globe is
exploring tie-ups with other media companies including Solar
Entertainment Corp. and GMA Network, Cu said.  “We said that content is a very key ingredient to most of
the telcos,” Cu said. “What the Philippine mobile-phone
subscribers lack today on their mobile phones is access to local
content. YouTube is the only local content.”  Globe’s mobile subscribers increased 10 percent to 32.1
million at the end of September, compared with PLDT’s 68.6
million. PLDT last year acquired Digital Telecommunications
 Philippines  Inc. for as much as 74.1 billion pesos.  Cu said mobile-phone subscriptions at Globe may continue to
grow at a single-digit percentage pace in the coming years.  Still, Filipino telecommunications providers’ strategy to
counter slowing growth by adding media services may take time to
boost sales, according to PCCI Securities’ Lago.  “Some telephone companies are moving toward this direction
as earnings from connectivity are expected to decline moving
forward,” Lago said. “The jury is still out if this direction
for exclusive content is going to pay off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  