-- Gold Is Seen Outperforming as Fiscal Cliff to Hurt Metals
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-11-12T12:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/gold-is-seen-outperforming-as-fiscal-cliff-to-hurt-metals.html
Gold prices are poised to gain while
base metals may decline in the short-term because of concerns
about the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S.  U.S. stocks saw the biggest weekly decline since June last
week amid investor concern that the  U.S. economy  may slow if
President  Barack Obama  and Congress fail to avert $607 billion
in tax increases and spending cuts next year. Gold futures on
Comex had their best week since January, gaining 3.3 percent, as
the London Metal Exchange Index of six main industrial metals
declined to the lowest since August.  “The U.S. fiscal cliff has short-term implications for
commodities,” David Hemming, a portfolio manager at Hermes
Investment Management Ltd., which oversees $2.2 billion in
commodities, said in a phone interview in London Nov. 9.
“Considering the concern is with the U.S. and it would be
bearish for the dollar, gold should outperform as both a
currency and a safe haven. The industrial metals have potential
for further downside, but other than copper they are trading
into their cost curves.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.4 percent last week,
the biggest drop since June 1, while the S&P GSCI Index of 24
raw materials advanced 1.7 percent, the most since
Sept. 14.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators lowered  combined
net-long positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options by 11
percent to 931,048 contracts in the week ended Nov. 6, the
biggest cut since June 5, data from Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed Nov. 9. Gold wagers declined to the lowest
since August, according to CFTC.  Negative Impact  “Any combination of cutting government deficit and raising
taxes is probably going to have a net negative impact on global
growth and U.S. growth, which would then lead to the softness in
commodity prices, especially those in the energy and the
industrial metal sectors,” said Mark Rzepczynski, head of the
funds group at FourWinds Capital Management, which oversees $1
billion in natural-resource assets. “The U.S. still plays an
important role in the global growth cycle.”  The U.S. risks entering a recession that will hurt economic
growth worldwide unless the fiscal cliff issue is addressed,
 Fitch Ratings  said Nov. 8. No solution from Congress may mean
further easing and higher inflation, which will benefit gold,
Rzepczynski said by phone from  Boston  on Nov. 9. Investors
should be “more defensive” towards industrial commodities, he
said.  While there may be some short-term volatility in the
markets because of the fiscal cliff, U.S. politicians will
eventually find a solution, Hermes’ Hemming said.  The leadership transition in  China , the biggest consumer of
everything from metals to soybeans, will be important for
commodities, especially if new stimulus measures are announced,
Hemming said. The ruling Communist Party is holding a congress
in Beijing to appoint new leaders.  “In terms of the industrial metals, Chinese stimulus could
offset the U.S. fiscal cliff fears,” Hemming said. “It depends
on how concerned the Chinese authorities become by the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  