-- Goldman Lowers Soybean Price Forecast 12% on Higher U.S. Output
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-11-12T02:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/goldman-lowers-soybean-price-forecast-12-on-higher-u-s-output.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
soybean price forecast by 12 percent after the U.S. government
raised its domestic crop estimate, boosting global supply.  Soybeans tumbled as much as 1.9 percent to $14.235 a bushel
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the lowest level in more than
four months, after the U.S. Department of Agriculture increased
its estimate for global stockpiles by 4.3 percent from a month
earlier. Higher yields in the U.S. are set to boost production
by 3 million metric tons, it said.  “Risks of critically tight soybean inventories continue to
fade quickly,” Damien Courvalin, a Goldman analyst said,
cutting the three-month forecast to $16.50 a bushel in Chicago
from $18.75. The increase in the USDA’s yield estimate “will
weigh on soybean prices near-term,” he said.  Declining prices of soybeans, crushed to make cooking oil
and feed for chickens and pigs, may help push down global  food
costs  tracked by the United Nations, easing concerns among
governments around the world already struggling to counter
slowing economic growth. The index of 55 food items slipped 0.9
percent in October from a six-month high in September, as prices
of grains, cooking oils and fats declined, the UN Food &
Agriculture Organization said Nov. 8.  Goldman also cut its three-month estimate for corn to $8.25
a bushel from $9 after lowering its forecast for oil and for
reformulated gasoline for blending with ethanol.  “The largest uncertainties are now on the demand side, as
we enter the third month of the 2012-2013 marketing year,”
Courvalin said. “Weekly corn exports and  ethanol production 
will remain weak near-term, keeping corn prices range bound in
coming weeks.” Lower corn prices may also drag down wheat
futures, Courvalin said. Goldman cut its three-month wheat
forecast to $9.50 a bushel from $10.25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  