-- Greece Nears Finance Fix After Passing Austerity Budget
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-12T12:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/greece-nears-eu-finance-fix-after-passing-2013-austerity-budget.html
European leaders were set to ease
Greece’s financial pain and recommit to keeping it in the euro
after the Athens government delivered an austerity budget for
2013.  European and International Monetary Fund experts provided a
positive verdict on Greece’s prospects, clearing an obstacle to
a 31.5 billion-euro ($40 billion) aid payout that’s been on hold
since June.  “The overall orientation that’s emerging from the
preparatory work is such that the next disbursement to Greece
should be organized in the best possible way,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in Brussels before
chairing tonight’s meeting of euro finance ministers.  Renewed efforts to keep Greece’s economy afloat coincide
with concerns over  Spain  and Cyprus, with the  crisis management 
clouded by forecasts that the broader 17-nation economy will
virtually grind to a halt next year.  Finance ministers won’t make “definitive decisions” at
the meeting starting at 5 p.m., Juncker said. He added that he
was “quite impressed” with Greece’s economic-overhaul package
and last night’s passage of the 2013 budget by a 167-128 margin
in Parliament.  Greece reported today that it beat its deficit target for
the first 10 months of 2012, narrowing the gap to 12.3 billion
euros from 21.1 billion euros. The goal was 13.6 billion euros.  Greek Redemption  While the next aid disbursement won’t be certified tonight,
the ministers will find a workaround to prevent  Greece  from
defaulting on a 5 billion-euro bill redemption on Nov. 16, a
European official told reporters in Brussels on Nov. 9.  No date has been set for final clearance of the
installment. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is pressing
for an two extra years, until 2016, to meet deficit-reduction
goals and euro governments are mulling options for filling the
financing gap that would result.  The current target is to reduce Greek debt to 120 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020. The European Commission last
week put the ratio at 188.9 percent in 2014, up from 176.7
percent this year.  The European official said a decade is now the rough
timetable for making Greece’s debt “sustainable,” suggesting
an extension to 2022 or 2023.  Economic Slowdown  Europe ’s handling of the crisis is being colored by a
deteriorating economy in the northern creditor countries, with
export-driven  Germany  becoming less resistant to the contraction
gripping southern Europe.  The commission last week cut its forecast for German growth
in 2013 to 0.8 percent from a 1.7 percent forecast in May. The
result will be near-stagnation across Europe, with the overall
euro economy eking out growth of 0.1 percent, down from a May
forecast of 1 percent.  Spain and Cyprus will figure only on the margins tonight,
officials said. Immediate pressure on Spain has abated in the
wake of a pledge by the  European Central Bank  to buy the bonds
of hard-hit countries as long as they submit to economic
conditions.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said last week that the central
bank stands ready to unleash the program. Spain has already
secured a 100 billion-euro package to fix its banks and Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is trying to avoid having to fall back on
additional aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  