-- Greece Seen Needing $41 Billion in Challenge to Creditors
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n ,   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-12T17:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/greece-seen-by-troika-needing-eu15-billion-through-2014.html
Greece  may need as much as 32.6
billion euros ($41 billion) in extra financing through 2016,
putting pressure on a German-led bloc of creditors to make
concessions in order to prevent a renewed flareup of the
 European debt crisis .  Plans to give Greece two more years to meet deficit-
reduction targets would open up financing gaps of 15 billion
euros through 2014 and 17.6 billion euros in 2015-2016,
according to an assessment by the country’s creditors that was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The report ahead of tonight’s meeting of euro-area finance
ministers in Brussels gave a mixed review of Greece’s progress
from debt to recovery, saluting Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s
coalition for “a significant catching-up,” while saying that
“risks to the program remain very large.”  Greece’s recession-hit and debt-encumbered economy returns
to the spotlight just as concerns mount over Spain and Cyprus
and at a time when  crisis management  is clouded by forecasts
that the 17-nation currency bloc’s economy will virtually grind
to a halt next year.  Representatives of creditor governments said they won’t be
rushed into easing up on Greece. On his way into the meeting,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  of  Germany , the biggest
contributor to the European bailouts, said the priority is on
“thoroughness” and added that Germany’s stance will be
dictated by its parliament.  Extra Meeting  “The Greeks have left a lot of things until the last
minute, so we’ll also take the time to consider where we are,”
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said. He and Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen floated the possibility of a
follow-up meeting later this week.  While the next aid disbursement of 31.5 billion euros won’t
be certified tonight, the ministers will find a workaround to
prevent Greece from defaulting on a 5 billion-euro bill
redemption on Nov. 16, a European official told reporters in
Brussels on Nov. 9.  Estimates from the “troika” of the European Commission,
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  form the
backdrop to the deliberations over Greece, which triggered the
crisis by discovering an unexpected budget hole in October 2009.
Since then, European governments and the IMF have lent Greece
148.6 billion euros, the ECB has bought Greek bonds and private
creditors have written off more than 100 billion euros of Greek
bond holdings.  Debt Sustainability  The troika’s draft assumed that Greece will succeed in
getting two additional years, until 2016, to meet fiscal targets
demanded by its lenders. Estimates of the financing gap were in
brackets, indicating that they could change before European
governments complete work on the rescue package.  The 115-page draft didn’t include proposals for plugging
the financing hole and two critical sections -- on Greece’s debt
sustainability and recommendations for next steps in the three-
year bid to turn the country around -- were left blank.  Making Greece’s debt “sustainable,” previously defined as
cutting it to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, is
critical for keeping the IMF involved. The troika said Greece’s
debt will peak at 190.1 percent of GDP in 2014.  Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  didn’t show the IMF’s
hand today. Arriving at the meeting, she said the Washington-
based lender will play its part in a solution, adding that
Greece needs a “real fix,” not a “quick fix.”  Debt Relief  Options floated for plugging the financing hole include
cutting the  interest rates  and extending the maturities on
Greece’s aid loans, accelerating rescue bailout payments and
engineering a buyback of Greek debt, most of which is held by
public creditors. German officials have said no to outright debt
relief.  “We have to approach the issue a bit more creatively
through reshuffling, through possible extension of payment goals
or perhaps deploy profits from the ECB,” Austrian Finance
Minister Maria Fekter said.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman of
the meeting, said the troika report points to the continuation
of Greece’s aid program, even if “definitive decisions” will
wait until later.  “The overall orientation that’s emerging from the
preparatory work is such that the next disbursement to Greece
should be organized in the best possible way,” Juncker told
reporters. He added that he was “quite impressed” with last
week’s Greek economic-overhaul package and last night’s passage
of the 2013 budget by a 167-128 margin in parliament.  ‘Vested Interests’  In the troika report, praise for the Samaras government’s
budget cuts and economic shakeup blended with concern that
“vested interests” and “powerful pressure groups” will
frustrate the reforms. Demonstrations and strikes have blunted
past revamp efforts, and 15,000 people protested outside
parliament in  Athens  last night.  “The key risks concern the overall policy implementation,
given that the coalition supporting the government appears
fragile and some components of the program face political
resistance, despite the determination of the government,” the
troika said.  Europe ’s handling of the crisis is being colored by a
deteriorating economy in the northern creditor countries, with
export-driven Germany becoming less resistant to the contraction
gripping southern Europe.  The commission last week cut its forecast for German growth
in 2013 to 0.8 percent from a 1.7 percent forecast made in May.
The result will be near-stagnation across Europe, with the
overall euro economy eking out growth of 0.1 percent, down from
a May forecast of 1 percent.  Germany couldn’t escape a euro-area recession,  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said today. On a visit to  Portugal , one of four
countries tapping emergency aid, she said the country’s outlook
is “very much improved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Lisbon at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  