-- Greece’s Stournaras Claims Victory at Euro-Area Finance Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-11-12T23:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/greece-s-stournaras-claims-victory-at-euro-area-finance-meeting.html
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras claimed victory at a meeting with his euro-area
counterparts, saying  Greece  is on course to gain two extra years
for reaching budget-austerity targets and to unlock aid
payments.  Speaking after the gathering of euro-area finance chiefs
and International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , Stournaras said they will give Greece until 2016 to
meet goals for narrowing the spending gap. He also said the
country will receive a 31.3 billion-euro ($39.8 billion)
disbursement of emergency funds in late November or early
December.  “It’s a done deal,” Stournaras told reporters today in
Brussels after the meeting. “It’s very important.”   The gathering of the 17-nation euro’s finance chiefs and
Lagarde addressed Greece’s budget deficit, debt sustainability
and request for two additional years to meet fiscal targets. The
euro-area ministers plan to meet again on Nov. 20 to decide
whether to release emergency aid for the country.  Greece, facing a sixth year of recession in 2013, has been
negotiating with the euro area and the IMF over the steps needed
to qualify for the release of loan instalments frozen since
June. At stake is whether the Greek government of Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras can pay its bills, recapitalize domestic banks
and stay in the euro.  Over the past week, the Greek parliament has approved extra
austerity measures demanded by the country’s international
creditors. The measures include a 2013 budget to shrink the
spending gap further.    Greece narrowed its  budget deficit  from more than 15
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 -- five times the
European Union limit -- to 9.4 percent in 2011. The spending gap
is due to shrink to below 7 percent of GDP this year and to
almost 5 percent in 2013.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  