-- Libor Arrests, FSA Conflicts, Molycorp Probe: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-12T13:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/libor-arrests-fsa-conflicts-fine-molycorp-probe-compliance.html
U.K. prosecutors are poised to
arrest former traders and rate setters at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  within a month for
questioning over their role in the Libor scandal, a person with
knowledge of the probe said.  The arrests will be made by police under the direction of
prosecutors at the Serious Fraud Office within the next month,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. Arrests in the U.K. are made at an early
stage of the investigation, allowing police and prosecutors to
question people under caution and may not lead to charges.  The SFO has 40 people working on the probe into
manipulation of the London interbank bank offered rate, a
benchmark for financial products valued at $360 trillion
worldwide, and has involved the City of London Police, said
 David Green , the agency’s director.  The SFO opened the investigation in July at the request of
British politicians after Barclays was fined a record 290
million pounds ($462 million) for rate manipulation. Regulators
across the globe are investigating claims banks altered
submissions that were used to set Libor in an effort to benefit
traders, or to appear financially healthier than they were.  Regulators in the U.S. and U.K. are probing how derivatives
traders and bankers who submitted interest-rate data colluded to
rig benchmarks to benefit their own trades, and whether banks
low-balled submissions in 2008 to hide their true cost of
borrowing. Criminal probes by the SFO and U.S. Department of
Justice are running in parallel with civil investigations by
U.S. and U.K. agencies.  Barclays spokesman John McGuinness, UBS spokesman Richard Morton and RBS spokesman Michael Strachan all declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Japan FSA Considers Expanding Financial Crisis Response System  A Financial Services Agency panel in Japan today will
discuss an expansion of its financial crisis response system to
include brokerages and insurers, according to documents
distributed by the panel in Tokyo.  Proposals will include expansion of the country’s deposit
insurance agency’s role in times of crisis to help stabilize
market liquidity. They also will address allowing the deposit
insurance agency to inject capital into failed financial
institutions.  FSA Considers Fines for Asset Managers on Conflicts of Interest  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  is considering
fines for some asset managers for failing to limit conflicts of
interest.  The regulator said it observed poor practices including the
favoring of certain customers over others, failing to report
trading errors and inconsistent policies regarding the personal
trading accounts of fund managers. The policies at firms for
accepting gifts “might have caused concern about the
objectivity” of decisions made for clients, the FSA also said.  Employees of some firms, which the FSA didn’t name, “often
lacked awareness of situations where short-term business goals
conflicted with the long-term interests” of customers, the
regulator said in a letter to chief executive officers of asset
management firms published on its  website  Nov. 9.  The FSA carried out a review of conflicts of interest at
asset management firms between June 2011 and February this year
and will select some firms for follow up visits. Rules require
the boards of asset management firms to set up and regularly
review policies to prevent unfair practices.  Austrian Watchdog to Gain Company Accounts Oversight in Proposal  Austria’s financial watchdog will be empowered to regulate
accounting practices and financial reports under a government
proposal to bring the country into compliance with an eight-
year-old European Union law.  The  Finanzmarktaufsicht , known as the FMA, will gain the
authority to check auditing practices and financial reports
under a law proposed Nov. 9, the Finance Ministry said. It
covers companies with shares or bonds traded on Austrian public
markets.  Austria has bailed out three banks since 2008, and
prosecutors are investigating whether false accounting played a
role. Retail investors have also suffered losses in real estate
companies whose financial problems may have been hidden from
investors.  No authority in Austria currently has the power to review
company accounts. The proposed law will go before parliament for
consideration next.  Solvency II Report May Reduce Insurers’ Hedges  A review of the application of Solvency II rules by
Europe’s insurance supervisor may reduce insurers’ need for
hedging.  The  European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority 
(EIOPA) will launch an impact study in December to consider
reducing the amount of capital European insurers are required to
hold against guaranteed policies,  Carlos Montalvo , executive
director of EIOPA said at a Nov. 5 Actuarial Profession
conference in Brussels.  For more, click here.  Borg Threatens Banks With Higher Risk-Weights to Cap Dividends  Swedish Finance  Minister  Anders Borg  threatened banks with
higher risk-weights on mortgages that would raise their  capital
requirements  for housing loans should they try to increase
dividend payments to shareholders, citing a need to keep banks
stable.  Sweden’s largest banks have signaled they’re likely to
steer excess capital to investors after exceeding regulatory
capital requirements that take effect in 2015. Dividends paid
for 2012 will rise by an average 16 percent, according to
 Bloomberg forecasts .  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , SEB
AB and Nordea Bank AB are required to hold higher capital
reserves than their European peers as Sweden seeks to protect
taxpayers from banking crises.  Borg signaled Nov. 9 he wants Sweden’s biggest banks to
raise their buffers even further, saying that “the capital
requirements that we have today are based on far too low risk
weights.”  Risk weights on Swedish housing loans are among the lowest
in Europe, averaging about 6 percent, according to the central
bank. That compares with an average of more than 15 percent in
Germany. Sweden’s FSA wants to increase risk weights -- which
determine how much capital a bank must set aside to guard
against potential losses -- to as high as 20 percent.  Swedish banks already have capital ratios that exceed the
12 percent core Tier 1 capital ratio they need to hold by 2015.  Compliance Action  HSBC Jersey Account-Holder List Probed by U.K. Tax Authority  British tax authorities are investigating a list of more
than 4,000 British residents who have bank accounts with  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the country’s largest lender, in the offshore tax
haven of Jersey.  The list, leaked by a whistle-blower, includes a man who
was jailed for two years after more than 300 guns were found in
his house and the owner of a farm where police discovered
cannabis valued at 500,000 pounds ($800,000), according to the
Daily Telegraph, which first reported the document.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s attempts to cut
costs at the bank are being hobbled by probes into money
laundering and compensation claims from British clients. The
London-based lender said last week it’s likely to face criminal
charges from U.S. anti-money-laundering probes and warned the
cost of a settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5
billion the bank has so far set aside.  “We are investigating the reports of an alleged loss of
certain client data in Jersey as a matter of urgency,” HSBC
said in an e-mailed statement Nov. 9. “We haven’t been notified
of any investigation in relation to this matter by HMRC or any
other authority but, should we receive notification, we will
cooperate fully with the authorities.”  HSBC’s Swiss private bank is one of 11 financial firms in
the Alpine country being investigated by the U.S. Department of
Justice for allegedly helping American clients evade taxes. HSBC
said in May that fines and penalties to settle the tax-evasion
probe could be “significant.”  For more, click here.  Molycorp Investigated by SEC for Accuracy of Company Disclosures  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the owner of the largest rare-earths deposit
outside of China, said it’s being investigated by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over the accuracy of the
company’s public disclosures.  The SEC notified the company of its probe in August,
 Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Molycorp said Nov. 9 in a
filing. Molycorp said in the filing it’s cooperating with SEC
staff and can’t predict how long the investigation will take.
 Jim Sims , a company spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail and voice message seeking further comment.  Molycorp is increasing output at its Mountain Pass mine in
California. The company, which sold shares in a July 2010
initial public offering, acquired Canada’s Neo Material
Technologies Inc. in June for C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) to
add production capacity in China.  Basel III Start Delayed as Bank Regulators Review Comments  U.S. regulators won’t hold banking companies to a Jan. 1
deadline they wrote into proposed rules for boosting the
reserves lenders must hold against potential losses, they said
Nov. 9.  The  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency “do not expect that
any of the proposed rules would become effective” at the start
of next year, as they continue weighing views expressed during
the comment period, they said in a joint statement.  The agencies are working “as expeditiously as possible”
on rules proposed in June to align U.S. banks with standards set
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The international
accords set a Jan. 1 deadline for boosting capital requirements
to guard against a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis. Most Basel
committee member nations have yet to complete work on the rules.  The Nov. 9 statement was a response to concerns expressed
by industry participants that they would have insufficient time
to understand the rules or make system changes by Jan. 1. The
American Bankers Association, Financial Services Roundtable and
the Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association have
said the rules as proposed could hurt credit availability, damp
economic growth and hurt U.S. competitiveness.  For more, click here.  SEC Begins Formal Inquiry Into Knight Related to Computer Error  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $457.6 million trading error in
August is the subject of a formal investigation by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Federal examiners are assessing the firm’s compliance with
a rule governing risk-control procedures in its trading
operation and other regulations, the company said in a filing
with the commission Nov. 8. Knight was also the subject of on-
site examinations into its capital and liquidity conditions, it
said. Those inquiries have concluded.  The trading mishap, which Knight blamed on faulty software,
pushed the Jersey City, New Jersey-based firm to the brink of
bankruptcy and accelerated an industrywide assessment of how to
improve controls in electronic trading systems. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  described the mishap as “unacceptable” and
promised to issue regulations to help prevent similar events.  The SEC is examining Knight’s compliance with the so-called
 market-access rule , adopted in 2010 to reduce the risk of
trading disruptions and improper and manipulative activity. The
rule, which went into effect last year, requires brokers to
employ risk checks on orders before they’re sent to markets to
make sure they aren’t erroneous and don’t exceed preset capital
and credit levels.  Knight bombarded U.S. equity exchanges with erroneous
orders on Aug. 1 after improperly installing software that
malfunctioned, according to Chief Executive Officer Thomas
Joyce. The trading caused volume to surge and prices to swing in
dozens of securities listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange and
NYSE Arca.  For more, click here.  U.K. FSA Bans Reverend Who Lost $1 Million on Forbidden Loans  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  banned Reverend
Carmel Jones for approving unlawful loans while serving as
chairman of The Pentecostal Credit Union, which resulted in
losses of 670,000 pounds ($1 million).  Jones approved 14 loans to a separate church organization,
breaching rules that forbid credit unions to lend to other
corporations. The FSA told Jones on three occasions that the
loans were unlawful, the agency said in a statement on its
website today. As a result of the ban, Jones can no longer hold
a post at a financial firm regulated by the U.K. regulator.  The credit union escaped a fine because of the detrimental
impact a financial penalty would have on the firm’s members, the
FSA said. The credit union, which has 1,600 members and a loan
book worth about 5.5 million pounds, replaced its entire
management at the watchdog’s request.  Leslie Laniyan, the new chairman at the credit union, said
in an e-mailed statement that its “previous directors made a
number of mistakes” and the group apologizes “unreservedly”
to its members.  Courts  Ex-Provident Royalties CEO Admits Guilt in $485 Million Scam  Paul R. Melbye, co-founder and former chief executive
officer of Provident Royalties LLC of Dallas, pleaded guilty to
conspiring to defraud investors of $485 million in an oil and
gas scheme.  Melbye, 47, is the second Provident Royalties principal to
plead guilty to a scheme that duped 7,700 U.S. investors through
fraudulent private placements and limited partnership interests
from 2006 to 2009, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney
John M. Bales of Sherman, Texas.  Provident co-founder Joseph Blimline, 35, pleaded guilty in
connection with the scheme in 2010 and was sentenced to 20 years
in prison in May of this year, according to court records.
Melbye, who pleaded guilty Nov. 8 before a U.S. magistrate judge
in Sherman, faces as long as five years in federal prison at
sentencing, according to the statement. No sentencing date has
been set yet for Melbye.  Matthew Orwig, Melbye’s attorney, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the plea.  The case is U.S. v Melbye, 4:12-cr-0169, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Texas (Sherman).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Fed’s Duke Says New Rules May Harm Home Loans by Small Banks  Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said pending bank
regulations may “seriously” impair mortgage lending by
community banks, which play a “significant” role in the market
for home loans.  Duke, a former community bank executive, said she and other
Fed governors, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , are concerned
about the potential harm from several rules mandated in the
Basel III agreement and Dodd-Frank Act. If rules cause small
banks to believe they shouldn’t sell mortgages, “it should
raise red flags,” and policy makers should weigh whether the
benefits of regulation outweigh the costs of reduced lending,
Duke said Nov. 9 in a  speech  in Chicago.  “The totality of new mortgage lending regulations might
still seriously impair the ability of community banks to
continue to offer their traditional mortgage products,” Duke
told community bankers Nov. 9 at an  event  sponsored by the
Chicago Fed, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency.  Housing industry groups, including the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  and the  National Association of Realtors , have been
warning that the Basel capital standards and the Dodd-Frank
regulations will have a chilling effect on mortgage credit as
they go into effect at the same time next year.  Regulators are preparing to release the language of two
rules taking effect in January to set standards for non-abusive
lending and require banks to hold a slice of risky mortgages on
their books.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 