-- Microsoft Says CEO Called Surface Distribution ‘Modest’
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-11-12T20:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/microsoft-says-ceo-called-surface-distribution-modest-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  described the company’s approach to
supplying and distributing the Surface tablet as “modest,”
countering reports that suggested he was referring to sales of
the device.  Ballmer made the comments in an interview with French
publication Le Parisien, according to a statement from
Microsoft. The executive also described the reception to the
device, the first computer built by Microsoft, as “fantastic,”
the company said in the statement.  U.S. publications such as Pocketnow, Cnet and Gizmodo,
using a translation of the Le Parisien article on the French
publication’s  website , reported that Ballmer had said sales were
“modest.” The translation has now been altered to remove
references to the executive discussing modest sales, according
to  Pocketnow .  “When asked about Surface, Steve’s use of the term
‘modest’ was in relation to the company’s approach in ramping up
supply and distribution of Surface with Windows RT, which has
only been available via our online store and Microsoft retail
and holiday stores in the U.S. and  Canada ,” Microsoft said in
the statement. “While our approach has been modest, Steve notes
the reception to the device has been ‘fantastic’ which is why he
also stated that ‘soon, it will be available in more countries
and in more stores.’”  Surface went on sale on Oct. 26, at the same time as the
new version of Windows, called Windows 8. Surface is currently
available only with the Windows RT iteration of Windows 8, which
runs on processors with  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s technology. A Surface
with an Intel Corp. chip is set to go on sale early next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  