-- The Lincolnian View of Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-12T23:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/lincoln-the-justices-and-same-sex-marriage.html
It is fitting that  Steven Spielberg ’s widely praised “Lincoln” has been released in the
same period in which same-sex marriage has  attracted  close
attention from both voters and the Supreme Court. More than any
other American president,  Abraham Lincoln  thought deeply about
the complex relationship between moral commitments and political
constraints.  With respect to slavery, Lincoln’s moral conclusions were
not ambiguous. In his first  debate  with Stephen Douglas in 1858,
he decried “the monstrous injustice of slavery itself.” He
proclaimed, “I hate it” -- not least because it “causes the real
friends of freedom to doubt our sincerity, and especially
because it forces so many really good men amongst ourselves into
an open war with the very fundamental principles of civil
liberty.”  Lincoln  insisted  that “in the right to eat the bread,
without the leave of anybody else, which his own hand earns,”
the person who is enslaved “is my equal and the equal of Judge
Douglas, and the equal of every living man.”  For an aspiring senator from  Illinois  in 1858, these
statements were exceptionally bold. With respect to what to do
and when to do it, Lincoln was vague and ambivalent. While
supporting “gradual emancipation,” he insisted that nothing
should be done immediately to eliminate the very practice that
he hated. His explanation? The “great mass of white people”
wouldn’t support abolition. In his most striking passage,
Lincoln added, “Whether this feeling accords with justice and
sound judgment, is not the sole question, if, indeed, it is any
part of it. A universal feeling, whether well or ill-founded,
cannot be safely disregarded.”  Public Sentiment  When politicians defer to “universal feeling,” they are
often self-interested. Knowing that their electoral lives are on
the line, they choose to live. Other politicians defer out of
humility. Lacking confidence in their own views, they follow the
judgments of their constituents. But in this context, Lincoln
was being neither self-interested nor humble. Instead he was
emphasizing democratic constraints on the achievement of clear
moral imperatives. As he went on to say: “Public sentiment is
everything. With public sentiment, nothing can fail; without it,
nothing can succeed.”  Of course, it is possible to think that Lincoln was wrong.
Shouldn’t he have called for immediate abolition, just because
the moral issue was so clear? Why should “the great mass of
white people” have veto power over what may be the most basic
human right -- the right not to be owned by another person? If
there is an adequate answer, it is that no leader can shove his
own moral commitments down the throats of We the People -- and
if he tries, he will fail.  These points bear directly on the role of the  Supreme
Court . In “The Least Dangerous Branch,” published in 1962, Yale
law professor Alexander Bickel invoked Lincoln to argue that the
court must combine high principle with a keen sense of
pragmatism. It must be careful about the timing of its own
interventions. When society is sharply divided, the court must
use its discretion not to decide.  Bickel memorably urged, “No good society can be
unprincipled, and no viable society can be principle-ridden.” In
his view, the court was right to refuse to recognize certain
constitutional principles before the nation was ready for them.
In this way, Bickel explained the court’s otherwise puzzling
refusal, in 1955, to strike down bans on racial intermarriage.  Cautious Advance  If we keep Lincoln’s example in mind, we might well
believe that for many important questions, it is reasonable for
public officials, and particularly federal judges, to proceed
cautiously when the nation’s moral judgments are changing -- not
least when they are moving in the right direction. Suppose that
we agree (as I think we should) that it is unacceptably
discriminatory to forbid same-sex marriages -- and that this
form of discrimination was no less unacceptable in 1992 and 2002
than it is 2012. Does it follow that the Supreme Court should
have ruled, in those earlier years, that states must recognize
same-sex marriages?  Not necessarily. If the court had required states to
recognize such marriages in 1992, or even 2002, it would not
quite have rejected a “universal feeling,” but it would have
acted in blatant defiance of widespread moral judgments. Any
such ruling might well have produced a serious backlash and
ultimately proved self-defeating. By short-circuiting public
discussion, it would have spurred a serious and possibly
successful effort to amend the Constitution to ban same-sex
marriage.  Things are different today. Since 2010, polls have found
that a majority of Americans support same-sex marriage. The
once-unthinkable has happened: An American president has
announced that he favors state recognition of same-sex
marriages. On Nov. 6, the citizens of  Maryland ,  Washington  and
 Maine  voted to allow such marriages. On the same day, Minnesota
voters refused to incorporate the state’s existing ban on same-
sex marriage into the state constitution. Same-sex marriage is
also recognized in  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,  Massachusetts ,  New
Hampshire ,  New York  and  Vermont , as well as the  District of
Columbia . There is no national consensus in favor of same-sex
marriage, but the national consensus against it has
disintegrated.  In less than two weeks, the Supreme Court will decide
whether to hear one or more of several cases that bear on the
question of whether governments can reserve the institution of
marriage to heterosexual couples. This isn’t the place for a
discussion of the underlying legal issues, which are technical
and complex. But in past years, there was a distinctive reason
for judicial caution, rooted in Lincolnian thinking about
“public sentiment.” In light of continuing movements in that
sentiment, that particular argument for caution becomes weaker
every day.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and, most
recently, the author of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  David Petraeus and e-mail
intelligence  and on  France’s dangerous competitiveness gap ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on meeting the  Syrian rebels ; William Pesek on
the rise of  Japan’s political right ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the root
of all  Republican electoral problems ;  Amity Shlaes  on the
 narcissism trap ; Gunnar Hokmark on why bank rules, not a
supervisor, are  what Europe needs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 