-- Indonesia Mulls Minimum Wage Boost Amid Protests: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-11-13T14:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/indonesia-mulls-minimum-wage-boost-amid-protests-southeast-asia.html
Indonesia  may boost the average
minimum wage by as much as 50 percent next year as labor groups
demand higher pay amid economic growth that has exceeded 6
percent for eight straight quarters.  The government may raise the lowest required compensation
to 2 million rupiah ($208) a month, Industry Minister Mohamad S. Hidayat said yesterday in Jakarta. That would be an average, he
said, as living costs vary among provinces. The Confederation of
Indonesian Labor Unions is seeking an increase to 2.5 million
rupiah from 1.5 million rupiah, Andi Gani Nena Wea, the group’s
president, said in an interview.  “When prices are going up and Indonesia’s economy is
growing more than 6 percent, it’s not enough for laborers to
finance their family, especially those with children,” he said.  Economic expansion is boosting the cost of living, with
last month’s inflation reaching the highest in more than a year.
Domestic investment rose 33 percent and foreign direct
investment gained 22 percent in the third quarter, according to
government data. Indonesia’s  minimum wage  is among the highest
in the world relative to average salaries at 65 percent,
according to the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development’s September economic  survey .  Protest March  About 4,500 people protested in three areas of Tangering
Regent today, Aos Koswara, chairman of the Karya Utama workers
federation, said by phone. They demand a monthly minimum wage of
2.8 million rupiah for the Tangerang area, he said. Calls to Boy Rafli Amar, a police spokesman, weren’t immediately answered.  The Jakarta administration is considering increasing the
monthly minimum wage to almost 2 million rupiah after labor
groups rallied last month to demand higher pay, Sofjan Wanandi,
chairman of the employers association, Apindo, said last week.
Some companies have indicated higher wages may prompt them to
relocate their operations outside the country, he said,
declining to name any.  “I haven’t heard that investors want to relocate,”
Hidayat said yesterday, adding that companies such as Toyota
Motor Corp. have committed to increasing investment in Indonesia.
“They want the government to solve this problem soon, but
they’re still committed.”  Accelerating Inflation  Indonesia’s inflation accelerated to a 13-month high in
October with consumer prices climbing 4.61 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics office said Nov. 1. In  China , Shenzhen
has the highest monthly minimum wage of 1,500  yuan  ($241), while
Beijing has the highest hourly minimum wage of 14 yuan, People’s
Daily reported Oct. 26.  Representatives of Indonesian businesses, labor groups,
academics and the government are in talks under a so-called wage
council to decide on the increase, with Jakarta expected to make
a decision Nov. 20, Dita Indah Sari, an expert staff member at
the Manpower and Transmigration Ministry, said last week.  The latest survey in the capital shows a minimum living
cost of 1.99 million rupiah, which will have to be adjusted for
variables such as inflation and labor market conditions, Indah
Sari said. The final increase may bring the minimum wage to 2.1
million rupiah, she said.  “Jakarta is a barometer for wages in nearby regions,”
Koswara said by phone last week. “Whenever there’s an increase
in labor wages companies always make threats such as shutting
down but they never do it; it’s just an empty threat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at  gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  