-- The Asymmetrical Threat of E-Mail Doomed Petraeus
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-12T20:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/intelligence-chief-s-lack-of-intelligence-about-e-mail.html
The  resignation  of David Petraeus as
director of central intelligence -- prompted, you may have
heard, by the discovery, via an e-mail trail, of an extramarital
affair that possibly posed a security risk -- leads to a cascade
of concerns.  Leaving aside questions of morality, which would only lead
to foolhardy and empty pronouncements, it’s fair to ask who will
take the helm of the Central Intelligence Agency, which seemed
to flourish under Petraeus’s leadership. What does this mean for
the unending struggle against Islamic fundamentalism, the
investigations into the Libyan attacks,  Iran ’s blossoming
nuclear program, and a host of other issues crowding the
agency’s plate? How did the FBI investigation that unearthed the
whole thing unfold, and did the bureau overstep its boundaries
while at the same time under-informing its overseers?  Perhaps most vexing of all, why oh why, decades into the
popular e-mail experience, did one of the smartest men in the
country, a master of intelligence and spycraft, a leader who
recast the entire Iraq strategy and who ran the agency that
helped track down Osama bin Laden and oversaw large parts of
what seems to have been our first cyberwar, why on earth did he
think his romantic e-mails could remain secret?  What is it that we still don’t understand about e-mail? Why
do even people versed in encryption, worms and firewalls, people
who do their reading in  Scifs  and have their iPads wiped clean
after visiting Asia for fear of insidious Chinese computer
viruses, lull themselves into believing that e-mail is a safe
place to carry on relationships or have conversations or,
really, do anything they would prefer to keep secret?  Indelible Record  Let’s state for the record a fairly basic observation: E-
mail leaves a virtually permanent, indelible record. You can
empty your trash, you can bury your laptop, you can create fake
accounts, but chances are there’s a server somewhere with a twin
version of your e-mail, and it’s waiting in the shadows to come
back and haunt you. Ghosts in the machine.  We should leave it to the cognitive scientists -- or the
psychiatrists -- to figure out why we have so much trouble
remembering this. (NIH grant alert!) But: We remember not to put
the radio in the bathtub; we remember not to drink gasoline;
most of the time we remember not to lick the pole on the
chairlift. Yet we cannot remember that even the most deeply
buried e-mail is probably findable.  It’s easy enough to hazard a few guesses as to why, of
course. In the span of human invention, e-mail is still
relatively new (compared with, say, the telephone). It’s also
fast. True, maybe it’s not as fast as Twitter, instant
messaging, texting and other, more recent jack-rabbit
technologies that have lapped it. But e-mail is still maybe too
fast for our brains to catch up with. The message came to us in
a flash, we responded quickly, therefore it will vanish -- it’s
as ephemeral as the transaction.  Maybe speed also eats away at our superego. The desire to
respond, to emote, can be so fierce that sometimes we do it
before thinking. Unlike a letter, or a conversation, where you
can change course and repair the damage, an e-mail, once sent,
can rarely be made to disappear. This can be a problem. Though
we put a man on the moon, though we moved several space shuttles
over bumpy roads to museums, we still haven’t managed to invent
an all-powerful e-mail recall button. It’s worth remembering,
too, that those fantastic free e-mail services many of us use
are free for a reason. Data mining, pop-up ads and goodness
knows what other digital strings are attached that we ignore,
blinded by convenience and the right price.  Familiar Story  David Petraeus isn’t the first to forget all this. Many of
those on high have been brought low by e-mail, romantic and
otherwise. Although he did have the Federal Bureau of
Investigation with its manifold resources on his tail, it’s hard
to argue that the retired four-star general and intelligence
chief shouldn’t have known better. After all, while Petraeus’s
career was unraveling, Daniel Craig and the James Bond franchise
were racking up box-office dollars with a story in which the
British security apparatus is brought down by computer hacking.  We hope Petraeus, his family and all those involved in this
dark and unhappy tangle find a way to heal. We also hope that
the CIA weathers this moment. But it’s possible that Petraeus
has presented the rest of us with what the therapeutic
industrial complex calls a supremely teachable moment. E-mail is
a fantastic tool. It’s revolutionized our world. Just don’t
expect it to keep your secrets.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, 
columns and op-ed articles.  Today's highlights: the editors on   France 's dangerous 
competitiveness gap;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on meeting the 
 Syrian rebels ; William Pesek on the rise of  Japan 's
political right; Ramesh Ponnuru on the root of all 
 Republican electoral problems ; Amity Shlaes on the
 narcissism trap ; Cass R. Sunstein on Lincoln's  lesson 
for the Supreme Court ; Gunnar Hokmark on why bank rules, 
not a supervisor, are  what Europe needs .   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 