-- LIPA Faces Angry Customers, Lawmakers as Blackouts Linger
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-11-12T21:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/lipa-faces-angry-customers-lawmakers-as-blackouts-linger.html
Frustrated residents joined
lawmakers in calling for a shakeup of the Long Island Power
Authority as about 56,000 of its customers remain blacked out
two weeks after  Hurricane Sandy .  The state-owned authority’s customers accounted for about
53 percent of an estimated 106,000 still without power today,
including homes and businesses with property damage unable to
reconnect, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from utility
websites. Sandy and a subsequent snowstorm knocked out power to
8.66 million customers in 21 states, according to the  U.S.
Energy Department .  “I never thought I’d live like this,” Denise Watson, 51,
who was charging her mobile phone in her car outside her home in
Hicksville, New York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Do
you mean to tell me that a multibillion-dollar operation such as
LIPA didn’t have any preparation for this? It’s a disgrace.”  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said Nov. 8 that LIPA’s
management has failed. Cuomo, a Democrat, said he “will make
every change necessary to ensure it lives up to its public
responsibility,” including removing management. Hundreds of
residents protested outside a utility office in Hicksville on
Nov. 10.  Unprecedented Storm  “We certainly understand the frustration,” Chief
Operating Officer Michael Hervey said at a press conference
yesterday. The storm was unprecedented and left utilities along
the East Coast calling for help from a limited number of linemen
and tree-trimmers, he said.  “When we’re done we will look at any improvements we need
to make,” Hervey said.  Conditions might have been worse if local officials hadn’t
started directing LIPA’s personnel to turn on power to
individual neighborhoods, John Venditto, town  supervisor  in
Oyster Bay, said in an interview yesterday.  “I’ve never seen a response this poor,” said Venditto,
who has lived in the Long Island community for more than six
decades. Oyster Bay is considering having its municipal workers
begin clearing trees on private property if LIPA doesn’t speed
its response, he said.  Representative Pete King, a New York Republican, called on
President  Barack Obama  to take the lead in restoring power on
Long Island, increasing the Army Corps of Engineers’ response.  “LIPA management is clearly incapable of completing the
vital task of restoring power,” King wrote in a  Nov. 9 letter 
to the president.  Lilco Assets  Mario Cuomo, the current governor’s father, was governor of
New York when LIPA was formed after Long Island Lighting Co.’s
Shoreham nuclear power plant was scrapped. The authority
eventually took over Lilco’s assets.  Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29, bringing 85 mile-per-hour
(137 kilometer-an-hour) winds and record-setting floods to New
Jersey and New York. The damage was compounded by a Nov. 7
snowstorm.  About 97 percent of New York homes and businesses that are
able to get electric power have been restored, the state’s
 Public Service (PEG)  Commission said in a statement yesterday.  The number of blackouts on Long Island include 46,500
damaged homes and businesses that can’t be reconnected without
customer repairs, LIPA Chief Operating Officer Michael Hervey
said today on a conference call with reporters.  Massive Damage  That number is being whittled down by door-to-door
assessments and independent electricians certifying buildings
are safe to have their power switched on, Hervey said.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s Jersey Central Power & Light today
 reported  about 1,900 customers left to reconnect. It estimated
this morning that another 30,000 can’t be restored because of
“massive infrastructure damage” on the barrier islands and
shoreline communities.  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. said its utility, New
Jersey’s largest, had 19 customers still blacked out by Sandy
and 259 from the second storm, according to a  statement  today. A
spokeswoman for Public Service couldn’t immediately say how many
customers were still without power because they are unable to
reconnect.  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , which serves New York City and
nearby suburban areas, reported about 2,000 customers without
power with another 16,300 customers in parts of  Brooklyn , Queens
and Staten Island awaiting repair to their own equipment and
certification they are able to reconnect.  Restoring Power  LIPA, based in Uniondale, New York, has restored power to
about 1.1 million customers, according to its  website . The
authority estimates 99 percent of customers who can get
electricity will have it tomorrow. The rest will be reconnected,
one by one, by Nov. 14, Hervey said.  National Grid Plc (NG/)  operates and maintains LIPA’s power grid
under a contract that expires at the end of next year. The
authority last year approved a new contract under which  Newark ,
New Jersey-based Public Service will take over operation of its
Long Island grid on Jan. 1, 2014.  “We were prepared,” John Bruckner, president of National
Grid’s Long Island power-line unit, said on today’s press call.
“We were challenged.”  Hurting Finances  Cleaning up from the storm may hurt LIPA’s finances,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said in a report last week. While
the utility can recover costs through a rate mechanism, it may
face challenges in doing so if its response to the storm
attracts censure from politicians, Moody’s Vice President Laura Schumacher said in the report.  In 2006, LIPA committed to spending $20 million a year to
protect its grid against storms, Newsday reported Nov. 8. The
utility spent $12.5 million a year, and also cut the amount it
spent to inspect transmission poles, according to the newspaper.  On Long Island, Watson said, a crew from  Illinois  arrived
at her house yesterday to begin clearing trees. Local residents
need to pressure state leaders to hold LIPA accountable, Oyster
Bay’s Venditto said.  “If it means a wholesale change in the management at LIPA,
so be it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  