-- Italian Candidates Avoid Clashes in First-Ever Primary Debate
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/italian-candidates-avoid-clashes-in-first-ever-primary-debate.html
Five politicians vying to lead a
coalition of center-left parties in Italian elections due by May
held a first-ever primary debate, exchanging views on taxes, the
euro and the role of  Fiat SpA (F)  in the economy, while avoiding the
clashes typical of the U.S. debates on which the event was
modeled.  For the most part, the candidates agreed on the need to
lower taxes, change a labor-market overhaul passed this year and
persuade Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  to
expand production in  Italy . Yesterday’s debate is the only one
scheduled before the Nov. 25 primary to lead the coalition.  Standing side by side, the five candidates addressed the
moderator or the audience and avoided challenging each other.
The audience was allowed to react, with Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi and Nichi Vendola, head of the Left, Ecology and Freedom,
often eliciting more enthusiastic reaction from the public than
 Democratic Party  head Pier Luigi Bersani, who leads in opinion
polls.  Renzi, 37, defended the austerity measures imposed by the
government of Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and said there is no
room to renegotiate the euro region’s budget deficit rules.
“Even discussing changing the stability and growth pact can do
harm to Italy,” he said.  Vendola said he agreed with the need to control public
finances and said he opposed Monti’s budget-deficit efforts,
though he was against a “one-way austerity policy.”  Easing Austerity Pace  Bersani, whose party dominates the center-left forces
allying for the elections and supports Monti’s unelected
government in parliament, said that the EU’s budget rules should
be strengthened and that Italy should demand more investment and
an easing of the pace of austerity in return for giving up
autonomy over its budget process to  Europe .  The candidates agreed that taxes in Italy are too high.
Bersani called for lowering rates on medium- and low-income
earners, while Vendola said he favored French President  Francois Hollande ’s decision to raise the top rate on people earning more
than 1 million euros to 75 percent.  Bersani has the most support among members of the
Democratic Party, recent opinion polls have indicated. Renzi
poses the biggest challenge to his leadership, the polls show.
The Democratic Party would get most votes if elections were held
today, a Nov. 9 poll by SWG indicated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  