-- Japan DPJ Reaches Preliminary Deficit Bond Deal With Opposition
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-11-12T10:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/japan-dpj-reaches-preliminary-deficit-bond-deal-with-opposition.html
The ruling  Democratic Party  of  Japan 
reached a preliminary deal with the two main opposition parties
on legislation to fund the rest of this year’s budget.  The agreement calls for revising spending plans for the
current fiscal year ending in March that will allow for
restricting deficit bond issuances, according to a draft given
to reporters in Tokyo. It also calls for extending the
authorization of bond issuances to three years instead of one.  “I still have to take this back and discuss it, but it is
a forward-looking plan that takes into account what we have
emphasized,” Akira Amari, policy chief for the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party , told reporters today after meeting
with DPJ counterpart Goshi Hosono. “I have confidence the
contents will be welcomed within our party.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has refused to heed
opposition calls to say when he will fulfill an August pledge to
hold elections “soon” until the deficit financing bill is
passed. Finance Minister Koriki Jojima has said the government
will run out of money by the end of the month without the
legislation, hampering efforts to boost an economy that shrank
last quarter.  Noda’s support is plummeting ahead of parliamentary
elections that must be held by August, increasing the
possibility of a seventh Japanese prime minster since 2006.  He reiterated today that he has no intention of revealing
when he will announce a date for the election, and that three
conditions must be fulfilled before he does. The provisions
include passage of the deficit bond bill, passage of legislation
to address disparities in the electoral system, and the
establishment of a framework to revise social security.  Gross domestic product fell an annualized 3.5 percent in
the third quarter of the year, the most since the March 2011
record earthquake and tsunami, a government report today showed.  Support for Noda’s cabinet fell 11.5 percentage points to
17.7 percent, the lowest since he took office in September 2011,
according to a Kyodo News poll published Nov. 5. Support for the
DPJ was 12.1 percent compared with 27.7 percent for the LDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  