-- Japan’s Development Bank Doubles New Aircraft Financing
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-11-12T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/japan-s-development-bank-doubles-new-aircraft-financing.html
Development Bank of Japan Inc.  will
lend about $1 billion for plane purchases this year, more than
double its forecast, as airlines seek funding sources amid cuts
by European banks.  “We were able to ride a wave of requests,” Masao Masuda,
a director of its global aviation team, said in an interview in
 Tokyo  Nov. 6. The bank had planned to lend $400 million in the
year ending March, about the same as in the previous period, its
first in the sector, he said.  State-owned DBJ also expects to lend about $1 billion next
fiscal year as rising demand helps offset the beginning of a
resumption in lending by European banks, Masuda said. Other
Japanese companies including  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease (8593)  & Finance Co.
and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  have also expanded in
plane leasing this year as they seek new markets to offset a
shrinking domestic population.  “ Japan  has a surplus of cash at the moment that needs a
market,” Masuda said. Aircraft financing is “very promising,”
he said.  DBJ has financed plans for carriers including  Latam
Airlines Group (LAN)  and Vietnam Airlines, Masuda said. Global
spending on new planes will probably climb to $104 billion next
year from about $100 billion this year, DBJ said, citing Boeing
Co. figures. The amount will reach $128 billion in five years,
it said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease last month agreed to buy Jackson
Square LCC to add about 70 planes to its commercial-aircraft
fleet. Sumitomo Mitsui completed its purchase of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s plane-leasing unit in June.  Tokyo Star Bank Ltd., a Japanese lender backed by Orix
Corp., also said last month that it’s seeking to boost its
foreign-currency lending for planes and other assets. The bank
intends to grow this market as more of its depositors switch to
non-yen accounts in search of higher  interest rates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  