-- Asia Dollar Debt Costs Rise to Month-High; BlueScope Scraps Sale
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-12T05:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/japan-corporate-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Yield premiums on Asian bonds in
dollars rose to the most in a month as concern about U.S.
government finances sapped risk appetite.  Australia ’s  BlueScope
Steel Ltd. (BSL)  scrapped a $300 million offering.  Spreads on dollar-denominated notes sold by Asian borrowers
rose to 269 basis points more than Treasuries on Nov. 9, the
most since Oct. 11, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show. Investors
didn’t offer terms and conditions that met BlueScope’s
expectations, amid volatility in credit markets, Australia’s
largest mill said in a statement about its canceled deal today.  Relative yields rose on all dollar bonds sold last week by
Asian companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread on
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s $1 billion of notes due 2017, the
largest note offered, widened 10 basis points to 145, according
to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  is focusing on the so-called fiscal cliff that will
impose spending cuts and higher taxes from 2013 if Congress
can’t agree to reduce the country’s deficit.  “Issuance from now to the year’s end is likely to slow
dramatically,” said Owen Gallimore, the Singapore-based head of
 Asia  credit strategy at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  “Year-end profit taking and the pending fiscal cliff
politics are sapping both secondary and primary performances.”  Bond risk in Asia and Australia was little changed today,
according to traders of credit-default swaps. Better-than-
expected Chinese trade and industry data have helped stabilize
markets, Gallimore said.  China’s industrial production rose 9.6 percent in October
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
Nov. 9, more than the 9.4 percent median estimate of 33 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Gemdale Sale  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  is discussing a yield of about 7.375 percent
with investors for dollar debt due 2017, according to a person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the details are private.  China Aoyuan Property Group Ltd. is talking to investors
about a sale of five-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Far East Consortium International Ltd.
meanwhile plans to sell about $200 million of bonds due 2017 at
5.5 percent, a person with knowledge of that deal said last
week.  Mingfa Group International Co. plans to meet investors in
Hong Kong and Singapore from tomorrow after hiring Credit Suisse
Group AG, Citigroup Inc., ICBC International and RBS, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Allianz SE (ALV) , the German
insurer, will also meet investors in the two cities this week to
discuss a possible sale of bonds in the U.S. currency, a person
familiar with that matter said.  Default-Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was unchanged at 146.5 as
of 11:25 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
prices. The gauge advanced 10 basis points last week, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was unchanged at 123.5 as of 8:35 a.m.
in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose one basis point to 200
basis points as of 9:15 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup prices show.
The measure has traded between 196 and 227.5 this quarter,
according to CMA.  The swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring bonds against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A
drop signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower
fails to meet its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  