-- Jersey Shore’s Lure to Homebuyers Seen Surviving Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/jersey-shore-s-lure-to-homebuyers-seen-surviving-hurricane-sandy.html
Danea Kelly made her first shopping
trip for a  New Jersey  shore vacation home on the Saturday before
 Hurricane Sandy  made landfall. It won’t be her last.  While Kelly, 41, decided she no longer wants property
directly on the ocean, the storm may open up new opportunities.  “You take your chances anytime you get involved with real
estate,” said Kelly, who is house-hunting with her brother in
North Wildwood, which dodged the worst of the Oct. 29 storm that
tore apart the boardwalk in Atlantic City, 40 miles (65
kilometers) up the coast. “We may now have less competition
from other buyers and it might steer some people who have lived
down there a long time, who may decide, ‘It’s time for me to
sell.’”  Real estate markets on the Jersey Shore will suffer in the
wake of Sandy, which inflicted as much as $50 billion of
business and property losses and caused at least 100 deaths in
the U.S. In the hardest-hit communities, rebuilding of bridges,
roads, dunes and homes will take months or even years. Home
construction and insurance costs will probably rise.  While it will take time for buyers to regain confidence
after the storm and last year’s  Hurricane Irene  exposed the
vulnerabilities of oceanfront property, they will return, as
they did to storm-wracked beaches in Florida,  North Carolina  and
 Texas , said  Lawrence Yun , chief economist for the National
Association of Realtors.  Fingers Crossed  “The allure of having an oceanfront property is just too
great,” Yun said in a telephone interview from Washington.
“People recognize that there are bad natural-disaster events
and they just cross their fingers and hope it doesn’t happen to
them.”  When house-hunters come back, they’ll compete for a reduced
 supply  of undamaged homes with higher asking prices, according
to Yun. Rebuilt properties will feature costly upgrades such as
sturdier roofs and wind-resistant windows, which also may push
up resale prices.  Getting insurance -- and possible increases in premiums or
deductibles -- may be the biggest challenge for buyers because
lenders won’t issue mortgages on uninsured properties, Yun said.  “Even if insurance rises 10 or 20 percent, I don’t think
the premiums will stop people from moving to the coast,” said
Tom Heist, an independent insurance broker in Ocean City, New
Jersey. “It has always cost more to live at the coast. I
believe that people understand the value proposition and are
willing to pay for it.”  Insurance Costs  Insurance rates on beach property have risen already as
actuaries factored recent weather patterns, which have become
more severe, into their risk calculations, according to  Robert Hartwig , president and economist at the  Insurance Information
Institute , a New York-based trade group.  “The experience of Sandy and Irene last year only
reinforced why the insurance costs are increasing,” he said.  The  Federal Emergency Management Agency , which insures
damage from the flooding responsible for most of Sandy’s
property losses, limits coverage to $250,000 per dwelling and an
additional $100,000 for content replacement. Mansions wiped out
by the  storm surge  in Mantoloking, a coastal resort town north
of Atlantic City, will cost hundreds of thousands more to
replace.  John and Amy Hansell spent much of their life savings last
year to buy a vacation home in Normandy Beach, a community
that’s been off limits since Sandy struck.  ‘Lifelong Dream’  “We had a lifelong dream of having an oceanfront house,”
said John Hansell, 52, editor and publisher of  Whisky Advocate 
magazine. “Great timing, right?”  The four-bedroom house with cedar siding and knotty pine
interior walls was featured in a 2008 issue of Coastal Living
magazine and would cost more than $500,000 to completely
rebuild, twice the maximum amount that flood insurance would
cover, he said. An aerial video taken by the National Guard
showed that much of the deck and possibly the home’s north wall
had washed away, Hansell said. Some neighboring houses were
knocked off their foundations. Others were crushed.  “This house was our escape from all the stress and hassles
of life and now it became part of it, unfortunately,” he said.  Except for the maximum $350,000 for flood-related damage,
FEMA doesn’t offer disaster assistance for second-home owners,
which means they are ineligible for money for temporary housing
or income loss.  Loss Estimates  “If you own a home at the Shore that is your vacation
residence, second residence, FEMA is not going to be of priority
coverage for you,” New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said at a
Nov. 6 press conference. “If it’s your primary residence, they
do help you. If it’s not, they don’t.”  Residences accounted for about 55 percent of the insured
property damaged by Sandy, according to Eqecat Inc., a provider
of catastrophic risk models, which estimated total economic
losses of as much as $50 billion. About 34 percent of the
property losses occurred in  New York , 30 percent in New Jersey,
20 percent in  Pennsylvania  and the remainder in other states,
Eqecat estimated Nov. 1.  About 284,000 residences with a total value of $88 billion
were in the storm’s path, according to an Oct. 29 estimate by
 CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , a real estate information service based in
Irvine,  California . That included $4.81 billion worth of homes
in the Atlantic City area and $3.44 billion in the Ocean City
area, near the southern end of the 127-mile-long Jersey Shore.  More Storms  Another storm like Sandy or Irene may delay or discourage a
real estate rebound on the Jersey Shore, according to Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “However, if there are no other debilitating storms over
the next couple of years, then I think prices will recover as
buyers grow more aggressive and supply is limited, given the
stiffer building codes that will be enacted,” Zandi said in an
e-mail. “Of course, if there are more storms, real estate
values will continue to languish.”  The Hamptons, the retreat for financiers and celebrities on
Long Island’s eastern end, may have “a pause” in home sales, a
side effect of Sandy’s flooding of Manhattan, according to
Michael Daly, a broker with  Sotheby’s International Realty  in
the Hamptons village of Sag Harbor. Almost half of buyers in the
beach towns are from the New York City borough, he said.  Sandy eroded dunes, knocked homes off their foundations and
washed over roads in the Hamptons, said Len Bernard, budget
director of the town of East Hampton, which includes the village
of East Hampton and the hamlets of Amagansett, Montauk, Springs
and Wainscott.  ‘Second Thought’  Sales may pick up ultimately, as home seekers search for
opportunistic deals and as owners of low-lying property near
waterways decide to put their homes on the market, Daly said.
Homeowners who live away from the beach may actually see a pop
in demand for their properties, he said.  “It’s going to create a second thought for a lot of
people,” Daly said of the storm damage. “However, once that
second thinking is over, it may spark the market.”  Construction costs rose about 20 percent in southern
Florida after new building codes were imposed following 1992’s
 Hurricane Andrew , said Ron Shuffield, president of Esslinger
Wooten Maxwell Inc. in Coral Gables, Florida. The brokerage’s
sales jumped 67 percent in 1993 as homeowners scrambled to
purchase existing homes to replace storm-damaged properties, he
said.  New requirements included storm-resistant windows, stronger
roof trusses and pilings to elevate living spaces. The new and
rebuilt homes were usually bigger than pre-Andrew houses, with
upgraded kitchens and bathrooms that added to price tags,
Shuffield said.  “The values went up because the supply was low and new
construction improved the homes,” he said.  Bargain Hunters  In good economic times, it takes at least a year for
housing demand to recover after a storm, said Scott Leggat, vice
president of Outer Beaches Realty in Hatteras Island, North
Carolina, where 2003’s Hurricane Isabel led to more than $400
million in insurance settlements.  “Then the bargain hunters will come and create activity,”
he said in a telephone interview from Hatteras, which has about
3,000 rental homes and a year-round population of 4,300.
“Within about 12 months, you’ll find activity has returned to a
natural level.”  In the last few years, foreclosures on Hatteras have risen
as property owners who lost jobs or income during the recession
defaulted on their mortgages, he said.  Home Foreclosures  “They’re going to let the vacation home go first,” he
said. “We’ve had an inordinate number of foreclosures, and
that’s driven the market down.”  The destruction on the Jersey Shore arrives in a state
already facing the second-highest rate of homes in the
 foreclosure  pipeline after Florida, according to CoreLogic. New
Jersey’s  unemployment  rate was 9.8 percent in September,
compared with the 7.8 percent U.S. average for the month,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  On the Gulf of Mexico beaches near Houston, home-resale
prices fell about 20 percent in 2009, the year after Hurricane
Ike hit, a drop attributable as much to the U.S. recession as
the storm, said Andrea Sunseri, a sales agent with Sand ’N Sea
Properties in Galveston, Texas. Some investors bought damaged
homes after Ike at half of the pre-storm price, she said,
allowing the previous owners to pocket insurance money while the
new owners restored the houses as rentals.  For the peak months of June through August, beachfront
homes in Galveston now rent for $3,000 to $8,000 a week -- at
least as much as pre-Ike -- because the  energy industry  has
revitalized the Texas economy and properties were rebuilt with
such amenities as granite-countertop kitchens, she said.  “We’re getting more per house than four years ago,”
Sunseri said.  ‘Bullet-Proof’  On the Jersey Shore, some sellers of homes that escaped
storm damage are already increasing their asking prices, said
Joy Luedtke, a broker on Long Beach Island. Owners of at least
five of her 30 current listings discussed upward revisions since
Sandy, she said. Among them is the owner of an eight-bedroom
estate known as  the White House , who proposed raising his price
by $5 million to $19,999,000, said Luedtke, owner of Joy Luedtke
Real Estate LLC.  “It’s got a bullet-proof dune,” she said of the property,
which is in the community of Loveladies.  “We are very fortunate compared with other  barrier
islands , because of our high ground,” Luedtke said in a
telephone interview from Barnegat Light, on the northern tip of
Long Beach Island, where she rode out Sandy. “If anything,
we’ve increased in value.”  Farther down the coast, Joe Scrocca, an agent with Weichert
Realtors Coastal in Wildwood, is working with Danea Kelly, the
Sicklerville, New Jersey, resident searching for a vacation
home. Demand for Jersey Shore property may slow temporarily,
Scrocca said, “but time tends to heal all wounds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  