-- Jet Doubles Repayment as Default Halts Kingfisher: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-11-12T05:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/jet-doubles-repayment-as-default-halts-kingfisher-india-credit.html
Jet Airways (JETIN)  ( India ) Ltd. plans to
more than double loan repayments to help attract investors after
a default grounded rival  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)   India’s biggest listed carrier will pay $600 million of
debt in the year ending March 31 and seek rupee loans with
 interest rates  as low as 10 percent, Chief Financial Officer
Ravishankar Gopalakrishnan said in a Nov. 5 conference call. The
company, which pays as much as 14 percent on some debt, is
looking for ways to reduce borrowing costs as the nation’s
central bank keeps its benchmark repurchase rate at  8 percent ,
the highest among major Asian economies, to curb inflation.  “In terms of raising additional equity, being able to
reduce your leverage makes it more attractive for potential
investors,” Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based director at industry
consultant CAPA Centre for Aviation, said Nov. 8 by telephone.  Jet Airways must divest at least a 5 percent stake by June
to meet a rule capping founders’ holdings in companies at 75
percent. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in September allowed as
much as 49 percent foreign investment in aviation. The carrier
is selling and leasing back planes to free up cash even as CAPA
predicts rising fuel and airport costs will increase the record
combined debt of local carriers including state-run  Air India 
Ltd. by 18 percent to $20 billion in a year.  Borrowing Costs  The weighted average cost of the Mumbai-based company’s
debt was 11.2 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30,
compared with 11.1 percent for Tam SA, Brazil’s largest airline,
in the quarter ended March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Jet Airways had 120 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) of liabilities
as of September, Chief Commercial Officer Sudheer Raghavan said
in the Nov. 5 conference call.  Indian carriers pay as much as 18 percent interest on
short-term debt, and as much as 14 percent on long-term
borrowings, according to a document prepared in June by the
Ministry of Civil Aviation. Airlines have sought government help
to access long term funds at a fixed cost, it said.  The benchmark  five-year  bond yield for Indian banks rated
AAA by Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , has
declined 74 basis points this year to 8.78 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, after the  Reserve Bank  of India cut
lenders’ cash reserve requirements to 36-year low of 4.25
percent to free up cash for lending. The yield on benchmark 10-
year  sovereign bonds  slid 35 basis points in the same period to
8.22 percent, the data show.  The  Reserve Bank of India ’s benchmark rate is higher than 6
percent in  China , 2.75 percent in South Korea, 2.75 percent in
 Thailand  and 5.75 percent in  Indonesia .  Kingfisher Default  Kingfisher, controlled by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya  and
named after his best-selling beer, had its operational permit
suspended on Oct. 20 after the carrier halted flights following
a strike by its employees over unpaid salaries. The airline,
with debt totaling 86 billion rupees, defaulted on loans and
interest payments on several occasions in the year ended March
31, its auditor said in the company’s annual report.  Bangalore-based Kingfisher has pledged assets including its
brand, aircraft and office furniture against loans. Chairman
Mallya, who has given personal guarantees worth 59 billion
rupees for the carrier’s loans, told reporters on Sept. 26 the
carrier is in talks with airline investors for a possible stake
sale after the government eased ownership rules.  The carrier’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
to the company since April 1, the chairman told shareholders at
the company’s annual meeting Sept. 26. Mallya and his holding
company are selling a 19.3 percent stake in liquor business
 United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  to  Diageo Plc (DGE)  as he seeks cash, the
companies said in a statement on Nov. 9.  Air India  Air India, the nation’s most indebted carrier, plans to
sell five  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 aircraft to help pare loans totaling
430 billion rupees. In April, the state-owned airline won
government bailouts worth 300 billion rupees, including cash
injections, through 2020.  Mumbai-based Jet Airways, which has planes worth $2 billion
available for sale and leaseback transactions, will be able to
unlock $500 million after discounting aircraft loans of about
$1.5 billion, K.G. Vishwanath, vice president of commercial
strategy, said in a Nov. 5 conference call. The carrier has
resolved “certain instances” of late payment, he said Aug. 6,
without elaborating.  The company’s overall debt remains high even after it
repaid some loans,  Niraj Mansingka  and Kiran Tulasi, analysts at
Edelweiss Securities Ltd., wrote in a Nov. 5 research note. Jet
Airways repaid 15 billion rupees of loans in the financial year
ended March 31, according to Vishwanath.  Prospects ‘Enhanced’  “If the balance sheet trims in terms of debt, the prospect
of raising equity capital is enhanced,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad ,
an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai,
said in a Nov. 8 telephone interview. “High indebtedness is one
of the reasons why they’ve been unsuccessful in raising equity
capital in the past.”  The government in March permitted domestic airlines to tap
overseas borrowings. The central bank on April 24 issued
guidelines allowing each carrier to borrow a maximum of $300
million for working capital or to refinance rupee debt. In
September, the government ended a ban on overseas holdings in
airlines as part of a wider drive to attract investment and
boost growth from the slowest pace in a decade.  ‘Fight for Survival’  The measures helped the rupee gain 1.2 percent since Sept.
13, the day before the government eased ownership rules in
airlines and retail. The currency traded at 54.75 per dollar as
of 11:07 a.m. in Mumbai, compared with 54.76 on Nov. 9, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The nation’s bond risk fell. Credit-default swaps on  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , which some investors consider a proxy for the
sovereign, fell 152 basis points, or 1.52 percentage point, in
2012 to 243 in New York, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  “It’s a fight for survival, and that’s what airlines are
trying to do by shedding debt,” Harsh Vardhan, chairman of
industry adviser Starair Consulting, said in a Nov. 9 telephone
interview from  New Delhi . “Only then can they look forward to
future growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  