-- Jewish Jocks Ask Questions; Football in a Sugar Town
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/jewish-jocks-ask-questions-football-in-a-sugar-town.html
Let’s start by dispensing with the
inevitable joke. No, the new book “ Jewish Jocks ,” an anthology
edited by Franklin Foer and Marc Tracy, isn’t a skinny pamphlet.  Not that it has the girth of Churchill’s World War II
memoirs. It’s just a nice, respectable book, full of (mostly)
nice Jewish boys.  In it, Ira Berkow posits a fifth question to go along with
the traditional four: Did American League pitchers deny  Hank Greenberg  the chance to beat  Babe Ruth ’s home-run record in 1938
by feeding him lousy pitches? The answer is that they didn’t.
Greenberg himself describes this theory, held with devout
conviction for a generation, as “pure baloney.”  This book may have the best opening sentence of the year,
by Jane Leavy: “ Sandy Koufax  ruined me for other men.” And
perhaps the best chapter titles, including “Hebrew Mind,
Cossack Body,” about the footballer Sid Luckman, and “The
Coach Who Never Paid Retail,” about basketball’s Red Auerbach.  Then there’s Dolph Schayes, probably the best Jewish
professional basketball player ever. He was selected to the all-
star team a dozen times; played 764 consecutive games, then a
record; and was a power forward who, in Tracy’s phrase,  “moved
without the ball like a dog in heat.”  ‘Point Shaver’  Along with basketball’s Nancy Lieberman and tennis’s Renee Richards, the editors had the wit to include characters like
Jack Molinas, known as the “point shaver” but really an
entrepreneur in the fraud and gambling trade. He called his
company Fixers Inc. He served time in Attica.  And happily there is a member of my own tribe, which is to
say an ink-stained wretch. He is the great Washington Post
sports columnist Shirley Povich, about whom Noam Scheiber says,
“The David Broders and Teddy Whites would have killed for such
access.” Right about that.  “ Muck City ,” by Bryan Mealer, is the latest in a growing
genre of sports books -- artful portraits of forgotten corners
of America where unforgettable acts of sporting courage and
achievement occur, often in one magical season. The enclave
under consideration here, Belle Glade, is in the deepest Florida
Everglades, and its high school, Glades Central, is turbocharged
with gridiron talent (30 pro players since 1985, five in the
first round of the  NFL draft ).  Hard Lessons  And the community? Belle Glade is a sugar town where life
is not so sweet. Mealer calls it “a place of toil and hard
lessons.” A third of all pregnancies belong to a teenager. In
the migrant quarter many of the buildings have been condemned.  “In Belle Glade, where the risk of joblessness, prison or
early death followed each boy like a toxic cloud,” Mealer
writes, “high school football was more than religion, it was
like salvation itself -- the raft by which to flee a ship that
kept drifting back in time.” One of those on the raft was
 Santonio Holmes , Super Bowl MVP, now with the  New York Jets .  Ultramarathon runner Ed Ayres is looking for a different
kind of salvation -- for the soul, for the planet. The races
he’s been running for more than half a century have inspired
athletes worldwide and reshaped our ideas about endurance and
sustainability.  That’s a tall order for a runner, even one who used to toil
at the  Worldwatch Institute . Ayres’s new book, “ The Longest
Race ,” is partly a chronicle of his experience in the fabled
JFK 50 Mile ultramarathon, but it’s also about so much more.  “We ran through the town as if in a dream,” he writes,
and off we go.  Smaller Footprint  There is as much thinking as running in these pages. Ayres
riffs off his work on “ecological footprints” and before long
he leads us to see that “a person who achieves a smaller
footprint doesn’t just use less, but also gets more out of what
he or she uses.”  That leads us to see that for “a long-distance runner, a
smaller footprint meant not only not trashing the trail, the way
an all-terrain vehicle would; it meant more ground covered per
breath of air taken.” Remember that on your next jog.  Much of this he applies to the environment, which after all
is about the long run. Indeed, with all his talk about “oxygen
debt” and “research depletion” it soon becomes clear that
this book isn’t just about an athletic race. It’s also about the
human race.  “Jewish Jocks: An Unorthodox Hall of Fame” is published
by Twelve (285 pages, $26.99). “Muck City: Winning and Losing
in Football’s Forgotten Town” is published by Crown Archetype
(322 pages, $25). “The Longest Race: A Lifelong Runner, an
Iconic Ultramarathon and the Case for Human Endurance” is
published by the Experiment (241 pages, $23.95).  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and  John Mariani 
on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 