-- Julius Baer to Buy Kairos Stake to Build Italian Business
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-11-12T12:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/julius-baer-to-buy-kairos-stake-to-build-italian-business.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the third-
biggest Swiss wealth manager, agreed to acquire 20 percent of
Kairos Investment Management SpA and sell an onshore Italian
advisory business to the Milan-based firm.  Kairos Julius Baer, holding the combined Italian wealth
management operations, will be overseen by Paolo Basilico,
president and chief executive officer of Kairos, and have two
Julius Baer representatives on its board, the Zurich-based bank
 said  today, without disclosing the terms of the transaction.  Swiss private banks are building onshore networks in Italy
and  Germany  as a crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes wealthy clients
to repatriate money from offshore accounts in  Switzerland .
Julius Baer, which had 184 billion francs ($194 billion) of
client assets at the end of August, declined to disclose how
much is managed by its Italian business, while Kairos has about
4.5 billion euros ($5.7 billion) under management.  “Household wealth in  Italy  is still very high so it’s an
attractive market,” said Christian Stark, a Zurich-based
analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, who recommends buying
Julius Baer’s shares. “In case of any further tax amnesties in
Italy you want to have a strong position in the country.”  Baer rose 0.6 percent to 32.92 francs in Zurich as of 1:05
p.m., valuing the company at 7.1 billion francs. The stock has
declined 8.5 percent this year.  Merrill Purchase  Julius Baer expects to add as much as 72 billion francs of
client assets with the acquisition of Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch wealth management units outside the U.S. The firm
plans to publish an interim management statement for the first
10 months of the year on Nov. 14.  Julius Baer expects the Kairos deal to close in the first
half of next year and said the combined entity will apply for a
banking license to focus on onshore wealth management.  “The Italian market is somehow missing a state of the art
private bank,” Kairos’s Basilico said in a phone interview,
adding that it may take about 12 months for the license to be
approved.  Buying the Kairos stake won’t necessarily boost the managed
assets reported by the Swiss bank, said Jan Vonder Muehll, a
spokesman for Julius Baer.  The Kairos deal is a “strategic participation” to
increase Julius Baer’s presence in the domestic Italian wealth
management market, Julius Baer Chief Executive Officer Boris Collardi said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  