-- Kansas State Leads College Football Ranking After Alabama Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/kansas-state-leads-college-football-ranking-after-alabama-loss.html
Kansas State claimed the No. 1 spot
in college football’s Bowl Championship Series rankings after
the  University of Alabama ’s 29-24 home loss to Texas A&M.  Kansas State improved to 10-0 with a 23-10 road win over
 Texas Christian University  two days ago. The Wildcats moved up
one place and have a .967 rating out of 1.000 in the standings,
which are determined using the USA Today coaches’ poll, Harris
Interactive poll and six computer rankings.  The University of Oregon (10-0) is second in the BCS with a
.950 rating, followed by  Notre Dame  (10-0) at .940. Reigning
national champion  Alabama  (9-1), which had been No. 1 in the
first four weeks of the BCS rankings, fell to fourth.  The top two teams in the final BCS standings on Dec. 2 will
play in the national championship game on Jan. 7 in Miami.  Oregon is coming off a 59-17 rout of  California  that
extended the nation’s longest winning streak to 13 games. While
the Ducks are No. 1 in both the coaches’ poll and the Harris
poll, they have an average computer ranking of fourth heading
into this week’s game against No. 13 Stanford.  “We don’t pay attention to the rankings and what’s around
us,” Oregon junior wide receiver Josh Huff said after the Ducks
scored at least 42 points for the 13th straight game. “We just
play Oregon football. We’ll pick our heads up in December and
we’ll see where we’re at.”  While Alabama reached last year’s BCS championship game
with one loss, the Crimson Tide would have to win its remaining
games and then probably need two of the three undefeated teams
to lose in order to have a chance to defend its title.  Late Interception  Alabama’s comeback against  Texas A&M  fell short as A.J.
McCarron’s fourth-down pass was intercepted by Deshazor Everett
at the goal line in the closing seconds.  “This team still has an opportunity to go to the SEC
Championship game and have a chance to win the championship
game,” Alabama coach Nick Saban told reporters. “There is
still a lot for this team to play for, and a lot for them to set
their mind to and recommit themselves to.”  The University of Georgia (9-1) is fifth in the BCS
rankings, followed by four other Southeastern Conference teams:
 Florida  (9-1), Louisiana State (8-2), Texas A&M (8-2) and South
Carolina (8-2). Florida State (9-1) rounds out the top 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  