-- Kenyan Shilling Drops Most in Month on Year-End Dollar Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-11-12T13:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/kenyan-shilling-drops-most-in-month-on-year-end-dollar-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling slid the most in a
month on growing demand for dollars by businesses targeting
year-end festivities.  The currency of East Africa’s largest economy retreated as
much as 0.3 percent to 85.63 a dollar and traded less than 0.1
percent weaker at 85.40 by 4:01 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is demand in the market for dollars as businesses
prepare for the busy festive season ahead,” Duncan Kinuthia,
head of trading at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd.,
said by phone.  Businesses are importing more products as they prepare for
increased sales during the Christmas and year-end period.
Christians account for 87 percent of the 38 million population,
according to the  CIA World Factbook .  “The shilling has come under pressure from businesses’
increased dollar demand and is expected to come under pressure
as we approach year end due to increased imports,” Bernard Matimu, chief dealer at Nairobi-based  NIC-Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said by
phone. The currency will trade within the 86.50 to 87 range by
the end of the year, he said.  The  Central Bank  of Kenya accepted 7.5 billion shillings
($87.8 million) of seven-day  repurchase agreements , an official
who declined to be identified in line with policy said by phone.
The bank received bids of 31.69 billion shillings, having
offered 7.5 billion shillings.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader and to buy it back at a future date
and at a pre-determined price. The central bank has been
offering repos to control  money supply .  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, lowered the  benchmark  interest rate by
2 percentage points to 11 percent on Nov 7. The economy grew 3.3
percent between April and June, the slowest pace in 10 quarters,
as record  interest rates  stifled lending and Europe’s debt
crisis undermined tea and flower exports.  Uganda’s shilling weakened 0.4 percent to 2,603 a dollar,
while the Tanzanian shilling depreciated less than 0.1 percent
to 1,592 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  