-- Kobe Bryant’s Influence Waning as Lakers Balk on Phil Jackson
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-12T19:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/kobe-bryant-s-influence-waning-as-lakers-balk-on-phil-jackson.html
The hiring of  Mike D’Antoni  as coach
of the  Los Angeles Lakers  shows that  Kobe Bryant ’s influence
with team management is waning, said  Steve Mills , a former
president of Madison Square Garden sports.  Bryant, 34, has won five National Basketball Association
titles in 16 seasons with the Lakers, who opted for D’Antoni
over  Phil Jackson , the winner of five of his record 11 coaching
titles with the franchise. Bryant publicly lobbied for Jackson
to replace  Mike Brown , who was fired last week after a 1-4
start.  “It’s clear the Lakers are at a point where they’re going
to do things that are in the best interest of the team
regardless of what Kobe thinks,” Mills said in a telephone
interview.  Brown signed a four-year, $18 million contract prior to
last season. The 61-year-old D’Antoni received a three-year
contract worth $12 million. All that guaranteed money makes it
unlikely that management would make another change even if
Bryant, who is third in the league in scoring at 26.1 points a
game, becomes displeased as he enters the final part of his
career, Mills said.  “The combination brings them to a point where it’s going
to be very difficult to make drastic changes,” he said. “Kobe
is still going to have a voice in the team, but I don’t think
he’s in a position to mandate where certain things happen.”  Bryant’s agent, Rob Pelinka, didn’t immediately return a
message left at his office seeking comment on the coaching
situation.  D’Antoni is reunited with point guard  Steve Nash , a two-
time Most Valuable Player who, like three-time Defensive Player
of the Year  Dwight Howard , joined the Lakers via trade during
the offseason.  Seven Seconds  Nash flourished with the  Phoenix Suns  under D’Antoni, who
preaches an up-tempo, pick-and-roll offense and encourages his
players to take the best shot available in the first seven
seconds of the shot clock.  A D’Antoni-coached team might be reminiscent of the Magic Johnson-fueled “Showtime” Lakers, who won five championships
during the 1980s.  Unlike the fast-paced D’Antoni, Jackson endorses the so-
called triangle offense, where players are asked to read the
defense and react by making the proper pass. He utilized the
triangle with the Lakers, who had Bryant and  Shaquille O’Neal ,
and the  Chicago Bulls , who won six championships with  Michael Jordan  and Scottie Pippen.  Jackson’s contract demands included an ownership stake in
the team, the Los Angeles Times reporting, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the situation.  Title Chances  Jackson, 67, is the only coach that would’ve improved the
team’s title chances, said RJ Bell, founder of  Las Vegas 
handicapping information website Pregame.com.  The Lakers are the second favorite to win the title behind
the defending champion  Miami Heat .  D’Antoni was quoted as telling the  New York  Daily News that
he, like most in the basketball community, figured Jackson was a
shoo-in for the job.  “For sure I did, didn’t everybody?” he was quoted as
saying. “When I got the call that it was me, my first reaction
was, ‘Are you serious?’”  Jackson was “stunned” that he didn’t get the job, ESPN
said, citing a person in the league who it didn’t identify.  Lakers owner Jerry Buss; his son, Executive Vice President
Jim Buss; and General Manager Mitch Kupchak were unanimous that
D’Antoni was the best coach at this time, team spokesman  John Black  said on the club website.  “Part of this is Jim Buss putting his stamp on what’s
going on within the team and taking the reins in a bigger way,”
said Mills, who oversaw business operations of the NBA’s  New
York Knicks  and hockey’s New York Rangers while at MSG.  Franchise Value  Former NBA coach Jeff Van Gundy, now an analyst with ESPN,
said who is playing, and how they’re playing, is more important
to the league’s most valuable franchise than who is coaching the
team. The Lakers have a payroll of more than $100 million this
season and are valued at $900 million by Forbes magazine.  Nash, 38, was hurt in the second game of the season, while
Howard says he’s still rounding into form after offseason back
surgery that forced him to skip the London Olympics for the U.S.
team. Bryant played on the team, which included D’Antoni as an
assistant and won the gold medal.  “Once Steve comes back they’ll flourish,” said Mills, who
started three seasons for Hall of Fame coach Pete Carril at
 Princeton University .  The Lakers this season have created 18.1 pick-and-roll
possessions per game, the lowest in the 30-team NBA, according
to Synergy Sports Technology. Howard was the most efficient
finisher last season in the pick-and-roll among players with at
least 35 possessions, while Nash was the most efficient creator
with at least 315.  Outscores Teams  Howard shot 74 percent last season in pick-and-roll
situations. Nash by himself created more points via pick-and-
roll plays than 10 teams in the league, according to Synergy, a
sports statistics and data company based in Woodinville,
Washington.  D’Antoni most recently spent three-plus seasons as coach of
the Knicks, resigning last season with the team 18-24. Houston
Rockets point guard Jeremy Lin, a Nash disciple who spent last
season with the Knicks, credited D’Antoni for his success. Lin
took over in midseason and helped lead a surge that resulted in
the Knicks’ first postseason win since 2001.  “He changed my career, he changed my life,” Lin was
quoted by the Houston Chronicle as saying. “I’m always thankful
to him for that. I wish him the best of luck in L.A.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  