-- Kodak Said to Arrange Financing for Bankruptcy Emergence
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-12T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/kodak-said-to-arrange-financing-for-bankruptcy-emergence.html
Eastman Kodak Co., the bankrupt
photography pioneer, arranged $793 million in financing from
some creditors to exit bankruptcy as a commercial-printing
company, said a person familiar with the negotiations.  Centerbridge  Capital Partners , GSO Capital Partners,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among second-lien creditors
participating in the financing, said the person, who asked not
to be named as the discussions are private. The agreement
requires court approval.  Funding is conditional on selling its patent portfolio for
at least $500 million, progress in the sale of two business
units and the resolution of the company’s U.K. pension
obligations, the person said. Rochester, New York-based Kodak
has announced almost 4,000 job cuts this year as it
restructures. Chris Veronda, a Kodak spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a call for comment on an agreement.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez has been selling
businesses to help fund a turnaround after seeking Chapter 11
protection in January. The company, which plans to exit
bankruptcy in the first half of 2013, is selling its consumer-
film, photo-kiosk and commercial-scanner businesses; continuing
an extended effort to auction its digital-imaging patents; and
shuttering its consumer inkjet printer sales.  Term Loans  Another group of second-lien creditors had competed to
provide the funding, which is made up of term loans for the
bankrupt company, including as much as $567 million that can be
converted to exit financing if conditions are met, the person
said. The financing was earlier reported by the Wall Street
Journal.  A group of second-lien noteholders said in a court filing
today that they have lost faith in management, claiming the
company’s ability to successfully restructure and exit
bankruptcy has been jeopardized.  Kodak is suffering operating losses and burning cash at
“an astounding rate” and will probably run out of money in the
first half of 2013 without new financing, the creditor group
said in the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “The second-lien parties have lost all faith in the
ability of the debtors’ current leadership to lead the debtors’
restructuring efforts or, in fact, to lead the debtors at all,”
the group said.  Extension Opposed  The noteholders oppose Kodak’s request for an extension of
its exclusive right to file a reorganization plan in court. They
said they can propose a plan for the company that will win court
approval.  Stefanie Goodsell, a Kodak spokeswoman, said the objection
was from a “minority group” of noteholders and wasn’t
unexpected.  “Our motion to extend exclusivity has the support of other
creditors, and we are confident that this objection will not
impact our timeline for emergence,” she said in an e-mailed
statement  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business. The company spent $3.4 billion on restructuring before
bankruptcy, including payouts to fire 47,000 employees since
2003, while closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories.  The case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  