-- Kodak Arranges $793 Million Financing for Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/kodak-arranges-793-million-financing-for-bankruptcy-exit.html
Eastman Kodak Co., the bankrupt
photography pioneer, said it arranged with some creditors for
$793 million in financing to exit bankruptcy as a commercial-
printing company by mid-2013.  Centerbridge  Capital Partners , GSO Capital Partners,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among second-lien creditors
participating in the financing, which will be used during
bankruptcy and can partly be converted to fund the emerging
company, Rochester, New York-based Kodak said yesterday in a
statement. The agreement requires court approval.  Funding is conditional on selling its patent portfolio for
at least $500 million, which Kodak said yesterday it “is
confident it will achieve.” Converting the debt for use by the
emerging company requires progress in the sale of two business
units, and the resolution of the company’s U.K. pension
obligations.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez has announced almost
4,000 job cuts this year and has been selling businesses to help
fund a turnaround after seeking Chapter 11 protection in
January. The company, which yesterday reiterated plans to exit
bankruptcy in the first half of 2013, is selling its consumer-
film, photo-kiosk and commercial-scanner businesses; continuing
an extended effort to auction its digital-imaging patents; and
shuttering its consumer inkjet printer sales.  “The additional liquidity from this financing will enable
Kodak to accelerate its momentum,” Perez said in the statement.
“It establishes a clear path for our emergence as a stronger,
more focused company.”  Term Loans  Another group of second-lien creditors had competed to
provide the funding, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations aren’t public. The financing attracted
“significant interest from potential lenders,” Perez said in
yesterday’s statement.  Creditors offered $476 million of new term loans and a $317
million loan in exchange for the same amount of second lien
bonds. The commitment allows up to $567 million of the loans to
be converted into exit financing, provided Kodak emerges from
bankruptcy by Sept. 30 2013, among other conditions. The
financing was first reported by the Wall Street Journal.  A group of second-lien noteholders said in a court filing
yesterday that they have lost faith in management, claiming the
company’s ability to successfully restructure and exit
bankruptcy has been jeopardized.  Kodak is suffering operating losses and burning cash at
“an astounding rate” and will probably run out of money in the
first half of 2013 without new financing, the creditor group
said in the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “The second-lien parties have lost all faith in the
ability of the debtors’ current leadership to lead the debtors’
restructuring efforts or, in fact, to lead the debtors at all,”
the group said.  Extension Opposed  The noteholders oppose Kodak’s request for an extension of
its exclusive right to file a reorganization plan in court. They
said they can propose a plan for the company that will win court
approval.  Stefanie Goodsell, a Kodak spokeswoman, said the objection
was from a “minority group” of noteholders and wasn’t
unexpected.  “Our motion to extend exclusivity has the support of other
creditors, and we are confident that this objection will not
impact our timeline for emergence,” she said in an e-mailed
statement  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business. The company spent $3.4 billion on restructuring before
bankruptcy, including payouts to fire 47,000 employees since
2003, while closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories.  The case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  