-- New Syrian Opposition Group Gets Backing From Arab League
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-11-12T23:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/new-syrian-opposition-group-gets-backing-from-arab-league.html
Syria ’s new opposition coalition
plans to form a transitional government after it gains
international recognition, said Abdelbaset Sieda, a member of
the group.  The Syrian National Coalition for Opposition and
Revolutionary Forces, set up Nov. 11 after more than a week of
meetings in the Qatari capital Doha, will boost international
support for the opposition by showing unity, Sieda said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The Arab League, meeting in Cairo, agreed yesterday to a
resolution recognizing the new group as representing the
“aspirations of the Syrian people.” It called on nations and
others to support the rebel coalition “politically and
materially.”  The Arab League action followed by hours a similar
announcement by the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, which
includes Saudi Arabia. The council recognized the opposition
body and offered support “to meet the demands and the hopes of
the Syrian people,” the Saudi Press Agency reported, citing a
statement by the council’s secretary general, Abullatif Al
Zayani.  The Syrian umbrella group will include political opponents
of President Bashar al-Assad, with leaders of the rebel fighters
to make up a separate military council that will be formed by
the government. It’s an effort to unite the anti-Assad forces,
which have remained divided even as the violence intensifies and
Arab and Western countries urge unity.  Deaths in Uprising  More than 35,000 people have died since the uprising began
in March 2011, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights. Syrian troops loyal to Assad killed 128 people across
the country yesterday, including 49 in or around the capital
Damascus, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in
an e-mailed statement.  The National Coalition chose as its head Mouaz al-Khatib, a
Muslim cleric who has been calling for a united front among
Syria’s sectarian and ethnic groups since the start of the
uprising.  “There will be a transitional government,” said Sieda,
who until last week had headed the Syrian National Council, an
earlier effort to unify the opposition. He said that there is
“no alternative” other than to base the new government within
Syrian territory, where it will need “protection in addition to
financial resources so that it can perform its duties.”  The formation of the coalition is only a “first step” and
its members have “got to show that they can work effectively to
have some impact on the ground,” said Salman Shaikh, director
of the  Brookings Institution’s Doha Center  in Qatar.  Umbrella Group  The U.S. government welcomed the formation of the new
umbrella group, which it had worked behind the scenes to
encourage after backing away from the Syrian National Council.  The U.S. had criticized the exile-run council for political
infighting, ineffectiveness and for failing to unite with groups
doing the fighting in Syria. The Obama administration sent
several senior diplomats, including Ambassador to Syria Stephen Ford, to participate in Doha on the fringes of the
organizational talks.  “We look forward to supporting the National Coalition as
it charts a course toward the end of Assad’s bloody rule and the
start of the peaceful, just, democratic future that all the
people of Syria deserve,” Mark Toner, deputy spokesman for the
State Department, said in an e-mailed statement that pledged
humanitarian and non-lethal assistance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  