-- NYSE Computer Issue Led to No Closing Auction in 216 Stocks
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-13T16:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/nyse-computer-issue-means-no-closing-auction-in-216-securities.html
The New York Stock Exchange stopped
trading in 216 securities yesterday and canceled their closing
auctions because of an outage in a computer that matches buy and
sell orders and process transactions.  The affected stocks, which included  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  and U.S.
Steel Corp., continued to trade on other exchanges, such as  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s electronic NYSE Arca platform and  Nasdaq  Stock
Market. The exchange’s systems are “functioning normally for
all symbols” today, according to an e-mail sent to traders this
morning before the market opened.  While the fragmentation of American equity markets over the
last decade left dozens of other venues to trade those NYSE-
listed securities during the day, the elimination of Big Board
closing  auctions  was potentially a bigger disruption since the
vast majority of orders seeking the official closing price are
sent to the exchange to participate in the day-end process. The
auction, which collects orders to determine a final price for a
security, is important to fund managers and brokers who are
obliged to buy and sell at that level.  “To the best of our knowledge, this was the first time
that we didn’t use the NYSE closing auction,”  Richard Adamonis ,
a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, said in a phone interview. “The
problem seemed to be a software programming issue related to the
individual server for these 216 symbols.”  Shifting Companies  While the NYSE’s outage was invisible to anyone but
professional traders, it follows a series of mishaps on
electronic trading systems in the past year. Computer
malfunctions played roles in Knight Capital Group Inc.’s $457
million trading error in August, the mishandling of Facebook
Inc.’s initial public offering on the Nasdaq Stock Market, and
Bats Global Markets Inc.’s withdrawn IPO in March.  The exchange is in the process of  shifting  companies listed
on NYSE to its Universal Trading Platform matching engines from
its Super Display Book system and supporting database. On Nov. 9
it moved 109 corporations to UTP and added another 107
yesterday. The 107 will temporarily revert to their Nov. 9
configuration, Adamonis said. The “root cause of the issue”
will be addressed by a software fix later this week, a notice
sent before 5:30 p.m.  New York  time yesterday said.  NYSE’s closing auction represents 98 percent of end-of-day
trading in Big Board-listed stocks, according to the exchange.
It handles 97 percent of trading in those companies at the start
of the day.  Stock Volume  U.S. equities  volume  was 4.62 billion shares, compared with
the three-month daily average of 5.98 billion shares. Yesterday
was the official observation of Veterans’ Day, a federal and
bank holiday.  NYSE accounted for 291.9 million shares of trading in
companies it lists yesterday, the lowest level all year,
compared with 767.7 million shares a day on average this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday’s level was
11.4 percent of trading in its own companies, compared to 20.9
percent for all of 2012.  “We were lucky it was light trading because of the
holiday,” Ben Schwartz, the Chicago-based chief market
strategist at broker Lightspeed Financial LLC, said in a phone
interview. “The effect was minimal, almost a non-event. People
were limited in their exposures and there was very little
hedging that needed to be done.”  NYSE said in a notice published on its website at 9:46 a.m.
yesterday that it was experiencing an “issue” with a matching
engine that affected order processing and transactions in 216
companies. Shortly after 3:30 p.m. the exchange said it wouldn’t
resume trading in those stocks and wouldn’t hold closing
auctions for them.  Nasdaq Cross  “It is unusual to have an issue like this,”  Mark Turner ,
head of U.S. sales trading at New York-based Instinet Inc., said
in a phone interview before the market closed. He predicted some
traders would switch orders to Nasdaq in an attempt to
participate in that venue’s so-called closing cross for stocks
listed on the NYSE.  NYSE distributed a  list  of official closing prices for each
of the 216 securities based on the “consolidated last sale” at
almost 5:30 p.m., an hour and a half after the official closing
levels are normally disseminated. The consolidated last sale is
the last transaction of the day that meets certain requirements
and can occur on any market.  Other companies among the 216 affected by the technical
problem include GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Eaton Vance Corp., Nucor
Corp.,  Panasonic Corp. (PC) , PG&E Corp. and  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)   Index Calculation  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will use the consolidated
last-sale price NYSE publishes to calculate its closing level,
according to a statement from S&P Dow Jones Indices, a joint
venture owned by the McGraw-Hill Companies and CME Group Inc.
All indexes that include any of the 216 NYSE-listed stocks were
affected by the disruption, the index group owner said.  NYSE Euronext has been in close contact with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority during the day, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. Finra officials were on the trading
floor yesterday, as they always are, the person said.  “From a market quality perspective, a proper liquidity
event at the close is a foundational event in the market,”
 Jamie Selway , managing director and head of liquidity management
at broker Investment Technology Group Inc., said by phone.
“This is why many of us worked so hard the week of  Hurricane
Sandy  to help ensure NYSE was open on Oct. 31 to do a closing
print.”  Exchanges Shut  Hurricane Sandy caused a shutdown of U.S. stock markets and
equity index futures on Oct. 29 and 30 as the Atlantic Ocean’s
largest-ever tropical storm flooded parts of lower  Manhattan  and
produced life-threatening surges in a region with 60 million
residents. Exchanges, brokers and regulators including the SEC,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and New York Fed wanted the
market to open on Oct. 31, according to people who asked not to
be identified because the discussions weren’t public.  Yesterday’s technical problem was a reminder that the
industry needs an alternative for the opening and closing
auctions when the main listing exchange can’t conduct those
events, Selway said.  “It reminds us we need to collectively sort out this
question,” he said. “I don’t think it should be hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  