-- Obama Seeks Outside Support for Fiscal Cliff Negotiations
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-11-12T22:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/obama-seeks-outside-support-for-fiscal-cliff-negotiations.html
President Barack Obama is working to
enlist outside support for his position that high-income people
pay more taxes as he heads into negotiations with House Speaker
 John Boehner  on how to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  Obama will host labor leaders at the White House tomorrow,
and on Nov. 14 he’ll meet with executives of some the biggest
U.S. companies, including  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Chief
Executive Officer David Cote,  American Express Co. (AXP)  CEO Kenneth Chenault,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  CEO Alan Mulally and  General Electric
Co. (GE)  CEO Jeffrey Immelt. The president also will hold his first
news conference since June the same day he meets with the CEOs.  The meetings come before the president’s session with
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi,
a California Democrat, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, on Nov. 16.  In Obama’s first comments at the White House since his re-
election victory three days earlier, Obama called on Nov. 9 for
an immediate tax-cut extension for people earning less than
$250,000 and insisted that top earners pay more. Earlier in the
day, Boehner cited public support for the re-elected House
Republican majority -- and said that tax rates must not go up.  While both said they were willing to compromise and act
quickly, Obama and Boehner offered no public concessions. Their
differences may take weeks to reconcile as they test each
other’s readiness to bend, assess who will be blamed if they
fail, and work with party members who won’t want to give in.  ‘Encouraging’ Comments  Speaking yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program,
 David Axelrod , a senior adviser to Obama’s re-election campaign,
called Boehner’s comments on the fiscal cliff “encouraging.”  Boehner “said he wasn’t going to get into details about
what he would or wouldn’t accept,” Axelrod said. “He didn’t
want to foreclose discussions and that was a positive sign.”
Axelrod also said Boehner’s “rhetoric has been encouraging.”  Without new legislation, a combined $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts -- evenly divided between military
and domestic spending -- will take effect starting in January.
Some economists have expressed concern the tax increases and
spending cuts might push the economy back into recession. The
fiscal cliff stems from a standoff between Obama and Congress
over how to curb soaring  U.S. debt  through a mix of tax-code
changes and cuts to federal spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  