-- Lockheed Bearish Options Hit Record Before COO Scandal
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-11-12T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/lockheed-bearish-options-hit-record-before-coo-scandal.html
Bearish  options trading  on  Lockheed (LMT) 
Martin Corp. surged to a record on Nov. 9 hours before the
biggest defense contractor said its incoming chief executive
officer resigned because of a relationship with a subordinate.  About 57,000  puts  changed hands on Nov. 9, the most in data
compiled by Bloomberg that goes back to 1995. That compares with
daily average volume of 940 bearish contracts in 2012. Most of
the trading took place around 2 p.m. before the company said
Christopher E. Kubasik, the chief operating officer who was
slated to become CEO on Jan. 1, left after a probe confirmed a
“lengthy, close and personal relationship.”  “This is either a one in 1,000 random event or an
egregious example of improprietous trading based on non-public
information,” Ophir Gottlieb, managing director at San
Francisco-based Livevol Inc., a provider of options-market
analytics, wrote in an e-mail. “Nothing is certain, but the
odds certainly point toward the latter.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, and  Jennifer Whitlow , a spokeswoman at
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, declined to comment.  Options trading has been implicated in insider cases
brought by the SEC in the past, including trading before  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s takeover bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. in 2010 and AstraZeneca Plc’s purchase of MedImmune Inc. in
2007. Lockheed shares last week fell the most in a year amid
speculation that President  Barack Obama  would curb military
spending after winning a second term.  Management Turmoil  The  management  turmoil compounds risks for Lockheed, which
already was under scrutiny for a 70 percent jump in the cost of
the F-35 fighter program and faces the threat of automatic
defense budget cuts in January.  The 11 most-traded Lockheed Martin options were bearish on
Nov. 9, with more than 90 percent of the volume in three
contracts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 23,000
January $75 puts, with an exercise price 17 percent below last
week’s close, changed hands. Trading also included 20,091
January $80 puts and 10,190 January $85 puts.  Before last week, the previous high in put options trading
was in June 2009, when volume reached about 21,600. Some 1,200
calls were traded on Lockheed Martin on Nov. 9, about half of
the daily average in 2012.  Call options give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, called the strike price, by a given date. Puts convey
the right to sell.  Pentagon Alerted  Robert Stevens, Lockheed’s outgoing CEO, had the task of
telling the company’s biggest customer that his chosen successor
had been ousted in a scandal.  Shortly after Kubasik was replaced at a Nov. 9 board
meeting, Stevens called the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, Frank Kendall, to let him know of the sudden turn before it was made
public, according to two people familiar with the situation who
asked not to be identified because the communications were
private.  “Our initial contacts with our Department of Defense
customers” came after the  market  close at 4 p.m.  New York  time
that day, Stevens said today on a conference call with analysts  ‘Personal Failing’  Then Lockheed announced at 4:34 p.m. that Kubasik, instead
of becoming CEO on Jan. 1, was forced out. Marillyn Hewson, 58,
and a three-decade employee, was named president and chief
operating officer immediately and will become CEO when Stevens
steps down at year-end. Stevens, 61, will become executive
chairman in the transition.  The Defense Department’s initial response has been “an
understanding of the actions that we’ve taken, and a full
measure of support for Marillyn in her new position, along with,
I think, a very consistent request of all of us: Don’t lose
focus on the commitments that you’ve made,” Stevens said today.  Kubasik’s conduct “was a personal failing, having no
impact on either our operational or our financial results,” he
said.  Lockheed  shares  lost 4 percent to $89.98 last week,
trimming the advance for the year to 11 percent. The company’s
shares seldom change hands after hours and on Nov. 9 there were
only two 100-share trades after news of the resignation broke,
at $89.70 and $89.95.  Lockheed fell 17 cents to $89.81 today at the close of New
York trading.  Disruptive Change  “A change in leadership can be disruptive,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of analysis at Teal Group Corp. of
Fairfax, Virginia. “But it could be the company needs to change
its approach.”  Hewson may have to redouble Lockheed’s efforts to improve
relations with Pentagon officials, particularly on the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter program, the company’s single largest
program and the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons system.  Eighty-two percent of the company’s $46.5 billion in
 revenue  last year came from the U.S. government, mostly from the
Defense Department, according to the company’s annual report.  Lockheed was the Pentagon’s biggest contractor in the
government’s fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2011, with $36.4
billion in direct, or prime, awards, according to a Bloomberg
Government study on the top 200 contractors.  Prolonged Negotiation  The company is in the midst of a prolonged negotiation with
the Pentagon on orders for the next batch of F-35s, and the
program has faced cost overruns and testing delays. Buying a
planned inventory of 2,443 F-35s for the Air Force, Navy and
Marine Corps is now estimated to cost $395.7 billion, a 70
percent increase since Lockheed won the contract in late 2001.  The deputy head of the Pentagon’s F-35 program, Air Force
Major General Christopher Bogdan, said in September that his
office’s relationship with Lockheed had deteriorated to “the
worst I’ve ever seen.”  Hewson said on the call today that she’s been “very much
engaged” in F-35 negotiations with the Pentagon.  “I know the  Department of Defense  team for the F-35,” she
said. “We won’t miss a beat on F-35.”  The F-35 will be Lockheed’s “growth catalyst” for years
to come, said Brian Ruttenbur, an analyst at CRT Capital Group
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . He said the company has the executive
depth to oversee the F-35 and other programs in Kubasik’s
absence.  “This is a big company with a lot of seasoned
management,” Ruttenbur said in a telephone interview. “They’re
going to get through this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  