-- Brent Oil Snaps Two-Day Gain as Europeans Seek Greek Deal
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-12T13:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/oil-fluctuates-after-weekly-gain-on-china-u-s-demand-outlook.html
Brent crude halted a two-day advance
in  London  before European finance ministers meet to discuss aid
for Greece amid concern that the region’s debt turmoil will
constrain fuel consumption.  Futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent as ministers
prepared to assess whether the latest round of cuts agreed by
Greece are sufficient to warrant further assistance. Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said that prices, down 15
percent in London from this year’s peak, are “good.” U.S. oil
output is poised to surpass Saudi Arabia’s in the next decade,
the International Energy Agency said. Hedge funds reduced
bullish bets on Brent and West Texas Intermediate in the week to
Nov. 6.  “We are no closer to a comprehensive solution for
 Europe ,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-based
commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd., who predicts oil
prices will recover in the first quarter. “While Europe remains
a source of concern for the market, the global growth outlook
has improved.”  Brent for December settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $108.93 a barrel, down 47 cents,
as of 1:23 p.m. local time. The European benchmark crude was at
a premium of $23.42 to New York-traded contracts.  Crude for December delivery dropped 58 cents to $85.49 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The contract rose 98 cents to $86.07 on Nov. 9, the
highest close since Nov. 6. Prices are down 13 percent this
year.  Saudi Arabia  The oil market is “comfortable” and “balanced,” al-
Naimi told reporters in Abu Dhabi yesterday. Consumers are also
happy with prices, he said, adding that the kingdom produced 9.7
million barrels a day in October.  Europe’s finance chiefs gathering at 5 p.m. in Brussels
intend to prevent a 5 billion-euro ($6.4 billion) Greek bill
redemption on Nov. 16 from triggering an accidental default,
while they’re unlikely to ratify a 31.5 billion-euro payment to
 Greece  that has been frozen since June, a European official said
Nov. 9.  Growing supplies of crude extracted through new technology
including hydraulic fracturing of underground rock formations
will transform the U.S. into the largest producer for about five
years starting about 2020, the IEA said today in its annual
World Energy Outlook.  “The self-sufficiency story for the U.S. is not only given
by the growth in oil production, but also the steps taken to
reduce oil consumption in the transport sector,” Fatih Birol,
the IEA’s chief economist, said today at a press conference in
London.  Bullish Wagers  Crude in New York remains in a downtrend channel on the
daily chart, signaling last week’s rebound may not be sustained,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have traded
between the middle and lower Bollinger Bands for more than seven
weeks. These indicators, representing technical resistance and
support levels, are about $88.50 and $83 a barrel today.  Hedge funds and other speculators cut bullish bets on West
Texas Intermediate crude as demand declined after  Hurricane
Sandy , production increased to the highest since 1994 and U.S.
President  Barack Obama  won re-election.  Money managers reduced net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices, to 122,309 futures and options combined in the
seven days ended Nov. 6, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Nov. 9.
That’s the lowest since the week to Sept. 28, 2010.  In London, funds and other money managers reduced bullish
bets on Brent to the lowest level in more than three months,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 87,711 lots in
the week ended Nov. 6, the exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. That marks the lowest since July
31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  