-- Oil Falls on Greek Aid Meetings, Japanese Contraction
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-12T20:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/oil-fluctuates-as-chinese-imports-counter-japanese-slip.html
Oil in New York dropped for the
first time in three days as European policy makers met to
discuss aid for Greece and Japan’s economy shrank.  Futures fell 0.6 percent as euro-area finance ministers
gathered in Brussels after Greek lawmakers passed a 2013 budget
needed to unlock bailout funds. Japan’s economy contracted last
quarter at an annual rate of 3.5 percent, the most since the
earthquake and tsunami in early 2011.  “As long as there is no resolution to the Greek crisis,
markets will remain under pressure,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based energy hedge
fund. “The 3.5 percent contraction of the Japanese economy
speaks to demand concerns. This will have an impact on other
Asian economies and we will see an impact on consumption.”  Crude oil for December delivery declined 50 cents to settle
at $85.57 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
are down 13 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement declined 33 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $109.07 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
crude’s premium to West Texas Intermediate contract traded in
New York widened to $23.50, the most since Oct. 29.  The finance ministers probably won’t approve 31.5 billion
euros ($40 billion) in fresh loans to Greece and will agree to
prevent the country from defaulting on 5 billion euros of bills
that mature on Nov. 16, a European official said last week. The
European sovereign debt crisis began in Greece three years ago
and has spread to Ireland, Portugal, Italy, Spain and Cyprus.  ‘Large Risks’  The so-called troika that oversees Greece’s bailouts said
it sees “very large risks” to the Greek program, according to
a draft report obtained by Bloomberg. The troika comprises the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund .  The decline in Japan’s gross domestic product followed a
revised 0.3 percent gain the previous quarter, the Cabinet
Office said in Tokyo. A drop of 3.4 percent was the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday that
the oil market is “very balanced.” Consumers are also happy
with prices, he told reporters in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday, adding
that the kingdom produced 9.7 million barrels a day in October.
Oil has ranged from $84.05 to $89.22 for three weeks.  U.S. oil output is poised to surpass  Saudi Arabia ’s in the
next decade, making the world’s biggest fuel consumer almost
self-reliant and putting it on track to become a net exporter,
the  International Energy Agency  said today.  New Technologies  Growing supplies of oil extracted through new technology
including hydraulic fracturing will transform the U.S. into the
largest producer for about five years starting about 2020, the
Paris-based adviser to 28 nations said in its annual World
Energy Outlook. The U.S. met 83 percent of its energy needs in
the first half of 2012, according to Energy Department data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s net crude imports rose to 5.52 million barrels a
day in October, the highest level since May, the General
Administration of Customs said Nov. 10 in Beijing. Industrial
production was up 9.6 percent in October from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics said Nov. 9.  “We’re treading water here,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“The Chinese oil demand numbers over the weekend are providing
support while the Japanese economic data are putting downward
pressure in the market. We should test last week’s low of $84.05
this week.”  Sandy’s Impact  Crude rose earlier, following gasoline, amid concern that
East Coast supplies will slip because of  Hurricane Sandy .
Gasoline gained as much as 1.8 percent before ending the day
down 0.9 percent at $2.6763 a gallon.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Bayway refinery in  New Jersey  may restart
Nov. 19, the company said Nov. 5.  Hess Corp. (HES)  said last week that
no schedule is set for the return of its Port Reading plant. The
two plants combined can produce 308,000 barrels a day.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 459,370
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. Volume totaled 604,448 contracts on
Nov. 9, 16 percent above the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 