-- Thompson Starts as New York Times CEO Under Cloud of BBC Scandal
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-12T16:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/thompson-starts-as-new-york-times-ceo-under-cloud-of-bbc-scandal.html
Mark Thompson took over today as
chief executive officer of the  New York Times Co. (NYT)  amid lingering
criticism of his handling of a sex scandal at the British
Broadcasting Corp.  Chairman and Publisher Arthur Sulzberger issued a memo to
staff this morning confirming the CEO’s arrival, after a number
of columnists at the newspaper questioned BBC’s journalism
practices under Thompson. He was hired for the job in August
following a career at the U.K. broadcaster.  Sulzberger welcomed Thompson to the Times’ staff in the
memo, saying his management experience at the BBC “will be of
great value to our company as we continue our pursuit of
creating the highest quality journalism and the business results
to support it.”  The BBC has been roiled by allegations that the popular
host Jimmy Savile sexually abused dozens of children while he
worked at the broadcaster. While  BBC ’s “Newsnight” had sought
to bring light to Savile’s past last year, the story was killed,
further raising concerns about a cover-up. Thompson, who led the
BBC for an eight-year stretch lasting until September, said he
wasn’t aware of the abuse allegations and didn’t participate in
stopping “Newsnight” from airing the segment.  “I was not involved in any way in the decision-making
about the ‘Newsnight’ investigation into Savile,” Thompson said
in an interview last month. Savile died last year.  Successor Resigns  Thompson’s successor at the BBC, George Entwistle, resigned
last weekend over a separate “Newsnight” report that
erroneously implied a senior politician had molested a young
boy. Meanwhile, an independent investigator is looking into the
canceled Savile segment. Two of the BBC’s most senior news
executives -- Helen Boaden, who reported to Thompson at the
time, and her deputy Stephen Mitchell -- have relinquished their
responsibilities during the probe.  Thompson, 55, signed an employment agreement in August with
the  New York  Times valued at as much as $10.5 million, including
a signing  bonus  potentially worth $4.5 million that he starts 
collecting today.  The Times’ columnists have  openly questioned  whether the
company should reassess its choice.  “His integrity and decision-making are bound to affect the
Times and its journalism -- profoundly,” Margaret Sullivan,
public editor for the New York Times, wrote last month. “It’s
worth considering now whether he is the right person for the
job, given this turn of events.”  ‘Willfully Ignorant’  Joe Nocera, an op-ed columnist for the Times, wrote that
Thompson’s lack of knowledge about the Savile matter makes him
appear  “willfully ignorant.”   “It also makes you wonder what kind of chief executive
he’d be at the Times,” he said in his column.  The New York-based company declined to comment beyond the
memo by Sulzberger, who said the board remains committed to
Thompson.  “Mark will lead us as we continue our digital
transformation, bolster our international growth, drive our
productivity and introduce new technologies that will help us
become better storytellers and enrich the experience for our
readers and viewers,” Sulzberger said. “That is what he did as
director-general of the BBC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  