-- Hopper’s Brooding All-Night Loners in Belated Paris Debut
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-11-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hopper-s-brooding-all-night-loners-in-belated-paris-debut.html
For Americans,  Edward Hopper  is a
classic. The French have only discovered him in dribs and drabs.  It wasn’t until 1989, 22 years after the painter’s death,
that the Musee Cantini in Marseille presented a selection from
his mature work, the first solo show of a U.S. pre-war artist by
a French museum.  In 2004, the Museum of American Art in Giverny devoted an
exhibition to Hopper’s views of Paris.  The new show at Paris’s  Grand Palais  is the first
retrospective in  France  spanning his entire career.  It not only brings together many of his best known
canvases; it also includes watercolors, etchings and commercial
illustrations -- the hack work he had to do to make a living
when nobody wanted to buy his pictures.  His late discovery by the French is all the more surprising
because Hopper made no secret that his work was influenced by
his time in Paris -- nine months in 1906, and shorter stays in
1909 and 1910.  Although he didn’t enroll in any school and was too shy to
meet members of the avant-garde, he attentively studied the
French art scene, visiting museums and galleries.  Edgar Degas  inspired him to explore unusual angles. Fauvist
painter Albert Marquet’s cityscapes impressed him with their
vigorous simplicity. He admired Felix Vallotton’s woodcuts and
paintings for their dramatic contrast of light and shadow.  Empty Streets  He also discovered the photographs of Eugene Atget, whose
views of empty streets exude a surreal charm.  The first part of the exhibition covers Hopper’s early
years while he was still trying to find his personal style. His
canvases are juxtaposed with others from the so-called Ashcan
School -- scenes of urban life by his teacher Robert Henri,
George Bellows and John Sloan.  The second part starts in 1924, the turning point of his
career. The success of a show of watercolors at the Brooklyn
Museum finally enabled him to devote his life full time to his
art.  Here you find the melancholy icons that are inextricably
linked with Hopper’s name -- lonely people in barren rooms,
brooding in coffee shops or seedy theaters.  When two characters appear, they seem to live in different
worlds: The conversation has stopped; both are lost in their own
thoughts.  Diner Zombies  On Hopper’s most famous canvas, “Nighthawks” (1942),
three people sit like zombies at the counter of an all-night
diner. The eerie scene could come straight from a film noir, a
genre that flourished in those years.  Hopper could get quite angry when people lumped him
together with Thomas Hart Benton, Grant Wood and other painters
of small-town America.  Nor was he happy about being labeled as the painter of
solitude and alienation. “The loneliness thing is overdone,”
he told the Irish art critic Brian O’Doherty in 1964.  In fact, the exhibition at the Grand Palais demonstrates
that Hopper has more to offer than deserted streets, taciturn
couples and alienated loners. It also demonstrates that,
technically, he was a better draftsman than painter.  Clement Greenberg, one of America’s most influential
critics, had a point when he called Hopper “a bad painter.”
Yet he added: “If he were a better painter, he would, most
likely, not be so superior an artist.”  The exhibition, which is supported by the Group Credit du
Nord, runs through Jan. 28, 2013.  Information:  http://bit.ly/O8UI0r .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 