-- Osborne Considers Fuel-Duty Delay, Foiling Labour-Led Revolt
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-12T22:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/osborne-considers-u-k-fuel-duty-delay-as-labour-pushes-revolt.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  may delay an increase in duty on gasoline planned
for January as the opposition  Labour Party  sought to provoke a
rebellion by Conservative lawmakers over the issue.  Labour failed to win parliamentary backing for the delay in
a vote in the House of Commons today after lawmakers including
Robert Halfon, from the chancellor’s Tory party who last week
considered rebelling, said he had received assurances from the
Treasury that it will consider a delay. The motion tabled by
Labour was defeated by 234-282.  “The chancellor may have already made his decision but, if
not, I would urge the chancellor to reflect on the contributions
made here,” said Conservative lawmaker Martin Vickers during
the debate in the House of Commons minutes before the vote. “I
shall be supporting the government on the lobby this evening.”  Labour lawmaker  Ed Balls , the party’s spokesman on Treasury
affairs, is using the non-binding motion to demand that Osborne
put back from Jan. 1 to April the increase of 3 pence (4.8 U.S.
cents) on a liter of gasoline. The increase had been due to take
effect in August, before Osborne postponed it in the fourth of a
series of policy reversals in June.  “I am going to vote with the government” against the
Labour motion, Halfon, who last week considered voting with
Labour, said in a telephone interview earlier today. He said he
believes ministers “are in strong listening mode.”  Treasury minister David Gauke said the government will
“take action to help” offset the squeeze suffered by
households from rising prices. A spokesman from the Treasury,
who declined to be named to comply with rules governing public
servants, said the government has listened to the concerns of
motorists and that it recognizes that the cost of fuel takes up
an increasing part of household spending.  Both Osborne and Balls were absent from the debate after
the signal from the Treasury defused the rebellion.  June’s postponement cost the Treasury 550 million pounds
and was paid for by savings from government departments. Any
further delay would be announced by Osborne in his autumn
statement to Parliament on Dec. 5, one of two dates in the
parliamentary calendar when he changes tax and spending policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  