-- Emerging Stocks Drop as India Output Slump Offsets China Exports
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-11-12T22:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/most-emerging-stocks-drop-as-japan-economy-offsets-china-exports.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
two-month low as a decline in Indian factory output and Japan’s
contracting economy overshadowed faster Chinese export growth.
The yuan climbed to a 19-year high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.2 percent to
989.27 at the close of trading in New York, the lowest close
since Sept. 13. Online game maker  NCsoft Corp. (036570)  sank to the
lowest level since May 2010 in Seoul.  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  surged
35 percent in Mumbai after Diageo Plc said it will buy a
controlling stake.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA ,
Brazil’s second-biggest steel-maker by output, rose the most in
a week as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the stock.  Indian industrial production unexpectedly dropped in
September, while Japanese data showed the economy shrank in the
three months through September and may face its third recession
since 2008. In China, export growth beat estimates last month
and a government quota will be increased to allow more  yuan 
raised overseas to be invested in domestic  capital markets .  “The global economic slowdown should discourage most
investors from taking aggressive equity positions,” Jitra Amornthum, the head of research at Finansia Syrus Securities Pcl
in Bangkok, said by phone today. “There is no clear sign that
most major economies are on pace for strong growth again.”  South Korea’s  Kospi index  retreated 0.2 percent to its
lowest close since Nov. 1. Russia’s Micex Index rose for the
first time in four days, climbing 0.5 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa
fell to the lowest level since Sept. 5, losing 0.5 percent as
 utilities  declined for a seventh day.  Rupee Weakens  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares,  rose  0.4
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, lost 4.8 percent.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , dropped less than
0.1 percent, dragged lower by a 1.7 percent decline in Tata
Steel Ltd. The rupee weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar on
its third day of declines. Data today showed output at
factories, utilities and mines retreated 0.4 percent from a year
earlier, compared with the median estimate of a 2.8 percent gain
in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s yuan strengthened to close at 6.2291 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
government reported the fastest export growth in five months and
the central bank raised its  reference rate .  China’s overseas sales increased 11.6 percent from a year
earlier in October and the nation’s $32 billion  trade surplus 
was the largest since January 2009, official data showed on Nov.
10. The securities regulator said China will increase the quota
for its  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor
program that allows yuan raised overseas to be invested in
stocks and bonds in domestic markets.  China Outperformance  “There is room for more outperformance for Chinese stocks,
as valuation should gradually converge to the emerging-markets
average,” Martial Godet, head of strategy at BNP Paribas CIB in
London, said by e-mail.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5 percent,
snapping a five-day losing streak. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
climbed 1.3 percent to the highest level since July 2011, led by
Eshraq Properties Co.  The  MSCI Brazil/Utilities Index (MXBR0UT)  fell for a seventh day to
the lowest level since September 2009.  Companhia Energetica de
Sao Paulo  dropped 6.5 percent after the company’s third-quarter
adjusted net income of 149.6 million reais ($73 million) came in
short of the average 162.5 million reais estimate by six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Military Operations  Israel’s shekel dropped 0.6 percent versus the dollar to
the lowest level in over eight weeks as the country’s leaders
said they “won’t hesitate” to escalate military operations
against the  Gaza Strip  after two days of Palestinian rocket
attacks.  Gauges (MXEF0CD)  of materials and industrial companies led declines
among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
falling by at least 0.6 percent. The developing-nations measure
has climbed 8 percent this year, outpacing a 7.8 percent
increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index
trades at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.05, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, jumped
6.9 percent in Taipei to the highest in two weeks. Apple Inc.
settled all global lawsuits with HTC, Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  said in a statement yesterday.  Tata, Usiminas  Tata Steel fell to a two-month low after reporting an
unexpected second-quarter loss. The net loss, including Tata
Steel Europe Ltd., was 3.64 billion rupees ($66.5 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30. The median profit estimate of
24 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 2.27 billion rupees.  Usiminas gained 1.3 percent in Sao Paulo. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. raised its recommendation to “buy” from
“neutral.”  OAO Veropharm, a Russian drugmaker, climbed 8.5 percent in
Moscow to the highest close since Sept. 19. Billionaire Vladimir
Evtushenkov’s holding company AFK Sistema won regulatory
approval to acquire the Russian drugmaker, Russia’s Federal
Anti-Monopoly Service said in a statement.  NCsoft, a South Korean online-game maker, slid 4.5 percent
in Seoul to the lowest close since May 2010.  United Spirits climbed the most on record. Diageo will pay
$2.04 billion for the controlling stake.  Eshraq Properties, a real estate developer, surged 9.7
percent in  Abu Dhabi , the biggest gain since February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  