-- Most Indian Stocks Fall After Output Data; United Spirits Jumps
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-11-12T10:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/most-indian-stocks-fall-after-output-data-united-spirits-jumps.html
Most Indian stocks fell, led by raw-
materials producers, after an unexpected contraction in
September industrial output fueled concern an economic slowdown
will hurt corporate earnings.  About three stocks fell for every two that rose in the BSE
India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, which was little changed at
18,671.09, according to preliminary closing prices in Mumbai.
 Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  dropped to a two-month low after reporting an
unexpected second-quarter loss.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , the biggest cigarette
company, fell 1.4 percent, the biggest drag on the Sensex.
United Spirits surged by a record after Diageo Plc agreed to buy
a controlling stake for $2.04 billion.  The Sensex had risen 0.4 percent before data showed India’s
factory output dropped 0.4 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with the median 2.8 percent increase in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Earnings at 12 of the 30
Sensex companies trailed  analysts’ estimates  for the three
months to Sept. 30, same as for the June quarter, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “There’s a knee-jerk reaction to the factory numbers,”
Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd., said in a phone interview from Kochi, South
 India . “The outlook remains cautious in the short term because
the last few quarterly numbers have not been up to the mark.
Companies are facing problems due to the slowdown.”  India needs to take more steps to revive its economy and
must correct its weaknesses, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said
in Mumbai on Nov. 10.  The Sensex has rallied 21 percent this year, driven by
overseas investors’ stock purchases and government policy
reforms announced since mid-September to revive economic growth.
The gauge trades at 14.9 times  estimated earnings , compared with
a multiple of 11.3 times for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in  Mumbai  at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  