-- Hostess Says Plants to Close Unless Workers Ignore Strike
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-12T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hostess-says-plants-to-close-unless-workers-ignore-strike.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the maker of
Wonder bread and Twinkies, said it will begin permanently
closing plants unless enough members of its striking bakery
workers’ union cross the picket lines to keep them open.  The  Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union  went on strike Nov. 9 at some plants
over what the union called the “unilateral imposition of a
horrendous contract” rejected by 92 percent of its members. By
late yesterday, the strike affected 23 of Hostess’s 36 plants,
the company said in a message to union members today.  Enough union members are crossing picket lines at about
half of the struck plants to allow “full operations,” the
company said. Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , is asking bakery
workers to “reconsider and return to work immediately.” The
union said it represents about 5,000 Hostess workers  Drivers represented by the Teamsters union aren’t honoring
the strike, Erik Halvorson, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. Hostess is making deliveries today, he said.  If workers don’t return, the company said it will decide
today whether “to permanently close certain locations due to
our inability to resume full-scale production.”  Teamsters members ratified a new contract with 8 percent in
wage concessions and 17 percent in benefit reductions. The  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  White Plains ,  New York , imposed the same
concessions on some members of the bakery workers’ union who
voted down the proposed contract.  ‘Simply Leave’  “We know the concessions are tough, but it would make more
sense for unhappy employees to simply leave the company
voluntarily than to strike and cause the company to close down,
forcing everyone to lose their jobs,” Hostess said in a Nov. 9
statement.  Hostess previously said the bakery workers voted against
the new contract because they were erroneously told there was a
white knight ready to buy the company and avoid wage cuts.  “There is no buyer waiting to purchase the entire company
and there never has been,” Lance Ignon, a Hostess spokesman,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Teamsters officials couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment on the strike.  Hostess filed a proposed bankruptcy reorganization plan
last month that can’t be implemented without selling some assets
or obtaining new financing. Both the Teamsters and the bakery
workers’ union made voluntary concessions in the first Chapter
11 reorganization, which began in 2004.  Hostess filed under Chapter 11 for a second time in
January, listing assets of $982 million against liabilities
totaling $1.43 billion.  The new case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  