-- Hostess Closing Bakeries as Workers Won’t Cross Lines
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-11-12T22:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hostess-closing-bakeries-as-workers-won-t-cross-lines.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the maker of
Wonder bread and Twinkies, began permanently closing plants
after it couldn’t get enough members of its striking bakery
workers’ union to cross the picket lines to keep them open.  “Very few” Hostess workers from the Bakery,
Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International
 Union  are crossing the picket line in a strike begun Nov. 9,
said Ray Scannell, the union’s research and education director.  Hostess announced today that bakeries in  Seattle ,  St. Louis 
and Cincinnati will be closed as a result of the strike.  “Sadly this action will result in the permanent closure of
three facilities and the loss of 627 jobs,” Hostess Chief
Executive Officer Gregory Rayburn, said in a statement.  “We will close the entire company if widespread strikes
cripple our business,” Rayburn said. The strike affects 23 of
Hostess’s 36 plants, the company said today. Half the affected
plants are operating, the company said.  The company can’t continue operating with one-third of the
plants affected, Rayburn said in an interview. Hostess is “days
away” from having to shut down entirely, he said.  The bakery workers’ union went on strike at some locations
in reaction to what the union called the “unilateral imposition
of a horrendous contract” rejected by 92 percent of the
membership.  Teamsters Union  Drivers represented by the Teamsters Union ratified a new
contract with 8 percent in wage concessions and 17 percent in
benefit reductions. The Teamsters are honoring the bakery
workers’ picket lines at some locations, Scannell said today in
an interview.  The Teamsters weren’t honoring the picket lines, company
spokesman Erik Halvorson said in an e-mailed statement. Irving,
Texas-based Hostess said enough union members are crossing the
picket lines to allow “full operations” at about half the
struck plants.  “Some employees are apparently under the misimpression
that if they force Hostess to liquidate, another company will
buy our bakeries and offer them employment.” Rayburn said today
in a statement.  The industry has “far too much capacity,” Rayburn said.
“I believe the leadership of the bakers union knows this fact,
but is willing to sacrifice its Hostess employees for the sake
of preventing other bakery companies from asking for similar
concessions.”  ‘False Claims’  Hostess is making “false claims” in a “desperate attempt
to break our members’ solidarity and scare our members into
giving up their fight for their pensions, their health
insurance, their wages and their families,” bakery union
Secretary-Treasurer Dave Durkee said today in a statement.  The bakery workers’ union said it represents 5,000 Hostess
workers.  Hostess previously said the bakery workers voted against
the contract because they were erroneously told there was a
white knight ready to buy the company and avoid wage cuts.  No Buyer  “There is no buyer waiting to purchase the entire company
and there never has been,” a Hostess spokesman, Lance Ignon,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Teamsters officials couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment on the strike.  Hostess filed a bankruptcy reorganization plan last month
that can’t be implemented without selling some assets or
obtaining new financing. Both the Teamsters and the bakery
workers’ union made voluntary concessions in the first Chapter
11 reorganization, which began in 2004.  Hostess filed under Chapter 11 for a second time in
January, listing assets of $982 million against liabilities
totaling $1.43 billion.  The new case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( White Plains ).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp., 04-
45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York
at   wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 