-- Peppa Pig Owner Seeks Acuisitions to Expand Child Range
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-12T14:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/peppa-pig-owner-seeks-acuisitions-to-expand-child-range.html
Entertainment One Ltd. (ETO)  which owns
rights to cartoon characters Peppa Pig, and Ben and Holly, is
seeking to add to its stable of children’s offerings after
cancelling plans to sell its business this year.  “Peppa is an anchor, and we have no intention of selling
it, but rather we want to use it to take additional family
brands,” Chief Executive Officer Darren Throop said in a phone
interview today.  Entertainment One, based in Toronto, may spend $225 million
or more on an acquisition, Throop said. The company now plans to
expand in film, television and children’s properties organically
and through acquisitions, Throop said. In February, it ended
plans for a sale after offers didn’t meet expectations.  Aside from Peppa, one of the most popular cartoons for U.K.
preschoolers, the company distributes films including the
“Twilight” vampire franchise and produces TV shows including
the “Rookie Blue” police show. In September, the company
agreed to pay C$225 million ($225 million) for Canadian film
distributor Alliance Films, which owns rights to movies
including “The King’s Speech” and “The Hunger Games.”  “There are a lot of things to buy out there and we still
have aspirations to expand our territorial and geographic
footprint,” Throop said, citing opportunities in  Europe  and
 Latin America  as well as for individual children’s characters.  Entertainment One today said first-half revenue rose 7.8
percent to 220.5 million pounds ($350 million) while underlying
earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization fell to 13.4 million pounds from 23.6 million
pounds.  Entertainment One also expects revenue from “The Hunger
Games” franchise and from a distribution deal with Dreamworks
Studios to counter any effects from the end of the “Twilight”
series, Throop said. The last installment of “Twilight” opens
in theaters this year.  The company’s shares fell 1.8 percent to 167 pence as of
2:20 p.m. in  London  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 