-- Petraeus’s Narcissism
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-11-12T18:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/petraeus-isn-t-first-leader-trapped-by-narcissism.html
It was her six-minute mile that did
it. Or her youth. That’s the assumption about the choice by
David Petraeus, America’s most-revered military statesman, to
pursue an extramarital affair with Paula Broadwell, who co-wrote
a biography of him.  After the announcement last week from Petraeus that he
would resign his post as director of central intelligence
because of the relationship, television and the Internet have
been alive with descriptions of the physical allure of
Broadwell, who is 20 years younger than Petraeus.  But a woman’s age or the time in which she runs a mile are
probably not the primary explanations for Petraeus’s actions,
just as they weren’t necessarily the main reasons that  John Edwards  or  Jack Welch , for example, pursued their affairs. Age
or looks matter, yet only secondarily. The force driving all
these gents is probably something stronger than sex. What drives
them is narcissism.  To label someone as noble as Petraeus with psycho-jargon
would be tacky if this particular psycho-jargon didn’t capture
so much. In myth, Narcissus was the hunter so beautiful that he
fell in love with his own reflection. Narcissism occurs in
modern life when an individual suffers from a need for
affirmation of his or her own importance.  Flattery Addiction  There are levels of narcissism -- all successful people
nurse some vanities. But like gambling, narcissism can go from a
habit to an obsession. To a serious narcissist, flattery becomes
crucial to survival. He will therefore be drawn to anyone who
makes him like what he sees in the mirror: a younger, attractive
partner suggests that he himself is young and attractive.
Narcissists gravitate especially toward anyone who supplies that
flattery reliably or, even better, assures the narcissistic
feed, providing something that elicits praise from others.  “All In,” Broadwell’s adulatory biography of Petraeus, was
a media event that delivered not a single but multiple moments
of gratification.  Edwards’s choice of a mistress was a video maker who was
filming his presidential campaign,  Rielle Hunter .  Welch  chose  business editor Suzy Wetlaufer. She could help
Welch spread Welch, the brand, post- General Electric Co. (GE) , better
than anyone. These women aren’t arm candy. They are mirrors or
cameras.  Scholars have discerned reliable ways to identify
narcissists. One is as simple as the size of signature -- the
more of a  John Hancock , the more self-centered the signer. In
the case of chief executive officers, the prominence of their
photos and names in news releases relative to those of
colleagues is a giveaway, as is the length of an executive’s
“Who’s Who” entry.  Many theorists these days find some benefit in narcissistic
leadership. Narcissists don’t have to be unfaithful. And they
are often notable for great talent. Their desperation to produce
the work that wins mega-recognition can pull forward a whole
company. In “The Productive Narcissist,” author Michael Maccoby
 argues  that the egotism of executives such as Welch helps them
undertake great projects and make their companies advance.
Translate Maccoby’s concept over to the military, and the theory
fits as well: Petraeus’s self-esteem gave him the courage to
wage the controversial surge of troops in  Iraq .  “Why do we all go along for the ride with narcissistic
leaders?” Maccoby  asked . “Because the upside is enormous.”  Exploiting Narcissism  Related benefits of narcissism were found by scholars
 Arijit Chatterjee  and Donald Hambrick. In an article in
Administrative Science Quarterly, they noted that narcissism in
CEOs correlated positively to “strategic dynamism and
grandiosity.” Corporate boards do their part to reinforce
narcissism by approving payments to media consultants and other
handlers in the name of improving the performance of their
management stars. At business schools, teachers often console
students who have been exploited by self-centered bosses by
noting that these bosses are relatively easy for juniors to
manipulate: You just take the subject of discussion back to
them.  But narcissism has a dark side: It skews the judgment of
the narcissist. With the news of his little affair, against the
rules of soldiering, Petraeus has already tarnished his
incredible feats. It is this poor wager, and not the affair
itself, that so many Petraeus fans resent.  There is evidence that similar damage can be wrought by
narcissists in business. The presence of a narcissistic CEO
tends to mean a company enjoys a lower return on assets than
others,  according  to scholars Charles Ham, Nicholas Seybert and
Sean Wang. Companies led by narcissists pay lower dividends to
shareholders. They acquire too many companies due to the
leader’s vain assumption that he or she can add value. The
silent tragedy at many companies is the growth forgone due to
the vanity of chief executives and another mirror, the board of
directors.  Again: to categorize someone who has achieved as much as
Petraeus has feels wrong. Yet it isn’t a bad idea to try to
understand narcissism, or vanity, the Victorian label many of us
prefer. Although most of us hesitate to diminish our heroes with
labels, we can be assured that others, and not merely benign
personal coaches or clever deputies, quickly pick up the
vulnerability of the narcissist and won’t hesitate to exploit
it. At the CIA or in the corner office, the boss who doesn’t
recognize his own narcissism and combat it is ceasing to be
worthy of his rank. He is a project of the human-resources
people and the consultants and the psychiatrists. He is a leader
on his way to becoming just another case.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 