-- Pot Proceeds Pose Risk for Banks in States Legalizing Use
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-12T18:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/pot-proceeds-pose-risk-for-banks-in-states-legalizing-use.html
U.S. banks in Colorado and
Washington state, where voters last week legalized recreational
marijuana use, shouldn’t disregard federal laws that consider
pot sales criminal, a bank regulator said today.  “I think institutions have to protect themselves,” said
Daniel Stipano, acting chief counsel of the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, at an anti-money laundering
conference today run by the American Bankers Association. “The
problem is that it remains a crime under federal law.”  The Bank Secrecy Act requires banks to file suspicious-
activity reports if they suspect customer’s involvement in
federal crimes. It’s meant as a protection against U.S.
financial institutions being used to launder illegal gains from
criminal activity.  “If there was ever an area crying out for guidance, this
is it,” said Stipano, whose agency regulates national banks.
“As a government we need to be clear on this and speak with one
voice,” he said, adding that this new legal clash puts
financial institutions in “a tough spot” when regulated
marijuana retailers seek banks to aid in their money management.  “My opinion would be, if you want to open the account, go
ahead,” said Richard A. Small, a former Federal Reserve deputy
associate director who now handles anti-money laundering
compliance at  American Express Co. (AXP)  “But every time you take in
money, you file a suspicious-activity report, because you do
have a violation of the law.”  Teresa A. Pesce, who heads the anti-money laundering group
at KPMG LLP, said banks should continue to see the business as a
federal crime and offered this advice: “Don’t do anything
different.”  Washington state will allow those at least 21 years old to
buy as much as one ounce (28 grams) of marijuana from a licensed
retailer. Colorado’s measure allows possession of an ounce, and
permits growing as many as six plants in private, secure areas.
Oregon voters rejected a similar measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  