-- Pound Falls Before Bank of England Inflation Report; Gilts Gain
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-12T17:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/pound-falls-before-bank-of-england-inflation-report-gilts-gain.html
The pound fell for a fourth day
against the dollar before the  Bank of England ’s latest growth
and inflation projections this week amid speculation the report
will provide room for further asset purchases to boost growth.  Ten-year gilts advanced for a second day as European
finance chiefs meet to discuss a program to maintain Greek
solvency. Sterling reached a two-month low against the greenback
as investors await the central bank’s quarterly report, due in
two days. The Bank of England refrained from adding more
stimulus at its most recent policy meeting, minutes from which
are due on Nov. 21. Other reports to be released this week
include employment and retail sales data.  “Sterling is under pressure because data this week is
likely to suggest there are challenges ahead for the U.K.
economy,” said  Ian Stannard , the head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London . “Also, in the previous
report, the Bank of England started to talk about the negative
impact of the pound strength in the economy. It’s interesting to
watch if it continues to toughen its language on sterling. If it
does, sterling could weaken further.”  The pound slid 0.2 percent to 80.11 pence per euro at 5:01
p.m. London time. It dropped 0.2 percent to $1.5869, after
touching $1.5865, the weakest level since Sept. 5. Sterling
declined 0.2 percent to 126.05 yen. The U.K. currency
depreciated the most against the  New Zealand dollar , trading 0.6
percent lower at 51.54 pence.  BOE Pause  The pound lost 2.2 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro fell 2.5 percent and
the dollar dropped 0.8 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield slid two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.72 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due
September 2022 rose 0.17, or 1.70 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 100.31. Two-year yields were little changed at 0.24
percent.  “Despite the Bank of England’s pause, we think another
round of quantitative easing can’t be ruled out, especially if
the economic outlook deteriorates,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “That possibility and the renewed concern about
 Greece  will underpin high-quality  government bonds  including
U.K. gilts.”  King Comments  Economists predict a report tomorrow will show consumer
prices rose 2.4 percent in October from the year before. Retail
prices climbed 0.2 percent last month from September, according
to another survey.  The yield on 10-year gilts fell to 1.67 percent on Nov. 9,
the lowest in two months, as the Bank of England said it will
transfer income from bonds it holds under its asset-buying
program to the Treasury.  Governor  Mervyn King  said the move equates to an easing of
monetary conditions. The Treasury will use the money to reduce
the stock of debt, lowering the amount of gilts held by the
private sector and increasing the amount of money in the
economy, King said in a letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  published on their websites on Nov. 9.  Gilts returned 3.4 percent this year through the end of
last week, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds gained 4 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  earned 2.7 percent.  Sterling may extend declines to a 10-week low against the
dollar should it drop through its 200-day moving average, Credit
Suisse Group AG said, citing trading patterns.  The pound has “broken to a fresh lower low, and is now set
to test the 78.6 percent retracement” of its advance from Aug.
28 to Sept. 21, according to technical strategist Cilline Bain
in London, referring to Fibonacci analysis.  “We continue to be bearish” on the pound versus the
dollar, Bain said. “It continues to trade in a steady
downtrend. The market is probably going to have a look at that
200-day moving average in the next 48 hours.” The 200-day
moving average was at $1.5851, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  