-- Rand Declines as Yields Rise on Greece, Global Growth Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-12T15:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/rand-gains-second-day-on-foreign-purchases-gold-increases.html
The rand declined and bond yields
rose on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing global growth
will continue to weigh on South Africa’s export prospects.  The rand retreated 0.3 percent to 8.7361 per dollar as of
4:37 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 rose one basis point, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 7.63 percent after declining eight basis points last
week.  Indian industrial production unexpectedly dropped in
September, while Japanese data showed the economy shrank in the
three months through September and may face its third recession
since 2008 with analysts predicting another retreat this
quarter. The euro traded close to a two-month low against the
dollar as European policy makers prepare to meet to seek a plan
to maintain  Greece ’s solvency.  “The  euro zone  remains mired in recessionary economic
conditions, which may continue to bring downward pressure on the
South African economy,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-
based analyst at ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed comments. “We
see no compelling reason why the rand should appreciate.”  The U.S. risks entering a recession that will hurt economic
growth worldwide should Congress allow the so-called fiscal
cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year,
 Fitch Ratings  said Nov. 8.  High-yielding currencies including the rand may extend
declines as investors turn to the safety of the dollar and yen,
according to Bruce Donald, a strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. in Johannesburg.  “ Risk aversion  will stay a bit more elevated,” he said in
e-mailed comments. “The elevation will presumably rise as long
as the fiscal cliff problem remains unresolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  