-- Transgaz Nine-Month Profit Declines 24% on Lower Volumes
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-11-12T08:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/transgaz-nine-month-profit-declines-24-on-lower-volumes.html
Transgaz SA (TGN)  ,  Romania ’s natural-gas
grid operator, said its nine-month profit declined 24 percent as
it transported less gas than a year ago.  Transgaz’s net income fell in the January-September period
to 215 million lei ($61 million) from 284 million lei in the
same period of 2011, according to a regulatory filing sent to
the Bucharest Stock Exchange today. Revenue declined to 1.02
billion lei from 1.026 billion lei last year.  “The decline in revenue is mostly due to a decrease in the
quantity of transported gas by about 304 million cubic meters
from the same period of last year,” the company said in the
statement.  Romania’s government had planned to sell a 15 percent stake
in Transgaz this year as part of the pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. Prime
Minister Victor Ponta said Nov. 10 that the Cabinet must discuss
with the lenders whether the current moment for the sale is
advisable or should it rather wait for a better timing, while
focusing on the long-term company development.  “We finished the arrangements for the sale, but given the
recent gas discoveries in the  Black Sea , we see that Romania has
a very big potential in this area and if sold now,” the
government “would get a pretty small price” for the Transgaz
stake, Ponta said in an interview for private television Antena
3, according to a transcript published on the Cabinet’s website.  OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , Romania’s biggest oil company and  Exxon
Mobil Corp (XOM)  said on Feb. 22 that they discovered what may be its
biggest gas find in the Black Sea, with an accumulation of about
84 billion cubic meters of gas, after exploring the Neptun
Block, located 170 kilometers (106 miles) off the Romanian
shore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  