-- Renewable Subsidies ‘Unaffordable’ at $725 Billion, Bank Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-11-12T18:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/renewable-subsidies-unaffordable-at-725-billion-bank-says.html
The cost of subsidizing renewables
in  Europe ’s five largest power markets is becoming unaffordable
for consumers and utilities who will share the 570 billion-euro
($725 billion) bill, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Utilities in Germany,  France , the U.K., Spain and  Italy 
will incur 148 billion euros of the total cost of subsidies
granted so far, with EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  the most exposed, the
bank said today in a report. Consumers are likely to bear the
remaining 422 billion euros in costs, based on current values.  European nations seeking to meet climate change targets
have adopted subsidy mechanisms such as feed-in tariffs that
reward generators of renewable power. Leaders from the U.K. to
 Germany  are debating the costs that burden imposes on consumers
as they pursue goals to lower fossil fuel emissions.  Governments could shift more of the burden from consumers
to utilities and independent power producers if economic growth
remains sluggish, the Zurich-based bank said. The change could
come in the form of taxes on renewable energy generation.  “Renewables were always going to be a cost to consumers,
but the cost has increased at a time of fiscal austerity and
they are expensive versus fossil fuel prices,” the bank said.  The annual cost of the subsidies in the five markets is 16
percent of the average electricity bill, Credit Suisse said.
While measures such as moratoriums and cuts in tariffs have been
taken to tackle the cost, those steps “are not large in
relation to the cost.”  The five top markets on average are spending 32 billion
euros a year in subsidies. The 570 billion-euro figure reflects
the net present value of renewable subsidies for existing and
some new-build assets. It equates to about 6 percent of gross
domestic product and 7 percent of government debt, according to
Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  