-- Renewables to Rival Coal for Power Generation in 2035
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-11-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/renewables-to-rival-coal-for-power-generation-in-2035.html
Renewable energy is set to rival
coal as the main generator of the world’s electricity by 2035 as
the costs of technology fall and subsidies rise, the
 International Energy Agency  said.  Wind farms, solar parks and hydroelectric dams are forecast
to become the second biggest power generator in 2015 and rise to
almost a third of all generation in 2035, a level approaching
that of coal, the Paris-based agency that advises 28 nations on
 energy policy  said today in its annual outlook.  “A steady increase in hydropower and the rapid expansion
of wind and solar power has cemented the position of renewables
as an indispensable part of the global energy mix,” the IEA
said. “The rapid increase in renewable energy is underpinned by
falling technology costs, rising fossil-fuel prices and carbon
pricing, but mainly by continued subsidies.”  Renewable energy industry groups predict wind power
installations will double over the five years through 2016, with
solar photovoltaic panels tripling even as solar and wind
equipment manufacturers from  Denmark ’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) 
to  China ’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  struggle with declining
margins and industrywide overcapacity.  The IEA projected global renewable energy subsidies to rise
to $240 billion in 2035 from $88 billion in 2011. That compares
with $523 billion in support paid to fossil fuels last year.  “Subsidy measures to support new renewable energy projects
need to be adjusted over time as capacity increases and as the
costs of renewable technologies fall, to avoid excessive burdens
on governments and consumers,” the agency said.  Efficiency Gains  The Global Wind Energy Council predicts installed turbines
will more than double to 493 gigawatts in 2016 from 2011 levels.
The European Photovoltaic Industry Association is forecasting
cumulative solar panel installations to triple to 208 megawatts
in 2016 from just under 70 megawatts in 2011.  The projected growth in low-carbon energy won’t be enough
to meet the United Nations goal of limiting global warming since
industrialization to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit),
the agency said. Almost 80 percent of the emissions allowable by
2035 under a 2-degree scenario are already committed because of
existing power plants, factories and buildings, the IEA said.  Locked In  By 2017, all the allowable emissions will be locked in if
no action is taken to slash carbon dioxide, the IEA said. The
world could postpone that lock-in by five years to 2022 through
the “rapid deployment” of energy-efficient technologies, it
said. That would buy time to secure a global agreement to slash
 greenhouse gases , according to the agency.  Delegates from almost 200 nations agreed at UN talks in
December to reach a new climate deal by 2015 that will enter
force by 2020.  Investment of $11.8 trillion in existing energy-efficient
technologies could be more than offset by reduced need for
spending on fuel, and could help boost cumulative global
economic output over that period by $18 trillion, the IEA said.  “These gains are not based on achieving any major or
unexpected technological breakthroughs, but just on taking
actions to remove the barriers obstructing the implementation of
energy efficiency measures that are economically viable,” the
agency said. “Successful action to this effect would have a
major impact on global energy and climate trends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  