-- Republican Failure Comes Down to Economics
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-11-12T15:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/republican-failure-comes-down-to-economics.html
Republicans are engaged in some
public “soul-searching,” which is what we usually call it when
members of a defeated party explain that the party went wrong by
not taking the advice they’ve been giving all along.  One of the most common arguments at the moment is that
demography has become doom for Republicans. The party is worried
primarily about three groups: Hispanics, women and young people.
To court Hispanics, many Republicans think they need to change
their policies on immigration. For women, it’s their approach to
abortion and contraception. For young people, same-sex marriage.  While there is something to each of these arguments,
Republicans are making a mistake by thinking about voters in
these categories. The root of the party’s electoral challenge
isn’t demographics: It’s economics.  Call it the tyranny of the cross-tab: Republicans look at
the polls that show a group voting against them, and then take
the mental shortcut of assuming it’s mainly because of some
issue distinctive to that group. One result is to oversimplify
reality: to obscure the facts that married women tend to vote
Republican, for example, as do young evangelical Christians.
Race, sex and age influence but don’t determine how people will
vote -- and the influence is often subtler than generally
assumed.  Seeking Hispanics  Republican views on immigration, and the way they express
those views, must play a role in how poorly Republicans do with
Hispanics. Republicans haven’t found a way to reassure
conservative voters that the country will respect the rule of
law without also making Hispanics think that the party is
hostile to them. A way out of this predicament doesn’t
immediately suggest itself.  Even if a solution were found, though, the growing number
of Hispanic voters would continue to mean trouble for
Republicans. Hispanics are disproportionately poor and
uninsured. And like people of other races in similar situations,
they tend to have views on economic policy that align with the
Democrats. In  California , for example, Hispanics helped get
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown ’s tax increases approved on
Election Day. A  Republican Party  that is associated with
repealing Obama’s health-care legislation -- and not with any
alternative plan to get people health insurance -- is going to
get trounced among these voters.  Public support for same-sex marriage has risen a lot, among
young people especially, and the Republican Party will have to
soften its opposition to it. Again, though, there is an economic
dimension to the party’s trouble. Young people are also less
economically secure than the middle-aged and the retired who
vote Republican more frequently. That has to play a role in the
way they vote. What have Republicans up and down the ticket
offered to address the concerns of economically stressed young
people? A vague promise to create more jobs; an entitlement
reform that, even viewed charitably, would do nothing for them
here and now.  There aren’t many Republicans who think it’s smart for
candidates to let opposition to abortion in cases of rape become
a major issue in campaigns. That stance is unpopular among women
and men alike (slightly more among men, according to a Gallup
Poll). Elections have generally shown that even Republican
politicians who favor legal abortion do worse among women than
among men. Senator  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts , one of those
Republicans, did 12 points worse as he was defeated. ( Mitt Romney  did only 8 points worse.)  Common Theme  Although polls don’t find differences between men and women
on what everyone calls “women’s issues,” they do find
differences on policy issues we don’t usually consider in terms
of gender. Women are more liberal on health care, on defense
spending and on anti-poverty programs. A smarter approach to
abortion, however necessary for Republicans, won’t change that.  The common theme here is that the current Republican
economic message isn’t very compelling to any of these groups.
If Republicans addressed that problem, they would find their
numbers improving in all of these groups, and outside them too.
White, working-class voters, who supported Romney for president
but seem to have had low turnout, might have shown up in greater
numbers if Republicans had retooled on economics.  Men and women, whites and Hispanics, the young and the
middle-aged: All of them want politicians to offer a practical
agenda to create jobs, raise wages, and make health care and
higher education more affordable. Most of them aren’t wedded to
liberal answers on those issues. They will take them over
nothing, and that’s what Republicans have been giving them.  Republicans are unlikely to return to majority status, or
even keep their current strength, unless they do better. Looking
at voters in categories of race, sex and age won’t help them do
that.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  