-- Reserve Fund Jury Finds One Bent Negligent, Clears Other
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-11-13T15:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/reserve-fund-jury-finds-one-bent-liable-absolves-another-1-.html
Bruce R. Bent II, president of the
failed $62.5 billion Reserve Primary money-market fund, was
found negligent by a jury on one claim of violating a  securities
law  while his father was absolved of all claims in a lawsuit by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The federal panel of six women and one man in Manhattan
yesterday cleared both Bents on claims they defrauded investors
and the younger Bent on six of seven claims brought by
regulators. His father, Bruce R. Bent, was cleared on all four
claims against him, including that he “knowingly and recklessly
violated” U.S. securities law and “aided and abetted” the
company and corporate entities in violating them.  The SEC sued the Bents, their investment advisory firm
Reserve Management Co. and Resrv Partners Inc. in 2009, alleging
they had defrauded customers by falsely claiming they would
support the fund financially when it faced a run by investors
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy.  The fund held $785 million in Lehman debt on Sept. 15,
2008, the day Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in history,
causing the run on the fund and triggering its failure the
following day when it “broke the buck” by failing to maintain
a $1-a-share net asset value, or NAV.  Lehman Bankruptcy  The SEC alleged the Bents lied on the morning after Lehman
announced its bankruptcy, falsely telling investors, regulators
and the fund’s trustees that they would use money from their
firm, Reserve Management, to support the $1 net asset value of
fund shares. The elder Bent was vacationing in  Europe  when
Lehman collapsed.  After 2 1/2 days of deliberations, the jury yesterday found
that RMCI and Resrv Partners “knowingly and recklessly”
violated federal securities laws and that RMCI had acted
“negligently” and violated a federal law regulating investment
advisers. The panel also found Bruce Bent II hadn’t participated
in the recklessness of the entities.  One juror, Samantha Chinn, said after the verdict that the
panel concluded there wasn’t enough evidence against Bruce R.
Bent to find he’d acted negligently or recklessly, citing the
fact that he wasn’t even in the U.S. when Lehman collapsed.  Testimony from both Bent and his son showed the elder Bent
was vacationing with his wife in  Italy , celebrating their 40th
wedding anniversary when the crisis erupted.  “He was a man, with a cellphone, in a foreign country,”
Chinn, a lawyer from Manhattan’s Upper West Side, said in an
interview after court.  Redemption Requests  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for the Bents and the company,
told jurors in his closing statements that his clients didn’t
lie or defraud investors. He blamed the Lehman bankruptcy and an
unprecedented freeze in the credit markets for Reserve’s
failure. The Bents believed they would be able to raise money to
maintain the $1 NAV and pay investors’ redemption requests, he
said.  He told the jury that his clients were faced with an
unprecedented economic storm, likening it to  Hurricane Sandy ,
which struck the eastern U.S. two weeks ago, delaying the end of
the trial by several days.  Jurors said yesterday the turmoil in the wake of Lehman’s
bankruptcy gave them pause in determining what was reckless and
what was intentional.  “There were a lot of people who had opinions about the
fund during the 24 to 48 hours after Lehman’s collapse that
things were going to get better,” Chinn said. “That being
said, if you work at a big company, mistakes get made was my
basic thought.”  Buy Time  Alexander Janghorbani, an SEC lawyer, told the jury in
closing arguments on Nov. 7 that the Bents were trying to buy
time, telling investors, fund trustees, rating companies and the
press that they would protect the $1 NAV “to whatever degree is
necessary.”  What the Bents meant was “we hope we’ll be able to give
your money back,” Janghorbani said. Investors in the Primary
Fund had redeemed $16.5 billion by 1 p.m. on Sept. 15, 2008, he
said, arguing that the Bents “fully appreciated the magnitude
of the disaster.”  Juror Katherine Strock, a graphic designer from  Manhattan ,
said that the panel found Bruce Bent II had acted negligently
regarding the statement the firm posted on its website.  “He definitely held some responsibility for that,” Strock
said. “It was so important because that statement went out to
the investing public.”  Collapse Chaos  Both jurors said while the panel considered the chaos in
the wake of Lehman’s collapse, they found in favor of the SEC
that RMCI and Resrv Partners were negligent for acting
“knowingly and recklessly” to violate securities law because
officers at the companies should have been more careful.  “There was a lot slipping through the cracks,” Strock
said. “Yes it was Bruce Bent II’s responsibility but the staff
was making mistakes and he was making mistakes, so it was
compounded. That’s the reason why we came to negligence, they
all should have been more careful.”  The elder Bent wasn’t in court yesterday.  “I wanted to thank the jury for all their time and
attention,” Bruce Bent II said in an interview after court.
“We are very pleased that my father and I have been completely
cleared of any fraud whatsoever.”  SEC Penalties  Yesterday’s verdict allows the SEC to impose penalties.
Dellaportas said he was assessing whether challenge any SEC
penalties and to appeal the jury’s finding that Bruce Bent II,
the Resrv Partners or RMCI were negligent.  “We are considering making an appeal regarding the
potential inconsistencies” of the jury’s verdict, Dellaportas
told U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe, who presided over the
case. “We want the opportunity to review it,” Dellaportas
said.  Both Bents testified in their own defense in the trial,
which began Oct. 9. The commission seeks disgorgement of
unspecified ill-gotten gains, a civil fine and an order barring
the defendants from violating the securities laws in the future.  “Today’s verdict of liability sends the message that fund
executives cannot withhold from investors and trustees key
information about their fund’s vulnerability,”  Robert Khuzami ,
director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said yesterday in
a statement. “This case, along with our actions against more
than 100 other entities and individuals, demonstrates our
continuing commitment to pursuing cases arising out of the
financial crisis.”  Volatile Period  Mark Arena, a spokesman for the  Reserve Fund , said the sole
intention of the Bents was to safeguard the interests of
investors during this volatile period.  “What transpired over those unprecedented 36 hours back in
September 2008, following the collapse of Lehman was something
we and the entire world financial market, had never
experienced,” Arena said in a statement. “We are proud that,
through our efforts, Fund investors ultimately received back
more than 99 cents on every dollar invested in September 2008.”  Bent, 75, is credited with inventing the retail money-
market mutual fund and was known for criticizing rivals for
taking excessive risk. He has said the best money funds should
be “boring.”  The fund’s closure sparked an investor run on other money
funds eligible to buy corporate debt. As other funds scrambled
to sell holdings to meet redemptions, global credit markets
froze. The panic abated only after the  U.S. Treasury  guaranteed
money fund shareholders against default for a year and the
 Federal Reserve  began financing the purchase of fund holdings at
face value.  Fallout Debate  The fallout also prompted a debate that is still unresolved
among regulators and industry executives over whether  money
market funds  pose a threat to the stability of financial
markets.  The SEC enacted new rules in 2010, creating liquidity
minimums, imposing shorter ceilings on the average maturity of
holdings, tightening credit standards and forcing the funds to
disclose more information on holdings.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group formed
by the Dodd-Frank Act and charged with addressing systemic
financial risks, is scheduled today to consider a draft of
additional recommended reform options for the SEC.  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co., 09-cv-04346,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  