-- Right-Wing Japan Relives 19th Century
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-11-12T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/right-wing-rising-in-a-replay-of-the-19th-century-william-pesek.html
Japan ’s leaders just can’t seem to
put the 19th century behind them.  It may be 2012, and the world surrounding this island
nation of 126 million is changing at a blistering pace, but
Japanese officialdom seems oddly stuck in the late 1800s. Back
then, reformers adopted the slogan “rich nation, strong army.”
This rabid nationalism culminated, of course, in World War II
and a crushing defeat.  Fast-forward a hundred years or so. Here is the hauntingly
similar motto Shinzo Abe, very possibly Japan’s next prime
minister, is going with: “Build a strong and prosperous
Japan.” I don’t claim to know what’s in Abe’s heart or that of
his  Liberal Democratic Party , but such views are emblematic of
the rightward lurch in Japanese politics. The implications for
 Asia  and  Barack Obama ’s second presidential term are enormous.  Abe is one of the three most important politicians in Japan
(Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  isn’t among them). The others are
Shintaro Ishihara, 80, and Toru Hashimoto, 43. In a striking bit
of generational serendipity, both men largely agree on where to
take their nation. It’s too bad that, like Abe, they have the
wrong direction in mind. They want to take Japan inward, not
outward into a dynamic global environment that is ripe with
opportunities.  Nationalistic Path  Abe, 58, straddles the generations between Ishihara and
Hashimoto. All three are hellbent on drawing a nationalistic
line in the sand between Japan and the rest of Asia. Their views
aren’t in sync on every challenge facing Japan. Where their
ideologies overlap is a more confrontational stance in a region
where  China  is overshadowing Japan.  Many Japanese support this pivot to the right. China, let’s
face it, hasn’t distinguished itself as a reasonable stakeholder
in the so-called Pacific Century. Its territorial claims to a
bewildering number of islands, atolls and rocks in the sea are
antagonizing Filipinos, Koreans, Taiwanese and Vietnamese.  Japan is anxious to recover the clout drained by 20-plus
years of economic stagnation. It irks Japan that President
Obama, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  or  Brazil ’s President
Dilma Rousseff would dare set foot in Asia without visiting
Tokyo. Or that “Japanization” has become a catchphrase among
economists warning about the evils of falling prices and
political gridlock.  It’s true, too, that Japan doesn’t get enough attention for
what it does right: industrial quality that ranks among the best
anywhere; negligible crime; universal literacy; an enviable
environmental record; one of the narrowest rich-poor divides;
generous aid programs for developing nations; one of the longest
lifespans; and a commitment to world peace.  The answer for Japan isn’t to do away with this last
attribute. It isn’t to ramp up its military or pursue a more
muscular and unilateralist foreign policy. Nor is giving Abe a
second chance at being prime minister. Ever wonder why the
reform drive of  Junichiro Koizumi , prime minister from 2001 to
2006, fizzled? Koizumi fleshed out a plan to revitalize Japan’s
economy and politics and then erred by entrusting it to Abe in
September 2006.  Abe put that plan in his desk drawer and opted for creating
a “ Beautiful Japan .” It meant revamping the education system
to encourage nationalism, upgrading the defense agency to
ministry status and myriad statements and actions that annoyed
China and  South Korea , which Japan colonized during World War
II. It turned out Abe lacked the stomach for the job --
literally. He resigned within 12 months, citing stress-related
abdominal problems. Is Abe really the best the opposition LDP
can do?  China Tensions  The same goes for why the public would support Ishihara’s
bid for national office. He quit his post as Tokyo governor
after almost bringing Asia to blows by recommending the purchase
of a small chain of islands that are closer to China than to the
main islands of Japan. That decision has Obama officials,
including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta, worried about military confrontation.  Ishihara may be more witless than Abe. He favors acquiring
nuclear weapons and has tossed enough insults at women,
foreigners in Tokyo and gays to fill a small library. This one-
man gaffe machine may join forces with Hashimoto,  Osaka ’s
youthful mayor. Among Hashimoto’s big priorities is insisting
that teachers stand and sing during the national anthem,
creating a Restoration Politics Institute to train aspiring
leaders, firing city workers with tattoos and denying that
Japanese troops took Korean sex slaves during the war.  Japan has a daunting and well-known catalog of challenges,
from long-term economic stagnation and deflation to rebuilding
the part of the country devastated by the tsunami to political
dysfunction that entails a revolving door for prime ministers.  Whoever becomes the next leader, he (in Japan, it will
inevitably be a he) must tackle each problem with an urgency few
of his predecessors displayed. Sadly, the three politicians most
likely to have that responsibility seem more interested in
flexing muscles than building them. What they don’t understand
is that the way for Japan to thrive in the 21st century isn’t by
reviving the ideas of the 19th.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  