-- Romania Inflation Unexpectedly Slows on Food, Fuel Costs
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-11-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/romania-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-on-food-fuel-costs.html
Romanian  inflation  unexpectedly
slowed in October for the first time in five months as falling
food and fuel costs offset rising prices for services boosted by
a weaker leu.  The inflation rate fell to 5 percent, compared with 5.3
percent September, the Bucharest-based National Statistics
Institute said today. The median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.3 percent. Prices grew 0.3 percent
from the previous month.  Romania ’s central bank lifted its inflation forecast for
this year to 5.1 percent, above its target range of 2 percent to
4 percent, due to a jump in food prices. It also raised its 2013
inflation outlook to 3.5 percent from a previously predicted 3
percent, Governor Mugur Isarescu said on Nov. 7.  Policy makers kept the key rate unchanged at a record-low
5.25 percent on Nov. 2 amid a faltering recovery and turned to
other means to tighten policy, such as limiting weekly lending
to commercial banks, as inflation accelerates.  “We expect year-on-year inflation to display an upward
trend during the remainder of 2012, ending the year at around
5.7 percent, well above the target and the bank’s recent
projection,” Citigroup Inc. economists Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar said in an e-mailed note before the release.  Food-cost growth slowed to 6.1 percent in October from a
year earlier, compared with 6.9 percent in September. Inflation
for non-food items decelerated to 4 percent, compared with 4.3
percent in September, as fuel prices dropped, the report showed.  Service-price growth quickened to 4.9 percent, compared
with 4.8 percent in September, as a weaker leu boosted rent and
telephone prices gauged in euros, the institute said.  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
 Jeffrey Donovan , Andrea Dudik  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  