-- Rona Luring Lowe’s Back to Bid With CEO’s Exit
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-12T21:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/rona-luring-lowe-s-back-to-bid-with-ceo-s-exit.html
The ouster of Robert Dutton as chief
executive officer of  Rona Inc. (RON) , Canada’s largest home
improvement retailer, increases the chances talks with former
suitor  Lowe’s Cos (LOW)  will resume.  “As a shareholder, we hope that Mr. Dutton’s departure
signals that the Rona board will be reassessing all avenues to
unlock  shareholder value ,” Richard Fortin, Calgary-based
portfolio manager at Bissett Investment Management, said in a
telephone interview. “The obvious one is going back to the
table with Lowe’s.” Bissett oversees C$15.8 billion ($15.8
billion), including about 2.1 percent of Rona as of June 30.  Dutton, 57, who was removed by the board after 20 years,
will be replaced on an interim basis by Chief Financial Officer
Dominique Boies. Boucherville, Quebec-based Rona’s profit has
declined for five consecutive years and its shares have dropped
62 percent from their June 2005 peak. The company went public in
2002 and Dutton increased sales to C$4.8 billion from C$450
million while CEO.  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , pulled an
unsolicited offer for Rona Sept. 17 after Rona rejected requests
to proceed with a friendly deal and  Quebec  politicians opposed
it.  “Since we withdrew our proposal, we have had no further
conversations,” Chris Ahearn, a spokesman for Lowe’s, said by
e-mail Nov. 9. “It would be inappropriate for us to comment on
the change in leadership.”  Shares Surge  Rona  rose  4.6 percent to C$10.59 by 4 p.m. in Toronto
today, taking the two-day climb to 13 percent since Dutton’s
departure was announced. Lowe’s earlier this year offered
C$14.50 per share for Rona, which valued the company at C$1.76
billion.  Dutton’s departure “is a decision that was taken by the
board, for the good of the company, and Mr. Dutton was a member
of the board,” Valerie Lamarre, a Rona spokeswoman, said Nov. 9
in a telephone interview.  Montreal ’s La Presse newspaper, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the matter, reported Nov. 10 that Rona’s
board received a new bid from Lowe’s last week for about C$15 a
share. Dutton “firmly” opposed the bid, which led him to
resign, the newspaper said.  Today Rona said in a statement that it “has not received
any proposal of any kind from Lowe’s, and there have been no
discussions between the two companies on this subject.”  Rona on Nov. 7 reported third-quarter profit that trailed
analyst estimates, blaming stiffer competition and a decline in
the home renovation industry.  Key Player  Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec -- Rona’s largest
shareholder with about 18.2 million shares, or about 15 percent
-- said the company must now focus on increasing profit.  “Rona would not be the key player it has become without
Mr. Dutton’s contribution, and we fully respect the decision,”
Maxime Chagnon, a spokesman for the Caisse,  Canada ’s second-
biggest pension fund manager, said in a telephone interview.
“Following that decision, Rona must look to the future and
focus all its energies on improving performance.”  Profit at Rona has declined from C$1.64 a share in 2006 to
66 cents last year. Third-quarter  profit  of 27 cents a share
fell short of the 40-cent average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Same-store sales dropped 1 percent as
revenue fell 0.8 percent to C$1.3 billion from a year ago.  “Recent quarterly results make it quite clear that the
board’s current operating plan is not on pace to generate the
results that shareholders demand,” Fortin at Bissett said.
“Competitively, the market remains difficult.”  Smaller Stores  Rona said earlier this year it would  convert  23 big box
stores into smaller “proximity” stores in a bid to save about
C$40 million annually by 2014 and increase return on capital.  Initially confined to Quebec after its foundation in 1939,
Rona expanded in provinces such as  Alberta  and British Columbia
through acquisitions and new stores.  During Dutton’s 20 years at the helm, Rona grew from fewer
than 500 stores to over 800 corporate, franchised and affiliated
outlets.  Shareholders of Lowe’s may not favor the company returning
with another bid for Rona.  “People were a little bit concerned when they made the
announcement,”  Walter Todd , chief investment officer at
 Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,  South Carolina , which owns about
30,000 shares of Lowe’s. “I think people felt like it was a
distraction they didn’t need.”  Still, Todd said it would be easier with the CEO leaving.
“Perhaps they could get a better deal on the acquisition,” he
said.  Sensitive Issue  Rona’s fate is a sensitive issue in Quebec because some
companies that were based in the province, such as aluminum
maker Alcan Inc. and Montreal Exchange Inc., were acquired in
the last decade, said  Karl Moore , a management professor at
McGill University’s Desautels Faculty of Management in Montreal.  Even so, analysts such as Jim Durran at  Barclays Capital 
said Lowe’s might be able to structure a deal that would protect
Quebec’s interests while rewarding shareholders.  “Depending on the constraints the Quebec government
demands, Lowe’s could still negotiate a palatable outcome
balancing purchase price against the earnings impact of
constraints the government feels are necessary to protect the
Quebec economy,” Durran said Nov. 9 in note to clients.  Lowe’s, which entered Canada in 2007, had 31 stores in the
country as of September. It trails Rona and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
which each controlled 19 percent of Canada’s hardware retailing
market, according to a September report by  Standard & Poor’s .  Quebec Inc.  Dutton’s departure “probably opens the door for either a
Lowe’s solution -- I’m not saying it’s going to happen -- or a
Quebec Inc. solution,” said  Irwin Michael , a portfolio manager
at Toronto-based ABC Funds, Rona’s third-largest shareholder.
“Everything is up in the air.”  Even with the recent decline in the shares, ABC Funds isn’t
thinking about selling its Rona stake because the stock is
cheap, Michael said in an interview. ABC owned about 3.7 million
shares as of June.  “Something has to be done,” said Michael. “It wasn’t
working for the last three or four years, and in consequence the
stock had fallen off. The longer the company sits and lets its
franchise depreciate, the less it’s going to be worth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  