-- Rothschild Says Bumi Proposal Doesn’t Include Bid for Coal Mines
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-11-12T17:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/rothschild-says-his-bumi-proposal-isn-t-bid-for-company-s-assets.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , the financier
at the center of a dispute with  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family over a
London-listed coal investment, said he’s not bidding for its
assets after sending a proposal to the board this month.  Bumi was co-founded by Rothschild and the Bakries in 2010
through a $3 billion deal that listed stakes of two Indonesian
coal producers in London. Moves are afoot to unwind the
investment after board room infighting. The Bakries have offered
$1.2 billion as part of a proposal to acquire the 29 percent
stake in PT Bumi Resources and 85 percent of  PT Berau Coal
Energy (BRAU)  held by Bumi Plc.  Rothschild put forward an alternative to the Bakries’
approach, and this is being studied by  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s advisers and
independent directors, according to a Nov. 5 statement from the
London-traded company that didn’t elaborate on the proposal.
Rothschild hired Morgan Stanley for advice, a person familiar
with the 41-year-old’s plans said Nov. 2.  “I didn’t make a proposal for Bumi’s assets and this isn’t
about Rothschild versus Bakrie,” Rothschild said yesterday in
e-mailed comments to  Bloomberg News . “I and a number of other
investors have indicated that we want to see Bumi Plc retain its
listing, have world-class corporate governance and remain
invested in Indonesia, which is home to strategically and
economically important thermal coal.”  A spokesman for Bumi Plc in London declined to comment.  Drag On  At the heart of the feud are interests in coal deposits
conveniently located for shipment to  China , the world’s largest
user of the fuel. The dispute intensified this year as investor
losses mounted, and Rothschild quit the Bumi Plc board last
month. Two probes, one in Indonesia and the other in London, are
investigating the finances of  Bumi Resources. (BUMI)   “This dispute is probably going to drag on for a while,”
Michael Tjoajadi, president director of PT Schroder Investment
Management Indonesia, which holds shares in Bumi Resources, said
from Jakarta. “A dispute like this, involving the majority
shareholders, could distract the company and hurt its
performance.”  Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s top producer of power-station
coal, said a court on Nov. 9 approved an independent
investigation into its accounts dating back to 2010. Bumi
Resources is part-owned by the Bakrie family.  The probe was prompted by the company’s audit committee
“in view of the public notifications by a shareholder, Bumi
Plc, and various reports, both in international and local
media,” Jakarta-based Bumi Resources said that day.  Potential Irregularities  The London-listed company announced Sept. 24 an inquiry
into “potential financial and other irregularities” at its
Indonesian operations, Bumi Resources and Berau Coal Energy.  Bumi Resources fell 1.5 percent to 640 rupiah in Jakarta
yesterday. The stock is down 71 percent this year. Bumi Plc
slumped 3.8 percent to 266.3 pence in  London  trading, taking its
2012 decline to 70 percent.  Bumi Resources said it was holding a forensic audit
focusing on the accounts for the financial years of 2010 through
2012. Reports from the probe are due with the Chief Justice of
the District Court of South Jakarta within 90 days of the
appointment of an auditor.  Bumi Plc said in a statement Nov. 9 it noted the Jakarta-
based coal producer’s announcement and “has no further
information on the matter at this time.”  The Bakries made their offer last month to help resolve
“irreconcilable differences” with Rothschild. The financier
has described the Bakries’ offer as not being in the interests
of investors.  The probe instigated by Bumi Plc in September is linked to
a $637 million writedown of development funds and exploration
assets in Bumi Plc’s Dec. 31, 2011, year-end financial
statement.  London-listed Bumi won’t make a recommendation on any
possible transaction until the investigation is “appropriately
advanced,” the company said Nov. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  