-- Ruble Gains to Dollar as Crude Oil Climbs, Europe Officials Meet
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-12T15:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/ruble-moves-between-gains-and-losses-bond-yields-rise.html
The ruble snapped two days of
declines against the dollar as oil,  Russia ’s chief export
earner, rose and European officials meet to discuss bailout
funds for  Greece .  The Russian currency added 0.1 percent to 31.6101 against
the dollar by the close in Moscow. It was little changed versus
the euro at 40.2100 and against the central bank’s euro-dollar
target basket at 35.4801.  European finance chiefs convene in Brussels today to
prevent a 5 billion-euro ($6.4 billion) Greek bill redemption on
Nov. 16 from triggering an accidental default. Crude oil rose as
much as 0.6 percent to $86.54 per barrel in  New York . U.S. cash
bond markets are closed for the Veteran’s Day public holiday.  “It’s not ruled out that today’s European summit will move
forward on the issue of Greece’s bailout,” Alexei Egorov, an
analyst with Moscow-based OAO Nomos Bank, said by phone. “That
may support the ruble. With the U.S. market closed today there
are fewer investors on the global market and it is quite thin.”  Greece may require an additional 15 billion euros,
according to a draft of report obtained by Bloomberg from the
so-called troika, a group of officials from the  European Central
Bank , the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Commission which oversees euro-area rescue packages.  Non-deliverable forwards showed the ruble at 32.0825 per
dollar in three months compared with 32.1100 on Nov. 9.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Russia’s
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 196,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. An index
of five-year government bond yields rose two basis points to
7.056 percent.  Tax payments later in the month may support the currency,
Dmitry Polevoy, a Moscow-based economist at ING Groep NV, said
by e-mail. “The tax-driven selling of foreign currency may be
supportive for the ruble or at least limiting its weakness if
pressure from global markets continues,” he said.  “Levels above 31.6 rubles per dollar look juicy for
exporters,” who must pay social taxes this week, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  