-- Russian Third-Quarter GDP Grew at Slowest Since 2010 Rebound
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-11-12T13:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/russian-third-quarter-gdp-grew-2-9-slowest-since-2010-rebound.html
Russia ’s economy expanded in the
third quarter at the slowest pace since it began recovering at
the start of 2010 as a drought hurt agricultural output and
stuttering global growth curbed demand for commodities exports.  Gross domestic product  rose 2.9 percent last quarter
compared with the same period a year earlier, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. That exceeded a 2.8 percent median forecast of 15
economists in a Bloomberg  survey , which was also the level of
growth estimated by the  Economy Ministry  last month.  The weakening economy presents a challenge to President
 Vladimir Putin , who returned in May for a third term in the
Kremlin promising to create 25 million new jobs and boost
investment. Droughts ravaged crops across southern and central
Russia this year, while slowing growth in China and a slump in
 Europe  curbed demand for shipments of oil, gas and metals.  “We expect a further slowdown, with growth dependent on
consumption, and assuming there are no external shocks,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said by
phone. “The downturn came as a result of slowing private
consumption and investment.”  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks kept gains after the
report, trading up 0.3 percent at 1,405.33 as of 4:01 p.m.
Moscow. The ruble was little changed against the dollar at
31.6220.  Lowest Valuation  The ruble-denominated benchmark gauge trades at 5.4 times
estimated earnings after failing to advance this year. That
compares with a multiple of 10 times for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index, which has added 8.2 percent. Russian equities
have the lowest valuations based on estimated earnings among 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “The main reason for the slowdown is obviously
agriculture, as the harvest has been worse this year,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Capital in Moscow, said
before the release. “The second point is a certain deceleration
in industry, and more so in mining than in manufacturing.”  Agricultural output fell 7.7 percent in September from a
year earlier and 3.8 percent in August, the Economy Ministry
said on its website Nov. 9. Russia, the world’s third-biggest
wheat exporter last season, has harvested 24 percent less grains
this year, the  Agriculture Ministry  said Nov. 7.  European Slump  The European Union accounts for about half of all Russian
trade in goods. The euro area’s economy contracted 0.4 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier after stagnating in
the first three months of the year.  China’s share in Russian trade rose to 10.6 percent in
September from 10.1 percent a year earlier, according to Russian
 customs data  compiled by Bloomberg. The country’s economy grew
7.4 percent in the third quarter, the slowest pace in three
years.  Raw materials  represent 80 percent of all Russian exports,
with oil and gas alone accounting for 60 percent to 65 percent,
according to  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   Prices for  Urals crude , Russia’s main oil export blend, are
little changed this year, after a 17 percent increase in 2011.
It traded down 0.7 percent at $107.51 a barrel today.  “Although  oil prices  are favorable for Russia, the
economic slowdown is likely to continue,”  Julia Tsepliaeva ,
head of research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said by e-mail.
“A poor harvest of 2012 and the base effect may affect growth
and reduce the usual rebound typical for the fourth quarter.”  Novolipetsk, Rusal  OAO  Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK) , controlled by billionaire  Vladimir Lisin , missed third-quarter profit estimates as sales weakened
in Europe and prices fell. United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest
aluminum producer, reported a net loss that widened to $118
million in the July-September period.  Business and state spending to expand output has slumped,
with  investment  unexpectedly shrinking 1.3 percent in September
from a year earlier, the first decline in 18 months, according
to the Federal Statistics Service. Economists project another a
drop of 0.9 percent in October, according to the median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Putin ordered the government in May to boost investment to
account for one-quarter of GDP by 2015, and to 27 percent by
2018, from 21 percent last year.  APEC, Sochi  “Big projects played some role in the investment slowdown,
including preparations for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit, Nord Stream construction, and work ahead of the 2014
 Olympic Games ,” said Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist at VTB
Capital in Moscow. “While preparations for the Olympics
continue, the investment volumes are starting to drop.”  Russia’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged Nov. 9
after a surprise increase in September, saying that the
economy’s expansion has continued to cool in recent months.
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is trying to rein in price growth that
forced policy makers to abandon their target for this year and
lower expectations for next year’s range.  “We no longer expect any further modifications to policy
rates this year,”  Clemens Grafe , chief economist at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in an e-mailed note. “The economy is
running at close to potential output, and improving PMIs and
strong bond issuance suggest that economic growth is likely to
accelerate in coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  