-- Sabic Seeks Investments in Game-Changing Shale-Gas Technology
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-11-12T15:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/sabic-seeks-investments-in-game-changing-shale-gas-technology.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s largest petrochemical maker, plans to invest in
companies in the U.S and elsewhere that have technology to turn
shale gas into chemical products.  The amount of natural gas produced from shale is a “game-
changer” that will have a large impact on worldwide supplies,
Mohamed Al-Mady, chief executive officer of the company known as
Sabic, said today in an interview in Jubail, Saudi Arabia.  “It will require Sabic to become more competitive and to
participate in the shale-gas boom itself,” he said. “Our
strategic focus is to examine shale gas very closely and find
very competitive areas where we can invest.”  Growth in U.S. shale-gas exploration and production has
lowered domestic gas prices and enables producers there to use
gas as feedstock. That has put pressure on petrochemical
producers in Saudi Arabia who get gas for a government-
subsidized price of $0.75 per million British thermal units. Gas
for December delivery traded at $3.513 per million Btu at 10
a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Saudi Arabia is increasing output of gas to meet local
demand for power generation and to feed petrochemical plants.
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., or Saudi Aramco, is exploring for shale
gas in northern parts of the country, and has started a venture
capital company this year to buy stakes in companies with
technology to develop the resource.  New Supply  With many plants in the U.S. under construction, “it will
take three years or less to see the impact of the shale-gas boom
on the petrochemicals industry,” al-Mady said. “The world
economy is expanding and hopefully, the expansion and future
growth in world’s economy will absorb new supply of
petrochemicals from shale gas.”  Sabic’s venture capital arm is looking for opportunities in
the U.S.,  Europe  and  China  to buy stakes in start-up companies
that can turn shale gas into petrochemicals, according to
Ernesto Occhiello, Sabic Ventures’ executive vice president for
technology and innovation.  Formed last November, the Netherlands-based business is
negotiating 30 to 40 deals and is looking especially at
technologies that use different feedstocks, Occhiello said today
in Jubail.  “We believe we will be a leading company from a technology
point of view in the utilization of natural gas from shale,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  