-- Sao Paulo Murders Mount as Gangs Unleash Violence
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-11-12T21:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/sao-paulo-murder-spree-mounts-as-gangs-unleash-wave-of-violence.html
(Corrects measure of  murder rate  in seventh paragraph.)  More than 30 people were killed in
greater  Sao Paulo  over the weekend amid police battles with
criminal gangs, deepening a monthlong wave of violence that has
gripped  South America ’s largest city and  Brazil ’s business hub.  Nearly 200 people have been murdered in 2 1/2 weeks in the
city of 18 million inhabitants, Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper
 reported  today. Ninety policemen have been killed since the
beginning of the year.  The crime spree represents a setback after a decade of
security improvements that saw Sao Paulo’s homicide rate fall
more than 78 percent, converting the city into one of Brazil’s
safest. At the heart of the recent wave of violence is a
coordinated campaign against the city’s newly-elected mayor by
the First Command of the Capital, or PCC, the gang that
dominates the city’s drug trade and prisons, crime experts said.  “The PCC is sending a political message to the new
government: back off or we’ll kill more policemen,” Julio
Jacobo Waiselfisz, author of an  annual publication  on violence
in Brazil and a researcher for the Latin American Faculty of
Social Sciences, said by telephone from Recife. “There’s an
open war between this group and the state. The population is
frightened.”  Federal Aid  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration last week pledged
additional federal aid, including increased intelligence and
drug-combating operations, as well as heightened police controls
at access points to Sao Paulo, as schools and stores were forced
to close in some of the city’s northern neighborhoods because of
violence. Fernando Haddad, a candidate for Rousseff’s ruling
Workers’ Party, was elected mayor of Sao Paulo on Oct. 28.  The PCC in 2006 spearheaded a wave of attacks on police
stations and buses in Sao Paulo, paralyzing parts of the city
that has a gross domestic product roughly the size of  Chile ’s.  The homicide rate in Sao Paulo state fell to 10.1 per
100,000 inhabitants last year from 35.3 per 100,000 in 1999,
according to the  website  of the state’s public security
secretary.  In the state of  Rio de Janeiro , where authorities have won
praise for efforts to pacify shantytowns once controlled by drug
gangs, the rate was 24.9 per 100,000. This year through
September, murders in Sao Paulo have risen to 3,536 from 3,225,
whereas in killings in Rio have fallen to 3,028 from 3,227.  Crime has fallen in Brazil in tandem with  economic growth 
that averaged 3.8 percent a year over the past decade and
expanded social welfare policies that helped pull nearly 40
million people out of poverty.  Still, the country remains one of the world’s most-violent,
with an average homicide rate over the past decade has remained
little changed at 26 per 100,000 inhabitants, Waiselfiz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  