-- HSBC Settles Dublin Suit Seeking $36 Million for Madoff Loss
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-12T10:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hsbc-settles-dublin-lawsuit-seeking-36-million-over-madoff-loss.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  settled a lawsuit
over millions in losses by a fund that invested with  Bernard Madoff , ending what would have been a six-week trial in Dublin
the day after it started.  HSBC settled the dispute with Kalix Fund Ltd., a spokesman
said by e-mail today, without disclosing the terms. Kalix sought
$35.6 million from the bank, which it said was responsible for
safeguarding the money it placed in  Thema International Fund
Plc (TIFHUQE) , which invested with Madoff.  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest lender by market value, was
custodian to Thema and faces more than 50 complaints in Ireland
-- including from Thema itself -- for allegedly failing in its
duties to the fund and its investors. Thema is seeking about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in assets lost after Madoff’s
arrest. Kalix, the first case to reach trial, doesn’t stop
others from pursuing claims with its settlement under Irish
rules, according to a Kalix lawyer.  “This settlement may be a first step towards the
resolution of those cases,” said Paul Kennedy, a Dublin lawyer
at Dillon Eustace representing British Virgin Islands-registered
Kalix, by e-mail. “It will be up to the parties as to how all
of that litigation proceeds.”  ‘Amicable’  HSBC reached “an amicable settlement” with Kalix,
spokesman Jezz Farr said in an e-mail. Kalix and HSBC didn’t
give details on their agreement.  Thema was a European-regulated fund, known as Undertakings
for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, or UCITS.
Custodians are responsible for managing deposits and payments.  The trial was the first of its type anywhere involving a
UCITS fund to get this far, said Kennedy. The settlement was
reached the evening of Nov. 8, the day after the trial began, he
said.  HSBC didn’t act in time to protect investors’ money from
fraud, though it knew of risks posed by Madoff, John O’Donnell,
a lawyer for Kalix told Judge Peter Charleton when the trial
opened on Nov. 7. The London-based bank handed its custodian
duties to Madoff, then tried to conceal it, Kalix argued.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history and is
serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison. The fallout
of the fraud included the liquidation of four UCITS funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  