-- Scene in D.C.: Oracle, Diageo, Verizon Try Tartan Ball
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-12T16:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/scene-in-d-c-oracle-diaeo-verizon-try-tartan-ball.html
The guests at Saturday’s 63rd annual
Tartan Ball naturally were dressed to kilt.  Members of the St. Andrew’s Society of  Washington , D.C., an
all-male group with proven Scottish descent, compared pleats and
sporrans at the Mayflower Hotel. The society’s pipes and drums
paraded through the main lobby.  T.J. Holland, the manager of corporate projects for the
Bank-Fund Staff Federal Credit Union, said he’s adding a kilt to
his collection with the colors of his alma mater, the College of
William and Mary.  Daniel Joss said he has started “kilt Fridays” at Fox,
Joss & Yankee LLC, his financial-planning and investment-
management firm in Reston, Virginia.  The Tartan Ball is the group’s chief fundraiser, and
Saturday’s affair raised more than $15,000. Proceeds benefit the
Washington Scots Charity & Education Fund, which helps U.S. and
Scottish exchange students.  Oracle Corp. was among the leading corporate sponsors. Joel
Hinzman, the company’s senior director of government affairs,
had a date night with his mother, Carol Malone. They wore the
tartan from the Maffett clan, Malone’s family.  Darren Burgess, second secretary for Scottish Affairs for
the British Embassy, brought along his father, Graham Burgess,
who came from Fife, Scotland, to visit Washington for the first
time.  Wee Dram  The evening began with a Scotch tasting provided by Diageo,
the other event sponsor.  A dinner of filet mignon and risotto was served on tables
adorned with heather and thistle. Tall bottles with blue and
gold label  Johnnie Walker  were swaddled in red tartan covers.  The Scottish country dancers that entertained after dinner
pulled at the heartstrings of Rachael Robertson, head of
government affairs for Diageo in the U.K. She recalled learning
the fancy footwork as a child in Dunblane. Her father is the
former secretary general of NATO, George Robertson.  She was joined by Diageo’s head of public policy for Latin
America and the Caribbean, Maura Jeffords, and Elizabeth Wise,
director of government relations.  Mark Mullet, vice president of federal government relations
at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , and Brian Mabry, the event
chairman and a deputy director at the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , sported kilts for better displaying the manly gams.  In tuxedos, but still in the spirit, were Patrick Newton, a
Capitol Hill communications director, and Derek Satya Khanna, a
staffer with the Republican Study Committee in the U.S. House of
Representatives.  Counting Dimes  Friday night the March of Dimes held its 2012 Heroines in
Technology awards gala. Among the honorees were Anne Altman,
general manager for the global public sector at  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Sandy Peavy, assistant director and
chief information officer at the Department of  Homeland
Security .  The event raised about $180,000 for local March of Dimes
programs, with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  as the primary corporate sponsor.
The March of Dimes brings attention to infant health with its
World Prematurity Day on Nov. 17.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  television , David
Shribman on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 