-- Shell China Shale Size May Be Equal to U.S. Gas, Bichsel Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-11-12T06:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/shell-china-shale-size-may-be-equal-to-u-s-gas-bichsel-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s joint
venture shale gas developments in  China  may contain resources on
a par with similar developments in the U.S.  “The geology is akin to what we have experienced in the
U.S.,” Matthias Bichsel, the company’s global director of
projects and technology, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi
yesterday. “In the U.S. we have lots of variability and that
variability is what we need to explore.”  Energy companies are tapping shale gas trapped deep below
layers of rock under the earth’s surface to develop new sources
of the fuel used in  power plants  and petrochemicals facilities.
Growing output of the fuel in the U.S., where Shell produces at
several areas, may spur use of the fuel for transportation.  Shell, set to produce more natural gas than crude oil this
year and already the world’s largest supplier of liquefied
natural gas, is in the early stages of exploration and appraisal
of the deposits in China and doesn’t yet have an estimate of the
production potential from the fields, Bichsel said. The company
has shale gas agreements with all three main Chinese  oil
companies , Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said at a
conference in Tianjin, China, Sept. 11.  In the Middle East Shell is developing sour, or high-
sulfur, gas in Saudi Arabia’s Rub al Khali desert, also known as
the Empty Quarter, and would be interested in developing similar
resources in the United Arab Emirates, Bichsel said.  Viable  Shell intends producing enough gas at each of the projects
to make them commercially viable, Bichsel said, without
specifying their potential output.  Bichsel said the company was the largest LNG supplier with
sales of 22 million metric tons a year. The company has projects
under development to bring another 7 million tons of annual
capacity into operation and another 20 million tons a year of
plans under study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in  Abu Dhabi  at  adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  