-- Slaughter and May, S&C, Bingham, Mattos: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-12T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/slaughter-and-may-s-c-bingham-mattos-business-of-law.html
Slaughter and May is advising  Diageo
Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch, in its purchase of a
53.4 percent stake in  India ’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  for 111.7
billion rupees ($2.04 billion) to gain leadership in the world’s
largest whiskey-consuming nation. Indian legal advice is being
provided by Platinum Partners for Diageo.  Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff & Co. acted as
lead legal adviser to United Spirits. Legal adviser on matters
of English Law was Herbert Smith Freehills LLP. Legal adviser
for legal due diligence process for United Spirits was Kanga &
Co.  The Slaughter and May team is led by corporate partners
Simon Nicholls, Robin Ogle and Padraig Cronin. The team also
includes financing partners Stephen Powell and Ed Fife; tax
partner Sara Luder; IP partner Susie Middlemiss; pensions and
employment partner Charles Cameron; and real estate partner
David Waterfield.  The Platinum Partners team is led by Nihar Mody, Yash
Mohanram and Piusha Bose, Slaughter and May said in a statement.  The team from Herbert Smith Freehills is led by London-
based corporate partners Alan Montgomery and Roddy Martin, and
India practice chairman Chris Parsons.  The U.K. distiller will acquire a 27.4 percent stake at
1,440 rupees a share and will make a tender offer for 26 percent
of United Spirits, the companies said Nov. 9. They first
disclosed that they were in discussions in September.  United Spirits Chairman Vijay Mallya and others are selling
a 19.3 percent stake in the maker of McDowell’s No. 1 whiskey as
his  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  struggles with a cash shortage. The
Indian distiller has a leading 43 percent share of the country’s
whiskey market, which Euromonitor International estimates will
grow by about 50 percent to $31.1 billion in the five years
through 2016.  For more, click here.  Priceline Buys Kayak for $1.8 Billion to Defend Web-Travel Lead  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the
most valuable online-travel agency, which is buying  Kayak
Software Corp. (KYAK)  for $1.8 billion in cash and stock, adding
profitable search tools to its services that help consumers book
flights and hotels online. Bingham McCutchen LLP represented
Kayak.  S&C’s team included mergers and acquisition partners Keith Pagnani and Brian Hamilton. Partners Juan Rodriguez, on European
antitrust; Matthew Friestedt, on executive compensation and
benefits and Ronald Creamer Jr., on tax also worked on the deal.  The Bingham team was led by Boston-based corporate partners
Michael Conza and Laurie Cerveny. The team received support from
Boston-based antitrust and trade regulation partner Thane Scott,
Boston-based tax and employee benefits partner Russ Isaia, Los
Angeles-based securities and financial institutions litigation
partner Stephen Alexander, London-based antitrust and trade
regulation partner Davina Garrod and New York-based tax and
employee benefits partner Anthony Carbone.  Shareholders of Kayak, which held an initial public
offering in July, will receive $40 a share, the companies said
in a statement. That represents a 29 percent premium over the
Nov. 8 closing price of $31.04 in New York, and includes about
$500 million in cash as well as $1.3 billion in equity and
assumed stock options.  The deal is the biggest to date for Priceline, which has
been using acquisitions to add customers as it works to increase
sales and fend off competition. Kayak lets travelers compare
prices and make reservations for hotels, flights, cars and
vacations. Online travel sales may reach $151.9 billion by 2016
from $107.4 billion in 2011, according to EMarketer Inc.  Law firm Levi & Korsinsky is investigating Kayak’s board of
possible breaches of fiduciary duty “by failing to adequately
shop the company before entering into this transaction,”
according to a statement after the company’s announcement.  Newman Ferrara LLP, another law firm, said it is
investigating whether the board took “all necessary steps to
ensure that Kayak’s shareholders receive the maximum value
readily available for their shares of Kayak common stock.”  For more, click here.  Qatar Holding Said to Invest $100 Million in Chernin Group  Peter Chernin, former chief operating officer of  News
Corp. (NWSA) , received an investment in his company from Qatar Holding
LLC to expand and diversify media and entertainment operations
in the U.S. and Asia.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP represented the Chernin Group
while White & Case LLP advised Qatar Holding.  Gibson Dunn’s team includes Century City corporate partner
Ari Lanin and New York tax partner Jeffrey Trinklein.  The White & Case partners on the deal were William Wynne,
Ward Atterbury and Michiel Visser, mergers and acquisitions;
John Lillis, tax; and Stefan Mentzer, intellectual property.  The investment is about $100 million, according to a person
with knowledge of the agreement. Financial terms of the deal
weren’t disclosed, Los Angeles-based Chernin Group said Nov. 9
in an e-mailed statement.  Chernin’s company has raised about $300 million from
investors, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
terms are private. The infusion from Qatar Holding, the Gulf
state’s sovereign wealth fund, comes after Chernin sold a stake
to Providence Equity Partners for about $200 million in April.
Both companies are interested in partnering on bigger
investments, Chernin, 61, said in an interview.  Chernin said he will continue to focus his company’s
investments on TV shows and films, media outlets in India and
other Asian countries as well as digital media.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Mattos Filho Takes Top M&A Legal-Adviser Rank: Corporate  Brazil   The top-ranked law firm for mergers and acquisitions in
Brazil this year is Mattos Filho, Veiga Filho, Marrey Jr. &
Quiroga Advogados after it helped complete more buyout-fund
transactions than any other legal adviser.  Mattos Filho handled deals totaling $14.3 billion this year
through Nov. 8, giving it 27 percent of the market and
propelling it past 2011’s leader, Barbosa Mussnich & Aragao,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sao Paulo-based
firm advised on eight of the 64 transactions involving buyout
funds so far this year.  “Increasing competition for deals between private-equity
funds has kept us working a lot,” Joao Ricardo de Azevedo
Ribeiro, a senior partner at Mattos Filho, said in an interview.
He credited the firm’s New York office for winning assignments
on international buyouts.  Estok Comercio & Representacoes Ltda., owner of the
Tok&Stok chain of furniture stores, hired Mattos Filho to advise
on its sale of a 60 percent stake to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  for 700
million reais ($343 million). The law firm also advised London-
based private-equity company Actis LLP on its pending 180
million-real purchase of Cruzeiro do Sul Educacional, a Sao
Paulo-based for-profit university.  Private-equity funds participated in 64 M&A transactions in
Brazil, or 12 percent of the 552 deals so far this year. That’s
up from 57 deals, or 9.6 percent, of the 596 transactions
announced in the same period of 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Mattos Filho and Pinheiro Neto tied for first place based
on the number of deals, with 37 transactions each. Mattos Filho
was No. 1 based on that basis for the previous three years.  “For a lawyer, the number of transactions done is more
important than the value because we don’t earn a fee from the
value of deals, but a fixed value by hour of work,” said Carlos Lima, the Pinheiro Neto partner who handled the $4.9 billion
acquisition of  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3)  by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
the No. 1 U.S. health insurer, announced on Oct. 8.  For more, click here.  Moves  Litigation Partner Kiser Joins Loeb & Loeb in Chicago  Loeb & Loeb LLP announced that litigator Livia M. Kiser has
joined the firm’s consumer protection defense department as a
partner in the  Chicago  office. She was previously a partner at
Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum & Nagelberg LLP in Chicago.  Kiser has defended clients in the automotive, financial,
retail, food and other industries against allegations of
consumer fraud, false labeling, false advertising, breach of
warranty, and other claims arising under state and federal law.  Loeb & Loeb has more than 300 attorneys in seven U.S. and
Asian offices.  Burr & Forman Hires Banking and Real Estate Partner  Burr & Forman LLP hired Brendi E. Kaplan and an associate
from Wyatt Tarrant & Combs LLP. She joins the firm’s banking and
real estate practice group in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Kaplan represents business clients in commercial
transactions, real estate, finance, acquisitions, dispositions
and general corporate matters. She also represents clients in
public finance, serving as bond counsel, underwriters’ counsel,
trustee’s counsel, and counsel to governmental entities, the
firm said.  The new hires give Burr & Forman 29 Tennessee-licensed
attorneys. The firm has almost 300 attorneys at nine U.S.
offices.  Buchanan Ingersoll Adds IP, Pharma and Biotech Lawyer  Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC hired intellectual property
lawyer Christine M. Hansen, as a shareholder in the Wilmington
office. Hansen was a partner at Connolly Bove Lodge & Hutz LLP
where she focused on patent procurement and licensing for the
past 13 years, the firm said.  Hansen has more than 20 years of experience in chemical,
biotechnology and pharmaceutical matters, with in-depth
knowledge of global patent prosecution issues and U.S. patenting
procedures, according to the firm. She represents clients in
patent counseling and opinions, due diligence, licensing and
transactions, interferences, prosecution and reissue and
reexaminations in biotechnology and chemical matters, the firm
said.  With Hansen hire, firm-wide headcount in the intellectual
property section stands at 54. Buchanan has 450 lawyers and
government relations professionals in 14 U.S. offices.  Litigation  Visa, MasterCard $7.25 Billion Fee Deal Wins Early Approval  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s proposed $7.25 billion
settlement of a merchant fee price-fixing case received
preliminary approval by a federal judge in  Brooklyn , New York.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson made his ruling Nov. 9
after considering arguments by retailers opposed to the deal.
The judge’s decision allows plaintiffs to begin signing up the
more than 7 million retailers that might be eligible to
participate.  Estimated to be the largest-ever private antitrust
settlement, the deal would end a seven-year-long case alleging
that the card companies conspired with major banks to fix
interchange, or swipe, fees charged to merchants when customers
pay with plastic.  In an Oct. 24 order, the judge said the deal would likely
meet requirements for the initial sign-off, a threshold he said
is “meaningfully lower” than that of a later final approval.
Still, lawyers for the opponents were hopeful they could change
his mind, given that there are provisions in the deal allowing
some elements they claim are unfair to go into effect at the
preliminary stage.  In court papers, retailers and trade associations opposing
the settlement amount -- including $6.05 billion in cash
payments and a temporary interchange fee abatement -- say it
falls far short of the damages plaintiffs might have recovered
at trial.  Plaintiffs could have won as much as $300 billion if the
case had been fully litigated and the court awarded triple
damages as permitted under antitrust law, a lawyer for one group
of objectors said in an Oct. 18 filing, referring to an August
 analysis  by Georgetown University law professor Adam Levitin.  “The proposed settlement is far south of this number, not
even 10 percent of the potential recoverable damages should this
case be tried,” said the lawyer, Jerrold Parker, who is
representing about three dozen small businesses, including
restaurants and auto dealerships.  During the hearing Nov. 9 in a standing-room-only
courtroom, Patrick Coughlin, a lawyer for plaintiffs in favor of
the settlement, said that some large merchants oppose the deal
because they are planning to start a competing payment network,
the Merchant Customer Exchange. The exchange, or MCX, was formed
by merchants including  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
which also oppose the settlement.  Stephen Neuwirth, an attorney for  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , said
that the company is concerned about the legal releases and
potential lack of ability to decline participation.  “It’s so obvious Visa and MasterCard were prepared to make
a large payment because of the scope of the releases being
given,” he said. “It’s all one quid pro quo and merchants like
the Home Depot are being denied the chance to opt out of that
quid pro quo and say this is a bad deal.”  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  