-- Slim’s America Movil Hamstrung as Colombia Woos DirecTV, NII
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-11-12T21:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/slim-s-america-movil-hamstrung-as-colombia-woos-directv-nii-3-.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the mobile-phone
carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , has to face
limits in Colombia so the country can open up to potential new
investors such as DirecTV, the nation’s top telecommunications
official said.  To boost competition, Colombia’s government must partially
exclude America Movil from an auction of airwaves next year that
would allow mobile-phone companies to upgrade their networks to
offer faster 4G service,  Information Technology  and
Communications Minister Diego Molano said.  The proposal, which awaits public comment, strikes a blow
against America Movil, the largest mobile-phone company in the
Americas by subscribers, in a country that is its third-largest
and third-most profitable market. The partial auction ban would
hurt investment and slow the spread of wireless high-speed
Internet in Colombia, the company has said.  “We have to seek a balance,” Molano said in a Nov. 9
interview in Bogota. “With this scenario, there’s going to be a
lot of investment in the country.”  The auction may lure new companies into Colombia to offer
wireless data services, including U.S. companies  DirecTV (DTV)  and  NII
Holdings Inc. (NIHD) ,  Mexico ’s TV Azteca SAB and  Chile ’s Empresa
Nacional de Telecomunicaciones SA, known as Entel, Molano said.  America Movil is 72-year-old Slim’s largest company,
representing about 54 percent of his $71.8 billion fortune as
the world’s richest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . America Movil fell 0.3 percent to 15.68
pesos at the close in Mexico City.  2.5 Gigahertz  Under the draft auction  rules , America Movil would be
allowed to bid on spectrum in the 2.5 gigahertz band. It would
be barred from acquiring airwaves in a separate band of spectrum
known as AWS that has wider range, requiring fewer towers to
cover a wide area. More towers means higher costs to build a new
network for 4G, or fourth-generation, services such as faster
downloads and high-definition video.  Steering America Movil, which operates under the Claro
brand in Colombia, to the airwaves that will require more
investment makes sense because it has greater financial strength
than smaller competitors, Molano said. Slim’s company has 61
percent of Colombian mobile-phone customers, competing against
Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Luxembourg-based  Millicom
International Cellular SA. (MIICF)   “For Claro, competing in this scenario is profitable
because it has a competitive advantage, the size of its networks
across the country,” Molano said. “It’s not as difficult as it
would be for another operator.”  Slim’s Spending  Slim told reporters last month that America Movil plans to
spend $1 billion in network investments in Colombia next year,
up 8.7 percent from this year. That plan was contingent on a
acquiring 4G airwaves, and he didn’t say what America Movil
would spend if it didn’t have full access to the auction.  “The inclusion of Claro to participate in the auction only
in the 2.5 gigahertz band to implement 4G networks doesn’t allow
the company to compete in equal conditions,”  America Movil  said
in a Nov. 1 statement. “It goes against investment and legal
certainty and will slow the roll-out of mobile broadband across
the nation.” The company’s press office declined to comment
beyond the statement.  Lawmakers are studying a proposal to limit market share in
Colombia’s mobile-phone industry to 30 percent. While the
government shares concerns about America Movil’s dominance, the
proposal requires further study and needs to be designed so that
it promotes competition, Molano said.  DirecTV Analysis  DirecTV, the U.S. satellite carrier that acquired 4G
airwaves in  Brazil  last year, is analyzing Colombia’s auction
and hasn’t decided whether to participate, said Darris Gringeri,
a spokesman for the company. An Entel press official who asked
not to be named under company policy said the carrier often
considers participating in airwave auctions in the region.  NII has mobile-phone service in Brazil, Mexico,  Argentina ,
Chile and  Peru  under the Nextel brand. Claudia Restrepo, a
spokeswoman for Reston, Virginia-based NII, didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages.  TV Azteca, controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , won’t
participate in the auction because “too many key details remain
undefined,” Samer Salameh, chief executive officer of the
company’s communications unit, in an e-mail. Azteca won a
contract last year to extend fiber-optic Internet lines to 700
Colombian communities in its first foray into the country.  DirecTV, TV Azteca and Telefonica were among companies that
signed  an open letter  Nov. 9 urging the government to support
the proposal to cap America Movil’s market share.  “Colombians have had to pay rates that in a more
competitive market would be lower,” the letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  