-- Slovenian Speaker Approves Referendum Bid on Bad Bank Law
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-12T12:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/slovenia-likely-to-approve-referendum-bid-on-bad-bank-law.html
Slovenian Parliamentary Speaker
Gregor Virant approved a trade union call to set in motion a
referendum on a plan to recapitalize banks as government
officials work to avert a popular vote.  “I have set the deadline for the collection of signatures
for the referendum on bad bank,” Virant, who has said he
opposes the challenge to the Cabinet’s bank law, told reporters
in Ljubljana today. “The period will start Nov. 19 and will
last until Dec. 23.”  Slovenia, whose economy is the only one in the European
Union’s east set to contract next year, is pushing ahead with an
overhaul of the shrinking economy and the faltering bank
industry. Failure to implement the bank law risks making
Slovenia the sixth euro-region member to require a bailout,
government officials have warned.  The trade union has to collect 40,000 signatures from
citizens and if successful, the vote must take place, probably
in January. Finance Minister Janez Sustersic will hold talks
with the union to try and avert the referendum, Virant said
yesterday in an interview with private broadcaster  POP TV. (CETV)   The government asked the  Constitutional Court  to rule if
the vote on the creation of a wealth fund should go ahead and
will probably do the same for the bank-plan referendum,
according to Virant.  Slovenia, which adopted the euro as the first post
communist nation in 2007, saw its borrowing costs on the
benchmark bond advance to over 7 percent for most of August. The
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to   help
bring down borrowing costs of troubled nations like Spain and
 Italy  eased Slovenia’s borrowing costs as well.  The country was put on a Credit Watch negative by Standard
& Poor’s last week.  Likely Downgrade  “The latest twist to the bad bank referendum plan makes an
S&P rating downgrade extremely likely,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, a
London-based emerging-market analyst at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , wrote in a Nov. 9 note to clients. A possible
downgrade by S&P “is serving to bring the rating agency’s view
of Slovenian credit in line with Fitch and Moody’s.”  The yield on the benchmark $2.25 billion notes sold by
Slovenia last month rose to 5.49 percent on Oct. 31, when the
threat of a popular vote emerged.  “The market is already trading Slovenia as a much weaker
credit than what is implied by S&P’s rating,” Abbas Ameli-
Renani said. Slovenia’s $2.25 billion bond “ trades at a z-
spread of 397 basis points, around 90 basis points wider than
similar bonds of Croatia and  Romania , rated BBB- and BB+ by S&P,
respectively.”  A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  