-- Slovenia's Pahor Wins First Round Vote as Bailout Looms
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-12T06:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/slovenia-s-pahor-wins-first-round-vote-as-bailout-looms.html
Borut Pahor, Slovenia’s former prime
minister, unexpectedly won the first-round vote in presidential
elections as the euro-region nation works to avoid seeking
international assistance.  Pahor won 40 percent of the vote, while the incumbent
president Danilo Turk got 36 percent, the state election
commission said on its website today. Milan Zver, the
government-backed member of the European parliament, was third
with 24 percent. Pahor and Turk will compete for the post in
second-round vote on Dec. 2.  “I received voters’ trust that exceeded my expectations,”
Pahor, 49, said late yesterday in the capital Ljubljana after
the results were announced. “We are living in demanding times
when only with a common effort and faith in each other we can
overcome these difficulties.”  Slovenia, the wealthiest country in the east of the
European Union, is facing a possible referendum on the
government’s plans to overhaul the economy that could force it
to seek a bailout, according to Prime Minister  Janez Jansa .
Parliamentary speaker Gregor Virant is set to announce today the
start of a 35-day period in which a trade union that initiated
the referendum call needs to collect 40,000 signatures from
citizens for the motion to go ahead.  “We will see a heated presidential race that will go
parallel with the collection of signatures for the referendum
and talks between the ministry and the trade union that will
give it all a further impetus,” Andraz Grahek, an economist and
independent financial adviser in the capital Ljubljana, said in
an e-mail.  Referendum  A vote on the plan to create a bad bank and a wealth fund
that would manage state assets could take place in January if
the constitutional court rules the referendum on the
government’s measures can go ahead.  Pahor, whose government was toppled after the rejection of
pension changes in a referendum last year, has signaled he
supports the government’s overhaul plans.  Slovenia’s export-dependent  economy  is sliding into its
second recession in three years with gross domestic product
expected to recover only in 2014, according to a Nov. 7 European
Commission forecast. The country  ranks first  in eastern  Europe 
in terms of purchasing power per capita, ahead of Poland,
Slovakia and  Hungary , according to data by Eurostat, the EU’s
statistical agency.  The president of Slovenia is elected for a five-year term
and has a largely ceremonial role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  