-- South Africa’s Biggest Art Heist Spurred by Soaring Values
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-11-12T13:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/south-africa-s-biggest-art-heist-spurred-by-soaring-values.html
A 10-fold increase in the value of
 South Africa ’s best-known art spurred the biggest heist in the
country’s history when thieves stole five paintings worth a
combined 17.5 million rand ($2 million).  A man posing as an art teacher along with two people he
said were students held a security guard at gunpoint and forced
him to help locate and steal the paintings at the  Pretoria Art
Museum  yesterday morning, Pieter de Necker, a spokesman for the
local mayor, said by phone today. The heist included works by
South African artists Irma Stern, Gerard Sekoto, J.H. Pierneef,
Maggie Laubser and Hugo Naude, he said.  “The value of the artworks influences criminal minds and
we’ve seen exponential increases in values over the last five to
10 years,” Stefan Hundt, art adviser at Sanlam Private
Investments, said in a telephone interview from  Cape Town .
“Most institutions have probably been lulled into a false sense
of security, but this is a new turn in events. It could be the
biggest art heist in South African history.”  Images of the criminals’ faces weren’t recorded because the
gallery’s closed-circuit television system broke down on Nov. 8.
De Necker said.  “We have informed Interpol,” he said. “It’s a definite
call to not just our own museum but various art galleries to
increase security.”  ‘Incompetent Lot’  The thieves sound like “an incompetent lot,” Hundt said,
after it was reported that they left Irma Stern’s “Two Malay
Musicians,” a painting valued at 12 million rand, on the
sidewalk due to lack of space in the getaway car. While Stern’s
work was the most valuable piece in the museum, other works by
some of South Africa’s best-known artists, including those by
William Kentridge, Walter Battiss and Robert Hodgins, were left
untouched.  In 1997, an Irma Stern would sell for about 200,000 rand,
Hundt said. “Now people are prepared to pay up to 20 million
rand,” he said. “There has been a 10-fold increase in the
value of some works lately -- all the big names have seen
incredible price hikes.”  The stolen artworks are probably still in South Africa,
according to both De Necker and Hundt. “It’s usually South
Africans or expat South Africans who buy these artists,” Hundt
said.  The paintings were all owned by the municipality, the City
of Tshwane, and were insured, De Necker said. He said he had yet
to hear of any progress from the police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  