-- Spain Sees Room for a Deal Between Repsol, Argentina on YPF
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-11-13T02:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/spain-sees-room-for-a-deal-between-repsol-and-argentina-on-ypf.html
The Spanish government sees space to
negotiate terms for  Repsol SA (REP) ’s departure from Argentina,
Foreign Affairs Minister Jose Manuel Garcia Margallo said.  YPF (YPF) 
SA stock soared.  “There is room for a negotiation,” Margallo said
yesterday in statements before Spain’s Senate, according to
Germany’s DPA news agency. “It must be done through a regulated
procedure and paying a fair price.”  The Madrid-based oil producer is still waiting to file a
claim seeking $10.5 billion in compensation at the World Bank’s
International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes in
Washington, said Kristian Rix, a Repsol spokesman in a phone
interview from Madrid. ICSID is the principal arbitration court
for claims against sovereign countries. Repsol wants
compensation after the Argentine government expropriated a 51
percent stake of its  YPF (YPFD)  unit on April 16.  The company’s chief executive officer,  Antonio Brufau , said
his company has “the responsibility to pursue in any court the
fair compensation that our shareholders demand.”  “I’m not aware of any room for negotiation at this
moment,”Brufau said yesterday in an interview in Queretaro,
Mexico. “We’re always willing to negotiate.”  YPF American depositary receipts surged as much as 11
percent after the Minister’s comments were reported to $11.50 in
New York and closed up 1.1 percent.  Argentine Deputy Economy Ministry Axel Kicillof, who is in
charge of  energy policy , wasn’t immediately available to take
calls Jessica Rey, his spokeswoman, said by phone from Buenos
Aires.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
Fernandez said the same day that compensation will be determined
by Argentina’s National Appraisal Tribunal, the government-
chartered agency to help determine the value of contested goods
involving companies or governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  