-- Spain Bailout Request Hinges on ESM Status, Cannata Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-12T16:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/spain-bailout-request-hinges-on-esm-status-cannata-says.html
Spain will not make a request for
European Union bond buying until it gets clarity on whether the
region’s permanent rescue fund will be considered a preferred
creditor, said Italy’s debt agency head Maria Cannata.  “There is some fear over this in the market,” Cannata
said in a speech in  Rome  today. “I fear that until this issue
is clarified, any expectations for Spain to make a request won’t
be satisfied.”  The issue of the creditor status for the ESM, which has
been authorized to buy sovereign debt in conjunction with the
European Central Bank, must be cleared up or it will create a
“segmented market,” she said.  There will be “uncertainty on the part of investors over
how they will be treated in case the issuer runs into
difficulty,” Cannata said.  Italy doesn’t need to tap the European rescue fund as the
country’s banking and economic systems are solid, Cannata said.  This year was a “record” year for government bond
redemptions, Cannata said. Next year’s issuance strategy will
likely resemble that of 2012, she said, adding that the
redemption profile is “much smoother next year” while 2015
will be more challenging.  Italy ’s borrowing target for 2013 will fall to around 410
billion euros from 470 billion euros this year, as the country
will face less redemptions and Italy’s net funding needs will
drop by 20 billion euros, she said.  Foreign investors have been returning to Italy “at an
increasing pace” since August, Cannata said. Investors’ fears
“are not linked anymore to the control of public finances or
the debt level, they are more related to growth and political
uncertainty, In Italy as well as in  Europe ,” Cannata said.
Foreign investors now hold 35 percent of Italian debt, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  