-- Status Takes Back Seat as Crisis Favors Dacia Over Ford
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-11-12T23:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/status-takes-back-seat-as-crisis-favors-dacia-over-ford.html
Wolfgang Hirschauer, a toolmaker
from the Bavarian ski town of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, this year
traded in his  Renault (RNO)  Espace minivan for a Dacia Logan, a budget
wagon that retails for a quarter the price.  “I was looking for a car for transportation only,” said
the 58-year-old father of three. “I liked the low cost and the
basic features,” including easy-to-fix mechanics, which made up
for the lack of frills like electric windows.  Hirschauer’s choice is part of a broad back-to-basics
thriftiness in crisis-strapped  Europe . While austerity measures
have helped accelerate the trend, the rise of budget vehicles
reflects a deeper shift in European attitudes as cars lose their
importance as a status symbol.  “Automobiles are not a show-off item anymore,” said
Arnaud Deboeuf, a director at Renault SA, which owns Dacia.
“People prefer investing in iPads or smartphones over cars.”  After acquiring Dacia in 1998, Renault intended to use the
Romanian automaker to attract first-time buyers in Eastern
Europe and other  emerging markets . Following the Logan’s
introduction in 2004, that plan changed as western Europeans
began buying the cars in the East and bringing them back home.  Backed by a no-discount policy, Dacia’s advance is helping
Renault weather Europe’s downturn by providing stable profit
margins as the flagship brand comes under pressure, said Erich Hauser, an analyst with Credit Suisse in  London . Renault posted
an operating profit margin of 2.5 percent in the first half even
as mass-market rivals struggle with losses in Europe.  Budget Brands  Sales of low-cost brands such as Dacia,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Skoda, and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Kia have climbed 16 percent since
car sales in Europe peaked in 2007. Over the same period,
industrywide deliveries have plunged 21 percent, according to
researcher IHS Automotive.  Budget brands will account for 8.3 percent of the market
this year, compared with 5.7 percent five years ago as they nab
customers from mid-market nameplates like  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,
 Fiat SpA (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel.  “The middle class in Europe is shrinking due to the
sovereign-debt crisis, reducing demand for cars in the mid-
priced segment,” said  Albrecht Denninghoff , analyst at Silvia
Quandt Research in  Frankfurt . “There are too many carmakers
competing in the segment, where capacity needs to be reduced.”  To diminish the risk of getting squeezed out of the market,
Volkswagen and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are mulling new budget models.  Family Model  VW is considering a no-frills line that would harken back
to basic vehicles from the 60s and 70s, before cars were
ubiquitous in Europe and families pulled together to buy one.  It was a time when “grandma helped pay, so she got a seat
in the back,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said at
the Sao Paulo Motor Show last month. The new line could be a
similar all-round vehicle for “people who want to transport
grandpa, grandma and the kids around.”  The cars would be about 4 meters (13 feet) long -- roughly
the size of the Golf hatchback -- and cost less than 8,000
euros, at least 20 percent cheaper than VW’s current entry-level
Up! city car, he said.  Ford CEO  Alan Mulally  said his company is “evaluating a
budget car” that might be sold under a separate nameplate. “I
am just not sure if we can do that with our Ford brand,”
Mulally said at a Nov. 7 industry conference in Berlin. Such a
move could help the U.S. automaker shore up its flagging
European operations as it prepares to shut 3 of its 13 factories
in the region by 2014.  Purchasing Power  While Ford and VW deliberate, Dacia is revamping its
lineup. It introduced new versions of the Sandero hatchback and
the Logan in September. The cars boast more rugged frames, side
airbags and better sound-proofing. The brand, which promotes its
cars as “function over frivolity,” expanded to five vehicles
by adding the Lodgy and Dokker vans this year.  The primary impetus for the shift is that incomes haven’t
grown as fast as the cost of transport. A new car cost an
average  German worker  16 months’ pay last year, versus 9.4
months in 1980, according to the Center for Automotive Research
at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  “Cars are now too expensive for many people, a fact that
many automakers have ignored,” said  Juergen Pieper , analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt.  VW’s Skoda, which attempted to shift upscale with the
Superb sedan in 2008, is returning to its roots as a value
brand. The Czech carmaker, whose motto is “simply clever,”
started selling the new Rapid sedan last month at a base price
of 13,990 euros, undercutting the similarly sized Renault
Fluence by 7,500 euros and the Ford Mondeo by 9,960 euros.  ‘Something That Moves’  Still, Skoda can’t compete with Dacia on price. The Renault
brand’s cheapest model, the Sandero, starts at 6,790 euros,
thanks to its reliance on cheap labor in Romania and  Morocco .
Skoda claims its quality and features justify the premium, even
in this price-sensitive segment.  Being cheap hasn’t turned off customers like Tomas Luenser.
The 37-year-old industrial mechanic from Berlin swapped his VW
 Passat (PSAT)  for a Dacia Duster sport-utility vehicle in October 2010
because of the price and the ample space for his kids. Image
wasn’t part of the equation.  “Earlier it was important to drive a VW and show that you
had something, but now we just want a vehicle that moves,” said
the father of three. “I’ve noticed that Dacia owners spend a
lot less time washing their cars. It’s about the utility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  