-- Stock Futures Fall After Japan Economy Data; Euro Climbs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-11-12T00:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/stock-futures-fall-after-japan-economy-data-euro-climbs.html
U.S. stock futures retreated after a
report showed  Japan ’s economy shrank at the fastest pace since
last year’s earthquake. The euro gained as lawmakers in Greece
approved a 2013 budget.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1
percent to 1,374.4 as of 9 a.m. in Tokyo following the benchmark
gauge’s worst weekly drop since June. The euro strengthened
against 11 of 16 major peers, rebounding from a two-month low
versus the dollar. Crude oil was little changed, while gold for
immediate delivery increased 0.2 percent to $1,734.45 an ounce.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an annual pace of
3.5 percent last quarter, compared with a median decrease of 3.4
percent forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey. Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras garnered support of enough
lawmakers to secure approval for the 2013 budget, a plan that
aims to unlock bailout funds and keep the country in the euro.  The  S&P 500  lost 2.4 percent last week as President  Barack
Obama ’s re-election set up a budget showdown with the
Republican-controlled  House of Representatives .  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 dropped last week week.
Utilities and phone companies fell the most amid concern the
dividend tax may rise. Bank of America Corp. led  financial
shares  down 3.1 percent and coal companies including  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU)  slid on bets Obama’s re-election will mean more
regulation. Hospitals such as  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  rallied while
insurers fell on speculation Obama will preserve the health-care
overhaul he championed.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably fell in October for the
first time in four months as consumers in the Northeast stayed
away from auto dealers and shopping centers before and after
superstorm Sandy, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.2 percent drop in purchases would follow a
1.1 percent gain in September, according to the median forecast
of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Nov. 14 figures
from the Commerce Department. Other reports may show the cost of
living climbed more slowly and factory output rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  