-- LDK Tops Solar Rally as Soufun Sinks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-12T22:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/suntech-leads-solar-rebound-on-sunsidies-china-overnight.html
Most  Chinese stocks  in  New York 
climbed, led by  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  after the government said it will
accept new applications for renewable energy subsidies.  Soufun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  slid the most in a month.  LDK, the world’s second-biggest maker of solar wafers,
surged 20 percent, while  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the No. 1
manufacturer of solar panels, jumped the most in a week. The
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in New York was little changed at 92.78 yesterday. Real
estate information website SouFun tumbled on concern new
products will cannibalize existing streams of revenue. Yuan
forwards rose to the strongest level since April.  China , the world’s biggest supplier of solar modules, will
accept new applications from regional governments seeking to
qualify for alternative energy subsidies, the nation’s  Finance
Ministry  said in a Nov. 9 statement. Both Suntech and LDK have
reported losses since the second quarter of 2011 and have
received assistance from local administrations in the past two
months as the industry seeks to avoid loan defaults and mergers.  “Some investors may think a government bailout may be good
for the solar stocks and companies like Suntech have been
shorted heavily over the past few months and so there aren’t
many shares available to sell,” Aaron Chew, a senior analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York, said by phone yesterday. “The
government’s subsidy plan is better than nothing, but I don’t
think it will save the industry as it’s still not profitable. It
may take a few weeks to investors to realize this.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.2 percent to $36.55,
after dropping 2.7 percent last week. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was little changed at 1,380.  ‘Edge of Bankruptcy’  American depositary receipts of Suntech jumped 5.1 percent
to 95 cents. Maxim’s Chew last reiterated his sell
recommendations in October with a price target of 50 cents.  Suntech’s worst time is behind it, and it “isn’t on the
edge of bankruptcy,” the Economy & Nation Weekly, a magazine
controlled by the Xinhua News Agency, said in a report dated
Nov. 8, citing an interview with Vice President Gong Xuejin. The
company made almost $30 million in profit in the third quarter,
and its shipments of 2.097 gigawatts for the first 10 months
surpassed its estimates of as much as 2 gigawatts at the
beginning of the year, Gong said, according to the report.  LDK, the world’s second-biggest maker of solar cells,
rallied to $1.08, the highest level since Oct. 4.  Subsidy Program  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the sixth-largest silicon-
based solar module producer, climbed 3.7 percent to $1.68 in New
York. Maxim’s Chew kept a hold rating on Yingli in his report
last month.  The company, based in Baoding of China’s Hebei province,
was among the 100 developers of 1.7 gigawatts capacity projects
that were selected for the first phase of the government’s
subsidy program this year in May.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese domestic shares
advanced 0.5 percent to 2,079.27, rising for the first time in
six days. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong fell for a third day, retreating
0.1 percent to 10,443.47.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the  yuan  rose 0.31
percent to 6.3290 a dollar in New York, the strongest level
since April, after the currency gained 0.3 percent to 6.2291 a
dollar in  Shanghai  yesterday.  Soufun  Soufun, the biggest real-estate information website owner
in China, sank 4.5 percent to $18.38, the steepest loss since
Oct. 8.  The Beijing-based company raised its 2012 sales forecast to
between $400 million and $420 million, from its previous
estimate of as much as $410 million, according to its statement
yesterday. That compared with the average $415 million  estimate 
of three analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Even though Soufun has lifted its full-year guidance, its
mid-range is still below market consensus,” Tian X. Hou, the
founder of T.H. Capital LLC, said by phone yesterday from New
York. “The company has shifted to drive sales from a
transaction-based e-commerce membership program, which may
cannibalize the existing display marketing services.”  Hou maintained a hold recommendation on the stock.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (HNP) , China’s largest
electricity generator, advanced 1.3 percent to $31.74, the
biggest gain this month. The ADRs, each representing 40
underlying shares, traded 0.5 percent below the  Hong Kong  stock,
the smallest discount in four days.  China’s Qinhuangdao coal price, a benchmark for power-
station coal, fell in the week through Nov. 11 to be between 630
yuan ($101) to 645 yuan a ton from as low as 635 yuan the
previous week, data from China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  