-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed Before EU Ministers Meet
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-12T17:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-k-stocks-climb-as-banks-rebound-before-eu-meeting.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed near
a six-week low as investors awaited the outcome of a euro area
finance ministers’ meeting in Brussels on releasing more aid for
 Greece .  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led a rebound in
banks, both climbing more than 2 percent. Admiral Group Plc and
 InterContinental (IHG)  Hotels Group Plc also advanced as analysts
recommended the shares. Anglo American Plc lost 2.1 percent amid
continued strikes at its platinum unit in South Africa.  The FTSE 100 retreated 2.41 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 5,767.27 at the close of trading in  London . The
gauge lost 1.7 percent last week amid concern the next slice of
aid for Greece from the European Union may be delayed and the
U.S. is at risk of slipping back into a recession. The FTSE All-
Share Index lost 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
fell 0.8 percent.  “November has seen stock indices fall in what is typically
one of the best three months for markets,” Sandy Jadeja, chief
technical analyst at  City Index , wrote in a report. “There is a
potential for a snap back rally if we see Friday’s high for the
 FTSE 100 (UKX)  being cleared and sustained.”  The FTSE 100 swung between gains and losses before
tonight’s meeting in Brussels where the euro-area’s finance
ministers will look at ways to maintain Greek solvency. The
volume of shares changing hands on the gauge’s companies was 11
percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras won the vote on
Greece’s 2013 budget early this morning. The nation’s fiscal
plan, which forecasts a deficit of 5.2 percent of gross domestic
product and a sixth year of contraction, is designed to regain
the confidence of its euro-area and International Monetary Fund
creditors.  Banks Gain  A gauge of U.K. banks shares climbed 1 percent, paring some
of last week’s 3.7 percent selloff. Lloyds jumped 3.5 percent to
45.14 pence, Barclays increased 2.1 percent to 234.95 pence and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  rose 1.6 percent to 274.5
pence.  Admiral Group added 3.6 percent to 1,092 pence after HSBC
Holdings Plc today reiterated its overweight recommendation for
the shares, meaning investors should own more than are
represented in benchmark indexes.  “We expect 13 percent pa average earnings growth despite
weaker U.K. vehicle growth during next three years,” wrote
Dhruv Gahlaut in a note to clients dated today. “Positive
commentary on claims from Admiral and other industry
participants should support underwriting margins.”  InterContinental gained 1.4 percent to 1,579 pence after
Exane BNP Paribas raised its recommendation for the world’s
largest provider of hotel rooms to outperform, the equivalent of
a buy rating, from neutral.  Miners Decline  Anglo American led mining companies lower, falling 2.1
percent to 1,827.5 pence. Anglo American Platinum Ltd., producer
of about 40 percent of the metal, today said the cost of a two-
month strike in  South Africa  has risen to about $263 million as
it remains unable to resolve a pay dispute.  The Johannesburg-based company known as Amplats, which is
about 79 percent-owned by Anglo American, said it’s lost 167,681
ounces of platinum output so far.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  declined 1.5 percent to 956 pence after the
Sunday Telegraph reported that some of Xstrata’s investors may
vote against the companies’ $80 billion merger with  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , even though Qatar Holding LCC, which owns a
12 percent stake, has backed the deal.  The newspaper reported that banks for both companies are
trying to convince investors to support the merger and avoid the
consequences of a complicated shareholder vote.  Glencore’s shares fell 0.9 percent to 336.25 pence.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  lost 1.6 percent to 1,040.5 pence after the
Sunday Times reported that the company’s chief financial
officer,  Fabio Barbosa , won’t return from medical leave, without
citing anyone. BG has “quietly” begun to search for a
successor, according to the newspaper.  G4S Plc (GFS)  dropped 1.9 percent to 248.7 pence after Morgan
Stanley lowered its recommendation for the security company to
equalweight from overweight, meaning investors’ holdings should
match what is represented in benchmark indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  