-- U.K. Homebuilders Likely to Seek Deals, Redfern Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-12T11:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-k-homebuilders-likely-to-seek-deals-redfern-says.html
U.K. homebuilders are more likely to
acquire smaller competitors as the industry’s finances improve
and companies seek better land,  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  Chief
Executive Officer Peter Redfern said.  “Because performance is good and the sector is stable and
balance sheets are strong, it’s feasible for M&A to happen,”
Redfern said in an interview today. “It’s more likely than a
year ago or two years ago, inevitably, because the market is
more solid, balance sheets are better.”  There hasn’t been a major merger in the U.K. homebuilding
industry since 2007 when Taylor Woodrow Homes Inc. and George
Wimpey Ltd. combined to form Taylor Wimpey, then valued at 5
billion pounds ($8 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Taylor Wimpey is weighing an offer for closely held
Scottish homebuilder Cala Homes,  Sky News  reported Nov. 7,
without saying where it got the information.  The London-based company, which today has a market value of
1.9 billion pounds, declined to comment on the report. Redfern
said acquiring smaller competitors to gain land can make sense.  “At the smaller end, particularly with regional house
builders, perhaps where the funding is less good or where people
are strong in particular markets, it is a feasible way of
acquiring land,” Redfern said. “It’s more balanced than it was
in the previous cycle.”  Margins Widening  Margins are widening at companies including  Barratt
Developments Plc (BDEV)  and  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  after the housing market’s
collapse in 2008 pressured homebuilders to slash costs to
compensate for a slump in demand. At the same time, they took
advantage of falling prices to buy cheaper land.  Persimmon, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value,
widened its operating margin to 12.2 percent in the first half
from 9 percent a year earlier. Taylor Wimpey increased its
margin by 2.9 percentage points to 11.1 percent during the same
period, while Barratt’s rose to 8.2 percent from 6.6 percent in
fiscal 2012.  The homebuilding industry is also set to profit from
government efforts to stimulate growth in a business that’s been
hurt by fewer mortgage approvals and falling prices. Plans
include making it easier for home buyers to borrow, relaxing
construction guidelines and giving banks incentive to lend.  Taylor Wimpey, the U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, met its target for home completions through 2012, led by
private sales, the company said in a statement today. Its order
book was at 1.11 billion pounds of homes for the 19 weeks
through Nov. 12 compared with 1.02 billion pounds a year
earlier.  Taylor Wimpey has risen more than 57 percent this year, the
third-best performer in the  Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders’ Index (BEUHBLD) ,
which is up more than 50 percent this year.  Redrow Plc (RDW) , a homebuilder based in Flint,  Wales , was
targeted by a group led by Chairman  Steve Morgan  in an approach
that ended last month without an agreement. Redrow, which has
risen about 38 percent this year, said today no takeover talks
are ongoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 