-- U.K. Regulators Probe Gas Market Fixing Allegations
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-11-12T20:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-k-government-concerned-about-gas-market-fixing-allegations.html
The U.K. government is “extremely
concerned” about allegations that the wholesale natural gas
market has been manipulated by some of the nation’s biggest
power companies, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said.  The Financial Services Authority notified the government
Nov. 9 that it’s probing the allegations, the energy department
said in a statement today.  The probe raise questions about how market prices are
determined and whether companies that are involved in setting
the prices may also profit by manipulating them. Davey said
regulators will handle the investigation and his office won’t
preempt their work.  “I am extremely concerned about these allegations and will
be keeping in close touch with the regulators while they get to
the bottom of this,” Davey said in a statement released by his
office in London today.  The  Guardian  reported today that a former trader who worked
as a reporter gathering prices raised concerns after spotting
irregularities on Sept. 28. It said the six biggest companies
were among those attempting to raise or lower the  gas prices  and
that the market’s key benchmarks are produced by one price-
reporting company, making them unreliable and vulnerable to
relationships between reporters and traders.  ‘Economic Uncertainty’  “At a time of economic uncertainty and rising global
energy prices, British consumers deserve markets that are
fair,” the energy department said in the statement. “The FSA
and Ofgem have a range of powers available to them and have our
full support in applying the law and ensuring that any
wrongdoers are held to account.”  The allegations are similar to the recent Libor-rigging
scandal. Barclays Plc agreed in June to pay a record 290
million-pound ($461 million) fine for manipulating the benchmark
interest rate and several other banks have been investigated for
colluding to set the Libor rate.  U.K. utilities said they comply with regulations. “EDF
Energy does not participate in loss-leading trading activity and
considers it to be against existing market regulation,”
 Electricite de France SA  said in a statement. “We make
information likely to impact market-price formation publicly
available on our website in compliance with” European Union
regulations.  “We are entirely confident that our energy portfolio
management team operate in a fair and legitimate way,” a
spokesman for  SSE Plc (SSE)  said in an e-mailed statement.  Officials at  Centrica Plc (CNA) , which owns British Gas, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment outside of office hours.  Gas Prices  The price of next-day natural gas in the U.K. has risen 24
percent this year. It was little changed at 64.80 pence a therm
today, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. Month-
ahead gas climbed 0.3 percent to 66.22 pence a therm.  Centrica said last month it would push up gas prices paid
by consumers about 6 percent starting Nov. 16. SSE raised them
by 9 percent beginning in August.  “We can confirm that we have received information in
relation to the physical gas market,” the Guardian cited the
FSA as saying in a statement. “We take market misconduct
seriously and will be analyzing the material.”  Officials at the FSA couldn’t immediately be reached. Davey
plans to make a statement to Parliament about the matter
tomorrow.  “We acted swiftly to tackle the attempted manipulation of
Libor and Euribor and we are in the process of giving Ofgem more
powers to tackle abuses, including the EU remit legislation,”
Davey said. “These powers will be in place ahead of schedule by
the spring, making the U.K. one of the first countries to do
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in  London  at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  