-- U.K. Inflation Seen Eluding BOE Goal as Cost Increase
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-12T11:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-k-inflation-seen-eluding-boe-goal-as-cost-increase.html
U.K. inflation  probably rebounded in
October as higher costs of energy and food pushed up the pace of
price increases from the closest it got to the  Bank of England ’s
target in almost three years.  Data tomorrow will show consumer prices rose an annual 2.4
percent last month, compared with a 34-month low of 2.2 percent
in September, according to the median forecast of 36 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Those figures arrive on the eve of
the central bank’s quarterly economic forecasts during a three-
day flurry also featuring statistics on jobs and  retail sales .  The Bank of England’s predictions may incorporate Governor
 Mervyn King ’s view expressed last month that annual price gains
could remain above the Bank of England’s 2 percent target “well
into next year.” They will also signal how the Monetary Policy
Committee balances that outlook against the risk of a relapse in
growth after it halted expansion of its bond-purchase program.  “Unfortunately, this seems as close as the MPC will get to
hitting the target for quite some time,” said  Philip Shaw , an
economist at Investec Securities in  London . “Looking further
ahead, our forecasts point to higher grain prices and a
resumption of gas and electricity tariff increases dragging
inflation further away from the target, and it could be as high
as 3.5 percent by mid-2013.”  The  Office for National Statistics  will release the
inflation data tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in London, followed by
 unemployment  and retail sales at the same time on each of the
next two days respectively. An acceleration in consumer-price
increases would be the first in three months.  Household Bills  The pound was little changed at $1.5904 at 10:38 a.m. in
London after touching $1.5880, the weakest since level since
Sept. 5. Sterling was at 79.94 pence per euro. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index was almost unchanged at 270.22 as finance ministers
prepared to discuss Greek aid in Brussels.  Utilities including RWE Npower Plc and  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s
British Gas unit are raising household energy tariffs after
wholesale gas costs for this winter rose compared with last
year. Poor harvests overseas and wet weather in the U.K. have
bolstered food-price pressures.  Policy makers are weighing the effects those price
increases will have on inflation against the risks to growth
after the economy escaped from recession in the third quarter.
The Bank of England forecast in August that inflation would slow
to below its goal by the end of next year, a prediction it will
revisit in the Nov. 14 Inflation Report presentation by King.  Recovery Threatened  Britain’s economic recovery remains threatened by the
continued crisis in the euro area, the U.K.’s biggest trading
partner, and cooling global growth.  Manufacturing data  last week
showed output barely grew in September, indicating the economy’s
rebound lost some momentum, while services and factory surveys
signaled cooling activity in October.  Data on Nov. 14 may show whether the labor market remains
resilient to any pervading weakness in the economy. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict jobless claims probably stayed
unchanged in October and the  unemployment rate  remained at 7.9
percent in the third quarter, the lowest in more than a year.  The next day, retail sales data will show a 0.1 percent
monthly decline for October, according to the median forecast of
23 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The MPC said on Nov. 8 that it doesn’t plan to buy any more
bonds beyond the 375 billion pounds ($597 billion) already
purchased, concluding a third round of  quantitative easing . The
next day, the Bank of England said that it will transfer income
from gilts it holds under that program to the Treasury in a move
that King equates to an easing of monetary conditions.  More QE  “We suspect that the Inflation Report will leave the door
open to more QE,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in London. “While the bank is likely to raise
its near-term consumer price inflation forecasts compared to the
August projections,” he said, “price pressures should be
contained over the coming months by significant excess capacity
and still muted economic activity.”  Cooling demand is also affecting growth in  Asia .  Japan ’s
economy shrank last quarter as exports tumbled and  consumer
spending  slumped, putting pressure on the central bank to add
stimulus and hurting Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s record as
he prepares for elections. Gross domestic product fell an
annualized 3.5 percent, the most since the earthquake and
tsunami in early 2011, according to Cabinet Office data released
today in  Tokyo .  In  Latin America , Mexican industrial production in
September probably rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier, the
smallest increase since March, according to the median of 16
estimates in a  Bloomberg News  Survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  