-- U.K. to Consult on Energy Demand Reduction, Minister Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-12T14:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-k-to-spend-39-million-pounds-on-energy-efficiency-centers.html
The U.K. will seek the public’s
opinion on measures to cut energy demand before the end of the
year as part of a program to curb fossil fuel use.  “Demand reduction is the most important thing that we can
do, because the cheapest energy of all has to be the energy that
we don’t use,” Energy Minister  Greg Barker  said today in an
interview.  He spoke after announcing a 39 million-pound ($62 million)
fund for five university-led research centers to help businesses
and households examine their energy use. Investing in power
efficiency could save as much energy as 22 power stations by
2020, Barker said.  Britain’s government wants to encourage consumers and
industry to curb their power use to reduce emissions and keep a
lid on bills which are already set to rise. Centrica Plc’s
British Gas, RWE Npower Plc and EDF Energy Plc have detailed
plans to raise charges with some coming into force this month.  “We’ve poured billions into generating assets and ignored
the potential for investment in  energy efficiency  beyond quite
simple measures,” Barker said.  The Department of Energy and
Climate Change today released a  strategy  on how to increase
efficiency and overcome financial and other barriers to consumer
or business uptake of programs to install equipment. Energy
efficiency is the “heart” of  energy policy , Barker said.  Demand Reduction  The government will consult on its demand reduction plans
“in tandem” with legislation designed to reform the
 electricity market , Barker said.  The demand reduction policies
will be introduced as the Energy Bill, due before Parliament
this month, passes through the House of Commons, he said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in October he would use
the Bill to ensure consumers get the lowest tariffs from energy
companies. Barker said the government is still deciding on the
details of those measures.  “Ofgem have published their recommendations for four
tariffs in the retail market review,” Barker said. “This is
very much in line with the Prime Minister’s thinking, so we are
looking at that”. The U.K.’s energy regulator  Oct. 19  proposed
forcing suppliers to inform customers of the cheapest gas and
electricity tariffs. Suppliers would only be able to use four
tariffs for each fuel, avoiding complex “multi-tier” charges,
according to the proposals.  Energy companies including Npower have said their price
increases were in part due to the added cost of government
programs to encourage customers to install energy efficiency
equipment, as well as in response to higher wholesale prices.  The government will also publish an energy security
strategy before the end of the year, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
said Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  