-- U.S., Europe Stock Volatility Will Increase, ING Says
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n
-- 2012-11-12T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-s-europe-stock-volatility-will-increase-ing-says.html
U.S. and European equity markets will
soon experience a surge in volatility following the tightest
squeeze in their trading ranges in three and five years,
respectively, a technical analyst at ING Groep NV said.  “A larger move is coming given the shrink in volatility,”
Roelof-Jan Van Den Akker, a senior technical analyst at ING in
Amsterdam, said in an e-mail, referring to the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. “The first move could be down,, followed by a sharp
rally into the year end. The short-term weakness offers a
perfect buying opportunity.”  The so-called Bollinger BandWidth indicator, a measure of
historical volatility, for the  S&P 500 (SPX)  narrowed to 3.21 on Oct.
22, the lowest figure since December 2009. The same signal on
the  Stoxx Europe 600 index  fell to 3.06 on Nov. 9, the lowest
since May 2007.  Bollinger Bands combine information on price, momentum and
volatility to create trading-envelope charts. BandWidth measures
how broad or narrow the envelope becomes. Technical analysts
interpret the size of the gap based on the principle that low
volatility begets high volatility and vice versa.  The S&P 500 is trading outside the Bollinger envelope. The
gauge crossed below the lower band on Nov. 7, as U.S. President
 Barack Obama  won a second term in office, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Some analysts interpret such a move as an
anomaly that suggests the band, and volatility, will expand.  Van Den Akker said the S&P 500 recently formed a top. The
equity benchmark may now slide as far as 1,335, creating a
short-term buying opportunity, before resuming its advance.  In  Europe , the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  has failed to climb to 277 three
times since the beginning of September. The equity benchmark
slipped 0.1 percent to 270.27 on Nov. 9.  Technical analysts study price charts to predict changes in
securities, commodities, currencies or indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  