-- U.S. Lawmakers Return to Discussion of Russian Human Rights Bill
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-12T07:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/u-s-lawmakers-return-to-discussion-of-russian-human-rights-bill.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
tomorrow will resume consideration of a bill targeting Russian
officials who violate human rights as a condition for easing
trade restrictions with the country.  The House Committee on Rules said it will hold a  hearing  to
discuss the law, which was approved by the Foreign Affairs
Committee in June and whose legislative passage was suspended
before U.S. presidential and Congressional elections this month,
according to a  statement  published on its website.  Russia  has warned of unspecified retaliation if the so-
called Magnitsky bill becomes law. The administration of
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to repeal trade restrictions
with Russia to prevent U.S. companies from forfeiting tariff
reductions following Russian entry into the  World Trade
Organization  this year.  Democratic and Republican lawmakers have made a repeal of
the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment that imposed trade restrictions
on the  Soviet Union  for blocking Jewish emigration conditional
on imposing sanctions on Russian officials for human-rights
violations.  The legislation would establish U.S. travel and financial
curbs on any official suspected of violating human rights in
Russia, including people suspected of involvement in the 2009
death in jail of Sergei Magnitsky, who worked for the law firm
Firestone Duncan.  Russia barred 11 serving and former U.S. administration
officials for human rights abuses at facilities including
Guantanamo Bay and the Abu Ghraib prison in  Iraq  in retaliation
for the American move against an identical number of Russian
officials last year over the Magnitsky case. The Kremlin has
said that any additional U.S. visa bans would meet with a
symmetrical response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  