-- Lula Aide Sentenced to Prison in Brazil Graft Trial
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-11-13T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/lula-aide-sentenced-to-prison-in-brazil-graft-trial.html
Brazil’s Supreme Court sentenced a
top aide to former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  to
prison, the first time the high court has ordered an ex-Cabinet
member to jail for corruption since the return of democracy.  Former Cabinet chief Jose Dirceu was sentenced yesterday to
almost 11 years for masterminding a scheme to siphon off public
funds used to bribe legislators in the first two years of Lula’s
2003-2011 government. Dirceu, a leader of the ruling Workers’
Party who was once considered Lula’s potential successor, was
also fined 646,000 reais ($315,000) as part of his conviction on
criminal conspiracy and corruption charges.  Putting a former Cabinet member behind bars may reinforce
the fight to clean up government in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy, which ranks behind Cuba and  Saudi Arabia  in
 Transparency International ’s annual ranking of corruption around
the world. Graft costs the world’s sixth-largest economy as much
as 85 billion reais a year, nearly double what the government
spent on roads, ports and airports in 2011, according to
estimates by the  Sao Paulo Industry Federation .  “It’s a very important message for society, as this
sentence contributes to eliminating a widespread perception of
impunity,” said Jorge Abrahao, head of  Ethos , a Sao Paulo-based
group promoting social responsibility and ethics in business, in
a telephone interview. “Now we need to build on this moment to
strengthen institutions and public policy.”  ‘Big Monthly’  Brazil ’s media for the past three months has been gripped
by the Supreme Court trial, which cast a light on vote-buying
practice known as the “mensalao,” or “big monthly
allowance,” that lawmakers were allegedly paid to support
government legislation.  The case involved dozens of defendants, including lawmakers
and Workers’ Party leaders, as well as bankers and publicists
whose contracts with the governments helped steer millions of
embezzled dollars to allies in Congress.  Dirceu, a former Marxist guerrilla who was exiled in Cuba
during Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship, has vowed to
fight the convictions. He’s accused the high court of a
political bias, and some of his supporters have suggested
they’ll appeal to the Inter-American Court on  Human Rights 
because the conditions for a fair trial in Brazil don’t exist.  No Prison Yet  While yesterday’s sentencing may erode the legacy of Lula,
who stepped down in 2011 as Brazil’s most-popular president
ever, Dirceu and others won’t go to jail until the court
executes its sentence and defense lawyers exhaust all their
legal options.  “I won’t believe it until I see it,” said Jose dos Pasos
Pereira Silva, a gardener in the capital, where legislators and
local officials were caught on videotape in 2009 thanking God in
a prayer for the bribes they received from government
contractors. “It’s way past the time for the rich and powerful
to see a prison from the inside.”  The trial, which was broadcast on television, galvanized
public opinion. During one celebratory demonstration outside the
 Supreme Court , anti-corruption advocates held up banners
referring to the popular expression that crooked officials in
Brazil aren’t punished but instead regularly cut their corrupt
deals in a pizza party. “Did Brazil Change? Did the Pizza
Parlor close?” one sign read.  An August  Datafolha  opinion survey showed 73 percent of
those polled said the main defendants in the trial should go to
jail, though only 11 percent thought that would happen.  Few Convictions  By law, top officials, including the president, Cabinet
members and federal legislators, must be tried in the Supreme
Court on criminal charges. Since Brazil’s 1988 constitution, the
high court has sentenced only six such officials. None has gone
to prison.  A key figure in the trial is Joaquim Barbosa, who rose from
janitor in a local court to being appointed by Lula as the first
black Supreme Court justice in 2003. Barbosa, who was the lead
justice in the case, convinced the majority of his peers that
circumstantial evidence was enough to establish that government
and party officials paid bribes to influence lawmakers.  President  Dilma Rousseff , a Lula protégé who became chief
of staff after Dirceu resigned when the mensalao scandal broke
in 2005, has tried to distance herself from the corruption that
surrounded Lula’s government.  During her first year in office, she accepted the
resignations of six ministers amid accusations of graft and
influence-peddling. Her toughened stance on corruption has
helped boost her approval rating, which stood at 77 percent in
September, even as the government struggles to lift economic
growth that is forecast to have slowed to 1.5 percent this year.  While the sentencing to jail of former government officials
is a “big deal,” many of the underlying causes that led to the
crimes remain unresolved, said Alejandro Salas, Latin America
director for the Berlin-based Transparency.  These include tougher campaign financing regulation and
rules that increase party discipline and make Congress more
transparent and accountable. Brazil ranked 73rd out of 183
countries in  Transparency’s  2011 Corruption Perception Index.  “Hopefully this case will trigger reform,” Salas said in
an interview in  Rio de Janeiro  before the sentencing. “Sometime
you need a big bang event like this for action to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  