-- Hungarian Inflation Set to Slow From 4-Year High Amid Rate Cuts
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-11-12T14:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/hungarian-inflation-set-to-slow-from-4-year-high-amid-rate-cuts.html
Hungarian inflation, the fastest in
the European Union, probably slowed in October as the central
bank gears up for further interest-rate cuts.  The  inflation rate  dropped to 6.3 percent from 6.6 percent
in September, which was the highest since July 2008, according
to the median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The statistics office will publish the data tomorrow at 9 a.m.
in Budapest.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  on Oct. 30 reduced the two-week
deposit rate for a third month by a quarter-point to 6.25
percent as this year’s recession outweighed inflation concerns
and uncertainty about obtaining international aid. There’s still
room to cut the EU’s highest interest rate as the nation’s risk
assessment improves and the inflation goal remains within reach
on the policy horizon, central bankers Andrea Bartfai-Mager,
Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said Nov. 5.  “Fuel prices probably dropped in October after rising the
same month last year,” while household energy price-growth
probably slowed last month, Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based
economist at Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB unit, said in a phone
interview. Still, “inflation doesn’t seem to matter with the
majority of the Monetary Council focused on the exchange rate
and the risk premium.”  The forint has gained 11.1 percent against the euro this
year, the world’s best performance, as investors bet the
government will get an International Monetary Fund loan to ease
fiscal concerns and financing risks. It traded at 283.43 per
euro at 1:11 p.m. in Budapest.  Default Swaps  The cost to insure government debt against non-payment with
five-year credit-default swaps was 290 basis points today,
falling from 299 points a month ago and as high as 735 points
Jan. 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the 10-
year government bond rose to 6.92 percent from 6.85 percent a
month ago.  The central bank, which targets 3 percent inflation, in
September raised its forecast for price growth to an average of
5.8 percent this year and 5 percent in 2013.  Inflation expectations are rising and monetary-policy
makers should only lower rates once prices stabilize, Julia Kiraly, a central bank vice president, said Nov. 8.  It’s “too big a leap” to divide the Monetary Council into
inflation and growth-oriented factions, Bartfai-Mager said last
week. The country’s “equilibrium interest rate” is 4.5 percent
to 5 percent, Gerhardt said.  The Monetary Council was split 4-3 in backing a rate cut
over a proposal for no change in August and September. October’s
decision, details of which will be published Nov. 14 in the
monthly minutes, was backed by a “narrow majority,” MNB
President  Andras Simor  said Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  