-- United Spirits Jumps as Diageo Agrees to Buy Stake
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-11-12T10:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/united-spirits-jumps-as-diageo-agrees-to-buy-stake.html
United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  surged by a
record in Mumbai trading after  Diageo Plc (DGE)  said it will buy a
controlling stake in  India ’s largest distiller for $2.04
billion.  United Spirits climbed 35 percent to 1,832.95 rupees, the
biggest gain since its listing in September 2001. The stock was
the biggest gainer on the 10-member  BSE India Fast Moving
Consumer Goods Index. (BSETMCG)   London-based Diageo will acquire a 53.4 percent stake in
United Spirits for 111.7 billion rupees ($2.04 billion), it said
in a statement on Nov. 9. The investment will help the Indian
company controlled by Vijay Mallya boost sales and spend on
marketing, said  Arun Kejriwal , director of advisory firm
Kejriwal Research & Investment Services Pvt.  “It will now be managed by a company that is cash-rich,”
Kejriwal said in a telephone interview. “Till today it has had
the baggage of being overleveraged and not having the free cash
required to run such a business.”  The Indian company had net debt of 42.9 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. United Spirits’s net debt including that of units was
83.8 billion rupees in the same period, the data shows.  The deal with the Johnnie Walker Scotch maker will help
United Spirits compete in India’s premium whiskey market,
analysts at Religare Capital Markets said in a research note
today. India’s whiskey market may grow to $31 billion in 2016
from $21 billion in 2011, according to Euromonitor International
estimates.  Margin Boost  The cash infusion will help United Spirits “improve its
 capital structure  as well as margin profile in the medium to
long term through premiumisation and operational efficiencies,”
the analysts at Religare said.  “Earlier there were restrictions not only from within the
group but from the regulator, from the bankers, because of the
debts of other group companies,” Kejriwal said about United
Spirits. “All those things will be a thing of the past.”  The deal comes as Chairman Mallya’s  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR)  is struggling with a cash shortage and a suspended
operating license. Mallya has declined to comment on what the
deal means for Kingfisher.  United Spirits’s net  income  for the three months ended
September declined 73 percent to 392.7 million rupees as raw
material costs surged, the company said in a separate statement
to the stock exchange on Nov. 9. Net sales increased 24 percent
to 22.2 billion rupees in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  