-- Universal Music, Sony Invest in Artists as Industry Value Drops
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-12T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/universal-music-sony-invest-in-artists-as-industry-value-drops.html
Record labels spent $2.7 billion on
artists and repertoire last year, even as revenue in the music
business contracted and a gloomy economy caused other industries
to curb investment.  Labels spent about 16 percent of 2011 revenue on A&R, the
International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said in a
report today. That is more than in other industries, where such
spending would be described as research and development, it
said, citing 9.6 percent investment in the software industry and
15.3 percent in pharmaceuticals. The investment comparisons are
based on the European Commission’s 2011 EU Industrial R&D
Investment Scoreboard.  Music companies are trimming costs with cheaper and more
focused marketing campaigns via digital and social media and
increasingly rely on licensing of music in TV, film and games as
well as partnerships with brands to drive revenue, according to
the report from the IFPI, which represents businesses including
 Universal Music  Group, Sony and Warner Music Group.  With marketing added to the A&R total,  record companies 
spent $4.5 billion last year, as revenue for the worldwide
recorded  music industry  fell 2.9 percent to $16.7 billion,
according to the IFPI. A&R spending dropped only 3.6 percent
from 2008 even as the industry’s value fell 16 percent.  Costs associated with breaking a major artist average $1.4
million, which includes an advance payment to the artist and
costs for recording, video production and touring, according to
the report  The top-five global live acts of 2011 were U2, Bon Jovi,
Take That, Roger Waters and  Taylor Swift .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 