-- TV: Oliver Stone’s Untold History; Mankind; Mick & Keith
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/tv-oliver-stone-s-untold-history-mankind-mick-keith.html
“I want to tell America’s story in a
way that’s never been told before,” says  Oliver Stone , director
of “ Wall Street ” and “JFK.”  And in “Oliver Stone’s Untold History of the  United States ,”
Showtime’s densely packed 10-hour documentary series, he does --
at length and in impenetrable, see-what-sticks fashion.  Narrating over old newsreel footage and archival photos, the
sonorous Stone recites a detail-packed leftist history,
disputing notions of American exceptionalism.  Written by Stone and  American University  professor Peter
Kuznick, “Untold” bloats with details from the duo’s 700-plus-
page companion tome. It’s like watching an audio book.  The four hour-long episodes available for review span World
War II through the early years of the  Cold War .  Recounting the minutiae of wartime pacts, political
maneuvering and battlefield victories, Stone challenges, for
example, the claim that “Americans won World War II.”  The  Soviet Union , he says, was the deciding combatant. But
does anyone really claim that the U.S. single-handedly defeated
the Axis powers?  Straw man arguments are as plentiful here as claims to
originality. Indictments of empire-building and American
militarism might not be common in grade-school history classes,
but Howard Zinn’s oeuvre is only an Amazon click away.  “Oliver Stone’s Untold History of the United States” airs
Monday on Showtime at 8 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: **1/2  Sprawling Humanity  Remarking on humanity’s Darwinian sprawl across the planet
70,000 years ago, NBC’s pithy  Brian Williams  sums it up: “We are
a restless bunch.”  History’s “Mankind: The Story of All of Us” doesn’t get much
deeper than that, though covering the Big Bang to the Atomic Age
in 12 hours merits a little slack.  A follow up to the channel’s popular 2010 series “America:
The Story of Us,” the slick, silly new miniseries broadens its
scope (if not its formula) to include, yes, all of us.  CGI effects, historical (and pre-historical) reenactments
and Dr. Oz-level celebrity interviews keep things moving fast,
from cave drawings (“The first example of individuality,” says
Williams) to the pyramids, all within the first hour.  “New technologies and new people change things” is a
typically duh-inspiring bit of narration. But those Phoenicians
sure knew how to build a ship.  “Mankind: The Story of All of Us” airs Tuesday on History at
9 p.m. New York time. Rating: **1/2  The Stones  “It’s all a bit of a kaleidoscope,” says  Keith Richards  in
 HBO ’s  Rolling Stones  documentary “Crossfire Hurricane,” trying
to recall a moment or two from the early 1970s.  “I was definitely on another planet by this point.”  Fortunately, the band rarely shied away from cameras
chronicling every move, lick and scandal.  “Crossfire Hurricane,” though hardly essential (what new
Stones film could be?), compiles enough terrific footage from
previous films to fill in Keith’s blank spots.  If nothing else, we’re reminded that for a good long time,
the “greatest rock and roll band” hype was deserved.  Filmmaker Brett Morgen (“The Kid Stays in the Picture”)
scored the band’s blessing and conditional participation --
every living Stone, including former band mates Bill Wyman and
Mick Taylor, provide off-screen commentary.  Subtitled “The Rise of the Stones,” Morgen’s film aims at
the band’s gloried 1965-72 period, focusing particularly on the
frenzied energy, onstage and in the audience, of the group’s
live performances.  The riotous vibe is there from the beginning, with early,
pre-”Satisfaction” footage of fans storming the stage and
fighting police, all but warning that Altamont was coming.  “Crossfire Hurricane: The Rise of the Rolling Stones” airs
Thursday on HBO at 9 p.m. Rating: ***1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  spirits  and David
Shribman on  books .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 