-- Victoria’s Secret Channels Mad Men Into Hottest Limited
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-12T22:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/victoria-s-secret-channels-mad-men-into-hottest-limited.html
Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s Victoria’s
Secret is thriving using a marketing strategy that seems more
Mad Men-era than from the age of Twitter.  While other big brand retailers try to hone their social-
media skills, the intimate-apparel chain is creating excitement
with a network TV holiday fashion show featuring young women
wearing Swarovski crystal-decorated lingerie strutting down a
runway in six-inch heels. The show, in its second decade, serves
as the cornerstone of an efficient marketing machine. Last year,
the special received its highest rating since at least 2002,
with 11.5 million viewers. Most viewers are women.  The approach is paying off. Victoria’s Secret’s sales have
 risen  7 percent in the past three quarters to $4.33 billion
after posting a record $6.1 billion in revenue for the year
through Jan. 28. It’s the biggest of Columbus, Ohio-based
Limited’s brands, followed by Bath & Body Works.  The TV show is “essentially an hour-long commercial, and
really, that is unheard of,” Erika Maschmeyer, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a telephone interview. “There
are a lot of places to buy intimate apparel, but there’s no
other place that has such a strong brand connotation to it and I
think the fashion show is definitely a part of that.”  Elaborate Costumes  The lingerie chain’s marketing approach is in sharp
contrast to industry trends. Retailers, which may see online
sales grow to 16 percent of $586 billion in revenue this holiday
season, have increased digital efforts at the expense of more
traditional advertising.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. specialty
apparel retailer, has added to social media and moved away from
television and print ads, while department-store company  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP)  exited its catalog business last year.  Viewers can’t buy much of what the models wear in the
fashion show aside from Victoria’s Secret’s bras and panties, as
elaborate costumes range across themes such as “Circus,”
“Calendar Girls” and “Silver Screen Angels.” Silk jeweled
corsets, feather bustiers and wings of all types were styled
around the underwear to create the lingerie-clad version of a
tiger in one walk to a Native American chief in another.  “As soon as this one finishes they start working on the
next,” said supermodel Miranda Kerr. “There’s so much
attention to detail in the underwear, everything is hand-
stitched.”  ‘Emotional Content’  The chain does use Facebook, Twitter and e-mail to draw Web
traffic and build excitement around new collections and events
such as the fashion show. Web and catalog sales rose 4 percent
to $1.56 billion in the latest year, a quarter of the business,
while revenue at Victoria’s Secret’s 1,000-plus stores rose 14
percent to $4.56 billion.  Still, the Internet doesn’t drive a lot of “emotional
content,” Chief Financial Officer Stuart Burgdoerfer, said in a
presentation to investors on Oct. 17. Victoria’s Secret and Bath
and Body Works emphasize the product and in-store experience
above all and aren’t aiming to be leaders in technology, he
said.  Victoria’s Secret spends about $220 million a year on the
catalogs sent to customers’ homes each year, including postage,
creative, printing, paper and circulation, the biggest expense
of its direct business, according to a job posting on its
website. The company said it mails 325 million catalogs a year,
a figure greater than the U.S. Census Bureau’s estimate of the
U.S.  population .  The company’s 15 percent stock gain this year trails the
rallies at specialty retailers  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  which has
added 28 percent and Gap, with an 81 percent rise. It has beaten
both in the past five years, as well as the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Retailing Index (S5RETL) , by more than doubling to $46.43 at the
close in  New York  today.  Wexner Tenure  Limited Chief Executive Officer Les Wexner, the longest-
tenured CEO in the  S&P 500 , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, has spun off apparel brands including the Limited
stores,  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) , Express Inc., while keeping
Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works.  “He truly views intimate apparel and personal care as more
attractive categories,” Maschmeyer said. Victoria’s Secret is
the biggest specialty retailer for intimate apparel, mainly
competing with department stores for business, and created
demand for items like push-up bras and colorful underwear in the
way  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU)  has helped create a market for
trendy yoga wear, she said.  Angel Models  Victoria’s Secret’s models, known as “Angels,” are a
major part of the brand’s image, appearing in the fashion show,
catalogs, stores and advertisements. The website features a “VS
All Access”  section  for learning more about the group, which
includes Adriana Lima and Kerr. Unlike brands that hire
celebrities to market their apparel or design new lines,
modeling for Victoria’s Secret launches careers. Alumni include
supermodels Tyra Banks,  Gisele Bundchen  and  Heidi Klum .  Under Wexner’s direction, the brand sought to create
celebrities, rather than use them as spokespeople, said Marcie
Merriman, director of brand strategy and planning for Victoria’s
Secret from 2001 to 2003. “They would never pick known models
or ones that are already out there, because the brand is
stronger than that,” she said in a telephone interview.  “The models chosen are very specifically ones that women
can relate to or feel comfortable around and have
personalities,” she said, pointing to Klum and Banks, who have
both hosted television shows, as examples.  $2.5 Million Bra  One model wears a multi-million dollar bra gift set in the
show each year, an illustration of the event’s opulence and the
brand’s aspirational nature. This year’s set, valued at $2.5
million, was made with more than 5,200 precious gems, including
sapphires, rubies and diamonds, in 18-karat rose and yellow
gold. Yet prices, generally, at the brand are “reachable for
the average upper-middle class woman,” Merriman said.
Merchandise online includes $62 lace push-up bras and $70 satin
pajama sets.  The fashion show may cost about $12 million, though it
“pays for itself” as a marketing tactic,  Jennifer Davis , an
analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in New York, said in a
telephone interview before the report.  Limited spent at least $474 million in advertising in its
most recent fiscal year, compared with $548 million at Gap,
which makes about $4 billion more in annual sales, and less than
$100 million at Urban Outfitters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  