-- Vodacom Climbs to Record on Africa Growth: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-12T15:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/vodacom-profit-rises-22-after-international-revenue-increases.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the largest
provider of mobile-phone services to South Africans, rose to a
record after operations outside the continent’s biggest economy
compensated for slower growth in its home market.  Vodacom jumped 5 percent to 116.39 rand, the highest since
the company’s May 2009 listing, at its close in Johannesburg.
About 3.5 million shares changed hands, 158 percent of the daily
average over the past three months.  Earnings per share excluding one-time items jumped 22
percent to 3.96 rand in the six months through September as
revenue earned from the services it provides to customers
outside  South Africa  increased 36 percent to 6 billion rand,
Johannesburg-based Vodacom said in a statement today.
International operations contributed 20 percent of group revenue
compared with 16 percent a year earlier.  “The South African numbers didn’t look as bad as we would
have expected them to look, even though they were still fairly
anemic, but international was a massive surprise,” Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based Afena Capital, said
by phone.  The company, 65 percent owned by Newbury, England-based
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , has focused on expanding operations outside
of South Africa to compete with  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  The number of
customers in countries including Tanzania and the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo climbed 19 percent and the company plans to
introduce mobile-money services to Mozambique and  Lesotho  in the
next nine months, it said.  Meeting Forecast  Vodacom is “on track to deliver” on a forecast outlined
in May 2012 of “low single-digit service revenue growth” and
an “incremental” expansion of its margin on earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization by improving
efficiencies and raising spending by as much as 13 percent of
group revenue, Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said in an
e-mailed statement.  The company is confident of a positive outcome to a dispute
in Congo with Congolese Wireless Network SPRL dating back to
2010 over investment in the business, Joosub said on a
conference call to reporters. Previous plans to exit Congo were
halted, he said.  “It’s a massive market; once these problems are resolved
they should grow quite substantially,” Dlamini said.  The company’s  30-day historical volatility , a measure of
stock swings, increased to 23.55 from 22.55 on Nov. 9. The
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index’s  30-day volatility measure was 
at 9.15 versus 9.14 previously. A higher reading means an
asset’s price can have bigger moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  