-- VTB, Corporate Bank Affiliates Buy 94% Stake in Vivacom
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-11-12T15:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/vtb-corporate-bank-affiliates-buy-94-stake-in-vivacom-1-.html
Viva Telecom Bulgaria EAD, owned by
affiliates of  Russia ’s VTB Capital Plc and Sofia-based  Corporate
Commercial Bank AD (6C9) , acquired 94 percent of  Vivacom (5BT)  AD,
Bulgaria’s second-biggest phone company by clients.  The acquisition was approved by the European Commission and
local regulators, Vivacom said in a regulatory filing in Sofia
today.  VTB Capital and Corporate Bank signed an agreement with
Vivacom’s creditors on Aug. 7 to pay 130 million euros ($165
million) for a 94 percent stake in Vivacom and pay debts worth
588 million euros, which have been reduced from 1.7 billion
euros through debt repayment, equity conversion and debt write
off, it said.  “Vivacom’s sale is good news,” Veselin Radoichev, an
analyst at First Financial Brokerage House in Sofia, said by
phone. “The new owners, partly being Bulgarian, will probably
tighten spending and improve the balance sheet. They may choose
to divide or sell some of its assets and at a later stage sell
the company to a strategic investor for a much higher price.
Vivacom’s mobile unit is performing very well.”  Mobile Services  Vivacom reported on Oct. 17 a 34 percent profit increase
for the first nine months to 33 million lev ($21.4 million) from
a year ago, driven by a 12.4 percent rise in sales of mobile
services, which amounted to 296 million lev. Fixed-line sales
declined 9.3 percent in the same period.  Vivacom controls about 15 percent of the mobile services
market and has room to expand, Radoichev said. Vivacom competes
with  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ’s Mobiltel, and Globul, which is
controlled by  Greece ’s Cosmote SA.  Vivacom’s creditors, which took over the company after it
breached terms on 1.6 billion euros of loans in 2011, rejected
bids in May by  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  and Icelandic
billionaire Thor Bjorgolfsson, who controlled the company
between 2005 and 2007.  The loans were arranged by Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , along with  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  to
finance Vivacom’s 2007 buyout, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vivacom fell 7.7 percent to close at 3 lev in Sofia today,
compared with a close on Nov. 1 when the stock last traded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  