-- Weintraub to Return Money in Transition to Family Office
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-11-12T21:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/weintraub-to-return-money-in-transition-to-family-office.html
Weintraub Capital Management LP, the
$1 billion San Francisco-based long-short equity hedge fund,
will return money to investors and become a family office
overseeing the wealth of founder Jerry Weintraub.  “Like lots of big decisions, it’s not any one particular
thing, it’s a process,” Weintraub said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s been a great run for myself and for my co-
workers, and for a variety of reasons we decided it was best to
wind down.”  Weintraub, 53, who started the firm in 1992, declined to
specify what led to his decision.  In this year’s first half, 424  hedge funds  were liquidated,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Liquidations
climbed to 775 last year, the most since 2009. Long-short equity
 funds , whose managers can bet on rising and falling stocks,
gained 1.5 percent this year through October, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, compared with a 14 percent return for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, including reinvested dividends.  Weintraub Capital Management advanced 3 percent in 2012
through October and had only two years of negative returns
during its two decades, falling about 3 percent both times, he
said. The fund averaged annual gains “in the low teens” since
inception.  Investors will receive 90 percent of their capital by year-
end and the rest after an audit to be held in March or April,
Weintraub said.  Weintraub employs 14 people, four of which are
administrators. Some of the administrators will be retained for
the family office and the investment employees won’t be, he
said.  A family office is a company that manages investments or
trusts for one or more families.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  