-- France’s Imminent Competitiveness Shock
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-12T23:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/why-french-economy-can-t-delay-its-competitiveness-shock.html
The government of French President
 Francois Hollande  deserves credit for its decision last week to
cut payroll taxes.  Unfortunately, by itself, the 20 billion euro ($25 billion)
reduction in costs for companies won’t administer the
“competitiveness shock” that a dire, government-commissioned
study recommended Nov. 5 to revive  growth .  It certainly won’t allay the concerns of France’s largest
trading partner,  Germany , whose own economy would be at risk
from a meltdown across the Rhine. As Germany’s Council of
Economic Experts delivered its annual report to  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  last week, one of its members, Lars Feld, warned
that “the largest problem isn’t  Greece  anymore, or Spain or
 Italy , but France because France has done nothing to rebuild its
competitiveness and is even heading in the opposite direction.”
A recent cover line on the daily Bild Zeitung baldly asked:
“Will France Be the New Greece?”  The French government’s response fails to tackle the more
fundamental challenge of curbing out-of-control public spending
and easing France’s rigid labor laws, which were identified as
the gravest threats to the economy both in the report by former
Airbus SAS Chairman  Louis Gallois  and in a review published the
next day by the  International Monetary Fund .  German Model  Both point to the steady deterioration of France’s trade
balance and industrial jobs over the past 10 years, particularly
compared with Germany.  Examples abound: France’s hourly labor costs average $44,
13 percent higher than those in Germany, which has restructured
its labor market to give employers more flexibility in hiring
and firing. France’s labor costs, meanwhile, are up about 19
percent over the decade, even as Germany’s have held almost
constant. France’s share of euro-area exports has dropped by 3.5
percent, more than any country in the region. To wit: Germany
posted a trade surplus of 150 billion euros last year, while
 France  had a deficit of 70 billion euros. Most dramatically,
France’s  unemployment rate  is hovering around 10 percent;
Germany’s is 5.5 percent.  Meanwhile, French companies have seen their operating
margins shrink almost 40 percent in the last decade; those of
German companies have gained about 40 percent.  The government’s decision to cut payroll taxes next year by
20 billion euros is one of the 22 recommendations in the Gallois
report. But the French employers’ federation, Medef, estimates
payroll costs on French businesses would have to drop by 70
billion euros, more than three times as much, to be competitive
with Germany.  More broadly, the government’s proposal falls far short of
the “serious structural reform” the IMF said that France needs,
and that Spain and Italy have already painfully initiated.  If France is serious about reforms, its next step should be
to repeal the 35-hour workweek, a 12-year-old experiment that
has created a costly administrative nightmare, and has failed to
alleviate unemployment. The government also needs to make it
less onerous for companies to hire -- and especially fire --
employees by changing what Gallois aptly called a “cult of
regulation.” As things now stand,  labor laws  aimed at blocking
dismissals also prevent companies from managing their workforce,
including by hiring part-time workers.  To reverse what Gallois described as the accelerating
“unhooking” of the French economy over the past decade, France
will have to scrutinize its cherished -- and impossibly costly -
- social welfare state.  Public spending  that accounts for 56
percent of gross domestic product can’t be sustained, a point
that both Gallois and the IMF highlight. By contrast, such
spending amounts to 46 percent of Germany’s GDP.  Deficit Reduction  Hollande has promised to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3
percent of GDP next year, from about 4.5 percent this year. He
has already announced tax increases -- including an absurd 75
percent rate on the highest incomes and higher sales taxes --
and probably doesn’t have any room on the revenue side.  He will have no choice but to look at cutting expenditures.
In addition to his freeze on public spending, he now needs to
ask French labor unions, public-sector workers and the middle
class for greater sacrifices, including reduced benefits and
delayed retirement.  Hollande would need to show uncommon political courage,
with no promise of success. The deterioration of competitiveness
has occurred over 10 years, a period when France had governments
from both the left and right -- proof of the country’s
entrenched resistance to reform.  He might not have much time to act. The Bank of France
indicated Nov. 9 that, after three quarters of stagnant growth,
France might be tipping into recession as the economy contracts.
The European Commission predicts the French economy will grow a
feeble 0.4 percent in 2013, half the pace expected by Hollande’s
government, after 0.2 percent growth this year.  France shouldn’t be lulled into a false sense of
complacency by the markets, where it can still borrow at
bargain-basement rates of about 2 percent. As we know from the
experience of Greece, this relative calm can end overnight.
Hollande has a chance at his news conference today to lay out
the harsh truths facing France’s economy. Let’s hope he takes
it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to receive
a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns and op-ed
articles.  Today's highlights: the editors on  David Petraeus and e-mail
intelligence ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on meeting the  Syrian rebels ; William
Pesek on the rise of  Japan's political right ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the 
root of all  Republican electoral problems ;  Amity Shlaes  on the 
 narcissism trap ; Cass R. Sunstein on  Lincoln's lesson  for the Supreme 
Court; Gunnar Hokmark on why bank rules, not a supervisor, are  what 
Europe needs .   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 