-- Two Quarter-Point Rate Cuts Are Next in Poland: Glapinski
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-11-12T13:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/two-quarter-point-rate-cuts-are-next-in-poland-glapinski.html
Poland ’s central bank is poised to
cut  interest rates  twice in the coming months as the inflation
rate heads toward a three-year low, policy maker  Adam Glapinski 
said.  “Two quarter-point cuts are most likely,” Glapinski said
in an interview in Warsaw on Nov. 10. The Monetary Policy
Council “sent a clear message and will stick to its typically
cautious approach.”  Last week, the Narodowy Bank Polski cut the benchmark
interest rate for the first time since 2009 as growth in the
European Union’s biggest eastern economy slowed to its weakest
in three years. The bank’s new inflation and GDP projection
showed that  the expansion , blunted by the euro region’s slump,
will ease to 1.5 percent next year, the least since 2002 and
down from 4.3 percent in 2011.  As consumption and investment fall,  inflation  will
decelerate to 2.5 percent by mid-2013, meeting the central
bank’s target for the first time since September 2010. In two
years, the rate will drop to 1.5 percent, the lowest rate since
2007 and the bottom of the bank’s tolerance range, according to
the forecast.  ‘Close Reading’  The zloty weakened 0.3 percent to 4.1693 against the euro
at 2 p.m. in Warsaw, paring this year’s gains to 7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on two-year
zloty bonds rose four basis points to 3.74 percent.  “Anything can happen if the slowdown triggers a radical
drop in the inflation rate,” Glapinski said, indicating the
bank may consider a larger scale of monetary easing. Still, he
advised “a very close reading” of public statements by policy
makers as “at some point, the council will have to state
clearly when the easing cycle is to come to an end.”  Three-month forward-rate agreements were 60 basis points
below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate on Nov. 9,
implying half a point in reductions by the end of January.  In August, they indicated expectations for a quarter-point
cut within three months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.
Twelve-month FRAs were at 101 basis points below the three-month
Wibor, signaling bets of four quarter-point reductions.  ‘Decisive’ Cuts  “Decisive, deeper rate cuts in the coming months are in
order,” another central banker, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, said in
an interview with TVN CNBC today when asked whether the council
should reduce borrowing costs by half a point.  In May, as the  European Central Bank  held borrowing costs,
the Narodowy Bank Polski delivered the EU’s only rate increase
of 2012. It raised the benchmark to a three-year high 4.75
percent, observing its price-stability mandate over concerns
about a worsening economic outlook. Poland’s inflation rate, the
EU’s second-highest, was 3.8 percent in September.  It probably fell to 3.4 percent last month, the slowest
since November 2010, according to the median estimate of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Central Statistical
releases the data on Nov. 14. The bank allows a divergence of
plus or minus 1 percentage point from its price-growth target.  Glapinski calls inflation “stubbornly high” and is
“skeptical” about prospects for its return to the target by
mid-2013 or to below it in 2014. The economic  slowdown  will be
“relatively short-lasting and free of any recession risks,”
and “won’t have such a strong disinflation impact as
projected.”  Glapinski was among eight policy makers on the 10-member
council to vote for May’s rate increase after calling for a
boosting borrowing costs each month since the start of the year.
He opposed cuts in July and September. The vote breakdown for
October will be released this week and in two months for last
week’s rate reduction.  Contrary to some economists’ views, the rate-cut decision
wasn’t “obvious” and doubts about starting an easing cycle are
“fully justified,” Glapinski said. Inflation in the coming
months “will be decisive for future monetary policy.”  Jan Winiecki, also a member of the council, said he
“doesn’t believe” the inflation rate will meet the target in
the first half of 2013.  Winiecki, who was speaking in an interview for TVN CNBC
today, said he is “inclined to support one more cut by a
quarter point” and then he would “monitor the situation in the
real economy for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  