-- Xstrata Said to Weigh Lonmin Offer After Takeover Rebuff
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-12T18:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/xstrata-said-to-weigh-lonmin-offer-after-takeover-rebuff.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  is considering a revised
offer for  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the platinum producer that rejected an
approach from its largest shareholder, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Xstrata, which owns 25 percent of Lonmin, is sounding out
other shareholders’ views on the performance of management and
its planned $817 million stock sale to investors, the people
said, asking not to be identified as the talks are private.
After the discussions, Xstrata may pursue options including a
new proposal for Lonmin, or participating in the share sale on
the condition that Lonmin agrees to replace senior management,
the people said.  Either option would hand greater control to Xstrata, whose
Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  is South African, as London-
based Lonmin restarts its Marikana mine, where a violent strike
and clashes with police have killed about 46 people. Strikes
over pay in  South Africa (SBK) ’s mining industry have also hit firms
including  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and may wipe 0.5
percentage points off the gross domestic product of sub-Saharan
Africa’s largest economy, finance minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
this month.  Lonmin said Nov. 9 it had rejected a proposal that it buy
Xstrata’s South  African platinum  and alloys businesses. The plan
called for Lonmin to hold a $1 billion share sale that would be
fully underwritten by Xstrata, and which would increase the Zug,
Switzerland-based company’s stake to 70 percent in a reverse
takeover.  Lonmin also rejected a second proposal from Xstrata to
support the platinum producer’s rights issue, which is necessary
to meet pledges to creditors, on the condition that Lonmin’s
executive directors are replaced, Lonmin said. Xstrata would
have provided management services to Johannesburg-based Lonmin
under the deal. Lonmin shares rose 6.1 percent 483.2 pence by
the close in London, valuing the company at about 981 million
pounds ($1.6 billion).  An Xstrata official declined to comment. The firm on Nov. 9
said it was concerned about management and “longstanding
operational problems” at Lonmin. Lonmin said in an e-mailed
statement it declined to comment on market speculation.  The walkout at Marikana, which lasted from Aug. 10 to Sept.
20, cut about $170 million from the mine’s output before workers
accepted pay increases of between 11 percent and 22 percent.
Labor unrest in  South Africa  has since spread to manufacturing
and agriculture, with vineyards near  Cape Town  now experiencing
strikes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  