-- Yuan Rises Most in Six Weeks on Exports, Stronger PBOC Fixing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-11-12T08:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/yuan-rises-most-in-six-weeks-on-exports-stronger-pboc-fixing.html
China’s  yuan  gained the most in six
weeks after the government reported the fastest export growth in
five months and the central bank raised its  reference rate .  The currency climbed to a 19-year high, testing the upper
limit of its permitted trading band around the People’s Bank of
China’s daily fixing. Overseas sales increased 11.6 percent from
a year earlier in October and the nation’s $32 billion  trade
surplus  was the largest since January 2009, official data showed
on Nov. 10. The securities regulator said China will increase
the quota for its  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investor program that allows yuan raised overseas to be invested
in stocks and bonds in domestic markets.  “The authorities are probably feeling more comfortable
with the export growth showing signs of life,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Singapore. The RQFII expansion will encourage “more renminbi
buying than otherwise would be the case. A lot of things are
ticking for the renminbi today.”  The yuan strengthened 0.26 percent to close at 6.2291 per
dollar in Shanghai, the biggest gain since Sept. 28, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That is 1 percent
stronger than the central bank’s reference rate, the maximum
divergence allowed. The  fixing  was raised 0.15 percent to
6.2920, the largest advance since Oct. 15. The yuan is a
denomination of China’s currency, the renminbi.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.13
percent to 6.2250, after touching a record high at 6.2235
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards gained 0.17 percent to 6.3355 per
dollar, a 1.7 percent discount to the onshore spot rate. One-
month implied volatility for the onshore yuan, a measure of
 exchange-rate  swings used to price options, was steady at 1.6
percent today.  ‘Hot Money’  Yu Yongding, a former adviser to the central bank, said
today in Hong Kong the yuan will continue to face appreciation
pressure even though the nation’s current account is more or
less in balance.  Recent inflows of “hot money” have caused the yuan to
strengthen recently, Zhang Monan, a researcher at the State
Information Center, wrote in a commentary in the China
Securities Journal. The exchange rate and the trade balance are
at equilibrium levels, according to Zhang.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission, the central
bank and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange have
agreed in principle to raise the quota for the Renminbi
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program by 200 billion
yuan ($32 billion),  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the securities
regulator, said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday. The ruling
Communist Party is holding a congress in Beijing to anoint new
leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  