-- Zloty Weakens to Two-Month Low on Rate Cut Speculation, Greece
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2012-11-12T16:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-12/zloty-weakens-to-two-month-low-on-rate-cut-speculation-greece.html
The zloty declined to a two-month
low against the euro on speculation  Poland ’s central bank will
keep easing monetary policy and on concern that European Union
aid for Greece may be delayed.  The zloty weakened as much as 0.3 percent to 4.1721 against
the euro, the weakest since Sept. 5, and was 0.2 percent lower
at 5:28 p.m. in Warsaw. It lost 0.7 percent this month, the
steepest drop among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Czech koruna. Yields on 10-year
government bonds rose one basis point to 4.19 percent.  “The zloty is weakened by both global and local factors,
as the monetary policy easing has started,” Warsaw-based
analysts at PKO Bank Polski SA, including Joanna Bachert and
Aleksandra Bluj, wrote in an e-mailed research note today.  Governor Marek Belka announced an “easing cycle” after
Poland’s central bank cut its main interest rate by 25 basis
points to 4.5 percent on Oct. 7. Forward rate agreements, used
to speculate on interest rates, signal more than 100 basis
points in cuts in the next six months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Policy makers are poised to lower borrowing costs two more
times in the coming months as inflation slows,  Adam Glapinski ,
one of 10 members of Belka’s Monetary Policy Council, said in an
interview today. Jan Winiecki, another member of rate-setting
panel, told TVN CNBC that he will support one more rate cut.  Accidental Default  Finance ministers from the 17-member euro region will meet
at 5 p.m. in Brussels after Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
gained enough support from lawmakers in his three-party
coalition to pass the 2013 budget.  The ministers intend to prevent a 5 billion-euro ($6.35
billion) Greek bill redemption on Nov. 16 from triggering an
accidental default, while they’re unlikely to ratify a 31.5
billion-euro payment to Greece that has been frozen since June,
a European official said Nov. 9.  “The outlook for central and eastern European currencies
is though far from rosy and we recommend waiting before entering
new long positions, at least until an aid deal for  Greece  is in
the bag,” Andras Oszlay, a Budapest-based analyst for DZ Bank
AG, wrote in a report to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  