-- 'Morsi Meter' Takes the Measure of Egypt's New President
-- B y   J o s h u a   F a l k
-- 2012-07-17T14:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/-morsi-meter-takes-the-measure-of-egypt-s-new-president.html
The clock is ticking for Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi. "17 days out of 100. Over all promises achieved: 0 out of 64," reads the
banner on the English version of Morsi Meter, a website launched by  Zabatak , a
nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that seeks to make  Egypt  "free, corruption-
free and safe." The site tracks the president's progress during the first 100
days of his term on promises he's made. The site resembles  Obameter , a tool run
by PolitiFact.com that follows President  Barack Obama 's progress on campaign
promises. Morsi Meter, available in  Arabic  and  English , contains five categories:
security, traffic, bread, cleanliness and fuel. Some of the 64 commitments
monitored include tying police compensation to performance, installing modern
traffic control systems, providing performance incentives for bread bakery
inspectors, establishing penalties for improper disposal of waste and
establishing penalties for fuel smugglers. The reach of Egypt's online civil society shouldn't be overstated. Millions
of Egyptians participated in the Arab Spring protests. By contrast, the  Facebook
page  credited with helping to spur those protests in Egypt -- "We are all Khaled
Said," named for the 28-year-old  Alexandrian  martyr who became a poster child of
the revolution -- hit a peak of roughly 350,000 members in January 2011, and
today it has around 230,000. Only one in four Egyptians was online in 2010,
according to the  World Bank , although the percentage is certainly higher in
Cairo, where the protests were centered. Yet robust new social media operations are expanding influence and shaping
public debate, for both the Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party and
the Salafi Nour Party that won nearly a quarter of the parliamentary seats in
last winter's election. Internet penetration had climbed to nearly 40 percent by
March 2012, according to the Egyptian Ministry of Communications and  Information
Technology . Now, for those Egyptians online, Morsi Meter will provide an easy
way to see what their new leader ultimately delivers. (Joshua Falk is an intern with Bloomberg View.)