-- Volcker Report Sees U.S. Cuts as Threatening States
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-07-17T19:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/m79m3r1a74e9.html
Budget cuts in Washington may put
added pressure on state governments already strained by employee
pensions and rising health-care costs, according to a report by
a group led by former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker .  Congress’s need to reduce the  budget deficit  jeopardizes
state aid as well as tax breaks, including those for buyers of
municipal bonds, which assist state and local governments,
according to the report released today by a panel of former
government officials. It’s led by Volcker, 84, and  Richard Ravitch , 79,  New York ’s Lieutenant Governor in 2009 and 2010 and
state adviser during  New York City ’s fiscal crisis in the 1970s.  “Though politics is inherently uncertain, it is reasonable
to assume that the future will bring restraints on federal
 government spending , pressure to cut grants-in-aid to states,
cuts in federal procurement, and uncertainty about federal tax
changes,” the group said in the report. “Such developments
would hit the states in this study particularly hard.”  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers are seeking to narrow
the gap between the federal government’s revenue and spending
over the next decade to curb the U.S.  debt . Their decisions may
affect the more than $600 billion a year in federal money that
goes to state and local governments for health care, public
works, schools and other programs, according to the report.  Fresh Challenge  The cutbacks would pose a fresh challenge to states as
their finances are stabilizing from the toll taken by the 18-
month recession that ended three years ago. State tax revenue
has been rebounding for the past two years, easing the pressure
on public officials who must balance their budgets.  The states face several fiscal challenges that will linger
even after the effects of the recession are over, according to
the group, which is seeking to draw attention to the issues.
They include: underfunded pension and medical benefits for
employees; growing costs of the Medicaid health-care program; a
volatile tax base that leaves states vulnerable to crises during
recessions; and oversight of cash-strapped local governments.  Stockton,  California , last month became the biggest U.S.
city to file for  bankruptcy protection , unable to cope with
mounting retiree health-care costs and accounting errors that
overstated municipal revenues. San Bernardino, another
California city, may turn to the courts for protection from its
creditors.  Apocalypse Not Now  These long-term pressures on states probably will worsen if
left unaddressed, according to the report. It called for state
officials to set aside enough money to pay for employees’
retirement benefits, provide clearer financial information to
the public, and shun accounting methods that make it easy to
paper over -- rather than eliminate -- budget shortfalls that
result when governments commit to spend money they don’t have.  “We’re digging a very, very serious hole for ourselves and
the real victims of that are going to be social services, the
infrastructure -- that’s what’s being cut already,” Ravitch
told reporters in Washington. “Our basic effort here was not to
say the Apocalypse is around the corner, but to say that it’s
going to be a hell of a lot more costly to deal with this
problem five years from now than it is to try to deal with it
today.”  Grant Funding  In addition to Ravitch and Volcker, known for his
aggressive steps to curb inflation in the early 1980s and a
pending regulation aimed at curtailing banks’ risk taking, the
group includes former Treasury Secretaries Nicholas Brady and
 George Shultz . Another member is  Alice Rivlin , a former vice
chairman of the Federal Reserve and budget director under
President  Bill Clinton .  The group’s work was funded by grants, from groups
including the Open Society Foundations and the Peter G. Peterson
Foundation.  As state tax collections recover, the  U.S. budget deficit 
is casting uncertainty over the nation’s capitals.  While some state programs, including Medicaid, are exempt
from automatic cuts that will begin in January if Congress
doesn’t act, states may be affected by agreements struck by
lawmakers. California and New York would each lose more than $6
billion if federal aid to states is cut by 10 percent, according
to the group.  The long-term financial pressures on states is well known
in capitals and in the $3.7 trillion  bond market , where
investors and credit-rating companies have discussed the risks
posed by widening shortfalls in public employee pension funds.  Until Brink  Municipal bonds have gained this year as state budget
pressures eased and most new bond sales were used to pay off
higher-cost debt, contributing to a scarcity of tax-exempt
securities. The debt has earned about 5 percent this year,
compared with 2.6 percent for Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  Volcker, the former central banker, told reporters that
it’s typical for  Wall Street  to continue lending money until an
immediate crisis, and said the low yields in the municipal bond
market reflect investors’ perceptions that state and local debts
will be repaid. He declined to offer his own views on whether
the market was adequately pricing the securities.  “This is a characteristic of financial markets, they lend
right up to the brink,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 