-- Abengoa’s Turkey Waste Investment Could Rise to $300 Million
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-07-17T10:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/abengoa-s-turkey-waste-investment-could-rise-to-300-million-1-.html
Abengoa SA (ABG)  will spend $120 million
on two steel-dust-waste treatment plants in  Turkey  and the
investment could rise to $300 million if it decides to expand
capacity and build an aluminum waste treatment plant.  The Spanish engineering company’s Befesa Medio Ambiente SA
unit will build the plants in the western and southern
industrial provinces of Izmir and Adana, Befesa Chairman Javier Molina Montes said in a news conference in Istanbul today. The
factories will each have a steel dust treatment capacity of
110,000 metric tons a year, he said.  Befesa has potential to expand its plants, which will start
operations in the second half of 2014, Turkey’s Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan said at the conference. Befesa plans to recycle
about 45 percent of the steel dust produced in Turkey’s annual
steel production of nearly 24 million tons, Montes said.  “We will start building the plants in early 2013 after
getting required permits,” Montes said.  The plants will convert steel dust into as much as 80,000
tons of zinc oxide annually, according to a statement
distributed at the news conference. All production will be
exported for as much as $100 million a year to the European
Union,  China  and  South Korea , Montes said.  Befesa, which entered the Turkish market by acquiring a
stake from  Silvermet Inc. (SYI) , a Toronto-based mineral exploration
company, in 2010, is also studying Turkey’s aluminum market and
may decide to build an aluminum waste treatment plant should the
market prove feasible, Montes said.  Ilker Ayci, head of the Turkish government’s Ankara-based
agency to promote foreign direct investment to the country, said
Befesa’s investment will help Turkey to reach this year’s target
of at least $16 billion of foreign direct investment, unchanged
from last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  