-- Alcatel-Lucent to Miss Margin Goal After Quarterly Loss
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-17T15:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/alcatel-lucent-says-it-had-second-quarter-operating-loss.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) ,  France ’s largest
telecommunications-equipment supplier, said it will miss a
profit target after posting a quarterly operating loss on waning
demand. The stock dropped the most in more than 13 years.  Alcatel-Lucent said today in a statement it won’t meet its
goal for full-year adjusted operating-profit margin, citing
“year-to-date performance and the difficult macro-economic
environment.” The Paris-based company earlier this year
predicted that its 2012 profit margin would rise.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, trying to cope with
a slowdown in spending on network equipment and competition from
Huawei Technologies Co. and Ericsson AB, is struggling to keep
Alcatel-Lucent profitable. The company -- formed by the 2006
merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies -- reported its
first annual profit in six years in 2011.  “Alcatel will miss its operating profit margin due to the
delay of business in  China  and also the negative economic
environment,” Odon de Laporte, an analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux in  London , said by phone. “The impact of China delays
for other equipment makers such as Ericsson will be more
marginal.”  Alcatel-Lucent  fell  20 percent to 91 cents, the biggest
drop since Sept. 1998. The stock has lost 75 percent in the past
year, valuing the company at 2.1 billion euros. Ericsson, the
world’s largest maker of wireless networks, dropped 1.3 percent
to 58.90 kronor in  Stockholm .  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which owns Nokia
Siemens with Siemens AG,  slumped  7.9 percent to 1.40 euros in
Helsinki.  Europe Malaise  Alcatel-Lucent’s second-quarter adjusted operating loss was
about 40 million euros ($49 million), the company said, citing
“slower-than-expected business-mix improvement.” Sales topped
3.5 billion euros. Analysts had  projected  3.57 billion euros,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company first gave its full-year margin forecast in
February, saying adjusted operating profit as a percentage of
sales would increase from the 2011 level of about 3.9 percent.
It reported a first-quarter adjusted operating loss of 221
million euros.  Alcatel-Lucent plans to give more details when it reports
full second-quarter earnings on July 26, said Simon Poulter, a
spokesman for the company. European rivals Ericsson and Nokia
Siemens Networks are scheduled to report earnings this week.  Alcatel-Lucent is looking to the U.S.,  Latin America  and
 Asia  for growth, Verwaayen said in an interview in May. Phone
companies in the U.K., Germany, Italy and France have been
reluctant to invest as much as their counterparts in the U.S.
and Asia in faster mobile-phone and fixed-line networks because
of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and unfavorable regulatory
decisions, he said.  Global Slowdown  Still, a slowing economic growth in regions outside Europe
may also hurt demand for phone equipment, Francisco Salvador, a
strategist at FGA/MG Valores in  Madrid , said in a phone
interview today. The economy of China, the world’s most populous
country, grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace since
the depths of the global financial crisis in 2009.  “During the last three months China has released
macroeconomic data that shows the negative impact of the global
economic slowdown and the lack of dynamism in consumption trends
in the country,” Salvador said. “Today’s announcement could
easily mirror what’s next for other equipment makers as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  