-- Angelo Gordon Seeks Properties in Japan Eyeing Recovery
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-07-17T07:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/angelo-gordon-seeks-more-japanese-properties-eyeing-recovery.html
Angelo Gordon & Co., a  New York- 
based manager with $24 billion in assets, is seeking to boost
Japan property investments amid signs of a recovery, after
acquiring about $650 million of real estate in the country the
past two years.  Angelo Gordon, which manages fixed income, real estate,
buyout and  hedge funds , is interested in buying more office and
commercial buildings in central  Tokyo , said Jon Tanaka, managing
director of Angelo Gordon International LLC, a unit of the U.S.
manager. The company last month bought the 13-story Aoyama Bell
Commons, a commercial building in the capital, he said.  “A major opportunity is in assets that banks don’t want to
refinance,” Tanaka said in an interview in Tokyo. “That is
where the bulk of opportunities will come from.”  Angelo Gordon is seeking bargains in Japan as the  property
market  begins to show signs of a turnaround. Office buildings in
Tokyo provided a 3.4 percent total return, including rental
income and capital value, in 2011, after a 0.5 percent gain a
year earlier, based on data compiled by  RREEF , a property
investment arm of Deutsche Bank AG. Before that, the market had
three straight years of decline, the data showed.  Angelo Gordon has spent more than $1 billion in 37 deals in
 Asia  since it started investing in the region in 2005. Four of
the transactions were in Tokyo, eight in  Korea  and the rest in
China, he said.  The Topix Real Estate  Index (TPREAL) , which tracks 44 property
companies, had the biggest gain in more than two weeks, rising
2.1 percent to 791.05 in Tokyo. The Tokyo Stock Exchange  REIT (TSEREIT) 
index rose to the highest level in more than a week.  Improving Assets  The company’s AG Asia Realty Fund II, its second property
fund in Asia, has the capacity to acquire as much as $1.23
billion of real estate in Japan, China and  South Korea , he said.  Angelo Gordon’s investment strategy for Japan is to buy
properties it can upgrade with improvements from the new design
of a building’s surface to changing the entrance, and boosting
occupancies and rents, Tanaka said. Logistics and hospitality
properties in Japan are also attractive, he said.  Tokyo’s office vacancy rate rose to a record high of 9.43
percent in June from 9.4 percent a month earlier, according to
Miki Shoji Co., a closely held office brokerage company. The
average rent in the five wards climbed for the first time in
about four years in May and increased to 16,763 yen ($210) per
tsubo last month, it said. A tsubo, a standard measure of
property area in  Japan , is 3.3 square meters or 35.5 square feet.  “When a building starts losing tenants, the owners can
become reluctant to invest in the building because they are
losing cash flow and lenders can get very nervous.” Tanaka said.
“That can create investment opportunities for us.”  China Opportunities  The vacancy rate will start to recover in the second half
and push up rents higher as early as next year, according to
Koichiro Obu, RREEF’s research head for Japan and Korea.  “An increase in supply has lifted the office vacancy
rate,” Obu said. “We have seen net absorption from tenants in
the past two years. When supply levels become moderate toward
the end of the year, it should help improve the vacancy rate.”  China , where the government imposed restrictions on home
purchases and other curbs such as higher mortgage down payments
in the past two years, may also offer investment opportunities
for Angelo Gordon, Tanaka said.  “The government policies have a stronger impact and more
immediate than what you might feel in the U.S or Japan,” said
Tanaka. “The tightening actually helps us source opportunities
because local developers may no longer have access to capital,
so they need partners like us.”  Property Returns  Total return for properties in the U.K. rose to as high as
15 percent in 2010 and fell by half last year, while properties
in the U.S. climbed for two straight years after posting two
annual losses, based on data compiled by RREEF.  “Compared to major markets like  New York  and  London , core
asset prices in Tokyo have not appreciated very much,” Tanaka
said. “We think there is upside potential as fundamentals
improve.”  Angelo Gordon was founded in 1988 by Chief Executive
Officer John Angelo and Chief Investment Officer  Michael Gordon .
 Angelo Gordon  began investing in commercial real estate in 1993
and has acquired more than $13 billion of properties, according
to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  