-- Marcus Reaches Out to South Africa Central Bank Critics
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-07-18T13:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/marcus-reaches-out-to-south-africa-central-bank-critics.html
Gill Marcus  chose a speech to a
labor union that wants to nationalize the South African central
bank she heads to defend its independence and inflation-
targeting policy.  Marcus, 62, had to pause several times as hundreds of
delegates from the National Union of Metalworkers of South
Africa talked and ate while she spoke. That didn’t detract from
her message at the June 7 presentation in the dining hall of
Durban’s main conference center. The Reserve Bank will act
without “fear or favor” on interest rates, she said.  While her comments didn’t persuade the unions, it’s her
willingness to meet with detractors that’s come to characterize
Marcus’s term since November 2009. Her predecessor,  Tito Mboweni , had a decade marked by conflict with labor unions,
surprise rate decisions and dominance in communicating policy.  “She has managed to open her hands to those who criticize
her,” S’Dumo Dlamini, president of the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, whose 2 million members include the
metalworkers, said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “She
is always open to engagement.”  When the metalworkers union picketed outside the central
bank’s head office in  Pretoria  in May 2009, Mboweni declined to
meet them, drawing criticism from union leaders who called him
“arrogant.” Marcus was named governor two months later after
President  Jacob Zuma  won power with the backing of labor unions.  Open Communication  Marcus, who wears flowing kaftans and is unmarried, is the
first female governor of the 91-year-old central bank. She
wasn’t available to be interviewed because of work commitments,
said her spokesman, Hlengani Mathebula.  “We aren’t this black box in Pretoria,” Marcus said in a
July 4 speech in Johannesburg. “We think it is very important
that people better understand the economy and monetary policy
decisions. Our society should support our central bank.”  In a country where  unemployment  is at 25.2 percent, Marcus
argues that the central bank’s role is to keep inflation under
control to encourage investment and jobs.  Investors are drawn to her message, pushing the yield on
South African’s 10-year bond to a record low of 6.79 percent
yesterday as inflation slows. Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent
in June from a year ago, the statistics office said today.  At the same time, unions say that the  Reserve Bank ’s focus
on  price stability  is undermining  job creation  and is
inappropriate in a country where about a third of the population
lives on less than $2 a day.  Limiting Surprises  Besides trying to placate the unions, Marcus has set up
regular meetings with political parties, economists, business
groups and the media. To improve transparency, she has given her
deputies and Monetary Policy Committee members a bigger role in
communicating policy.  “She felt it was very important to speak not just to the
financial markets but to all stakeholders,” Brian Kahn,
Marcus’s economic adviser and an MPC member, said in an
interview from Pretoria. The goal is to “get people to
understand not just what the bank does but what it can’t do.
Central banks are being expected to do everything because
governments are failing and economies are remaining weak.”  Marcus’s approach may be helping to create a more stable
policy environment. Of the 16 rate decision meetings she has
chaired, only one outcome surprised the majority of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with five in the previous
16 meetings chaired by Mboweni.  Knightsbridge Spot  The MPC has kept the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
5.5 percent for a record 20 months and will leave the rate on
hold tomorrow, according to 16 of the 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Investors, by and large, come away impressed both by her
and by the way she interacts with her subordinates in such
meetings,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in
 London , said in an e-mail. Marcus often defers questions to her
colleagues in a way Mboweni rarely did, Montalto said.  Marcus, who was born in Johannesburg, went into exile in
London in 1969 with her parents, who were white anti-apartheid
activists. During that time, she completed her bachelor of
commerce degree through correspondence at the University of
 South Africa .  She began honing her skills at public relations as she
campaigned for the then-banned  African National Congress . While
working at her parent’s sandwich shop in Knightsbridge, she
published documents for the ANC and ran a news-clipping service.
In 1982, apartheid security agents detonated a bomb next to her
offices, which were vacant at the time.  1994 Vote  She returned to South Africa after a ban on the ANC was
lifted in 1990 and helped set up the party’s communications unit
there.  “Gill played a very, very significant role,” Pallo Jordan, an ex-cabinet minister and former head of the ANC’s
Department of Information and Publicity, said in a phone
interview from  Cape Town . “She was at the center of the
operation in London. The ethos of consultation and drawing in as
many players before you make up your mind about important
decisions, she brought with her from the ANC days.”  Marcus became a lawmaker after the ANC won the first all-
race election in 1994, serving as head of parliament’s finance
committee and eventually becoming deputy finance minister and
deputy central bank governor.  After five years of working under Mboweni, she quit to
become an academic. In 2005, she was named chairwoman of gold
miner Western Areas Ltd. and moved two years later into the same
position at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , South Africa’s biggest consumer
bank. It’s now controlled by London-based Barclays Plc.  More Relevant?  “My recollection of her is someone who is incredibly
thorough, very diligent,” said Andre Roux, head of fixed-income
investments at Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management, who
worked with Marcus at the National Treasury while he was a
deputy director-general. “She demanded quality work. You had to
deliver.”  Marcus hasn’t satisfied all her constituents: She is being
challenged by labor unions to make the central bank more
relevant to the economy’s needs. The ANC agreed at a policy
conference last month to take more “radical” steps to boost
economic growth, without proposing specific measures.  “She is willing to engage, but the point is that
engagement, how much does it translate into developmental
actions of the bank,” Cosatu’s Dlamini said. “The Reserve Bank
operates in a very conservative space. We continue to be unhappy
that the Reserve Bank doesn’t seem to adjust and change its
approach on issues.”  Inflation Fight  Marcus counters that there’s only so much central banks can
do to fight an  unemployment rate  that has more to do with a lack
of skilled workers and an  economy  that isn’t growing fast enough
to absorb new jobseekers. Her position has also been made easier
by the fact that her predecessor had already squeezed a lot of
inflation out of the economy by the time she took over.  “We did the best we could,” Mboweni said in an e-mail.
“I still hold the view that central bankers continue to
distinguish themselves by avoiding populism. They refuse to be
pressured by politicians, the media, intellectuals and
markets.”  Mboweni pushed  inflation  down to 5.9 percent from a peak of
13.7 percent in August 2008, an achievement that has helped
Marcus keep the policy rate at the lowest level in more than 30
years.  Marcus also has more flexibility in meeting her inflation
goal. In 2010, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  adjusted the
wording of the bank’s mandate to make it more explicit for
policy makers to take into account economic growth and
employment when setting interest rates.  Inflationary Pressure  While Marcus has increased transparency of policy making,
the central bank still has room to improve communication, such
as publishing minutes of its MPC meetings, said Montalto. At
least nine of the central banks from the Group of 20 nations,
including in the U.S.,  Brazil ,  Turkey ,  India , Mexico and  South
Korea , release details of policy makers’ discussions.  The real test of the governor’s ability to placate
investors and critics may come when inflationary pressures
intensify and she’s forced to raise interest rates.  “She has been firm, she has been applying the correct
policies,” Chris Stals, who was central bank governor from 1989
until 1999, said in a phone interview from Pretoria. “There
will be more criticism against her when interest rates have to
go up. I always used to say you can’t ask the people what
interest rates should be, because you don’t ask turkeys to vote
for Christmas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  