-- Hard Rock Aims to Raise $250 Million for Lodging Business
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-07-17T14:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/hard-rock-aims-to-raise-250-million-to-expand-hotel-business.html
Hard Rock International Inc., the
 operator  of hotels, casinos, and themed bars, is in talks with
investors to raise $250 million to expand its lodging business.  “We can go to cities that we feel are important to the
strategic growth of the hotel platform, Executive Vice President
Michael Shindler, executive vice president, said in an
interview. “Without the capital, some of the deal opportunities
that might come to us might not be precisely in the market that
we want to be in.”  The Orlando, Florida-based company, owned by the Seminole
Indian tribe, is planning to expand in 50 markets, Shindler
said. Cities include London, where the first Hard Rock Cafe was
opened in 1971, as well as Paris, New York,  Los Angeles , Dubai,
 Hong Kong , Beijing,  Tokyo  and  Shanghai .  “We are always looking to create a capital base where we
have a little bit more control of our own destiny in terms of
new transactions, acquisitions of hotels or investment in
hotels,” Shindler said by phone on July 2.  Hard Rock International’s discussions with investors are in
early stages and focused on creating a fund in which it would be
a partial investor, Shindler said. The capital raised would help
the company borrow against the fund’s assets, he said. Abu
Dhabi’s Aabar Properties, a unit of government-controlled Aabar
Investments PJSC, last month said it will build a five-star,
378-room hotel to be managed by Hard Rock.  The company’s Hard Rock Hotels & Casinos unit has 16
 properties  around the world including hotels in Bali, Panama
City, Singapore and San Diego. Occupancy rates at Hard Rock
hotels are on average more than 75 percent, Shindler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 