-- Asian Stocks Advance as Stimulus Hopes Temper GDP Concern
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-07-17T09:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/asian-stocks-fall-on-imf-cut-to-gdp-outlook-u-s-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a third day
amid optimism policy makers from China to the U.S. will do more
to support the world’s largest economies amid a slowdown that
prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to cut its forecast for
global growth.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  rose 5.9 percent in Hong Kong
after the government said it will boost spending on rail lines.
Fraser & Neave Ltd. climbed 2.5 percent in Singapore after
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and its insurance unit received an
offer for their stake in the beverage maker.  JX Holdings Inc. (5020) 
sank 7.8 percent in Tokyo after saying it will shut of one of
its refineries after finding falsified safety reports.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (TPX)  rose 0.4 percent to 116.18 as
of 6:42 p.m. in Tokyo. More than five stocks rose for every four
that fell. The gauge gained yesterday after Premier Wen Jiabao
said China will increase measures to support growth in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “Hopes of global monetary easing and stimulus measures are
preventing investors from becoming too pessimistic,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which
oversees about 15 trillion yen ($190 billion). “The global
slowdown is causing investor concern about corporate earnings
and equity markets.”  Annual Drop  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 10 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday as Europe’s debt crisis
weighed on growth and corporate earnings. Stocks in the measure
are valued at 11.8 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 13 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 10.8 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent after
reopening from a holiday yesterday. The broader Topix Index
dropped 0.4 percent as the country’s atomic utilities plunged
amid safety concerns and industry restructuring.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  advanced 0.9 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index gained 0.5 percent after the
island state’s export growth unexpectedly quickened in June. The
gauge has risen 13 of the last 15 days.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index jumped 1.8 percent, while
China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.6 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.2 percent.  China is boosting this year’s railway infrastructure
investment plan by 9 percent to 448.3 billion  yuan  ($70.3
billion), according to a provincial office of the National
Development and Reform Commission.  China Railway Group rose 5.9 percent to HK$3.40 in Hong
Kong, while Chinese train maker CSR Corp. gained 2.4 percent to
HK$5.58.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent
today. The index lost 0.2 percent in New York yesterday after
U.S. retail sales unexpectedly dropped 0.5 percent in June amid
weak job growth.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
deliver his semi-annual report to the Congress today and
tomorrow amid speculation he will hint at further monetary
policy easing. A report today may show the U.S. consumer-price
index was little changed last month from May, according to the
median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “There is market positioning for Bernanke to deliver
something today,” said  Joseph Capurso , a strategist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender.  The IMF cut its 2013 global economic growth forecast as
Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s recession and slows
expansion in  emerging markets . Growth worldwide will be 3.9
percent next year, less than the 4.1 percent estimate in April,
the IMF predicted in an update of its World Economic Outlook.
Japan’s growth outlook for this year was raised to 2.4 percent
from 2 percent.  Falsified Records  Fraser & Neave (FNN)  advanced 2.5 percent to S$8.10 in Singapore.
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., Singapore’s second-biggest bank
and its insurance unit said they received an offer for their
S$2.7 billion ($2.1 billion) stake in Fraser & Neave. OCBC
climbed 0.8 percent to S$9.25.  JX Holdings slumped 7.8 percent to 356 yen. The company
said it will shut all processing units at its Mizushima B
refinery in western Japan after finding falsified safety reports
over more than a decade.  Japanese utility shares had the second-biggest decline
among the Topix’s 33 industries after a government advisory body
on July 13 recommended breaking up power generators’ regional
distribution monopolies. Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility
at the center of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, slumped 12
percent to a record-low 123 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  