-- Asmussen Says New Bank Powers Mustn’t Risk ECB Independence
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-17T17:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/asmussen-says-new-bank-powers-mustn-t-risk-ecb-independence-1-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said while the central bank “stands
ready” to act as a supervisor to euro-area banks, the new role
must not compromise its independence.  “We will need strict arrangements to safeguard the
independence of the ECB’s monetary policy,” Asmussen said in a
speech at the European Policy Centre in Brussels today.
“Moreover, with the new tasks, higher standards of democratic
accountability will have to be fulfilled. We are fully aware of
that and stand ready to satisfy them.”  European leaders last month agreed to design a blueprint
for the future of monetary union by the end of the year that
could include better controls on national budgets as well as
centralized bank oversight in which the ECB would play a role.
The treaty governing the euro already foresees the ECB
supervising banks, should all members of the area agree.  “Carrying out of the new supervisory task will be
challenging,” Asmussen said. “But its implementation will be
greatly facilitated by the fact that the ECB can count on the
central banks of the Eurosystem.”  Supervision would focus on banks within the single-currency
region, Asmussen said, adding that “we haven’t made up our
minds completely on which groups of banks to cover.”  “There’s a strong case that it’s about stabilizing the
monetary union,” he said. “You could use the knowledge you get
by supervision to better conduct monetary policy because you
know your counterparties better.”  Asmussen also said that unified supervision is “only the
starting point” for a proper financial-market union.  “The latter should also provide for common mechanisms to
resolve banks and to guarantee customer deposits,” Asmussen
said. “This is necessary to break the vicious circle between
banks and sovereigns which is at the source of the fragility of
the euro area financial system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Brussels at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  