-- Asmussen Says Too Early to Comment on Individual Spanish Banks
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-17T17:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/asmussen-says-too-early-to-comment-on-individual-spanish-banks.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said it’s too early to say whether
some Spanish banks need to be wound down.  “We are at the beginning of the process to implement the
banking sector reform program,” Asmussen said at an event in
Brussels today. “It’s clearly too early to say what will happen
to individual banks.”  Spain  is negotiating the terms of a 100 billion-euro ($123
billion) European bailout for its banks, which are still reeling
from the collapse of the debt-fueled real-estate boom in 2008.
The government hasn’t liquidated any lenders, instead
restructuring and selling on the banks it has seized since 2009.
Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said on June 13
that closing down banks wouldn’t be the most efficient solution.  The group of euro-area finance ministers “has the
intention to vote formally” on July 20 on the memorandum of
understanding, the agreement on the bailout that Spain is due to
sign with other euro nations, Asmussen said.  “Then we will have to see if all banks are viable,” he
said. “This is just the starting point of the exercise to
really make sure where we stand, what are the recapitalization
needs, maybe some institutions need to be resolved.”  Spain won an extra year last week to bring its deficit
within the European Union’s 3 percent limit as finance ministers
agreed to loosen the 2012 deficit goal to 6.3 percent of gross
domestic product from 5.3 percent.  “This is now a realistic goal that must be achieved,”
Asmussen said. “The package that was put on the table by the
Spanish government last week was certainly an important step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  