-- AstraZeneca Expands Study of Brilinta Against Plavix
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-07-17T07:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/astrazeneca-expands-study-of-brilinta-against-generic-competitor.html
AstraZeneca Plc is expanding studies
of its blood-thinner Brilinta to patients with peripheral artery
disease in an attempt to take more market share from Plavix, the
world’s second-best selling drug, and its generic competitors.  Brilinta will be compared with clopidogrel, the generic
form of Plavix, in 11,500 patients who are 50 or older and have
symptoms of the disease, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker
said in a statement today. Patients will receive either 90
milligrams of Brilinta twice daily or 75 milligrams of
clopidogrel once daily in the trial, called Euclid.  AstraZeneca is looking for new uses for the drug as
Brilinta faces competition from a generic form of Plavix.
Brilinta sales may reach $502 million by 2014 from $21 million
last year, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Euclid will be part of a long-term trial for Brilinta
called Parthenon, which will include 51,000 patients worldwide
and study the drug’s use, the company said. The first trial was
Plato, which compared Brilinta with Plavix, made by New York-
based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) , in
patients at risk of artery-blocking clots that can cause heart
attacks and severe chest pain.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Brilinta a year
ago for use by patients with severe chest pain or heart attack
history to cut the risk of heart attacks, strokes and death.
Brilinta’s label must include a boxed warning, the agency’s
strictest caution, about a risk of bleeding and a reduction in
the drug’s effectiveness if taken with more than 100 milligrams
of aspirin a day. The drug was approved in  Europe  in December
2010 under the name Brilique.  Peripheral artery disease affects about 27 million people
in Europe and  North America  and patients are at high risk of
heart attacks and strokes, the company said in today’s
statement. Information about Parthenon will be presented at the
European Society of Cardiology Congress between Aug. 25 and Aug.
29 in Munich,  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 