-- Atlas Copco Compressor Orders Decline as Industry Cycle Weakens
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-07-17T10:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/atlas-copco-compressor-orders-decline-as-industry-cycle-weakens.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) , the world’s largest
maker of air compressors, said order volumes in its flagship
compressor technique division declined as customers requested
fewer large units in the second quarter.  Order volumes in the compressor technique business fell 8
percent in the quarter, while Atlas Copco managed to raise
prices 1 percent, the Stockholm-based company said today in a
statement.  “The compressor order volume and price together were minus
7 percent, and that was a bit more negative than expected,”
Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
 London , said by telephone.  “It’s come down very sharply, and
typically that translates into sales numbers pretty quickly.
Compressor orders are linked to a weakening industrial cycle.”  Prozesky has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  Atlas Copco, which benefits when metals prices are high
because miners buy more rock drills and blast-hole rigs, said it
expects aggregate near-term demand for its products and after-
market service “to remain at the current high level.”  Atlas Copco fell as much as 3.8 percent, the most since
June 25, and was down 2.8 percent to 144.9 kronor as of 11:45
a.m. in  Stockholm .  Net income rose to 3.61 billion kronor ($515 million) from
2.98 billion kronor a year earlier. The average estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey  of 13 analysts was for profit of 3.51 billion
kronor. Sales gained 17 percent to 23.4 billion kronor, beating
the average estimate of 23 billion kronor.  “Overall demand remained on a healthy level,” Chief
Executive Officer Ronnie Leten said in a separate release. “The
strong performance of our service business means we will both
sustain and continue to develop customer support and
relations.”  Total orders rose 5 percent to 23.3 billion kronor, Atlas
Copco said, and declined 2 percent excluding currency
fluctuations and acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  