-- Tattooed Marines Set Ugly-Date Game in ‘Dogfight’: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-07-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/tattooed-marines-set-ugly-date-game-in-dogfight-review.html
Thanks to a tuneful score from a
 writing team  six years out of the  University of Michigan , the
first new musical of the 2012-13 New York theater season is an
unconventional if unfinished treat.  “ Dogfight ,” at off-Broadway’s  Second Stage Theatre ,
concerns marines in San Francisco on November 21, 1963, the
night before they’re to be shipped out to  Vietnam . The aim of
the “dogfight” is to find the least attractive date and bring
her to a nightclub, the winning jarhead eligible for a cash
prize.  Eddie Birdlace (Derek Klena), angry and profane, finds Rose
( Lindsay Mendez ), a chubby, sensitive waitress and folk music
singer. When she learns later about the competition, she’s
infuriated. But as Eddie’s buddies pursue tattoos and other
rites of passage, his eyes open to her world and they seek
common ground.  Benj Pasek and Justin Paul’s stylistically eclectic score
is firmly in the post-Sondheim tradition. Choreographer
 Christopher Gattelli , who won a  Tony Award  last month for
“Newsies,” nicely adapts military moves for dance. He and
director  Joe Mantello  (“Wicked”) make efficient use of the
revolving round stage as set and costume designer David Zinn
transforms it from a nightclub to ladies room to tattoo parlor.  The supporting players are excellent, particularly the
appealingly eccentric Annaleigh Ashford in multiple roles, and
jaunty Nick Blaemire, who like Mendez was in last season’s
revival of “Godspell.”  River Phoenix  Two years before he died at 23 of drug-related heart
failure, River Phoenix was magnetic in the lyrical 1991 movie of
the same name. The stage show lacks the chemistry Phoenix had
with Lili Taylor, the movie’s Rose. That’s despite Mendez’s
obvious talent, vulnerability and resemblance to Taylor. The
Eddie character is less specific and sympathetic.  Peter Duchan’s book is practically a facsimile of the film,
reproducing gag after gag and line after line while curiously
omitting the presidential assassination that haunts the film.
And the second act drags, ending with a blunt anti-war message
contrasting with the movie’s subtler punch as the hero returns
to a  San Francisco  transformed by the counterculture.  “Wicked” producer David Stone successfully took “Next to
Normal” from Second Stage to Washington’s  Arena Stage  before
bringing it to Broadway. “Dogfight” might benefit from a
similar roundabout route.  Through Aug. 19 at 305 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-246-
4422;  http://www.2st.com .
Rating: **  Muse highlights include on  Scott Reyburn  on auctions and
 Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  