-- Autodesk to Buy Socialcam to Boost Consumer Business
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-17T20:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/autodesk-to-buy-socialcam-to-boost-consumer-business.html
Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , a maker of
architectural, engineering and entertainment software, will buy
the social-video service Socialcam Inc. for about $60 million to
expand in consumer markets.  Socialcam offers a smartphone application and Web-based
service that lets users capture, edit and share videos. The
application, available at Apple Inc.’s  App Store  and Google
Inc.’s Play Store, has been downloaded more than 16 million
times since it was introduced in 2011, Autodesk said today in a
statement.  “Mobile computing, the cloud and social media are
improving and changing the way people design, engineer and
create projects,” Samir Hanna, vice president of Autodesk’s
consumer group, said in the statement. “Video is an ideal
medium for professionals and consumers alike to communicate and
share their design ideas.”  Autodesk, based in  San Rafael ,  California , is shifting away
from traditional desktop-based computing and toward applications
that can be delivered over the Web. As the largest seller of
engineering software, its products have been used in everything
from bridge design to the special effects in the movie
“Avatar.”  The company competes with Bentley Systems Inc. and  Dassault
Systemes SA (DASTY)  in the engineering software market. It introduced
new design tools and a revamped cloud-computing platform called
Autodesk 360 almost four months ago.  Smartphone Software  Autodesk also builds software for smartphones and the iPad,
such as its SketchBook app, which can create drawings and
paintings on touch screens. The company’s customer base includes
about 12 million professionals and 80 million consumers, Hanna
said.  The company said in the statement that it will invest in
scaling up the  Socialcam platform  and developing “a more
comprehensive set of tools” for Socialcam users. It also plans
to use San Francisco-based Socialcam to make its professional
film and video technology more widely available to the consumer
market.  “We want to bridge the gap between the professional
creator and the amateur consumer,” Hanna said in an interview.
“We want to give consumers access to build amazing products.”
Hanna wouldn’t comment on how the acquisition will be financed.  The company said it signed a definitive agreement for the
acquisition yesterday and expects to close the deal within 30
days.  Autodesk generated $2.22 billion in revenue in the fiscal
year ended in January, up 14 percent from a year earlier. The
shares rose 1.7 percent to $31.93 at the close in  New York .
They’ve risen 5.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  