-- Hawker Can Negotiate With Superior Aviation, Court Says
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-07-17T21:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/hawker-can-negotiate-with-superior-aviation-court-says-1-.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the bankrupt
business-jet maker owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Onex
Corp. (OCX) , received court permission to negotiate exclusively with
bidder Superior Aviation Beijing Co.  Allowing the company 45 days to negotiate “really doesn’t
change the status quo,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein
said at a hearing today in  Manhattan . Bernstein approved the
agreement over the objections of the International Association
of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.  The exclusivity agreement enables Hawker to negotiate, for
as long as 45 days, a binding stalking-horse agreement to sell
certain assets, according to court papers. As part of the
accord, Superior will pay Hawker as much as $50 million to
maintain product lines that the jet maker would “likely
discontinue but for Superior’s interest in acquiring them,”
Hawker said in court papers.  The jet maker agreed to sell itself to Superior for $1.79
billion. Superior will make payments to help keep Hawker afloat
until the deal is completed, the companies said July 9. The
first payment of $25 million will be made this week.  Preserve Jobs  Without the Superior bid “we would be in the process of
shutting down the jet business,” Hawker attorney Patrick J.
Nash Jr. of Kirkland & Ellis LLP in  Chicago , told the court. It
takes $8 million each week to run the jet business, Nash said,
and “$24 million of the initial $25 million is effectively
spent by the end of next week.”  While Hawker suggested the Superior proposal “‘could
preserve thousands of American jobs,’ there is nothing in the
record to support such a belief,” the International Association
of Machinists and Aerospace Workers said yesterday in a court
filing.  “We will aggressively work to keep jobs in the  United
States  by continued production of the Hawker and Beechcraft
product lines,” Superior Chief Executive Officer Tim Archer
said in a statement regarding the ruling.  Hawker sought  bankruptcy protection  in May citing lower
demand for private jets following the recession and constrained
U.S. defense spending. The plane maker’s debt included a term
loan and notes used for the portion of its $3.3 billion takeover
in 2007 that wasn’t covered by $1 billion in cash from buyers
Goldman Sachs and Onex.  Superior is 60 percent owned by Shenzong Cheng and his
wife, Qin Wang, and 40 percent owned by Beijing E-Town
International Investment & Development Corp., a company
controlled by the Beijing municipal government. Cheng and Wang
first visited Hawker in 2006, according to the statement.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  