-- Lawson, Advocate of Bank-Splitting, to Join U.K. Libor Inquiry
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-17T10:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/lawson-advocate-of-bank-splitting-to-join-u-k-libor-inquiry.html
Nigel Lawson , who served as
chancellor of the exchequer under  Margaret Thatcher  and is now
an advocate of splitting banks’ retail and investment arms, is
among five members of the House of Lords selected to sit on a
parliamentary investigation into the Libor-rigging scandal.  Also on the panel from the upper house of Parliament are
John McFall, a former chairman of the House of Commons Treasury
Committee and another advocate of dividing up banks; the Bishop
of Durham, Justin Welby; Liberal Democrat Susan Kramer; and a
former civil servant, Andrew Turnbull.  Barclays (BARC) , the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last month
to pay 290 million pounds ($453 million) in regulatory fines for
manipulating the London interbank offered rate, spurring the
resignations of Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier.
The  Serious Fraud Office  opened a criminal probe into Libor-
rigging two weeks ago.  Lawson called in 2009 for a British version of the Glass-
Steagall Act. He said earlier this year he would have preferred
the government to go further than its current plans to set up a
firewall around retail operations within banks and bring about a
complete separation.  The Lords join five panel members from the Commons named
last week, under the chairmanship of  Andrew Tyrie , the
Conservative lawmaker who heads the Treasury Committee. Fellow
Tory Mark Garnier, Labour’s Andy Love and Pat McFadden and
Liberal Democrat John Thurso are the other members from the
lower house.  Under Oath  The Libor panel will be able to appoint a lawyer to
question witnesses on its behalf and to question those witnesses
under oath. It’s the result of a compromise between Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s Tory-led government and the opposition
 Labour Party , which had called for a full judicial inquiry along
the lines of the one currently looking into media standards
under Judge Brian Leveson. The government rejected that as too
time-consuming.  The panel, to be known as the Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards, will look at “professional standards and
culture of the U.K. banking sector, taking account of regulatory
and competition investigations into the LIBOR rate-setting
process,” as well as “lessons to be learned about corporate
governance, transparency and conflicts of interest, and their
implications for regulation and for government policy,”
according to the wording of a motion published on Parliament’s
website.  McFall quit today as a non-executive director of NBNK
Investments Plc, the company said in a statement. NBNK said last
month it would disband after it failed in a bid to buy 632
branches from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  