-- Mayer Becomes Highest-Profile Pregnant Woman Hired as CEO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/mayer-becomes-highest-profile-pregnant-woman-hired-as-ceo.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  is breaking new ground for Fortune 500 companies
by starting her job more than six months pregnant, a trend
already embraced by young women running Silicon Valley startups.  Mayer, an engineer and former  Google (GOOG)  Inc. executive who
helped develop the company’s home page and maps products, was
hired by Yahoo after a nine-week search for a CEO. The 37-year-
old brings the number of women running Fortune 500 companies to
20. Many other women on the list -- including WellPoint Inc.’s
Angela Braly, PepsiCo Inc.’s Indra Nooyi and Xerox Corp.’s
 Ursula Burns  -- had children before becoming CEOs.  “Yahoo’s board found Mayer’s pregnancy a nonissue and
that’s a big sign of progress,” said Gayle Tzemach Lemmon,
deputy director of the Women and Foreign Policy Program at the
New York-based Council on Foreign Relations, who is pregnant
with twins. “But at many companies, it’s still an issue.”  Mayer and her husband, technology investor Zachary Bogue,
are expecting a boy on Oct. 7, she  told Fortune magazine  
this week  after she was named Yahoo’s CEO. She disclosed to
Yahoo’s board that she was pregnant in late June, Mayer said
in the interview. Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo, declined to comment further.  Mayer is almost 20 years younger than most CEOs of large
companies. The average age of CEOs for companies in the  Standard
& Poor’s 500  is 56.5, according to 2012 data compiled by
executive search firm Spencer Stewart. That means the childbirth
question is often irrelevant when recruiting leaders.  3-to-1 Ratio  Technology companies, with a disproportionate number of top
executives under 40 and the increasing presence of women, are
finding ways to accommodate childbirth and young kids. Even so,
women continue to struggle for representation in a field where
they’re outnumbered 3-to-1 by men.  Many employers in general would still prefer not to hire
women who are going to have children soon, said Pat Cook, head
of executive-search firm Cook & Co. in Bronxville, New York.  “Even though companies know they can’t discriminate on the
basis of pregnancy, when they’re looking for very senior hires,
they’re still likely to be cautious,” she said. “If they have
two equal candidates, one who’s pregnant and one who isn’t, they
are likely to choose the one who’s not about to become a
mother.”  Hospital Bed  For startups founded by women, navigating pregnancy is
already common practice. Pooja Sankar, the CEO of education-
technology startup Piazza Technologies Inc. in  Palo Alto ,
 California , gave birth to a boy 16 days ago. She held a work-
related call while still recovering from cesarean-section
surgery.  Julia Hartz, co-founder of  Eventbrite  in  San Francisco ,
answered work e-mails from her hospital bed when she had her
first baby. With her second, born seven months ago, she has
hired people and attended meetings while caring for her infant.
Mayer’s appointment to Yahoo should help end the debate over
whether women can handle childbirth and the challenges of a CEO
job, Hartz said.  “She’s showing women that she’s going to do it and she
thinks it’s going to work,” she said. “For Yahoo, it’s a great
example of them having faith in a great talent. The fact that it
was such a short search process means they didn’t really
hesitate because of pregnancy.”  ‘Game Changing’  With a computer-engineering background and a job at Google
since the beginning, Mayer is more in the mold of  Facebook (FB) 
Inc.’s  Mark Zuckerberg  than an earlier generation of Silicon
Valley female CEOs like  Meg Whitman  and  Carly Fiorina , who
attended business school and climbed the corporate ladder.  The pregnancy helps blaze a trail as well, said Carley Roney, co-founder of  XO Group Inc. (XOXO) , a publicly held company that
runs websites on marriage and childbirth.  “Not only is she young and female and product-focused,
she’s also pregnant,” said Roney, who has three kids. “I can’t
imagine a more game-changing hire for the CEO of a huge media
company.”  Women’s gains in technology still lag behind their advances
in the broader economy. They hold 56 percent of all professional
jobs in the U.S. while accounting for only 25 percent of
information-technology positions, according to the  National
Center for Women & Information Technology . Women account for 18
percent of computer-science degrees and are founders of fewer
than 8 percent of technology startups.  Top CEO  Mayer’s hiring helps bolster a comeback for women in the
top ranks of technology companies following a low point in 2011.
When Yahoo ousted CEO  Carol Bartz  in September, it left Silicon
Valley without any women running large companies. The industry’s
previous best-known female leaders --  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s
Fiorina and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s Whitman -- had stepped down years
earlier.  The past 10 months have brought a wave of high-profile
hires.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  named Ginni Rometty
its first female CEO, and Whitman has returned to the executive
suite by taking charge of Hewlett-Packard.  Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  also has
broadened her role at the social-media company. She joined
Facebook’s board last month after helping steer it through a
tumultuous initial public offering.  Technology itself is helping female executives balance work
and family. Smartphones have made it easier to do work while
taking kids to the doctor or feeding them, said Divya Gugnani,
the CEO of shopping website Send the Trend in  New York , who had
a baby 10 weeks ago. The more relaxed attitudes of technology
companies also help, she said.  “In the tech startup community, you bring your kid to
work,” Gugnani said. “It’s just a very different approach to
parenting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  