-- Bach’s Mysterious Fugues Get Persian Remix at Proms
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-07-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bach-s-mysterious-fugues-get-persian-remix-at-proms-interview.html
As enigmas go,  Dan Brown ’s “The Da
Vinci Code” has nothing on Bach’s “The Art of Fugue.”  The 1751 work (published posthumously) might or might not
be for keyboard, is tantalizingly unfinished, and may contain a
coded philosophical message. Riddle hunters have produced theory
after theory to explain its meaning.  Now the dynamic Iranian-American musician Mahan Esfahani is
about to unlock some of its secrets. His arrangement for the
 Academy of Ancient Music  will premiere at the BBC Proms in
London on July 21.  I meet up with the 28-year-old harpsichordist in Oxford,
where he lives. In slacks, casual blue shirt and dark jacket, he
looks like a young Oxbridge don. When he speaks in a passionate
rapid-fire fashion, with ideas pouring out of him, he sounds
like an evangelist. Which, in a sense, he is.  “How can you ever be sure of anything when you play music
as great as Bach’s?” he says. “I love that sense of
frustration. Bach is the best lesson in dedicating your life to
something you probably won’t ever fully understand. I think of
it as a calling.”  It’s just as well. “The Art of Fugue” has enough mystery
to last several lifetimes.  Logical Rigor  A fugue is a formal piece in which a single melody is
varied and played against itself. Rigorous and logical, it’s
about the most difficult type of composition there is. “The Art
of Fugue” contains 14 fugues, some of mind-boggling complexity,
and four canons.  Amazingly, none of them sound academic or dry. Instead,
they have the miraculous spontaneity of an improvisation.  From the score, it’s not clear whether Bach intended a
keyboard or a small group of instruments to perform them.  “I’m convinced that he wrote them for keyboard,” says
Esfahani. “So I’ve started my arrangement from that idea, and
tried to recreate the colors which go through my head when I’m
practicing it on the harpsichord alone at night.”  Surely Bach would approve. Won’t an orchestra have a
greater range of color and dynamics than a harpsichord?  “Will it?” says Esfahani, his harpsichordist’s fighting
spirit roused. “I think the jury’s out on what people think of
as the limitations of the harpsichord. Bach would surely never
have focused his life on an instrument which was somehow
inferior to other instruments.”  Musical Colors  Naturally, therefore, Esfahani has included a harpsichord,
which he will play himself, in his own arrangement. Other
instruments will be solo strings, oboe, flute, bassoon and
cornett.  “I’ve tried to explore the range of colors of each
instrument,” he says. “I was probably the world’s worst tar
player (a kind of Persian lute), but my teacher showed me how
its sounds could vary. He would call its different registers
‘the grandfather,’ or ‘the son,’ and so on, and make a whole
narrative out of them. I’ve used that idea of different colors
and narratives here too.”  Esfahani was born in Tehran, and moved with his parents to
the U.S. when he was three. After studying history at  Stanford
University , he was considering a law degree when the call of
music -- his passion -- became too great.  He later moved to the U.K. to join the BBC New Generation
Artists program, which was founded to help promising young
talent, and became the first harpsichordist to give a solo
recital at the Proms.  Esfahani retains strong links with Iran, and is in constant
contact with his cousins and friends via Facebook.  Pizza Eaters  Western classical music plays a strong role there.  “The media here gives an incomplete picture of Iran,” he
says. “Iranians are presented as fanatics or shown in a
supposedly well-meaning way as being ‘safe’ because they eat
pizza and listen to rock music. In fact, there’s a vital
literary tradition in  Iran , and authors older than Chaucer are
read and discussed every day. Classical art is very much alive
for us. We approach western classical music in the same way, as
something living.”  One lively theory about “The Art of Fugue” is that it
contains a hidden working-out of various Pythagorean
philosophical principles. Is Esfahani excited by the “Da
Vinci” aspects of the work?  “Yes, deeply,” he says. “I think Bach’s own audience
would have been more aware of the possibilities it contains than
we are now. I’d love to use multimedia in performance -- like
rolling projections of the score, and other materials -- to
recreate that knowledge. I think we could use inauthentic means
to recreate an authentic experience.”  Mahan Esfahani performs “The Art of Fugue” with the
Academy of Ancient Music on July 21 in Cadogan Hall as part of
the BBC Proms. Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk/proms  or +44-
845-401-5040 and  http://www.mahanesfahani.com   Muse highlights include Jorg von Uthmann on art.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 