-- Bank of Canada Keeps Higher Rate Bias in Slower Rebound
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-17T15:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bank-of-canada-keeps-higher-rate-bias-in-slower-rebound.html
The  Bank of Canada  kept its main
 interest rate  at 1 percent and said an increase remains
possible, while adding the domestic recovery will be slowed by
weaker global demand for exports.  The world’s 10th largest economy won’t reach full output
until the second half of next year, compared with an April
prediction for the first half of 2013, the Ottawa-based central
bank said. The decision was forecast by all 24 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  “While global headwinds are restraining Canadian economic
activity, domestic factors are expected to support moderate
growth,” policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney , 47, said in
a statement. “Some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate.”  The statement comes as central banks around the world are
easing policy. The U.S. Federal Reserve and the  Bank of England 
expanded programs to buy assets in the last month, while the
People’s Bank of  China  and the  European Central Bank  cut their
main interest rates.  Canadian policy makers are “quite worried about the
situation in Europe and the possible collateral damage,” said
 Sal Guatieri , senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, who predicts no increase for a year. “There is very
little urgency to raise interest rates.”  Forecasts Trimmed  Housing and employment gains are being offset by the drag
from a merchandise-trade deficit and reduced confidence stemming
from Europe’s debt crisis. The central bank’s economic growth
forecasts were trimmed to 2.1 percent this year from 2.4
percent, and to 2.3 percent in 2013 from 2.4 percent. The 2014
projection was raised to 2.5 percent from 2.2 percent.  Canada ’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent to C$1.0163 per  U.S.
dollar  at 11:04 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.40
cents. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index of  stocks  fell
0.2 percent to 11,495.87.  While inflation will “remain noticeably below the 2
percent target over the coming year” because of lower oil
costs, the Bank of Canada said that  core inflation , which is
used as a guide to future price pressures, will stay near 2
percent through 2014.  “Our view is 2013 won’t be any better than 2012 and rate
hikes could be put off until early 2014,” said  Avery Shenfeld ,
chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto. “If you knock
a couple ticks off 2013, you don’t get to full output on time.”  Global Slowdown  About three-quarters of Canada’s exports are sent to the
U.S. where the expansion has slowed, while “developments in
Europe point to a renewed contraction,” the central bank said.
Emerging-market growth has also decelerated and there has been
“a sizable reduction” in prices for Canada’s exported
commodities, according to the report.  Companies such as  Tembec Inc. (TMB)  are feeling the global
slowdown. Tembec said July 10 it would idle a pulp mill in
Chetwynd, British Columbia, because the market “has continued
to soften over the past year.”  Trading in overnight swaps showed about a 78 percent chance
the key rate will still be 1 percent after the bank’s Dec. 4
decision, compared with a 70 percent chance yesterday.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bond yield  dropped to a record
low yesterday on demand for the safest assets amid speculation
the  U.S. economy  is slowing. Today the 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 fell 10 cents to C$110.20. The yield rose
1 basis point to 1.63 percent.  May Weakness  Canada factory shipments fell unexpectedly and the
merchandise  trade deficit  widened to the most in almost a year
in May as energy exports fell. While the housing market has
helped drive Canada’s recovery, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s
Conservative government tightened mortgage rules last month,
citing concern that some people were taking on debts that would
become unaffordable when interest rates rise.  “We remain concerned that the economy, both
internationally and domestically, is fragile,” said Sean Jackson, chief executive officer of Toronto-based Meridian
Credit Union, Ontario’s largest with C$8 billion ($7.9 billion)
in assets.  Exports will remain below their pre-recession peak until
the start of 2014 as companies struggle with the Canadian
dollar’s “persistent strength” and to regain competitiveness,
the bank said.  Canada’s recovery will be led by consumption and business
investment, according to the bank, with the pace held back by
the drag of global weakness on domestic incomes and record high
consumer debt levels.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that
progress in reducing U.S. unemployment is likely to be
“frustratingly slow” and repeated the Fed is ready to take
further action to boost the recovery, while refraining from
discussing specific steps.  The Bank of Canada will give details of its updated
forecast in a monetary policy report scheduled to be published
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  