-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-17T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  Global growth prospects have weakened since the Bank’s April
Monetary Policy Report (MPR). While the economic expansion in the
 United States  continues at a gradual but somewhat slower pace,
developments in Europe point to a renewed contraction. In  China 
and other emerging economies, the deceleration in growth has been
greater than anticipated, reflecting past policy tightening and
weaker external demand.  This slowdown in global activity has led
to a sizeable reduction in commodity prices, although they remain
elevated. The combination of increasing global excess capacity
over the projection horizon and reduced commodity prices is
expected to moderate global inflationary pressures. Global
financial conditions have also deteriorated since April, with
periods of considerable volatility. The Bank’s base case
projection assumes that the European crisis will continue to be
contained, although this assumption is subject to downside risks.  While global headwinds are restraining Canadian economic
activity, domestic factors are expected to support moderate
growth in Canada. The Bank expects the economy to grow at a pace
roughly in line with its production potential in the near term,
before picking up through 2013. Consumption and business
investment are expected to be the primary drivers of growth,
reflecting very stimulative domestic financial conditions.
However, their pace will be influenced by external headwinds,
notably the effects of lower commodity prices on Canadian incomes
and wealth, as well as by record-high  household debt . Housing
activity is expected to slow from record levels.  Government
spending  is not projected to contribute to growth in 2012 and to
contribute only modestly thereafter, in line with plans to
consolidate spending by federal and provincial governments.
Canadian exports are projected to remain below their pre-
recession peak until the beginning of 2014, reflecting the
dynamics of foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, including the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar.  The Bank projects that the economy will grow by 2.1 per cent
in 2012, 2.3 per cent in 2013 and 2.5 per cent in 2014. The
economy is expected to reach full capacity in the second half of
2013, thus operating with a small amount of slack for somewhat
longer than previously anticipated.  Core inflation  is forecast to remain around 2 per cent over
the projection horizon as the economy operates near its
production potential, growth in labour compensation stays
moderate and inflation expectations remain well anchored. Given
the recent drop in gasoline prices and with futures prices
suggesting persistently lower  oil prices , the Bank expects total
CPI inflation to remain noticeably below the 2 per cent target
over the coming year before returning to target around mid-2013.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. To the
extent that the economic expansion continues and the current
excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent
inflation target over the medium term. The timing and degree of
any such withdrawal will be weighed carefully against domestic
and global economic developments.  Information note: A full update of the Bank’s outlook for
the economy and inflation, including risks to the projection,
will be published in the MPR on 18 July 2012. The next scheduled
date for announcing the overnight rate target is 5 September
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  