-- Bashing Capitalism Is No Substitute for an Agenda
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-07-17T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bashing-capitalism-is-no-substitute-for-an-agenda.html
Barack Obama ’s allies are praising
his re-election campaign for the ferocity of its attacks on  Mitt Romney  and his business record, and for shaping the contest
around the theme “the rich against the rest.” The U.S.
president’s enemies deplore it for the same reasons.  My feelings are mixed. The strategy isn’t wholly wrong,
just woefully incomplete.  Obama is right to attack his opponent, a weak candidate
defending an unintelligible policy platform. He’s also right to
hammer away at Romney’s elaborate tax-avoidance arrangements:
That’s a legitimate target, and Romney is a fool for failing to
open his records at the outset. Above all, Obama is right to
make fairness an organizing principle of his campaign -- right
on substance and right tactically.  He’s wrong, though, to leave it at that. While attacking
Romney, he should also be defending his own record. I find his
near silence on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
inexplicable. Also, not all of his attacks on Romney make sense.
The fuss over Bain Capital LLC and outsourcing is unworthy of an
intelligent politician. The Obama campaign’s biggest mistake,
though, is its fixation on restoring pre-Bush tax rates for the
rich.  On all these matters, the president is underestimating the
country. Start with taxes.  Tax Policy  Voters understand that inequality has surged in the U.S.,
and polls show that most Americans agree that the rich should
pay more tax. Voters also know that reversing the Bush-era tax
cuts for families making more than $250,000 -- a goal that
Democrats have raised to a kind of sacred quest -- won’t be
close to enough to solve the country’s  fiscal problems . Obama
should be offering a coherent program for long-term debt
reduction, combining phased tax increases (for the middle class
as well as the rich) with moderate cuts in public spending.  Would such honesty be suicidal? Only if you think voters
are idiots (which, I grant you, appears to be the operating
assumption of both campaigns). Voters might be initially
startled to be addressed as intelligent adults, but they would
come to appreciate the candor, and reward it.  As things stand, Obama’s  fiscal intentions  are no clearer
than Romney’s. In the resulting fog, the difference between the
two comes down to this: Obama is avid to raise some people’s
taxes, whereas Romney is reluctant to raise anybody’s. I doubt
that gives Obama the edge with uncommitted voters, receptive
though they might be to the fairness argument with all the
fiscal implications spelled out.  The obsession with the Bush-era tax rates is mistaken in
another way, too. It opens Democrats to the charge that their
notion of fairness is about leveling down not leveling up.
That’s still a profoundly un-American idea. You don’t improve
the prospects of the unemployed, or of people with limited
skills in low-wage jobs, by increasing  taxes on the rich . Where
is Obama’s agenda for expanding economic opportunity? Shouldn’t
he have one? And shouldn’t it have at least equal standing with
the quest to hammer the 1 percent?  The U.S. is still a country that reveres rather than
resents success. It isn’t a place where everybody making more
than $250,000 a year (or $500,000, or $1 million) is seen as
greedy or corrupt and deserving of punishment. I’m amazed by how
often the Democrats’ rhetoric invites exactly that
interpretation. Raising taxes on the rich isn’t a regrettable
necessity, according to their worldview, but a basic requirement
of social justice, regardless of the use, if any, to which the
money will be put. Even if the government didn’t need the
 revenue , the rich have it coming. This is a political platform
with limited appeal in Europe, let alone in the U.S.  Bowles-Simpson  Why isn’t Obama presenting a more comprehensive tax-reform
proposal, along the lines suggested in the  Bowles-Simpson plan ,
for instance? An overhaul that broadened the tax base by
limiting deductions, increased the rates applied to investment
income and taxed inheritance more equitably would raise more
revenue, and more fairly, than merely reinstating bits of the
pre-Bush code.  Romney’s  tax plan , to be sure, is no better. He makes a
couple of gestures in the Bowles-Simpson direction, yet they’re
dishonest. He proposes to cut marginal rates across the board
and to make good the revenue loss entirely by limiting
deductions, without saying which deductions will be curbed or
how much. That’s not good enough. The most expensive deductions
-- for mortgage interest and for employer-provided health care -
- are popular and will be difficult to cut back. Curbing or
eliminating the health-care deduction puts health-care reform
back on the table, another question Romney prefers to avoid. By
failing to present a good fiscal plan of his own, however, Obama
is letting his opponent get away with this.  The president’s attacks on Romney’s record at Bain are no
more likely to impress independent voters. True, Romney dealt
with those attacks so incompetently he almost justified them --
defending himself from the charge that he outsourced jobs by
calling Obama the “outsourcer in chief.” But Obama’s criticism
was ill-conceived in the first place, and most voters know it.  Outsourcing isn’t new, and it isn’t capitalism carried to
an unacceptable extreme. It’s part and parcel of the market
economy. Companies strive to control costs, which lowers prices
and raises real incomes. Buying goods and services from others,
at home or abroad, that would cost more to produce for yourself
is a good thing. I outsource all building work and car repairs.
I’m glad that Apple Inc. outsources the manufacture of its iPads
and MacBooks, because it means I can afford them. This isn’t an
excess of capitalism. It’s just capitalism.  If Bain made money by finding companies where costs could
be squeezed and productivity increased, good for Bain. We need
more firms like that.  Obama would be right to say that fairness matters as well.
He would be right to say that higher productivity is essential,
though we also need to take care of the losers from market
competition, widen opportunities for the unlucky and guard
against extremes of wealth and poverty. That isn’t what he says.
He attacks outsourcing in its own right, which is economic
illiteracy of the highest order. And to fold that attack into a
main narrative about rich, evil, profiteering businessmen is
worse than economically illiterate: In the U.S., at least, it’s
a self-defeating strategy.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  amorality of banks and
ineffectual regulators , on the need for a  tougher Syria policy 
and on Republicans’  campaign-finance betrayal ;  Margaret Carlson 
on politics as  class warfare ;  Peter Orszag  on keeping children
from getting  fatter and dumber  during the summer;  Nell Minow  on
why letting CEOs lead their own boards is like letting students
 grade their own exams .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  