-- Bavaria to Challenge Germany’s Postwar System of State Finances
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-07-17T12:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bavaria-to-challenge-germany-s-postwar-system-of-state-finances.html
Bavaria, home to  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , plans to dispute the legality of
 Germany ’s post-World War II system of financial redistribution
among the country’s 16 states.  In a challenge to  Chancellor Angela Merkel , Bavarian state
Cabinet ministers meeting in Munich today decided to seek
changes to the system at Germany’s highest court. Bavaria, the
program’s biggest net contributor, will press for more
incentives for weaker states to cut debt and spending and a
greater balance of “solidarity and responsibility,” the state
government said in an e-mailed statement.  Germany’s 1949 constitution calls for an “adequate
equalization” of the states’ financial strength in a system
that helped spread then  West Germany ’s wealth as the economy
recovered in the postwar years. Bavaria, a beneficiary of the
system until 1988, paid more in last year than it got out in the
40 years it was a net recipient, according to the state
government.  “ Abraham Lincoln  once said: ‘You can’t strengthen the weak
by weakening the strong’,” state Prime Minister  Horst Seehofer ,
who heads the CSU sister party to Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union , said June 24 at a meeting of Bavaria’s baking trade. “We
in Bavaria show solidarity, we provide help for self-help, but
we’re not facilitating bankruptcy.”  Bavaria, which has a balanced budget and plans to pay back
all its debt by 2030, is one of four net-contributor states
together with Hesse, home to the financial hub of  Frankfurt ;
Baden-Wuerttemberg, where carmakers Porsche AG and  Daimler AG (DAI) 
are based; and Hamburg, Germany’s richest state per capita. The
Munich government said that it paid 3.7 billion euros ($4.6
billion) last year to help the 12 weakest states, more than half
the total aid amount.  Election Gambit  Frank-Walter Steinmeier, head of the main opposition  Social
Democratic Party ’s parliamentary group, said that Seehofer’s
move is an attempt to raise the profile of his Christian Social
Union party before state elections in September 2013. Seehofer’s
predecessor, Edmund Stoiber, was happy to keep the
redistribution system in place at least until 2019, Steinmeier
said.  “This isn’t charity, it’s something that states have a
legal right to,” Karoline Linnert, finance minister of the
city-state of Bremen, said in an interview with public
broadcaster Deutschlandradio today. Bavaria is forgetting how
“rich and privileged” it is, she said.  Bremen Debt  Bremen’s jobless rate of 11 percent in June is the highest
of any western German region and nearly double the  national
average  of 6.6 percent, according to the Federal Labor Agency.
Bremen also has the most debt per person of any German state,
27,994 euros, compared with 2,314 euros in Bavaria, the nation’s
second-lowest after Saxony, according to a federal Finance
Ministry report on May 11.  “The inter-state financial redistribution inhibits efforts
to save and shifts responsibility to other states, the federal
government and future generations,” Marie-Christine Ostermann,
chairwoman of the young entrepreneurs lobby, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Sound policies get punished through compensation
payments, unsound policies get rewarded.”  Bavaria will go to the Karlsruhe-based Federal
Constitutional Court alone “in an emergency” if the other net
payers decline to join, CSU General Secretary Alexander Dobrindt
said today on N24 television. “We know the other contributor
states are unhappy with the situation,” he said.  Seehofer’s government will prepare documents in the coming
months and plans to lodge the complaint before the end of the
year, the newspaper Die Welt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  