-- Baxter’s Gammagard Shows Alzheimer’s Benefit in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-17T20:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/baxter-s-gammagard-shows-alzheimer-s-benefit-in-study.html
Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s
Gammagard, used to treat immune system disorders, halted the
progression of Alzheimer’s disease for as long as three years in
a trial of 16 patients, researchers said.  In the study, four patients given the ideal dose at the
start of the trial experienced lasting improvement. Five
patients initially given a placebo and seven others on varying
amounts of Gammagard, experienced no benefit until they were
switched to the right dose, according to the research presented
at the  Alzheimer’s Association ’s  annual meeting  in  Vancouver .  The result offers a “tantalizing” glimpse of the drug’s
potential, said  William Thies , chief medical and scientific
officer at the Alzheimer’s Association. A definitive study of
390 patients will be completed this year and released in early
2013, said  Norman Relkin , the lead researcher, and the director
of the Memory Disorders Program and a neurologist at  New York 
Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center.  “It’s extraordinarily unusual,” to have such a striking
effect in all the treated patients, Relkin said in an interview.
“In my practice, which I think is reflective of most
Alzheimer’s specialists in the world, if we see a patient go
more than 18 months without changing their scores, we question
whether they actually have Alzheimer’s disease.”  Baxter Funded  Baxter, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , funded the study,
though it doesn’t hold a patent on the drug also known as
intravenous immunoglobulin, or IVIG. The treatment has been used
for three decades to replace antibodies in patients who don’t
make enough to prevent infections. Similar products are also
sold by  Grifols SA (GRF) , based in  Barcelona ,  Spain , Melbourne-based
 CSL Ltd. (CSL)  and closely held Octapharma AG based in Lachen,
Switzerland.  Baxter rose 1.7 percent to $55.68 at the close in New York.
The shares have fallen 8.4 percent in the past 12 months.  More than 5 million Americans now suffer from the disease,
and the number is expected to increase to 16 million by 2050,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . Existing drugs
temporarily ease symptoms of the condition, while patients
continue the inexorable slide into dementia.  Potential Market  An unequivocally positive result in the next Gammagard
study may create a potential market worth $7.2 billion in the
U.S. alone by 2017, said  Glenn Novarro , an analyst for  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York. The opportunity is creating tension
for companies that sell IVIG, which is culled from thousands of
blood plasma donations and costs in excess of $50,000 a year.  Manufacturers already sell all the IVIG they produce,
Novarro said in a telephone interview. They must decide now
whether to start expanding their production abilities, which
will take time, or wait until the study results are announced
and miss the initial surge in demand, he said.  Researchers tracked 16 patients in the study, including 11
treated with Gammagard and 5 given a placebo. The four given an
intermediate dose of the drug that performed best in earlier
research had the most benefit, with no signs of worsening on
tests of thinking, memory, daily function and mood over three
years.  Three of the four patients continue to take Gammagard, more
than six years after they began treatment, Relkin said. The
fourth was in his 90s when he developed an unrelated medical
condition and stopped treatment.  One Goal  “One of the goals of treatment is to keep people in the
high-functioning, mild stage of the disease for as long as
possible,” he said. “These patients have spent an
unprecedented portion of time in the more mild stage and enjoyed
a good quality of life.”  The results weren’t uniformly positive. Patients who were
switched to a variety of doses of the medication after initially
getting a placebo continued to decline, an unexpected finding,
Relkin said. After a year of therapy, all were switched to the
intermediate dose and stabilized, showing the dose of the
medication is critical, he said.  Baxter announced in April it is building a manufacturing
facility in Covington,  Georgia , at a cost of more than $1
billion over the next five years. The plant will make the
company’s plasma-based treatments, with commercial production
slated to begin in 2018. It also started a second pivotal study
of Gammagard in  Alzheimer’s disease , a confirmatory trial
typically needed for U.S. regulatory approval.  Brian Kyhos, a Baxter spokesman, declined to discuss the
company’s planning in advance of next year’s study results.  Competing Drugs  The report precedes studies expected to be released soon on
two rival medicines that use a targeted approach to stop the
disease that starts with mild forgetfulness and eventually robs
patients of memories and independence. Bapineuzumab, from
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN) , is vying with
Gammagard and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s solanezumab to be the first
broadly available drug designed to target a cause of
Alzheimer’s.  RBC’s Novarro predicts Gammagard will be successful in the
larger study, based on his conversations with other doctors who
have had patients on the medication for years. Still, the small
number of patients in the current study makes him wary of the
outcome.  “It’s hard to get too excited yet,” he said. “We’ve all
seen too often 15 patients with good data, and when the big
trial comes out you don’t see the same result.”  Fight Plaque  IVIG was conceived to get antibodies to fight amyloid
plaque that builds up in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients. The
findings suggest it may play a more complex role, with its
ability to control inflammation being just one critical
component of the medication, Relkin said. Ultimately, it’s more
likely to mitigate the toxicity of the amyloid plaque that’s a
hallmark of the disease, rather than squelch it, Relkin said.  If the larger study is successful, the field will turn
toward figuring out which components of IVIG were responsible,
said Thies of the Chicago-based  Alzheimer’s Association . The
current therapy is a shotgun approach, using all the antibodies
that a normal, healthy young adult produces, Relkin said.  “If, when the smoke clears, it’s successful, we’re going
to have to go through the billions of antibodies to see which
one was the silver bullet,” he said. “We are actively working
on the question of what might be the active ingredient.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  