-- Bernanke Sees Range of Options for Additional Fed Easing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-07-17T21:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bernanke-sees-range-of-options-for-additional-fed-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers are studying options for further
easing that could be deployed in case economic growth remains
too feeble to produce a lasting decline in unemployment.  Bernanke, responding to questions during testimony today to
the Senate Banking Committee in Washington, said easing tools
include further purchases of assets, such as mortgage-backed
securities, reducing the interest rate that the Fed pays on
reserves banks keep with the Fed, and altering its
communications on the outlook for  interest rates .  “We haven’t really come to a specific choice at this
point, but we are looking for ways to address the weakness in
the economy should more action be needed to promote a sustained
recovery in the labor market,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  meet in two weeks to continue debating whether further
action is needed to reduce a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009. Last month, they decided to extend to the
end of the year their program, known as Operation Twist, to
lengthen maturities of assets on the Fed’s balance sheet.  “They probably want to see more evidence that the labor
market has stalled,” said Roberto Perli, a managing director at
International Strategy and Investment Group Inc. in Washington
and a former senior staff economist in the Fed’s division of
monetary affairs. “If they do become convinced of that, then
further easing is in the cards, but we’ll probably have to wait
beyond the next meeting for that.”  Stocks Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,363.67 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose to 1.51 percent at 4:59 p.m. from 1.47
percent late yesterday.  Bernanke’s remarks today are his first since the Labor
Department reported on July 6 that employers added 80,000 jobs
to payrolls in June, fewer than economists forecast, while the
jobless rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent. Since then, other
reports have shown retail sales unexpectedly declined in June
and  consumer confidence  slumped this month.  “It’s very important that we see sustained progress in the
labor market and avoid deflation risk,” Bernanke said. “Those
are the things we’ll be looking at as the committee meets later
this month and later this summer.”  Data from the Fed today showed industrial production
increased in June, led by gains among automobile and machinery
makers. A pickup in manufacturing may temper concerns of a
slowdown in the industry that has led the three-year economic
expansion.  June Minutes  Minutes of the June meeting of the FOMC indicated that a
few participants believed the Fed will need to do more, while
several others said new easing would be warranted if growth
slows, risks intensify or inflation seems likely to fall
persistently below the Fed’s 2 percent target.  The Fed last month sought to hold down borrowing costs and
spur economic growth by extending Operation Twist, which swaps
shorter-term  Treasury securities  with longer-term debt.  The Fed’s actions have helped keep the yield on 10-year
Treasuries near record lows. The yield hit an all-time low of
1.44 percent on June 1. The rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage
fell to a record 3.56 percent on July 12.  Operation Twist has been “effective in easing financial
conditions and promoting strength in the economy,” Bernanke
said today. The Fed’s two rounds of large-scale asset purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion, known as quantitative easing, have
“also contributed to economic growth,” he said.  Risks of Easing  At the same time, there are also “questions about side
effects and risks that may be associated,” with those programs,
Bernanke said. “Therefore they should be not be used lightly.”  Other Fed policy makers, including Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  and San Francisco’s  John Williams , have said the
Fed should consider purchasing mortgage-backed securities in a
third round of large scale asset purchases, or QE3.  The Fed has also previously considered reducing the
interest rate it pays on excess reserves, to give banks an
incentive to lend the money to companies and households.  Bernanke said in July 2010 testimony that reducing the rate
could damage the functioning of short-term money markets like
the Fed funds market for overnight loans among banks.  Policy makers last month lowered their outlook for economic
growth and employment, with most foreseeing a jobless rate of at
least 7.5 percent at the end of 2013.  ‘Further Action’  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said. The Fed is “prepared to
take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery.”  Bernanke said growth is slowing as business investment
cools in response to the European crisis and the prospect of
fiscal tightening in the U.S. At the same time, households are
restraining spending as unemployment remains elevated and credit
is hard to get.  “Given that growth is projected to be not much above the
rate needed to absorb new entrants to the  labor force , the
reduction in the  unemployment rate  seems likely to be
frustratingly slow,” Bernanke said.  Recent economic data have had a “generally disappointing
tone,” Bernanke said in the first of two days testifying before
Congress as part of the central bank’s semiannual monetary
policy report. The economy probably expanded at less than a 2
percent annual rate in the second quarter, he said.  Still Elevated  “The bias continues to be toward easing,” although there
was “no smoking gun” in Bernanke’s comments, said  Jay Bryson ,
senior global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Bernanke said the unemployment rate
is still elevated, which other things being equal, would lead to
easing.”  Retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a third
straight month, a sign that limited progress in  job creation  is
holding back the biggest part of the economy. The 0.5 percent
drop followed a 0.2 percent decrease in May, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday in Washington. The decline was worse
than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey in
which the median projection called for a 0.2 percent rise.  “The lower-income consumer continues to be very stressed”
because of weak job growth,  Howard Levine , chairman and chief
executive of Family Dollar Stores Inc., told analysts on a June
28 conference call.  Purchase Programs  Discussing easing options in response to questions from
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, Bernanke said there
are “different types of purchase programs that could include
Treasuries, or could include Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities.”  Bernanke also told lawmakers that U.S. fiscal policies are
on an “unsustainable path” that must be corrected with a
“credible” plan to control deficits, while avoiding damage to
the recovery from spending cuts and tax increases that will take
effect next year if Congress doesn’t act.  Unless Congress acts, $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts are set to take effect automatically at the start
of next year.  The so-called fiscal cliff would push the economy into a
“shallow recession” early next year, Bernanke said, citing an
estimate from the  Congressional Budget Office . “Additional
negative effects” would result from public uncertainty about
spending plans, including the debt ceiling, he told lawmakers.  ‘Significant Stress’  The Fed chairman said  Europe ’s financial markets and
economy “remain under significant stress,” and that’s creating
“spillover effects” in the rest of the world, including the
U.S. “The possibility that the situation in Europe will worsen
further remains a significant risk to the outlook.”  The Fed chief is scheduled to testimony tomorrow before the
House Financial Services Committee.  Bernanke, responding to questions, said the Fed was
concerned by the underreporting of London interbank offered
rates and had a “substantial response” to address the problem.  The disclosures are “not only very troubling in themselves
but they have the effect of undermining public confidence in
financial markets,” Bernanke said. He said the Fed didn’t have
information to suggest banks were manipulating rates “for
profit,” only that some banks were “possibly submitting low
rates to avoid appearing weak” during the financial crisis, he
said.  The New York Fed knew “some banks” were potentially
understating submissions for Libor as early as 2007, according
to a statement posted on its website on July 13. A Barclays Plc
employee told a New York Fed staff member in April 2008 that the
U.K.’s second-largest lender was underreporting its rate to
avoid a “stigma,” the Fed bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  