-- Bernanke Predicts Slow Progress on Unemployment
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-07-17T16:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bernanke-predicts-slow-progress-on-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers that progress in reducing unemployment
is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated that the
central bank is ready to take further action to boost the
recovery, while refraining from pledging any new policies.  Bernanke, responding to questions during testimony today to
the Senate Banking Committee in Washington, said easing tools
include further purchases of assets, such as mortgage-backed
securities, reducing the  interest rate  that the Fed pays on
reserves banks keep with the Fed, and altering its
communications on the outlook for interest rates.  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are considering whether the economy will need
additional stimulus to reduce a jobless rate stuck above 8
percent since February 2009. Last month, they decided to extend
to the end of the year their program, known as Operation Twist,
to lengthen maturities of assets on the Fed’s balance sheet.  Operation Twist has been “effective in easing financial
conditions and promoting strength in the economy,” Bernanke
said. Large-scale asset purchases have “also contributed to
economic growth.”  At the same time, there are also “questions about side
effects and risks that may be associated,” with those programs,
Bernanke said. “Therefore they should be not be used lightly.”  Stocks, Treasuries  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,357.65 at 12:15 p.m. in  New York  after falling as much as 0.6
percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.49
percent from 1.47 percent late yesterday.  “The bias continues to be toward easing,” although there
was “no smoking gun” in Bernanke’s comments, said  Jay Bryson , senior global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Bernanke said the unemployment rate
is still elevated, which other things being equal, would lead to
easing.”  Minutes of the June meeting of the FOMC show that a few
participants believed the Fed will need to do more, while
several others said new easing would be warranted if growth
slows, risks intensify or inflation seems likely to fall
persistently below the Fed’s 2 percent target.  There are “different types of purchase programs that could
include Treasuries, or could include Treasuries and mortgage-
backed securities,” Bernanke said in response to questions from
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican.  ‘Further Action’  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said in his prepared remarks. The
Fed is “prepared to take further action as appropriate to
promote a stronger economic recovery,” he said.  Bernanke said growth is slowing as business investment
cools in response to the European crisis and the prospect of
fiscal tightening in the U.S. At the same time, households are
restraining spending as unemployment remains elevated and credit
is hard to get.  “Given that growth is projected to be not much above the
rate needed to absorb new entrants to the  labor force , the
reduction in the  unemployment rate  seems likely to be
frustratingly slow,” Bernanke said.  Recent economic data have had a “generally disappointing
tone,” Bernanke said in the first of two days testifying before
Congress as part of the central bank’s semiannual monetary
policy report. The economy probably expanded at less than a 2
percent annual rate in the second quarter, he said.  Operation Twist  The Fed last month sought to hold down borrowing costs and
spur economic growth by extending Operation Twist, which swaps
shorter-term  Treasury securities  with longer-term debt.  Bernanke told lawmakers that U.S. fiscal policies are on an
“unsustainable path” that must be corrected with a
“credible” plan to control deficits, while avoiding damage to
the recovery from spending cuts and tax increases that will take
effect next year if Congress doesn’t act.  The so-called fiscal cliff would push the economy into a
“shallow recession” early next year, Bernanke said, citing an
estimate from the  Congressional Budget Office . “Additional
negative effects” would result from public uncertainty about
spending plans, including the debt ceiling, he told lawmakers.  Unless Congress acts, $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts are set to take effect automatically at the start
of next year.  ‘Fragility’ of Recovery  “Fiscal decisions should take into account the fragility
of the recovery,” Bernanke, 58, said. “The most effective way
that the Congress could help to support the economy right now
would be to work to address the nation’s fiscal challenges in a
way that takes into account both the need for long-run
sustainability and the fragility of the recovery.”  The Fed chairman said  Europe ’s financial markets and
economy “remain under significant stress,” and that’s creating
“spillover effects” in the rest of the world including the
U.S.  “The possibility that the situation in Europe will worsen
further remains a significant risk to the outlook,” Bernanke
said.  He said European authorities have strong incentives to
resolve the crisis, and U.S. financial firms continue to take
steps to manage their risks.  “That said, European developments that resulted in a
significant disruption in global financial markets would
inevitably pose significant challenges for our financial system
and our economy,” he said.  The Fed chief is scheduled to testimony tomorrow before the
House Financial Services Committee.  Jobs Report  Bernanke’s remarks before Congress today are his first
since the Labor Department reported on July 6 that employers
added 80,000 jobs to payrolls in June, fewer than economists
forecast, while the jobless rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent,
the 41st consecutive month above 8 percent. Other reports showed
manufacturing shrank in June for the first time since the
recovery began and retail sales unexpectedly declined.  Bernanke, responding to questions, said the Fed was
concerned by the underreporting of London interbank offered
rates and had a “substantial response” to address the problem.  The disclosures are “not only very troubling in themselves
but they have the effect of undermining public confidence in
financial markets,” Bernanke said. He said the Fed didn’t have
information to suggest banks were manipulating rates “for
profit,” only that some banks were “possibly submitting low
rates to avoid appearing weak” during the financial crisis, he
said.  Avoiding ‘Stigma’  The New York Fed knew “some banks” were potentially
understating submissions for Libor as early as 2007, according
to a statement posted on its website on July 13. A Barclays Plc
employee told a New York Fed staff member in April 2008 that the
U.K.’s second-largest lender was underreporting its rate to
avoid a “stigma,” the Fed bank said.  Retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a third
straight month, a sign that limited progress in  job creation  is
holding back the biggest part of the economy. The 0.5 percent
drop followed a 0.2 percent decrease in May, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday in Washington. The decline was worse
than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey in
which the median projection called for a 0.2 percent rise.  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
July to the lowest level this year as Americans grew more
pessimistic about their finances, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment.  “The lower-income consumer continues to be very stressed”
because of weak job growth,  Howard Levine , chairman and chief
executive of Family Dollar Stores Inc., told analysts on a June
28 conference call.  The Fed’s actions to hold down  interest rates  have kept the
yield on 10-year Treasuries near record lows. The yield was 1.47
percent at late yesterday, compared with the all-time low of
1.44 percent recorded on June 1.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen 7.6 percent this
year as of yesterday yet is 4.6 percent below its 2012 peak
reached in April.  At their last meeting, several Fed policy makers said the
central bank should consider developing “new tools” to help
support a stronger economic recovery, without specifying what
those tools might be.  Europe Crisis  Policy makers also discussed the prospect that Europe’s
financial crisis could spill over to the U.S. financial system
and said the continent’s debt crisis is intensifying risks to
the U.S. outlook.  Underscoring the range of views on the risks from Europe,
billionaire  Warren Buffett  said the region’s currency is doomed
to fail without changes in how it works, while JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told analysts Europe is
making progress in solving its crisis.  “You see progress, you know, two steps forward, one step
back,” Dimon said July 13 in a meeting in New York. Buffett,
speaking the same day in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Sun Valley, Idaho, said European leaders face “major problems”
and the 17-country euro area may not survive.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast yesterday to 3.9 percent compared with its April
forecast of 4.1 percent.  The Fed, aiming to promote financial-market stability and
fuel growth, has held interest rates near zero since December
2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
large scale asset purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  