-- Bernanke Sees Range of Options for Future Fed Moves
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-17T15:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bernanke-sees-range-of-options-for-future-fed-moves.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank still has a range of options to
further boost the economic recovery.  There are “different types of purchase programs that could
include Treasuries, or could include Treasuries and mortgage-
backed securities,” Bernanke said during congressional
testimony today in response to questions from Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican.  “We could use our discount window for lending purposes,”
Bernanke said, and the Fed could also “use communications to
talk about our future plans.” Bernanke mentioned a final
option, cutting the interest rate the Fed pays to banks on the
reserves they hold at the Fed, currently 0.25 percent.  “A possibility that we have discussed in the past is
cutting the interest rate on excess reserves,” he said.
Bernanke did not say that any option was imminent and he said
that each has costs and benefits.  “There’s a range of views about the efficacy of these
programs,” he said. “There’s also questions about side effects
and risks that may be associated with their use,” Bernanke
said. “Therefore they should be not be used lightly.”  Near Zero  The Fed has held  interest rates  near zero since December
2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
large-scale asset purchases known as quantitative easing. The
Fed’s extension of Operation Twist to the end of 2012 will
exchange $667 billion of short-term debt for longer-term
securities.  Operation Twist has been “effective in easing financial
conditions and promoting strength in the economy” and asset
purchases known as quantitative easing have “also contributed
to economic growth,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 