-- Bernanke’s Testimony to Senate Banking Committee: Full Text
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-17T14:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bernanke-s-testimony-to-senate-banking-committee-full-text.html
Following is text of Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s testimony to the Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs:  Chairman Johnson, Ranking Member Shelby, and other members of
the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve’s
semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress. I will begin
with a discussion of current economic conditions and the outlook
before turning to monetary policy.  The Economic Outlook  The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic activity
appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first half of
this year. After rising at an annual rate of 2-1/2 percent in
the second half of 2011, real gross domestic product (GDP)
increased at a 2 percent pace in the first quarter of 2012, and
available indicators point to a still-smaller gain in the second
quarter.  Conditions in the labor market improved during the latter part
of 2011 and early this year, with the unemployment rate falling
about a percentage point over that period. However, after
running at nearly 200,000 per month during the fourth and first
quarters, the average increase in payroll employment shrank to
75,000 per month during the second quarter. Issues related to
seasonal adjustment and the unusually warm weather this past
winter can account for a part, but only a part, of this loss of
momentum in  job creation . At the same time, the jobless rate has
recently leveled out at just over 8 percent.  Household spending has continued to advance, but recent data
indicate a somewhat slower rate of growth in the second quarter.
Although declines in energy prices are now providing some
support to consumers’ purchasing power, households remain
concerned about their employment and income prospects and their
overall level of confidence remains relatively low.  We have seen modest signs of improvement in housing. In part
because of historically low  mortgage rates , both new and
existing home sales have been gradually trending upward since
last summer, and some measures of  house prices  have turned up in
recent months. Construction has increased, especially in the
multifamily sector. Still, a number of factors continue to
impede progress in the housing market. On the demand side, many
would-be buyers are deterred by worries about their own finances
or about the economy more generally. Other prospective
homebuyers cannot obtain mortgages due to tight lending
standards, impaired creditworthiness, or because their current
mortgages are underwater--that is, they owe more than their
homes are worth. On the supply side, the large number of vacant
homes, boosted by the ongoing inflow of foreclosed properties,
continues to divert demand from new construction.  After posting strong gains over the second half of 2011 and into
the first quarter of 2012, manufacturing production has slowed
in recent months. Similarly, the rise in real business spending
on equipment and software appears to have decelerated from the
double-digit pace seen over the second half of 2011 to a more
moderate rate of growth over the first part of this year.
Forward-looking indicators of investment demand--such as surveys
of business conditions and capital spending plans--suggest
further weakness ahead. In part, slowing growth in production
and capital investment appears to reflect economic stresses in
Europe, which, together with some cooling in the economies of
other trading partners, is restraining the demand for U.S.
exports.  At the time of the June meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  (FOMC), my colleagues and I projected that, under the
assumption of appropriate  monetary policy , economic growth will
likely continue at a moderate pace over coming quarters and then
pick up very gradually. Specifically, our projections for growth
in real GDP prepared for the meeting had a central tendency of
1.9 to 2.4 percent for this year and 2.2 to 2.8 percent for
2013.1 These forecasts are lower than those we made in January,
reflecting the generally disappointing tone of the recent
incoming data.2 In addition, financial strains associated with
the crisis in Europe have increased since earlier in the year,
which--as I already noted--are weighing on both global and
domestic economic activity. The recovery in the  United States 
continues to be held back by a number of other headwinds,
including still-tight borrowing conditions for some businesses
and households, and--as I will discuss in more detail shortly--
the restraining effects of fiscal policy and fiscal uncertainty.
Moreover, although the housing market has shown improvement, the
contribution of this sector to the recovery is less than has
been typical of previous recoveries. These headwinds should fade
over time, allowing the economy to grow somewhat more rapidly
and the  unemployment rate  to decline toward a more normal level.
However, given that growth is projected to be not much above the
rate needed to absorb new entrants to the  labor force , the
reduction in the unemployment rate seems likely to be
frustratingly slow. Indeed, the central tendency of
participants’ forecasts now has the unemployment rate at 7
percent or higher at the end of 2014.  The Committee made comparatively small changes in June to its
projections for inflation. Over the first three months of 2012,
the  price index  for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose
about 3-1/2 percent at an annual rate, boosted by a large
increase in retail energy prices that in turn reflected the
higher cost of crude oil. However, the sharp drop in crude  oil
prices  in the past few months has brought inflation down. In
all, the PCE price index rose at an annual rate of 1-1/2 percent
over the first five months of this year, compared with a 2-1/2
percent rise over 2011 as a whole. The central tendency of the
Committee’s projections is that inflation will be 1.2 to 1.7
percent this year, and at or below the 2 percent level that the
Committee judges to be consistent with its statutory mandate in
2013 and 2014.  Risks to the Outlook  Participants at the June FOMC meeting indicated that they see a
higher degree of uncertainty about their forecasts than normal
and that the risks to economic growth have increased. I would
like to highlight two main sources of risk: The first is the
euro-area fiscal and banking crisis; the second is the U.S.
fiscal situation.  Earlier this year, financial strains in the euro area moderated
in response to a number of constructive steps by the European
authorities, including the provision of three-year bank
financing by the  European Central Bank . However, tensions in
euro-area financial markets intensified again more recently,
reflecting political uncertainties in  Greece  and news of losses
at Spanish banks, which in turn raised questions about Spain’s
fiscal position and the resilience of the euro-area banking
system more broadly. Euro-area authorities have responded by
announcing a number of measures, including funding for the
recapitalization of Spain’s troubled banks, greater flexibility
in the use of the European financial backstops (including,
potentially, the flexibility to recapitalize banks directly
rather than through loans to sovereigns), and movement toward
unified supervision of euro-area banks. Even with these
announcements, however, Europe’s financial markets and economy
remain under significant stress, with spillover effects on
financial and economic conditions in the rest of the world,
including the United States. Moreover, the possibility that the
situation in Europe will worsen further remains a significant
risk to the outlook.  The  Federal Reserve  remains in close communication with our
European counterparts. Although the politics are complex, we
believe that the European authorities have both strong
incentives and sufficient resources to resolve the crisis. At
the same time, we have been focusing on improving the resilience
of our financial system to severe shocks, including those that
might emanate from Europe. The capital and liquidity positions
of U.S. banking institutions have improved substantially in
recent years, and we have been working with U.S. financial firms
to ensure they are taking steps to manage the risks associated
with their exposures to Europe. That said, European developments
that resulted in a significant disruption in global financial
markets would inevitably pose significant challenges for our
financial system and our economy.  The second important risk to our recovery, as I mentioned, is
the domestic fiscal situation. As is well known, U.S. fiscal
policies are on an unsustainable path, and the development of a
credible medium-term plan for controlling deficits should be a
high priority. At the same time, fiscal decisions should take
into account the fragility of the recovery. That recovery could
be endangered by the confluence of tax increases and spending
reductions that will take effect early next year if no
legislative action is taken. The  Congressional Budget Office  has
estimated that, if the full range of tax increases and spending
cuts were allowed to take effect--a scenario widely referred to
as the fiscal cliff--a shallow recession would occur early next
year and about 1-1/4 million fewer jobs would be created in
2013.3 These estimates do not incorporate the additional
negative effects likely to result from public uncertainty about
how these matters will be resolved. As you recall, market
volatility spiked and confidence fell last summer, in part as a
result of the protracted debate about the necessary increase in
the debt ceiling. Similar effects could ensue as the debt
ceiling and other difficult fiscal issues come into clearer view
toward the end of this year.  The most effective way that the Congress could help to support
the economy right now would be to work to address the nation’s
fiscal challenges in a way that takes into account both the need
for long-run sustainability and the fragility of the recovery.
Doing so earlier rather than later would help reduce uncertainty
and boost household and business confidence.  Monetary Policy  In view of the weaker economic outlook, subdued projected path
for inflation, and significant downside risks to economic
growth, the FOMC decided to ease monetary policy at its June
meeting by continuing its maturity extension program (or MEP)
through the end of this year. The MEP combines sales of short-
term  Treasury securities  with an equivalent amount of purchases
of longer-term Treasury securities. As a result, it decreases
the supply of longer-term Treasury securities available to the
public, putting upward pressure on the prices of those
securities and downward pressure on their yields, without
affecting the overall size of the Federal Reserve’s balance
sheet. By removing additional longer-term Treasury securities
from the market, the Fed’s asset purchases also induce private
investors to acquire other longer-term assets, such as corporate
bonds and mortgage backed-securities, helping to raise their
prices and lower their yields and thereby making broader
financial conditions more accommodative.  Economic growth is also being supported by the exceptionally low
level of the target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4
percent and the Committee’s forward guidance regarding the
anticipated path of the funds rate. As I reported in my February
testimony, the FOMC extended its forward guidance at its January
meeting, noting that it expects that economic conditions--
including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued
outlook for inflation over the medium run--are likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through late 2014. The Committee has maintained this conditional
forward guidance at its subsequent meetings. Reflecting its
concerns about the slow pace of progress in reducing
unemployment and the downside risks to the economic outlook, the
Committee made clear at its June meeting that it is prepared to
take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market
conditions in a context of  price stability .  Thank you. I would be pleased to take your questions.  1 See table 1, “Economic Projections of Federal Reserve Board
Members and Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, June 2012,” of the
Summary of Economic Projections, available at the Board of
Governors of the  Federal Reserve System  (2012), “Federal Reserve
Board and Federal Open Market Committee Release Economic
Projections from the June 19-20 FOMC Meeting,” press release,
June 20,
www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/monetary/20120620b.htm;
table 1 is also available in Part 4 of the July Monetary Policy
Report to the Congress. 2  Ben S. Bernanke  (2012), “Semiannual
Monetary Policy Report to the Congress,” statement before the
Committee on Financial Services, U.S. House of Representatives,
February 29,
www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/testimony/bernanke20120229a.ht
m. 3 Congressional Budget Office (2012), Economic Effects of
Reducing the Fiscal Restraint That Is Scheduled to Occur in 2013
( Washington : CBO, May), available at
www.cbo.gov/publication/43262. The effect of the fiscal cliff on
real GDP is shown in table 2 (p. 6). The effect of the fiscal
cliff on employment, relative to a less restrictive alternative
fiscal scenario that assumes that most expiring tax provisions
are extended and that the spending sequestration does not take
effect, is shown in table 3 (p.7). 