-- Bernanke Says Banks Underreporting Libor Very Troubling
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-07-17T16:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bernanke-says-banks-underreporting-libor-is-very-troubling-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the underreporting of London interbank offered
rates is “unacceptable behavior” and the U.S. central bank
offered a “substantial response” to address the problem.  The disclosures are “not only very troubling in themselves
but they have the effect of undermining public confidence in
financial markets,” Bernanke said during testimony today to the
Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .  The Fed didn’t have information to suggest that banks were
manipulating rates “for profit,” only that some were
“possibly submitting low rates to avoid appearing weak” during
the financial crisis, Bernanke said. The Fed doesn’t know that
U.S. banks are innocent of rate-rigging, and the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York  is still looking into the situation, he said.  The U.S. central bank is drawing more scrutiny from
lawmakers critical of its record as a bank regulator after the
 New York  Fed released documents showing it was aware that
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  underreported borrowing costs in 2008. Barclays was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($452 million) last month and
the scandal cost Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  his job.
At least a dozen banks are being investigated.  The New York Fed knew “some banks” were potentially
understating submissions for Libor as early as 2007, according
to a statement posted on its website last week. A Barclays
employee told a New York Fed staff member in April 2008 that the
U.K.’s second-largest lender was underreporting its rate to
avoid a “stigma,” the Fed district bank said.  Geithner Memo  In June 2008, then-New York Fed President  Timothy F. Geithner  sent a memo to  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
recommending changes to the way rates are calculated on Libor,
the global benchmark for $500 trillion of securities. Geithner
is now  Treasury secretary . Among his six suggestions was to
“establish and publish best practices for calculating and
reporting rates, including procedures designed to prevent
accidental or deliberate misreporting.”  The proposals were passed along to the British Bankers’
Association by King and  Paul Tucker , at the time markets
director of the U.K. central bank, according to correspondence
released by the Bank of England.  “It is clear that beyond these disclosures that the Libor
system is structurally flawed,” Bernanke said. “It is a major
problem for our financial system and for the confidence in the
financial system, and we need to address it.”  International Effort  An “international effort” is needed to fix the Libor
problem, and potential changes could include increasing the
“visibility” to lower the ability of individual banks or
traders to affect the rate, he said. Switching to an
“observable market rate” may also help, though Libor is “very
deeply ingrained in many contracts” so that change may be
difficult, he said.  Bernanke said the New York Fed “responded very quickly”
and “informed all of the relevant authorities.” The New York
Fed “took the lead here,” while the Fed’s Washington-based
board was “in supporting mode,” he said.  The New York Fed released the documents in response to a
request from Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican
who serves on the House Financial Services Committee, for
transcripts of communications with Barclays relating to setting
Libor from August 2007 to November 2009.  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
British Bankers’ Association, in which the world’s biggest
lenders are asked the rate they’re charging to borrow over a
variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks have been accused of low-balling
submissions for the benchmark during the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  