-- BHP Lifts Force Majeure at Queensland Coal Mines, Doyle Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-17T15:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bhp-lifts-force-majeure-at-queensland-coal-mines-doyle-says-1-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest coking coal exporter, lifted a force majeure on its
Queensland, Australia, coal operation as it recovers from work
halts, according to Doyle Trading Consultants LLC.  The mines, part of the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance,
issued the declaration April 2 after battling seasonal flooding
and rolling strikes. Force majeure is used when suppliers can’t
meet obligations because of circumstances beyond their control.  BHP, based in  Melbourne , and the unions agreed earlier this
month on a framework that will guide the completion of an
enterprise pact. The BMA joint venture supplies about 18 percent
of global coking coal exports, according to Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty.  “We believe it will take a few months before full
production resumes,” said Ted O’Brien, a New York-based vice
president at Doyle Trading, an energy research firm that
specializes in coal.  Ruban Yogarajah, a spokesman for BHP in  London , declined to
comment, citing company policy.  Global metallurgical coal prices may fall as supply pours
back into the market and as the world’s economy sputters,
O’Brien said. Benchmark metallurgical coal, used to make steel,
is $225 a ton for the July-September period, according data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Global demand for met is soft due to macroeconomic
concerns and seasonality, so any additional supplies will put
pressure on met prices,” O’Brien said. “The tons aren’t really
needed right now.”  About 3,000 miners at seven operations stopped work for a
week in March and have held further strikes since. The rolling
work halts began in June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  