-- BHP Iron Ore Output Rises 15% to Beat Analyst Estimate
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-07-18T07:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bhp-billiton-iron-ore-output-rises-15-to-beat-analyst-estimate.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s fourth-quarter
 iron ore  production gained 15 percent as the world’s largest
mining company expands operations in Australia’s Pilbara region,
setting a 12th consecutive annual record.  Output was 40.9 million metric tons in the three months
ended June 30, from 35.5 million tons a year earlier, Melbourne-
based BHP said today in a statement. That beat the 37.3 million
ton median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BHP, which is planning to more than double  iron-ore 
production capacity, said today it set full-year output records
across 10 operations amid a “challenging environment.” Smaller
rival  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  yesterday reported record iron
ore production and said it expected a gradual rebound in  China’s
economy , the biggest importer of the steelmaking material.  “Operationally in iron ore it’s a good result,” said
Shaun Manuell, chief investment officer of Equity Trustees Ltd.,
which manages A$2.4 billion ($2.5 billion), including BHP shares.
“Despite all this noise and concern about  China , we still
haven’t seen a dramatic collapse in the iron ore prices that
people were forecasting.”  BHP  shares  fell 2 percent to A$30.18 at the close of
trading in Sydney, after declining 0.7 percent yesterday in
 London . They’ve dropped 11 percent this year.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ,
the world’s third-largest miner, fell 3.1 percent after
yesterday reporting iron ore output in line with expectations
and warning of deteriorating global economic conditions.  Debt Crisis  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said last month the
 European debt crisis  and spreading global economic uncertainty
will affect demand for commodities in the short-term. The
 International Monetary Fund  this week cut its 2013 world
economic growth forecast to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent
estimated in April as  Europe ’s debt crisis slows expansion.  BHP’s oil and gas production, its second-biggest earning
unit after iron ore, rose 30 percent in the quarter to the
equivalent of 56.4 million barrels of oil, helped by U.S. shale
liquids output. This missed the 57.6 million barrel median of
four analyst estimates.  “Petroleum production numbers were soft,” Peter Esho,
chief market analyst at City Index Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone.
“The reason BHP has been such a massive underperformer hasn’t
really been doubts about iron ore, it’s been very much doubts
around the exposure to petroleum and the amount of money they’ve
gone and invested in that division.”  Shale Spend  BHP entered U.S. shale gas last year,  buying  Petrohawk
Energy Corp. for $15.1 billion, including debt, and purchasing
assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  for $4.75 billion. BHP
increased production of higher-priced liquids after a plunge in
natural gas prices to a decade low.  The company spent $1.4 billion during the last year on
petroleum exploration, including $400 million in its onshore U.S.
business, BHP said in a separate statement.  Full-year profit at BHP, slated to report earnings next
month, may drop to $17.9 billion from $23.6 billion last year,
according to the average of 20 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Credit Suisse AG analysts, revising down commodity
price forecasts, cut their full-year profit estimate for BHP by
7 percent, according to a July 12 note.  Output of coking coal, BHP’s fourth-largest source of
revenue, rose 2 percent to 8.1 million tons even as industrial
action and wet weather constrained production at mines in
 Australia ’s Queensland state. BHP lifted force majeure -- a
clause that allows producers to miss deliveries because of
events beyond their control -- at all of its Queensland mine
sites this month after agreeing an initial accord with the
unions to end strikes.  Energy coal output rose 1 percent to 18.5 million tons, BHP
said. Copper gained 15 percent to 312,500 tons.  Production from BHP’s iron-ore mines in Australia’s Pilbara
region will rise about 5 percent from fiscal 2012, the company
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  