-- Biogen, Bayer Drugs Don’t Slow MS Progress, Study Finds
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/biogen-bayer-drugs-don-t-slow-ms-progress-study-finds.html
The most commonly prescribed
multiple sclerosis drugs, including those made by  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Merck KGaA, failed to slow disability
progression in a long-term study that raises new questions on
whether the treatments can achieve that goal.  Researchers compared historical outcomes for MS patients in
British Columbia to assess the use of interferon beta drugs. The
results, published online in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association , found the medicines didn’t delay progress of the
patients’ disability.  “It dampens somewhat the enthusiasm for so-called first-
line therapies,” said Ludwig Kappos of University Hospital in
 Basel ,  Switzerland , and author of an editorial that accompanied
the study, in an e-mail.  MS is an autoimmune disease that affects about 2.1 million
people worldwide and can lead to limb numbness, loss of vision
and paralysis, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis
Society . The most common form, relapsing-remitting, is
characterized by sporadic flare-ups followed by periods of
inactivity.  Avonex, made by Biogen, Bayer’s Betaseron and  Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s
Rebif generated $6.6 billion in 2011 revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Called disease-modifying drugs, they have
been shown to slow the frequency of relapses and reduce the
development of brain lesions. Their ability to slow disability
progression has been less clear, wrote the researchers, led by
 Afsaneh Shirani  of the University of British Columbia, in the
paper reported yesterday.  Evidence Needed  “A key feature of MS is clinical progression of the
disease over time manifested by the accumulation of
disability,” the researchers wrote. “There is a lack of well-
controlled longitudinal studies investigating the effect of
interferon beta on disability progression.”  The study used data from the British Columbia Multiple
Sclerosis database from 1985 to 2008. It compared three groups:
868 patients with relapsing-remitting MS who were treated with
interferon beta therapy from July 1995 to December 2004; 829
patients who met the criteria to receive interferon beta therapy
in that time period yet were untreated with it; and 959 patients
who met the same criteria before interferon beta therapies
became available in 1995 in  Canada .  The use of two control groups sought to eliminate the
chance of bias based on patients choosing not to receive therapy
for reasons such as less severe disease, the researchers wrote.  Disability Measurement  The analysis considered advancement to a score of 6 on the
 Expanded Disability Status Scale , or EDSS, a commonly used
metric to measure disability progression in MS. That score means
a patient requires help from a cane or crutch to walk about 100
meters.  The study found that 10.8 percent of patients in the
treated group reached an EDSS score of 6, compared with 5.3
percent in the contemporary untreated group and 23.1 percent in
the historical untreated group.  “We did not find evidence that administration of
interferon beta was associated with a reduction in disability
progression in patients with relapsing-remitting MS,” the
researchers wrote. “Our findings bring into question the
routine use of interferon beta drugs to achieve this goal in
MS.”  Biogen, based in Weston,  Massachusetts , said its Avonex has
been shown in clinical trials to slow disability progression.  ‘Positive Impact’  “Regulators worldwide have reviewed and confirmed the
positive impact of Avonex on slowing disease progression,” Jeff
Boyle, a spokesman for the drugmaker, wrote in an e-mail. “In
fact, Avonex is indicated for the treatment of patients with
relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis to slow the accumulation
of physical disability and decrease the frequency of clinical
exacerbations.”  Merck, based in Darmstadt,  Germany , said its Rebif has
shown to be effective in “all three key measures of treatment
efficacy: reducing relapses, delaying disability progression and
reducing active brain lesions,” Heather Connor, a spokeswoman
for the company’s EMD Serono unit, wrote in an e-mail. “The
overall clinical benefits of disease-modifying therapies,
including Rebif (interferon beta-1a) have been established in
well-controlled Phase 3 clinical studies.”  The historical data used in the study doesn’t reflect
current treatment practice, said Marcy Funk, a spokeswoman for
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer.  Conversion Delay  “The results of the Phase 3 Benefit study showed that
Betaseron treatment at the early stage of the disease can
significantly delay conversion to clinically definite MS,” Funk
wrote in an e-mail. Current practice, she said, “encourages
treatment at the first sign of relapsing-remitting MS.”  The results don’t mean neurologists should immediately
change prescribing practices, said Kappos, the editorial author.  “I don’t think it should change clinical practice as long
as we do not have better options, but it reminds us of the need
to better define a target population of responders to the
established compounds and to find not only rather safe but more
effective treatments,” he wrote.  Newer therapies such as Biogen’s Tysabri and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Gilenya, the first oral therapy approved for MS, are examples of
more effective treatments, Kappos said.  Added Risk  Kappos also cited their potential for increased risks.
Tysabri, Biogen’s second  best-selling  medicine after Avonex,
with $1.1 billion in 2011 revenue, is associated with a danger
of contracting a brain infection called progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy, or PML. The company has developed a test to
help determine patients’ risk.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  sells Copaxone, another
older MS therapy that isn’t in the same interferon beta class.
While it wasn’t evaluated in this study, Copaxone doesn’t
necessarily offer a better chance of delaying disability
progression as it “has been shown to be very similar to the
interferons in head-to-head trials,” Kappos wrote.  Teva declined to comment on the study, Denise Bradley, a
company spokeswoman, said.  The data’s implications may be limited because the study was
designed to show a 40 percent risk reduction with interferon
treatment, more than the 30 percent shown in trials of the
interferon beta therapies or Copaxone, Kappos and Tobias
Derfuss, also of University Hospital in Basel, wrote in their
editorial.  “Therefore, it is likely that neurologists will continue
to prescribe interferon beta and other interferons and patients
with relapsing-remitting MS will continue to self-inject these
agents,” they wrote. “However, the rigorously collected data
of Shirani and colleagues reinforce the conclusion that the
associations between use of interferons and long-term
disability, although plausible, remain unproven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  