-- BOE’s Tucker Says He Encouraged Banks to Push for Libor Review
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-07-17T14:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/boe-s-tucker-says-he-encouraged-banks-to-push-for-libor-review.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul
Tucker said he pushed  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  to press the British Bankers’
Association to carry out a wider review of Libor in 2008.  “Have spoken to HSBC and RBS,” Tucker wrote in an e-mail
to Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  sent on May
28, 2008 and released to lawmakers today. “Sense similar across
all three of you. I encouraged contact among Mark Dearlove peer
group,” he said, referring to to the head of Barclays’s money-
market desk responsible for the bank’s contributions to the
London interbank offered rate.  Tucker told members of the House of Commons Treasury Select
Committee today that the e-mail referred to the review carried
out by the BBA, the lobby group that oversees Libor, in 2008
after the  Bank for International Settlements  queried the
benchmark’s reliability as a gauge of actual borrowing costs.  “We wanted to give the BBA the message that they shouldn’t
just do their normal annual review of Libor but do a much
broader, global consultation of Libor and its governance,”
Tucker told lawmakers. “We decided to say to the banks that
this broader review shouldn’t be conducted at the level of the
normal committee, which is desk level, but should be more
senior. I called roughly the number two’s and number three’s at
all the big sterling banks to say that.”  After the 2008 review, the BBA increased the number of
banks on the dollar Libor panel to 20 from 16. Four firms have
since quit the panel. Lenders were also asked to justify any
discrepancies between their submissions and those of their
competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  