-- BP Targets Availability of Two New Biofuels by 2014
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-18T08:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/bp-targets-commercial-availability-of-two-new-biofuels-by-2014.html
(Corrects to show that biobutanol plant is operational in
story published yesterday.)  BP Plc (BP/)  is testing two advanced
biofuels that could be commercially available by 2014, said
Philip New, chief executive officer of the U.K. petroleum
company’s biofuels unit.  The company is planting energy grasses to feed a 36 million
gallon-a-year cellulosic ethanol plant planned in  Florida , he
said in an interview in  London  today. A demonstration biobutanol
plant in Hull,  England , is operating, New said. A bioethanol
plant in the same location should be producing by the end of
this year, he said.  Biofuels could account for 9 percent of global transport
fuels used by 2030, up from 3 percent now, according to BP.
Drivers include climate-change targets in the U.S. and  Europe ,
energy security concerns and the possibility the fuels may be a
lucrative crop for ailing rural communities, New said.  “If you believe that demand for transport fuels is going
to grow significantly, if you believe that for the foreseeable
future we’re going to carry on using internal combustion engines
and liquid fuels, then biofuels are going to be the only
complement to crude oil that’s out there,” he said.  Cellulosic ethanol uses micro-organisms to break down
fibrous plants, making it possible to produce fuel from energy
grasses. Unlike sugar cane, which flourishes around the equator,
the grasses can be grown anywhere.  Biobutanol is produced by fermenting plant sugars and can
be blended with gasoline at higher concentrations. Existing
bioethanol can be retrofitted to produce biobutanol, New said.
Biobutanol is a type of alcohol that’s used as a fuel.  BP is looking at sites in Texas, Florida and  Louisiana 
where it could farm energy grasses and build new plants, he
said. The company is targeting a cost of  $60 to $80 a barrel by
2024 from $140 to $150 a barrel today, New said.  The two fuels and a new sugar-to-diesel product will be
trialled in 100 vehicles during the London  Olympic Games .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  