-- Branson to Bid for Virgin Records If Universal Music Sells
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-07-17T11:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/branson-would-bid-for-virgin-records-should-universal-sell-label.html
Richard Branson  will bid for Virgin
Records, the music label he started in  London  in the 1970s,
should  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group sell the asset in an
attempt to win regulatory approval to acquire EMI Group.  Branson would be one of several bidders and has held talks
with Patrick Zelnik about bidding together, Nick Fox, Branson’s
spokesman, said in an interview today. Zelnik started Virgin
Records in  France  in the 1980s and is co-president of Impala, an
independent record labels group based in Brussels.  “Richard Branson and Virgin have been assessing how to get
back into the recorded music business for many years,” Fox
said. “The potential disposal of Virgin Records by  Universal
Music  offers a wonderful opportunity to recreate a dynamic
independent label in the market.”  Branson’s desire to return to Virgin Records, whose artists
have included Culture Club, Lenny Kravitz and Genesis, follows
acquisitions in the past year by other companies in an industry
that’s been hurt by online piracy and eroding CD sales. Warner
Music Group and Sony Corp. have spent billions of dollars for
the rights to music by artists including Coldplay, Katy Perry,
Cee Lo Green and Bruno Mars.  “The top line of the industry is in decline and one
response is consolidation, but that doesn’t take away the value
of the assets there,” said Alice Enders, a media analyst at
Enders Analysis in London.  ‘Bidding War’  Billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings
bought  Warner Music  in May 2011 for $1.3 billion. A Sony-led
group that includes billionaire  David Geffen  agreed to pay $2.2
billion for EMI’s publishing unit in November, and Universal
Music agreed to pay $1.9 billion for EMI’s recorded unit  “I would consider there’ll be an active bidding war for
Virgin Records with interest from private equity and industry
insiders like Warner Music,” Enders said.  Virgin Records was an early part of Branson’s  Virgin
empire , which today includes planes, trains, holidays and mobile
phones. It began when Branson founded a mail-order business in
1970, selling records by mail. He opened his first Virgin Record
Shop in 1971 on Oxford Street in London and in 1973 released
Mike Oldfield’s album “Tubular Bells,” which appeared on the
soundtrack of the film “The Exorcist.”  After signing the Sex Pistols in 1977, Branson subsequently
expanded into activities including Virgin Books,  Virgin Games 
and  Virgin Atlantic Airways .  Competition Issues  Universal may submit a proposal to the European Commission
as soon as today, offering to sell off some business units in
order to eliminate antitrust concerns about the EMI deal,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  Universal’s offer would then be circulated to rivals and
customers before the commission makes a decision to approve the
deal.  At an Impala board meeting yesterday, members voted to keep
opposing Universal Music’s purchase of EMI, citing competitive
issues in digital and physical markets as well as “access to
media exposure for new artists, as well as the foreclosure of
independents when it comes to signing artists,” according to a
 statement  today.  “Impala agrees that digital companies are giants and need
proper regulation, but the problem is that excessive
concentration in the music sector would help Universal mould
services towards its own interests and obtain more than its fair
share of exposure,” the group said.  A Universal spokesman declined to comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 