-- Business Leaders, Former Lawmakers U.S. Deficit Reduction
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-07-17T22:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/business-leaders-former-lawmakers-u-s-deficit-reduction.html
A bipartisan group of former
lawmakers, business leaders and budget experts is urging the
 U.S. Congress  to agree on a plan to cut the government debt.  Tax increases and cuts in entitlement spending are
inevitable, members of the Campaign to Fix the Debt said at a
Washington news conference today. The group said it would rally
centrist voters who are more concerned with reducing the  budget
deficit  than ideological battles over taxes, spending and the
size of government.  Neither party, “even after the election, is going to be
able to impose its view on the country or other party,” said
former Senator Sam Nunn, a Georgia Democrat. “The middle of
America is going to have to rally and they’re going to have to
support people who are willing to work together.”  Among those joining him were former World Bank President
 Robert Zoellick , Honeywell Chief Executive Officer  David Cote ,
retired Senator  Judd Gregg , former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  and Erskine Bowles, the co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s debt commission.  Lawmakers remain deadlocked over long-delayed budget
decisions including the future of the George W. Bush-era income
tax cuts that expire Dec. 31, automatic spending cuts set to
take effect in January and raising the government’s debt limit.  House Republicans propose extending the tax cuts for all
income levels and cutting  food stamps , Medicaid, federal
workers’ benefits and other programs to avoid reductions in
defense spending. Democrats are balking, threatening to go over
the so-called fiscal cliff if Republicans don’t allow tax cuts
for top earners to expire.  November Election  Most lawmakers want to postpone decisions until after the
November election, with both sides predicting voters will
strengthen their hand. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget
Office has estimated that uncertainty over the budget will
subtract a half-percentage point from economic growth this year
if Congress doesn’t act.  Former Vice President  Dick Cheney  met with Senate and House
Republicans to urge them to avert across-the-board defense
spending cuts scheduled to begin in January.  Gregg of New Hampshire, the former top Republican on the
Senate Budget Committee, said he and Bowles met with about 40
senators to discuss deficit-reduction options.  “They were very engaged, they were very interested and
they understand some very significant action has to occur so I
do think the Senate is quite fertile ground for getting
something very substantive done,” Gregg said. Bowles is a
Democrat who was White House chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton .  “It’s necessary for us to create an environment where it
becomes not only good policy to vote ‘yes’ on a debt reduction
plan but good politics as well,” said Rendell, a Democrat.  The group hopes to get 10 million Americans to sign a
petition urging Congress to act, Bowles said.  Members of the group challenged policymakers to work out a
major debt deal by July 4, 2013, saying whoever is elected in
November won’t be able to avoid the issue.  “The next president is going to have, without question, a
massive fiscal crisis if this issue isn’t addressed in his
term,” Gregg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  