-- Byman to Lead Jenner & Block’s NFA Review of Peregrine
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-17T22:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/byman-to-lead-jenner-block-s-nfa-review-of-peregrine.html
     July 17 (Bloomberg) --Robert Byman, the Jenner & Block LLP
partner who worked with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas, is conducting the  National
Futures Association ’s internal review of its auditing procedures
and its oversight of Peregrine Financial Group Inc.  “I’ll be heading up our team but it’s an internal matter
and I can’t comment further,” Byman said by phone today.  The National Futures Association on July 9 announced at
least $200 million in client funds were unaccounted for at Cedar
Falls, Iowa-based Peregrine.  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the firm’s chairman and chief
executive officer, attempted suicide that day and was later
arrested. Wasendorf had written a signed statement that he
committed fraud for two decades, according to a criminal
complaint filed in federal court in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa .  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued
Peregrine in federal court in  Chicago  on July 10, accusing
Wasendorf and his firm of misappropriating client funds.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 court protection in U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago on July 10.  Larry Dyekman, a spokesman for the NFA, declined to comment
on the review of Peregrine. In a statement yesterday, the
association said it would implement any necessary changes that
would improve fraud detection.  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids). The
bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 