-- Capvis Sells German Switchmaker Bartec to Charterhouse
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-07-17T11:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/capvis-sells-german-switchmaker-bartec-to-charterhouse.html
Capvis Equity Partners AG agreed to
sell  Bartec Holding GmbH , the German maker of explosion-
resistant switching and signaling gear, to Charterhouse Capital
Partners LLP of Britain.  Charterhouse bought the company for an undisclosed amount,
according to a statement from Bartec. The transaction may value
the company at more than 600 million euros ($737 million), said
a person familiar with the process, who asked not to be
identified because talks were confidential.  Charterhouse was competing with private equity firms
including Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC and EQT Partners AB, as
well as  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , people familiar with the
process said in June.  The electrical equipment industry has seen deals pick up
since  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  bought Thomas & Betts Corp. for $3.9 billion in
January and  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  announced in May that it would buy
 Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  for $11.8 billion.  Commerzbank AG and William Blair & Co. managed the sale of
Bartec, which Capvis purchased from Allianz Capital Partners in
2008. Bartec’s products, including stainless steel enclosures
and controls as well as gas detection systems, are used by the
chemical and oil and gas industries. The manufacturer, based in
Bad Mergentheim, Germany, had sales of about 300 million euros
in the fiscal year ending April 30.  The sale of Bartec comes amid several private equity
auctions of industrial assets. IK Investment Partners, a
European buyout firm with Nordic roots, is selling Schenck
Process GmbH, a German provider of industrial weighing, feeding,
screening and automation equipment, people familiar have said
previously.  KraussMaffei Group, the German maker of machinery for
processing plastics that is owned by Madison  Capital Partners ,
is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to find a buyer, people
familiar with the process said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  