-- Carney Likely to Hold Canada Target Interest Rate
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/carney-likely-to-hold-canada-target-interest-rate.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
is likely to say the country’s economic recovery will be
hampered by global weakness as he extends today the central
bank’s longest  interest-rate  pause since the 1950s.  The  target rate  on overnight loans between banks will
remain 1 percent for the 15th straight time, according to all 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the announcement at 9
a.m. in Ottawa. The central bank will also forecast the world’s
10th largest economy will grow less this year than it predicted
in April, economists said.  Housing and  employment gains  are being offset by the drag
from a merchandise-trade deficit and reduced confidence stemming
from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Carney has said at his last two
decisions that a rate increase “may become appropriate” as the
economy approaches full output, and any retreat from that
tightening bias could prompt lower bond yields, said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank’s Capital
Markets unit.  “The text is definitely going to be very cautious,”
Chandler said from Toronto. Carney “has been swimming against
the tide as a stampede of central banks has swung to easier
policies.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve and the  Bank of England  expanded
programs to buy assets in the last month, while the People’s
Bank of  China  and the  European Central Bank  cut their main
interest rates. Carney today will probably lower his 2012 growth
forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.4 percent and delay his
projection for when the economy reaches full output to the
second half of next year from the first half, Chandler said.  Record Yields  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bond yield  dropped to a record
low yesterday on demand for the safest assets amid speculation
the  U.S. economy  is slowing. The yield touched 1.598 percent,
the lowest yield since 1950, according to Bank of Canada and
Bloomberg data. The previous low was 1.615 percent on June 1.  The Canadian dollar has weakened 2.5 percent against the
U.S. currency since Carney suggested in April he may increase
interest rates. Canada’s benchmark stock  index  has fallen 5.1
percent over that period.  Trading in overnight swaps yesterday showed about a 70
percent chance the key rate will still be 1 percent after the
bank’s Dec. 4 decision, compared with about a 27 percent chance
it will be 0.75 percent.  “It seems strange to have every central bank in the world
cutting rates or easing in some way and still have the Bank of
Canada still talking about raising rates,” said  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.
“The case for keeping the bias is that it is already very mild,
and the Bank doesn’t want to be seen flip-flopping.”  Slowing Growth  Canada’s economy probably grew at a 2 percent annualized
pace in the second quarter, according to a Bloomberg economist
survey, less than the central bank’s April 2.5 percent
projection. Growth will also lag the central bank’s predictions
through the first quarter of next year according to the
Bloomberg survey.  The bank will probably lower its Canadian growth forecast
for 2012 because global weakness led to a slow first quarter,
Carney said after a June 21 speech in Halifax,  Nova Scotia .  Companies such as Tembec Inc. are feeling the slowdown.
Tembec said July 10 it would idle a pulp mill in Chetwynd,
British Columbia, because the market “has continued to soften
over the past year.”  Canada’s merchandise  trade deficit  widened to the most in
almost a year in May as energy exports fell. And while the
housing market has driven Canada’s recovery, Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty ’s Conservative government tightened mortgage rules
last month, citing concern that some people were taking on debts
that would become unaffordable when interest rates rise.  ‘Fragile’ Economy  “We remain concerned that the economy, both
internationally and domestically, is fragile,” said Sean
Jackson, chief executive officer of Toronto-based Meridian
Credit Union, Ontario’s largest with C$8 billion in assets.  Still, Jackson said Canada is “relatively well-
positioned” versus other countries. The central bank’s
quarterly business  survey  showed executives remained optimistic
about future sales with hiring intentions at a record high,
while industrial companies made the most use of their production
capacity since 2007 in the first quarter on increased demand for
cars and machinery.  “The economic performance has been different,” for Canada
than elsewhere, said RBC’s Chandler.  Bank of Canada  policy
makers “will hang on to this and wait to see what happens in
September” at their next announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  