-- CEZ Set to Bid for Romanian Power Distributor in Wind Expansion
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-07-17T10:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cez-set-to-bid-for-romanian-power-distributor-in-wind-expansion.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest
power producer, may bid for one of Romania’s state-controlled
power distributors as it plans to develop small hydroelectric
plants and wind farms in the eastern European nation.  CEZ is targeting as much as 1,100 megawatts of wind power
in Romania by 2016, Ondrej Safar, the executive in charge of
generation, said today at a press conference in Bucharest. It
plans to buy one of the three power distributors should the
Romanian government go ahead with a sale, said Jan Veskrna,
CEZ’s country manager for Romania.  While CEZ has limited most foreign acquisitions to focus on
the construction of nuclear reactors at home, that hasn’t
stopped it from seeking to expand in  Romania  where the
government offers an incentive plan for wind investments.
Romania expects to increase its installed wind capacity to 1,400
megawatts this year from about 800 megawatts in February.  CEZ lobbied the Romanian government to start the sales
process for the power distributors and will bid unless all three
distribution companies are sold together, Veskrna said. “We are
in a standby mode,” he said.  Bidding for Electrica Muntenia Nord makes most sense,
Veskrna said. All three companies are currently controlled by
Romanian power distributor Electrica SA.  CEZ already operates a 600-megawatt wind farm project in
Fantanele and Cogealac in eastern Romania near the Black Sea
coast. The company has previously said it plans to have as much
as 3,000 megawatts of wind farms in  Poland , Romania and  Germany 
by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net  