-- Chelsea Must Pay $94 Million for Cavani, Oscar: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-17T06:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/chelsea-must-pay-94-million-for-cavani-oscar-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  $94 Million Swoop  Chelsea will have to pay out at least 60 million pounds
($94 million) to sign Napoli striker Edinson Cavani and
Brazilian playmaker Oscar, the  Sun reported .  The Blues are ready to pay 35 million pounds for Cavani,
though Napoli could push them for a higher fee for the player
earmarked to replace  Didier Drogba , the newspaper said. Chelsea
owner  Roman Abramovich  has sanctioned a 25 million-pound deal
for Internacional’s Oscar, the Sun added.  Pay Parity  Cavani will demand parity with Chelsea’s top earning
players when he reopens talks about joining the European
champion this week, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Uruguyan’s representatives will tell the London club he
wants a deal worth 150,000 pounds a week, which would put him on
a par with  John Terry ,  Frank Lampard  and  Fernando Torres , the
Mail added.  Berbatov Bid  West Ham made a move for Manchester United striker Dimitar Berbatov, who wants to leave Old Trafford because of a lack of
first-team opportunities, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The London club wants to take Berbatov on loan initially,
while United is looking to sell the Bulgarian for 5 million
pounds, the newspaper added.  Moura Money  Manchester United ’s pursuit of Brazilian playmaker Lucas
Moura hit a financial snag when it emerged that Sao Paulo’s
asking price could increase to 34 million pounds after Aug. 1,
the  Mail reported .  Sao Paulo currently wants about 30 million pounds -- 23.5
million pounds for the club and 6 million pounds for Moura under
a contract clause that gives him 20 percent of any fee, a share
that rises to 30 percent after Aug. 1, the newspaper said.  Van Persie Omission  Robin van Persie  returned to training with Arsenal
yesterday saying he still wants to quit the club, which omitted
last season’s Premier League top-scorer from its latest online
catalog, the  Sun reported .  Van Persie , 28, wants his future sorted out before the
Gunners squad leaves for a pre-season tour of Asia next weekend,
the newspaper added.  Only Option?  Manchester City  appears to be the only club with the means
to pay a large enough transfer fee and salary to sign van
Persie, the  Guardian reported . City’s roster is bloated with
well-paid strikers and the club must sell some of them before
moving for the Netherlands striker, the newspaper added.  Van Persie’s preferred destination is Juventus, though he
hasn’t ruled out the possibility of joining Manchester City or
Manchester United, the  Independent reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  