-- Cheney Urges Republicans to Prevent Defense Spending Cuts
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-17T21:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cheney-urges-republicans-to-prevent-defense-spending-cuts.html
Former Vice President  Dick Cheney 
told fellow Republicans in Congress that U.S. defense readiness
will suffer if lawmakers don’t avert across-the-board spending
cuts scheduled to begin in January.  Cheney, who was President  George H.W. Bush ’s defense
secretary from 1989 to 1993, said during a private meeting with
Senate Republicans today that the 10-year cuts totaling $500
billion would be “devastating” to military modernization,
planning and readiness for the next war, South Carolina Senator
Lindsay Graham told reporters.  The former vice president came to  Capitol Hill  for meetings
with Senate and  House Republicans  as lawmakers discussed ways to
avert the automatic defense spending cuts. Graham and other
Republican senators told reporters that Cheney said the
reductions would disrupt long-term planning and weapons
modernization.  Cheney, 71, said defense spending is “not a spigot you can
turn on and turn off, that you need to keep money flowing in a
predictable way so you can plan for the next war,” Graham said
after Senate Republicans’ weekly luncheon, where the former vice
president spoke.  Graham said Cheney, who served as vice president under
President  George W. Bush , told lawmakers that “what we were
able to achieve in the first  Gulf War ” that expelled Iraqi
troops from Kuwait “was the result of planning and spending”
during the 1980s.  Gulf War  Cheney was defense secretary when Bush’s father began the
Persian Gulf War in 1991 after Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein 
invaded Kuwait the previous year. Cheney was vice president when
the U.S. invaded  Iraq  in 2003.  The scheduled defense cuts are part of $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending reductions over 10 years that will begin in
January unless Congress agrees on a plan to replace it.  Republicans have ruled out tax increases while Democrats
have said any budget cuts must be financed, in part, by letting
tax cuts first enacted in 2001 and 2003 for the highest earning
Americans expire at year’s end.  Senator  Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire , who has advocated
ways to postpone the so-called defense sequester for a year,
said Cheney told Senate Republicans the cuts will “have long-
term impacts” on the Defense Department because “you never
know where the next conflict is coming from.”  Cheney didn’t offer suggestions on how to avert the cuts,
lawmakers said.  One-Year Postponement  A group of Senate Armed Services Republicans, including
Graham and Ayotte, have discussed ways to finance a one-year
postponement of defense cuts through sale of assets and ending
some tax breaks.  The former vice president also met with House Republican
leaders and committee chairmen.  Cheney’s message to House Republicans was “we can’t gut
our military,” Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier of
California told reporters as he left the meeting.  Graham said Cheney “probably talked more today than he did
in eight years,” as vice president attending lunches with
Senate Republicans. “He really helped the cause of people like
me to find the energy and political will” to avoid the cuts,
the senator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  