-- China Urges Adoption of Computer Safety Technology
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-17T09:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/china-urges-adoption-of-computer-safety-technology.html
China suggested companies and
government agencies do more to prevent computer hacking and the
spread of software viruses as increased use of digital
technology heightens data safety risks.  Safeguards on information networks are “not strong” and
the increasing use of mobile telecommunications poses “a severe
challenge” to information security, the State Council said in  a
recommendation published  on the central government’s website
today. Industries including energy, transport and finance need
to adopt technology to guard against computer viruses and
hacking, the council, which represents government ministries, it
said.  China, with more  Internet users  than the combined
populations of the U.S. and Japan, is promoting information
safety as it encourages more consumers to shop online and
expands telecommunication networks to cover remote villages. The
drive for enhanced computer safety technology will benefit anti-
virus software providers including  Kingsoft Corp. (3888) , said OSK
Securities analyst Billy Leung.  “Government agencies will be increasing their spending on
software,” said Leung, who rates Kingsoft buy.  Companies including  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , the biggest
Chinese provider of computer safety software for consumers, and
 Beijing Teamsun Technology Co. (600410) , a supplier of computer systems
to governments, may also gain sales, Leung said.  E-Commerce Transactions  Kingsoft shares rose 0.6 percent to HK$3.19 at the close in
 Hong Kong  trading today. Teamsun gained 1.2 percent to 7.39 yuan
in Shanghai. Qihoo fell 4.1 percent to $15.75 in New York
trading yesterday.  China aims to increase e-commerce transactions to more than
18 trillion yuan ($2.8 trillion) by 2015, the State Council
said. Online commerce should account for more than 9 percent of
overall retail sales, said the council, a panel comprising
officials of key state ministries.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Tmall site accounted for 37
percent of China’s business-to-consumer online commerce market
in the first quarter, according to research company Analysys
International. It leads second-placed 360buy Jingdong Mall,
which has a 17 percent market share, according to Analysys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  