-- China’s New Oriental Tumbles Most on Record on SEC Probe
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-17T16:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/china-s-new-oriental-tumbles-most-on-record-on-sec-investigation.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  headed for the biggest decline on record in New York
after  China ’s largest education services provider said the
Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the company.  The American depositary receipts of New Oriental lost 27
percent to $16.22 by 12:05 p.m. in New York, poised for the
biggest drop since the company’s initial public offering in
2006. The shares led declines in the  Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S.  The Beijing-based company was informed on July 13 that the
regulator issued an order of investigation, it said in a
statement today. The SEC may review the consolidated earnings of
its subsidiaries, New Oriental said.  Profit for the quarter ended May 31 rose 14 percent from a
year earlier to $16.3 million, and student enrollment increased
7.7 percent from a year earlier, it said in the statement.
Analysts had forecast net income of $17.6 million, the average
of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The SEC investigation creates uncertainties that make it
more difficult to make a valuation argument supportive of the
stock,” Jeffrey Meuler, a Pittsburgh-based analyst at Robert W
Baird & Co., said by phone today. “The stock would have been
down as response to the fundamentals even if there wasn’t a SEC
investigation. The enrollment growth was the slowest in recent
history.”  Rating Cut  Meuler  lowered  his rating on the company to neutral from
outperform, cutting his 12-month price target to $19 from $32,
according to a research note today.  The SEC is investigating “whether there is a sufficient
basis for the consolidation of Beijing New Oriental Education &
Technology (Group) Co., a variable interest entity of the
Company, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, into the Company’s
consolidated financial statements,” New Oriental said in
today’s statement.  The company changed shareholding structure of Beijing New
Oriental so that it’s held solely by a group controlled by Chief
Executive Officer Minhong Yu, according to a PR Newswire
statement distributed on July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  