-- China Raises Treasury Holdings First Time in Three Months
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-18T03:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/china-raises-treasury-holdings-first-time-in-three-months.html
China , the largest foreign U.S.
creditor, boosted its holdings of  government securities  in May
to the most in six months as the American economy stalled and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis deepened.  Chinese holdings rose 0.4 percent to $1.1696 trillion,
Treasury Department data released yesterday show. Those of
 Japan , the U.S.’s second-largest lender, climbed 1.4 percent to
an all-time high of $1.1052 trillion. Net foreign purchases of
Treasuries increased $54.2 billion, or 1 percent, to a record
$5.264 trillion in May, the data show.  “From China’s perspective, U.S. Treasuries are of much
lower risk compared with holding European bonds,” said James Su, who oversees $50 million of fixed income assets as a  fund
manager  at SinoPac Asset Management in  Hong Kong . “It’s also
linked to stronger exports to the U.S. relative to Europe.”  Investors continued to seek a haven in U.S. Treasuries in
May as concern mounted regarding the potential need for  Spain  to
seek a bailout and amid uncertainty whether a party seeking to
cancel the terms of earlier bailouts would win elections in
Greece. The balloting was seen as a referendum on whether the
country would stand by its international-bailout commitments.  Falling Yields  China’s first-half  exports  rose 9.2 percent from a year
earlier, lower than the government’s target of expanding trade
by 10 percent, the nation’s customs bureau data said on July 10.
Sales to the European Union fell 0.8 percent in the first six
months, while U.S. exports rose 13.6 percent.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes dropped to a
record low of 1.44 percent on June 1 after U.S. employers added
the fewest workers in a year in May and as the Fed pledged to
keep borrowing costs close to zero to sustain economic growth.  “Slowing U.S. growth and increasing uncertainty about
Greece is what caused more private and official demand,” said
Shyam Rajan, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
with the  Federal Reserve . “U.S. data has actually gotten weaker
since.”  The data showed China held $1.1644 trillion of Treasuries
in April, an increase from the $1.1455 trillion reported for the
period on June 15. The Treasury is revising holdings data on a
monthly basis rather than annually based on the nationality of
the beneficial holder of the debt, while the initial data will
still count the location of the purchase. For the year, China’s
holdings have risen 1.5 percent.  China’s holdings of short-term Treasury bills increased 97
percent in May to $7.3 billion from $3.7 billion the month
before.  Asian Demand  Demand from  Asia  “is another component that’s going to
push the Treasury market higher in price,” said  Sean Simko , who
oversees $8 billion at  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  in Oaks,
 Pennsylvania . “There’s larger issues in Europe than in the
states, and with where our government securities are trading,
there’s still more room for Treasuries to run.”  China’s policy makers have advocated diversification of the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves away from U.S. assets after
more than doubling its holdings of Treasuries since 2007 in the
wake of the global financial crisis.  Treasuries have returned 2.8 percent this year, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  Top Holder  The Fed remains the top holder of  U.S. debt  with $1.66
trillion. The central bank said on June 20 it would increase to
$667 billion from $400 billion its program of extending the
average maturity of the Treasuries on its balance sheet by
selling short-term securities and buying an equal amount of
longer-maturity Treasuries. Traders call the program Operation
Twist after a similar effort in 1961 to contain borrowing costs
for companies and consumers.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$55 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$27.2 billion in April, the Treasury said in Washington.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net buying of
$41.3 billion of long-term assets, according to the median
estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  