-- Chinese Billionaire Huang to Revive Iceland Deal After Rejection
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-17T03:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/chinese-billionaire-huang-to-revive-iceland-deal-after-rejection.html
Huang Nubo, the Chinese billionaire
whose bid to buy Icelandic land was blocked by the local
government last year, said he’s secured a deal to lease the
property instead, helping him revive his resort project.  A formal investment agreement would be signed “no later
than October,” Huang, founder of Beijing Zhongkun Investment
Group Co., said in an interview yesterday in Beijing. The
leasing price would be about $1 million lower than the purchase
price and be “a bit less” than $7.8 million, Huang said,
without elaborating.  The government in Reykjavik in November rejected Beijing
Zhongkun Investment’s bid to buy 300 square kilometers (116
square miles) of land, saying it would be “incompatible” with
the law amid opposition to foreign ownership of property. Huang
plans to develop a resort and a mountain park in Iceland before
investing in neighboring countries including Denmark and  Sweden 
to build a “Nordic holiday resort platform,” he said.  “The lease agreement is also acceptable and the final
outcome is not bad,” Huang, chairman of Beijing Zhongkun, said
in an interview in his office in Beijing. “Our total investment
will probably be less than $200 million, but it’s not a small
deal there.”  Beijing Zhongkun  plans to build a hotel, about 100 villas
and a golf course on the 10 square kilometers of “buildable”
section that he expects to lease for 40 years with a right to
extend the contract by another 40 years, Huang said.  The remaining about 300 square kilometers of land will be
developed into a mountain park that provides services like
hiking, horseback riding and hang gliding to tourists around the
globe, he said.  100 Villas  Sale of the 100 villas, mostly to wealthy Chinese buyers,
alone may cover the cost for the project, Huang said, without
giving an estimate on the price. He would also set up local
businesses to manage related tourism, hotel and real estate
operations, in addition to a trading company to import Icelandic
seafood for Chinese citizens concerned with safety of local food.  Beijing Zhongkun, set up in 1995, had developed 1.2 million
square meters of commercial properties by the end of 2008 that
include a 3.5 billion  yuan  ($549 million) shopping center in
Beijing, according to the company’s website. Huang said he
“hopes” to keep cash available between 5 billion yuan and 6
billion yuan for investments.  Property prices in  China , which will remain Zhongkun’s
primary market for the next decade, will rise again as its
growing population drives up demand and land prices, Huang said,
adding that the government’s home-purchase restrictions will
hardly work in reining in prices without adopting “market
mechanisms.”  Property Prices  “The upward trend in urban home prices is unchangeable,”
he said. “We hope the prices would rise stably instead of
surging like crazy in the past couple of years.”  China’s new  home prices  rose for the first time in 10
months in June, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real
estate website owner, said earlier this month, after some local
authorities relaxed property curbs as land-sale revenue dropped.
 Home prices  have fallen 2.2 percent from the peak in August,
according to SouFun, after developers cut prices to bolster
sales.  While developers are still under pressure to lower prices,
room for profits after discounts still remains, Huang said,
adding that the companies, having survived a few rounds of
government curbs, are now able to “live through the winter.”  “The low tide is over,” he said. “Large scale
bankruptcies among developers, which we feared before, won’t
happen.”  --Zhang Dingmin and Margaret Conley. Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki,
Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  