-- China’s Wen Warns of Severe Job Outlook as Growth Yet to Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/china-s-wen-warns-of-severe-job-outlook-as-growth-yet-to-rebound.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said  China ’s
labor situation will become more “severe,” underscoring
concern that the weakest economic growth since 2009 will lead to
increasing job losses.  The government will continue to implement a more
“proactive” labor policy, Wen said yesterday at a government
meeting on employment, according to a statement posted on the
central government’s website. The job situation will become more
“complex,” Wen said.  The comments build on the premier’s warning published three
days ago that the nation’s economic rebound lacks momentum and
difficulties may persist for a while. Authorities are
intensifying efforts to halt a slowdown in expansion as the
ruling Communist Party prepares for a once-a-decade leadership
handover later this year.  “Party commissions and governments at all levels should
further enhance the awareness that employment work is extremely
important and earnestly put promoting employment at a priority
place among all work tasks,” Wen said, according to the
 statement . The country should maintain steady and relatively
rapid economic  growth  and enhance the economy’s role of driving
job growth, he said.  More than 2,000 Hong Kong-owned factories in China’s  Pearl
River Delta  may close this year as export orders fall and wages
rise, the Federation of Hong Kong Industries said this week.
China’s gross domestic product rose 7.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said July 13,
the sixth straight quarterly slowdown.  Global Instability  There are “more factors of instability and uncertainty”
in the world economy, which faces “downward pressure”, Wen
said yesterday in remarks to a U.S. group headed by U.S. Chamber
of Commerce President  Thomas Donohue , according to the official
Xinhua News Agency. Wen called for China and U.S. to boost
cooperation and mutual trust, and to “calmly” handle issues in
economic and trade relations.  The government will “appropriately” step up policy fine-
tuning in the second half to support growth, Wen said during an
inspection tour in Sichuan province, according to a July 15
Xinhua report.  Promoting employment for college graduates should continue
to be a top priority among job-related work, Wen said. China
will support growth in small and medium-sized enterprises, which
are the mainstay of  job creation , he said.  China’s urban registered jobless rate has held at 4.1
percent for seven quarters as of the end of March, according to
figures from the labor ministry. There are no available figures
for a nationwide  unemployment rate  that includes migrant and
other unregistered workers.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  