-- China’s Foreign Investment Drops 6.9% in June
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-17T04:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/china-s-foreign-investment-drops-6-9-in-june.html
Foreign direct investment in  China 
dropped 6.9 percent in June from a year earlier, the government
said today as it signaled extra efforts to draw capital from
abroad in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Inbound investment declined to $12 billion, the  Ministry of
Commerce  said today in Beijing. That’s the largest fall since
December and compares with a less than 0.1 percent gain in May
following a six-month slide.  The country may make it easier for overseas investors to
pay a lower withholding tax on dividends they repatriate. The
head of China’s top economic-planning agency said the nation
will encourage foreign investment in industries including high-
end manufacturing and technology.  “Foreign companies and investors will be more encouraged
to pick up investments in China when there is greater clarity on
the track of the domestic economy,” said  Patrick Bennett , a
strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  Hong Kong .
He sees a “modest contraction in foreign investment growth” in
the second half.  Inbound investment in the first six months declined 3
percent from a year earlier to $59.1 billion, the ministry said,
after a 1.9 percent drop in the first five months. The official
Xinhua News Agency reported the first-half figures yesterday,
citing Vice Commerce Minister  Wang Chao .  Yuan Weakening  The  yuan  has fallen about 1.3 percent against the dollar
this year through yesterday after a 4.7 percent gain in 2011.
The currency strengthened less than 0.1 percent today to 6.3741
at 12:01 p.m. in  Shanghai .  European Union investment picked up in June, today’s data
indicated. EU members invested $3.52 billion in China during the
first half, an increase of 1.6 percent from a year earlier, the
Ministry of Commerce said. That compares with a 5.1 percent
decline in the first five months.  Under the new dividend rules, any foreign investor publicly
traded in a country that has a  tax treaty  with China, such as
Hong Kong or the U.K., automatically qualifies for a 5 percent
rate, rather than 10 percent, and no longer has to go through an
assessment process, Abe Zhao, a Beijing-based international tax
partner at  KPMG , said yesterday.  “In the past couple of years the uncertainty discouraged
investment from overseas into China,” Zhao said. “But now when
the uncertainty is reduced, then there is incentive for foreign
investors coming to China.”  U.S. Cooperation  Zhang Ping, chairman of the National Development and Reform
Commission, also said today that the U.S. and China will start
cooperating on infrastructure construction. He spoke at the
U.S.-China Investment Cooperation Forum today in Beijing.  China’s  expansion  cooled to the slowest pace in three years
in the second quarter, expanding 7.6 percent from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics reported July 13. It was the
sixth quarterly deceleration and followed an 8.1 percent gain in
the previous three months.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned the momentum for a recovery isn’t
yet in place and pledged to intensify fine-tuning of policies,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported July 15.  Growth is likely to pick up in the second half and China is
“confident” it will achieve a 10 percent target for increasing
trade in 2012, Shen Danyang, a spokesman for the Commerce
Ministry, said at a briefing today. First-half exports rose 9.2
percent from a year earlier, while imports gained 6.7 percent,
the government said last week.  Surplus Increase  The country’s trade surplus is likely to increase this year
while remaining steady as a share of gross domestic product,
Shen said. That would mark the first increase since 2008; the
first-half surplus was $68.9 billion, compared with $44.9
billion in the first six months of 2011.  Non-financial outbound investment rose 48 percent to $35.4
billion in the first half of the year, the ministry said today.  Automakers such as Nissan Motor Co. and Fiat SpA are among
companies still looking to China, the world’s biggest auto
market, to boost sales.  Nissan, the biggest Japanese carmaker in China, said June
25 it will invest 5 billion yuan ($784 million) to build a new
plant in the northeastern city of Dalian.  Fiat, with two failed partnerships in China, returned to
manufacturing cars in the Asian nation last month. The Italian
carmaker on June 28 began producing the Viaggio car with joint
venture partner Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. at their new
factory in Changsha.  --Zheng Lifei, Zhou Xin. With assistance from  John Liu  and Nerys Avery in Beijing and Sharon Chen in  Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Zhou Xin in Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  