-- CIMB Hires Analysts, Traders in Australia After RBS Purchase
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-07-17T07:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cimb-hires-analysts-traders-in-australia-after-rbs-purchase.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s
second-biggest bank, hired analysts and traders to expand in
Australia after acquiring most of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s Asia-Pacific operations.  CIMB, which is completing the purchase after signing an
agreement in April, named Paul Horneman, previously head of
sales trading at Morgan Stanley, as senior sales trader for its
equities business, the Kuala Lumpur-based company said today in
a staff announcement provided to Bloomberg News. It hired six
analysts, including Shane Lee, from  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , as a senior economist and  Michael Evans ,
previously a resources analyst with CLSA Ltd.  CIMB’s purchase of RBS’s cash equities and investment
banking assets in Asia Pacific will help boost the bank’s market
capitalization to more than 100 billion ringgit ($31.6 billion)
by 2015, Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak  said last month.  CIMB has completed the acquisition of RBS units in
Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, China and  Hong Kong 
while the transfer of those in Australia and Taiwan is on
schedule for the fourth quarter, the company said on July 12.
RBS’s Indian operations were excluded from the deal because of
an unexpected legal issue, CIMB said.  The other new analysts were  James Stewart , a resources
analyst from CLSA, Liam Cummins, who worked for Lodestar
Capital, Daniel Morgan, a former analyst at UBS AG, who will
cover the resources industry, and Tim Plumbe from Deutsche Bank
AG, who will cover small and medium-sized companies, CIMB said.  It appointed Lauren Power, from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, as account relationship manager, Chris Chia, who worked
with Malaysian banks including RHB Securities Sdn., to handle
Asian sales, Gary Armor, who was a senior portfolio manager at
AMP Ltd., as corporate broker, Phil Hopper from Bank of America
Merrill Lynch as head of technology and Daniel Spokes, also from
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, as head of operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  