-- Citigroup’s Stoker Misled Investors, SEC Tells Jury
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/citigroup-s-stoker-misled-investors-sec-tells-jury.html
The former director of  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s collateralized debt obligation structuring group misled
investors in the deal at the center of the bank’s proposed $285
million settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
an agency lawyer told jurors.  The SEC claims that Brian Stoker negligently violated
 securities law  in putting together the assets underlying a $1
billion collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, called “Class V
Funding III.”  “Brian Stoker made untrue statements and material
misstatements to investors,” Jeffrey Infelise, an SEC lawyer,
told the jury yesterday at the start of Stoker’s civil trial in
 Manhattan  federal court.  The SEC claims Citigroup structured and sold the CDO in
2007 without telling investors that it helped pick about half
the underlying assets and was betting they would decline in
value by taking a $500 million short position. The SEC seeks an
order requiring Stoker to disgorge profits from the deal and pay
a fine.  ‘High Stakes’  Stoker’s lawyer, John Keker, urged jurors to look beyond
any dislike they may have for Citigroup or for trading in
synthetic CDOs, which he called “high-stakes, high-level
gambling.”  “It’s not the bank or the transaction that’s on trial
here,” Keker said to jurors. “It’s Brian Stoker.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is overseeing the
Stoker trial, last year rejected Citigroup’s $285 million
settlement with the SEC in which the bank wasn’t required to
admit any liability. That ruling is on appeal.  Rakoff last week denied Stoker’s request to dismiss the
SEC’s claims, ruling that there is enough evidence for a jury to
find him liable.  Rakoff told jurors the trial may take three weeks.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 