-- Clashes in Damascus Bring Fight Close to Seat of Power
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-17T16:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/clashes-in-damascus-bring-fight-close-to-seat-of-power.html
Fighters from the rebel Free Syrian
Army battled government soldiers in central Damascus, the heart
of President Bashar al-Assad’s power base, pressing on with
three days of fighting in areas of the capital.  The rebel force, made up largely of defected soldiers, said
today that the “battle for the liberation” of Damascus has
begun,  Al Arabiya  television reported.  The Syrian National Council, the main political opposition
group, said gunfire could be heard in several neighborhoods in
the capital. Rebels blew up three tanks in Damascus, the group
said on its Facebook page. Activists told Al Arabiya that
government forces are urging residents of the Al-Maidan
neighborhood to vacate before they bombard it.  Damascus and Aleppo,  Syria ’s largest cities, have been
spared the worst of the violence until recently, as government
forces waged fierce battles in provinces such as Homs and Hama.
The two cities are home to merchants and wealthy Assad
supporters who have benefited from their close ties to the
administration. In recent weeks, clashes in the suburbs of
Damascus began to approach the capital as the rebels appeared to
gain ground.  ‘Testing Regime’  “There are organized military units who are testing the
regime in and around Damascus,” Salman Shaikh, director of the
Brookings Doha Center, said in an interview today from Cairo.
“I suspect this is now going to be a continuing intensifying
battle in Damascus. The regime having to use heavy armor in the
environment of Damascus tells you how much trouble it’s in.”  Hasan Abdel-Azim, secretary-general of the opposition
Nasirist Party, said he heard gunshots as he left the Justice
Ministry complex in the heart of the capital around noon today.  “The gunfire was close,” Abdel-Azim said by telephone.
“There have been intermittent clashes between the Free Syrian
Army and regular troops for the past three days. Damascus is no
longer immune from the violence.”  The violence since the insurrection against Assad began in
March 2011 has claimed more than 17,000 lives, according to Rami
 Abdel Rahman , head of the opposition Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights . Casualties include more than 4,300 members of the
security forces, he said. The Local Coordination Committees in
Syria said 28 people were killed in Syria today, including five
in Damascus. Al Jazeera television said a colonel, Ziad Tlass,
defected to Jordan today.  Motorists Strafed  Syria’s state television said today that a group of gunmen
opened fire in Damascus’s Nahr Aisha area and were trying to
block the roads. A 30-year-old Syrian pharmacist who was caught
in violence in that area yesterday said she saw the driver of a
car in front of her die when six men got on a pedestrian bridge
and started strafing motorists stuck in traffic.  The woman, who asked not to be named, fearing for her
safety, said the men, dressed in jeans and T-shirts, used heavy
machine-guns in the three- to four-minute incident. She said she
and other passengers broke down and started to scream.  The observatory said on its Facebook page today that the
government used helicopters yesterday to bomb al-Hajar and al-
Qadam on the outskirts of Damascus. Activists told Al Arabiya
that tanks strafed several Damascus neighborhoods. The
government said its forces chased “an armed terrorist group”
near Naher Aisha in Damascus’s suburbs, according to the state-
run Sana news agency.  UN Vote  The escalating violence comes as diplomatic efforts to end
the revolt are stalled before a United Nations vote. In  New
York ,  Russia  conceded no ground in negotiations over a Western-
drafted resolution that threatens Assad with non-military
measures such as sanctions and demands he step aside to make way
for a “Syrian-led political transition.” A vote is scheduled
for tomorrow.  Russia, which has twice blocked measures to protect its
Soviet-era ally, says it will use its veto again.  “This is seen by some as a stepping stone for military
intervention,” Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin said. “I made
it very clear that we are going to vote against their draft, and
we are not going to be the only ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  