-- Cloud Highlights Strong Yen, Citigroup Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-17T17:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cloud-highlights-strong-yen-citigroup-says-technical-analysis.html
The yen may reach its strongest
level against the euro since 2000 if it breaches a key level
it’s approaching, according to Citigroup Inc., citing ichimoku-
cloud chart analysis.  If the yen gains beyond 95.5 to the euro, a level near its
low on June 1, it may strengthen to as much as 92 yen,  Osamu Takashima , chief currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Citigroup,
wrote today in a client note. Both levels were last reached in
November 2000. The currency declined 0.2 percent today to 97.01
per euro in New York.  “The risk-off sentiment has remained persistent,”
Takashima wrote in the note. “In addition, the Bank of  Japan 
didn’t decide on additional easing last week, besides changing
the composition of its asset-purchase program, while other major
central banks are leaning toward monetary easing.” He couldn’t
be reached immediately for further comment.  Japan’s currency stayed strong versus the euro and the
dollar last week as investors lost risk appetite, Takashima
wrote. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today gains in the
currency were “speculative” and officials will “take decisive
action if needed.”  On a cloud chart, the euro-yen pair has moved below the so-
called conversion and base lines and started to form a dead-
cross pattern, Takashima wrote. A dead cross appears when a
short-term average drops below a longer-term one and signals a
security or currency, in this case the euro, will extend losses.  Dollar-Yen  Bets that the Japanese currency will appreciate further
against the dollar also will probably increase, according to
Citigroup. The yen, which lost 0.2 percent today to 79.06 to the
greenback, may strengthen to 77.66 if it breaches the 78.61
level, Takashima wrote.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset-purchase program to 45
trillion yen ($564 billion) July 12 from 40 trillion yen,
according to a policy statement. The loan facility was cut to 25
trillion yen from 30 trillion yen. The  European Central Bank  cut
its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low 0.75 percent on July
5, and the  Bank of England  raised its asset-purchase target.  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.
The conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest
low over the past nine trading days. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 days. The cloud refers to the area
between the first and second leading-span lines on the chart and
is used to show an area where buy orders may be clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 