-- CMBS Leverage Most Since ’07 as Standards Loosen: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-17T15:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cmbs-leverage-most-since-07-as-standards-loosen-credit-markets.html
Landlords are piling the most debt
onto commercial properties in five years as  Wall Street  banks
bundle the loans into bonds to meet rising demand from investors
seeking high yields amid record-low interest rates.  The size of mortgages bundled into bonds will surpass 100
percent of building values for the first time since 2007, before
the market shut down amid the worst financial crisis in seven
decades, according to Moody’s Investors Service. That measure of
leverage on loans tied to everything from skyscrapers to strip
malls is poised to climb 4.3 percentage points this quarter, the
New York-based ratings company said in a July 11 report.  Lenders are offering larger loans to win business as
borrowers look to pay off a wave of debt taken out during the
real estate bubble and as yield-starved investors are pushed
toward riskier assets. More generous mortgages, a boon for
landlords who need to refinance debt, may fuel concern that
banks are reverting to practices that led to record defaults as
late payments rise above 10 percent.  “I wouldn’t say we are in a danger zone, but we are
leaving the comfort zone,” Moody’s analyst Tad Philipp said in
a telephone interview. “The margin of error has been
diminished.”  Wall Street has arranged about $16.8 billion in commercial
mortgage-backed securities this year, compared with $28 billion
in all of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wells
Fargo & Co. increased its 2012 forecast to $35 billion from $25
billion last week, and Credit Suisse Group AG projects as much
as $45 billion in issuance this year. A record $232 billion in
commercial-mortgage bonds were sold in 2007.  Forecasts Increased  Investors are buying the debt as the  Federal Reserve  keeps
interest rates at record lows for a fourth year. Relative yields
on top-ranked bonds linked to commercial mortgages dropped to
180 basis points more than Treasuries on July 13, down from 261
basis points on Dec. 30, according to a Barclays Plc index.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. was little changed, with
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 0.001 basis point to a mid-price of
112.78 basis points as of 11:33 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Further Action’  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, gave up a decline of as
much as 1.6 basis points after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
the Senate Banking Committee that progress in reducing
unemployment is likely to be slow.  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said today. The Fed is “prepared to
take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery,” Bernanke said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, decreased 0.61 basis point to 23 basis
points as of 11:33 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Goldman Sachs  Bonds of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 89 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:34 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Late payments on commercial mortgages packaged into bonds
reached a record 10.1 percent last month as bubble-era loans
failed to refinance at maturity, according to Jefferies. More
than $23 billion of the debt issued in 2007 is currently
categorized as delinquent, the most of any year, Jefferies
analysts led by Lisa Pendergast said in a report yesterday.  Underwriting in commercial-mortgage bonds is still
“generally superior” to the prevailing standards of 2006 and
2007, the Moody’s analysts said in the report last week. When
loans similar to those from the bubble years appear, it will be
time to “sound the alarm,” Philipp of Moody’s said.  “But by then it’s too late,” he said. “It’s a good time
to take stock of where we are.”  Retail Vacancies  Occupancy levels and revenue for U.S. commercial property
have been rising, though a stalling economic recovery and
concern that the  European debt crisis  will escalate may crimp
demand for  office space , according to  Wells Fargo & Co . Retail
vacancies are just 0.2 percentage point lower than the 2010 high
as U.S. unemployment holds at more than 8 percent and the
housing market struggles to recover, Wells Fargo analysts led by
Marielle Jan De Beur said in a July 12 report.  Commercial property values are staging an uneven recovery,
with large cities on the coasts regaining the most value as
investors seek stable tenants in active areas. Prices in major
markets climbed 41 percent in May from the January 2010 low,
according to the Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price indexes.
That compares with an 18.7 percent gain for smaller cities.
Values declined as much as 39 from the peak of December 2007.  Different Formula  Lenders use a different formula to calculate a property’s
value relative to loan size than Moody’s, resulting in a lower
 leverage ratio . On a $1.35 billion offering from Morgan Stanley
and Bank of America Corp. sold last week, the issuers estimated
the average office loan in the pool to be equal to 65.5 percent
of a building’s value, compared with Moody’s 109.7 percent,
according to the rating company’s assessment of the transaction.  Unlike the banks, the ratings company accounts for the
potential that  interest rates  will rise during the life of a
loan, which can erode a property’s value.  The gap between where Moody’s and lenders peg that ratio
will probably grow to 37.7 percent during the third quarter, the
largest difference since 2007.  Leverage has been rising consistently in recent commercial-
mortgage bond deals, likely leading to higher safeguards being
put in place by the ratings companies, said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2 billion as chief investment officer at
United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York.  ‘Declined Deals’  “We’ve declined the recent deals,” Sullivan said in an e-
mail. “We will continue to review and consider others that may
be brought.”  Moody’s is requiring banks to boost investor protections on
the lowest-ranking investment-grade portions of new deals to
offset the higher-leverage loans. Deals scheduled for this
quarter will need to boost loss cushions for those securities to
7.3 percent, compared with about 6.5 percent in the first
quarter.  Rising leverage in new transactions isn’t cause for
“excessive concern,” according to  Alan Todd , a commercial-
mortgage debt analyst at Bank of America in New York. Mortgages
contained in recent deals are typically underwritten based on
the income buildings are actually generating, rather than
optimistic projections of potential revenue that were common
during the boom period, Todd said.  “Having leverage increase is an unavoidable side effect of
the increased competition that everyone is seeing,” Todd said.
“Everybody is fighting over the same toys in the sandbox. A lot
of assets are already encumbered. When something becomes
available, you have to bring more to the table than somebody
else would.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  