-- Coca-Cola Profit Tops Estimates After Higher Pricing
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-07-17T21:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/coca-cola-profit-tops-estimates-after-higher-pricing.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, reported second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, helped by pricing increases in North
America late last year.  Net income was little changed at $2.79 billion, or $1.21 a
share, compared with $2.8 billion, or $1.20, a year earlier,
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said today in a statement. Excluding
some items, profit totaled $1.22 a share. Analysts projected
$1.19, the average of 14  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  raised pricing last
year to help recoup higher costs for ingredients such as
sweeteners and plastic for bottles. Pricing rose 3 percent in
the second quarter, helped by a 5 percent jump in soft drink
pricing in North America.  “Coca-Cola delivered another solid and better-than-
expected quarter in an increasingly challenging macro
environment,” Bonnie Herzog, an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co .,
said today in a research note. The results are “confirmation of
KO’s durability.” She rates the shares outperform, the
equivalent of a buy.  Coca-Cola  rose  1.6 percent to $77.69 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 11 percent this year.  Commodity costs this year may increase about $300 million
from 2011, less than the $350 million to $450 million Coca-Cola
had forecast in February. The recent jump in corn futures has
been factored into the company’s full-year commodity guidance,
Kent said today in an interview.  “Corn is not our only commodity, it’s a combination of
coffee and PET and metals and oils and everything else,” Kent
said, refering to polyethylene terephthalate, the plastic used
in bottles.  Gross Margin  Revenue in the quarter advanced 2.7 percent to $13.1
billion, according to the statement. The volume of drinks sold
globally increased 4 percent, including a 1 percent gain in
 North America . Volume sales in  China  rose 7 percent while  Europe 
declined 4 percent.  “In Europe, the consumer is pretty confused,” Kent said.
“Less people traveling overall, less people eating out, less
people driving, less people spending and that’s Europe.”  Gross margin softened in May and June and the trend will
continue through the year, Chief Financial Officer Gary Fayard
said today during a conference call. The U.S. dollar’s strength
against other currencies reduced the value of some sales and
shifts in  consumer spending  to lower-margin products are also to
blame, he said.  “Overall, in Europe, USA, and Western economies
particularly, we’re going to see a protracted recovery,” Kent
said in the interview. “The U.S. will come out of this first
and better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  