-- Colorado’s Fire Danger Grows as Residents Occupy High-Risk Areas
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/colorado-s-fire-danger-grows-as-residents-occupy-high-risk-areas.html
Colorado ’s most destructive wildfire
season claimed 650 homes, yet the state lacks a law requiring
homeowners in high-risk areas to use non-flammable building
materials and to clear vegetation around their residences.  Like a majority of states, Colorado relies on a hodgepodge
of  ordinances  that encourage municipalities to create plans for
protecting homes from fire and don’t provide penalties for not
doing so.  After a blaze driven by hurricane-force winds consumed 346
homes in a  Colorado Springs  neighborhood last month in what’s
expected to be the state’s costliest fire, insurers are calling
for tighter restrictions.  “If we have a major takeaway from Colorado’s most
destructive wildfire season, it is how can we address the issue
of safer building codes,” said Carole Walker, executive
director of the  Rocky Mountain Insurance Information
Association , a  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based nonprofit group
that represents property and casualty insurers in Colorado,  New
Mexico ,  Utah  and  Wyoming . “We have different building codes
from municipality to municipality, from county to county.
Colorado really needs to start looking at how can we
consistently make our communities safer.”  Almost 40 percent of new homes in the U.S. in the past
decade were built in what’s known as the “ wildland-urban
interface ,” or residential communities bordering forests or
grass lands. Fires in these zones are often ignited by humans
using chain saws, firing guns or driving cars that backfire,
fueling growth in the number, intensity and average size of
blazes and multiplying losses.  $3 Billion  About a third of the $3 billion used to fight such blazes
each year goes toward defending homes in high-risk areas --
double the cost of a decade ago, said Ray Rasker, executive
director of Bozeman, Montana-based  Headwaters Economics , a
research firm that analyzes the costs of wildfires.  The financial effects of wildfires on municipalities last
for years. Burned homes decrease property values, causing
counties to lose hundreds of thousands in  tax revenue  that in
many cases is dedicated to financing local fire districts.  Wildfires also strain state and local resources. City
departments lack equipment and gear to fight forest fires, and
volunteers who often battle blazes on federal lands are
dwindling in number.  “When people are building houses in single increments, the
revenue tax base isn’t there for expansion of their fire
departments,” said Bob Roper, a retired Ventura County,
California, chief. “We end up stretching the limited resources
we have up front with high expectations that the fire service
will be there when a fire happens.”  Funding Dwindling  Federal funding dedicated to training and equipping local
departments to fight wildfires and helping communities draft
protection plans is dwindling even as development continues.
Homes exist on only 20 percent of the land in the West’s
wildland-urban interface, Rasker said.  “We’re just starting to see the very beginnings of how big
this problem is going to get,” he added.  Funding for federal programs fell 25 percent to $73 million
proposed in fiscal 2013, from $97 million in fiscal 2011, said
Jake Donnay, senior director of forest policy at the Washington-
based  National Assn. of State Foresters .  ‘Snowball Effect’  “We’re pulling from our fuel reduction and prevention
programs to pay for suppression,” said Jim Karels, state
forester for  Florida , where 18 million people live among 26
million fire-prone acres. “It has a snowball effect which makes
it worse each year.”  In  Oklahoma , fire departments are struggling to protect
homes built in the past decade in unincorporated forested areas
and grasslands outside Tulsa and  Oklahoma City  that lack
building codes requiring non-flammable materials.  “There are million-dollar plus homes built in rural areas
on dirt roads -- it’s hard to get fire equipment there,” said
Robert Doke, Oklahoma’s fire marshal. “There’s a lack of high-
pressure water lines for the fire hydrants and these structures
are built with more light-weight laminates, which causes them to
burn quicker.”  In  New Hampshire , officials worry that a boom in second-
 home construction  by New Englanders in the White Mountains is a
conflagration waiting to happen.  “If we get a real dry spell, I think there will be
significant threat to loss of property and life,” said Bill
Degnan, New Hampshire’s fire marshal. “If we have one major
incident, we all end up paying for it.”  Financial Impact  The financial impact can last for years. In Boulder,
Colorado, where the  Fourmile Canyon  blaze burned 169 homes in a
wooded area northwest of the city in 2010, the county lost about
$100 million in property value, said Jerry Roberts, the county’s
assessor.  “We lost $823,000 a year in property tax collections,” he
said. “These little volunteer fire districts operate on very
low budgets and all of a sudden a fire comes through and it
wipes out their tax base.”  As many as 66,000 communities nationwide are at-risk of a
wildland fire, yet only 5.4 percent of these are protected by
voluntary fire protection plans or ordinances, according to a
report released in January by the National Association of State
Foresters.  Even states that mandate defensible space -- like
 California , where firefighters can fine homeowners in areas
protected by Cal Fire if they don’t clear  100 feet  around their
homes -- rules are not consistently enforced, said Ray Moritz, a
 San Rafael , California-based fire ecologist.  ‘Defensible Space’  “The vast majority of homes I look at do not meet
defensible space guidelines,” said Moritz, a former
firefighter. “On a certain level, firefighter associations are
unwilling to alienate the public by enforcing the codes.”  About 770 communities in 40 states use the  Firewise
Communities Program , created by the nonprofit National Fire
Protection Association in 2002, to help them write plans to
protect homeowners and businesses. These measures aren’t cheap
to enact.  In Colorado Springs, the state’s second-largest city,
nestled against the foothills at the base of Pikes Peak,
firefighters on the Waldo Canyon blaze credited a decade of work
to enact Firewise policies in neighborhoods ringing the city, as
well as an ordinance that requires new homes be built with non-
flammable roofs, with saving many residences.  $300,000 Grant  In the city’s southwest,  Cedar Heights  residents relied on
a $300,000 grant from  Federal Emergency Management Agency  to
help clear 100 acres of parkland atop the community of a tangle
of dead scrub and gamble oak and pine trees.  The effort, which homeowners were required to match by
thinning trees and vegetation around 190 homes with expansive
views of the city, saved the neighborhood, whose motto is
“Minutes Away, Worlds Apart.”  “The mitigation effort was very critical to the fire
department’s ability to control and stop the fire before it got
to Cedar Heights,” said Dick Standaert, who lives in the
neighborhood.  Many communities are resistant to Firewise, which seeks to
teach homeowners that blazes are ignited by embers fueled by
pine needles in gutters, cushions on deck chairs, mulch around
flower beds and fences surrounding properties, said Michele
Steinberg, Firewise Communities Program manager.  “There’s a lot of denial about the actual risk that
exists,” she said.  -- Editors: Jeffrey Taylor, Michael Hytha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  