-- Colombian Peso Holds at One-Week High on Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-17T19:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/colombian-peso-is-little-changed-as-bernanke-comments-pare-gains.html
Colombia ’s peso held at a one-week
high after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank is ready to take further action to boost growth in
the world’s biggest economy without outlining specific measures.  The peso rose as much as 0.3 percent after U.S. data today
that showed industrial production increased in June, signaling
manufacturing is boosting economic growth in the U.S.,
Colombia’s biggest trading partner. The U.S. buys about 40
percent of Colombia’s exports.  “The U.S. output data is sending a positive signal to the
market, especially in those countries that have strong trade
ties,”said Julian Marquez, an analyst at Interbolsa SA
brokerage in Bogota. While investors expecting Bernanke to
announce more stimulus measures were disappointed, “current
conditions still lead to a lot of liquidity which translates
into flows into countries like Colombia,” Marquez said.  The Colombian currency closed little changed at 1,780.28
per dollar. It earlier gained to 1,774.28, its strongest level
since July 5. The peso has jumped 8.9 percent this year, the
best performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While Bernanke told lawmakers today that progress in
reducing unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow,” he
outlined possible options for adding further monetary stimulus.
In response to questions, Bernanke said possible measures
include further purchases of assets, such as mortgage-backed
securities, reducing the interest rate that the Fed pays on
reserves that banks keep with the Fed, and altering its
communications on the outlook for  interest rates .  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 6.83 percent, according to the central bank. The
bond’s price fell 0.314 centavo to 125.4460 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  