-- Colorado, Oklahoma Pitch Natural-Gas Cars in Michigan
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/colorado-oklahoma-pitch-natural-gas-cars-in-michigan.html
The governors of Oklahoma and
Colorado met with executives from  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Chrysler Group LLC, to ask for more cars and
trucks with engines that run on compressed natural gas.  They’ve joined with 11 other states, most rich with
natural-gas stockpiles, to commit to buy thousands of those
vehicles a year for their fleets. As marketable reserves of
natural gas in the U.S. have grown and the per-gallon price has
declined compared with gasoline or diesel, the fuel choice is a
patriotic and non-partisan one, the governors said.  Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, a Republican, and Colorado
Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, met with groups led by
Steve Carlisle, a GM vice president; Ford’s  Mark Fields ,
president of the Americas; and  Peter Grady , Chrysler’s head of
dealer networks. The states will issue a joint request for
proposals on July 24, they said.  “What we want to do is be a partner to  Detroit  and make it
so it works for them as a business proposition,” Hickenlooper
said in an interview yesterday in Dearborn, Michigan.  A massive supply of natural gas from North America’s shale
rocks has made the U.S. the world’s largest producer of natural
gas and forced prices to record discounts versus crude oil.  President  Barack Obama , in a speech in January in  Las
Vegas , called the U.S. the “ Saudi Arabia  of natural gas.” He’s
pushed companies and the federal government to buy more vehicles
that run on compressed natural gas, or CNG, for their fleets.  Demand Issue  “Supply is not the issue, demand is,” said  Sam Brothwell ,
a senior utility analyst for Bloomberg Industries. “That’s why
the gas-producing states want to see a new end use developed for
natural gas.”  Another hurdle is infrastructure. There are about 500
public CNG filling stations in the U.S., according to the Energy
Department. That’s less than 0.3 percent of the 159,000 gas
stations in the U.S. tallied by the National Association of
Convenience Stores in 2010.  Natural gas, an odorless mix of mostly methane, is the
source of about a quarter of the energy used in the U.S.,
according to the Energy Department. Most is used for heating,
cooking and power generation. About 0.1 percent is used for
transportation fuel, according to the department.  While most comes from wells, recent improvements in
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has made it easier to extract
gas from shale-rock formations. The process uses water, sand and
chemicals to open fissures in rocks and release gas. Fracking
takes place near surface and ground water. The Obama
administration is developing standards for natural-gas producers
to disclose the chemicals used in fracking.  Fallin said the auto executives took them seriously and
each said they would participate in the bidding process.  “We’re trying to be a game changer for the marketplace and
helping with the demand,” she said.  The governors declined to give a specific total that the
states would commit to purchase. In November, when the effort
was announced, the goal was for each state to buy 5,000 CNG
vehicles each year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
7132 or  mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  