-- Congressional Probe of Fed and Libor Set to Widen to U.S. Banks
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-17T22:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/congressional-probe-of-fed-and-libor-set-to-widen-to-u-s-banks.html
Congressional investigators probing
banks’ efforts to rig the London interbank offered rate plan to
request correspondence between the Federal Reserve and U.S.
banks that help set the rate.  ’’What we’re going to do now is expand our inquiry into the
domestic banks and see what kind of dialogue began with the Fed
and these banks,’’ Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas
Republican and chairman of the oversight and investigations
panel of the U.S. House Financial Services Committee, said in an
interview on CNBC today.  Neugebauer intends to request correspondence between the
Fed and the three U.S. banks on the Libor-setting panel,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp .,
according to a congressional aide, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the details were not yet public.  The U.S. central bank is drawing more scrutiny from
lawmakers critical of its record as a bank regulator after the
New York Fed released documents showing it was aware that
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  underreported borrowing costs in 2008. Neugebauer
requested the documents, which were made public July 13.  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($452
million) last month and the scandal cost Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  his job. At least a dozen banks are being
investigated.  The underreporting of London interbank offered rates is
“unacceptable behavior” and the U.S. central bank offered a
“substantial response” to address the problem, Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing in Washington.  The disclosures are “not only very troubling in themselves
but they have the effect of undermining public confidence in
financial markets,” Bernanke said during testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  