-- Container Punctuality Shows Signs of Improvement, INTTRA Reports
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-07-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/container-punctuality-shows-signs-of-improvement-inttra-reports.html
The world’s container shipping lines
boosted reliability in June in terms of the number of boxes
delivered on time, according to a company that offers online
shipping management and a maritime analytics firm.  The on-time rate for containers was 64 percent in June, up
from 61 percent in May, according to a report by U.S. e-commerce
platform  INTTRA  and SeaIntel Maritime Analysis. While that’s
below the 66.5 percent of boxes delivered on time in 2011, it
shows the industry is paying more attention to reliability,
INTTRA said.  “We have started to see a marked improvement in vessel
reliability as well as container reliability and it is not just
one or two carriers, it seems to be systemic across the board,”
INTTRA Chief Executive Officer Ken Bloom said in an interview.  Clients can cut  shipping costs  by as much as 70 percent
through prompt deliveries, according to  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ,
owner of the world’s largest container line. Late-arriving goods
cost customers money in lost sales and output, while early
arrivals may result in higher storage expenses and require a
change in collection procedures and production plans.  The report also showed that Maersk Line was the most
reliable among the world’s top 20 carriers in terms of sailing
times in June, with 92 percent of its ships arriving on time,
followed by Hamburg Sued at 88 percent and Yang Ming Marine
Transport Corp. at 87 percent. Mediterranean Shipping Co. was
the worst performer of the 20 at 73 percent.  Timing Slips  The improvement in June came after INTTRA data last month
showed that container punctuality had slipped in the first
20 weeks of this year, when 63.7 percent of boxes arrived on
time versus 65.9 percent a year earlier. In 2010 and 2011, 68.8
percent and 66.5 percent of boxes arrived on time, respectively.  The new report focused on the punctuality of containers and
the time it takes shipping companies to deliver them to clients,
rather than vessel punctuality and port-to-port transit times.
There is a “significant gap” between those two measures,
INTTRA and SeaIntel said today.  On routes between  Asia  and  Europe  and Asia and  North
America , container delivery times are typically 8 to 10
percentage points lower than the punctuality of ships, the
report showed. While 88 percent of vessels travelling from
Europe to  Australia  and  New Zealand  arrive on time, only 36
percent of cargo on that route reached customers on time.  “While knowing when the vessel arrives is an indicator of
on-time arrival, what’s most important to a shipper is how
timely their cargo is moving,” said Lars Jensen, chief
executive officer of Copenhagen-based SeaIntel Maritime
Analysis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  