-- Stocks, Commodities Rise on Bernanke; Dollar Erases Gain
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-17T20:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/corn-soybeans-rise-on-u-s-drought-as-oil-drops-on-imf-forecast.html
U.S. stocks rose, reversing earlier
losses, and commodities climbed as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the central bank is prepared to act to boost
growth if labor markets don’t improve. The Dollar Index erased
gains while Treasuries retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.7 percent to
1,363.67 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after retreating as much as 0.6
percent. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six
major peers, fell 0.1 percent after rallying as much as 0.6
percent. Ten-year Treasury yields rose three basis points to
1.50 percent, while a gain in oil helped lead the S&P GSCI Index
to a fifth straight advance, its longest rally in 11 weeks, even
as 16 of its 24 commodities decreased.  Stocks turned lower in the first hour of trading and the
dollar rallied as Bernanke’s prepared testimony to Congress
provided no specific plans for boosting growth. Equities
recovered as the Fed chairman’s answers to senators’ questions
signaled he’s concerned about the economic recovery and doesn’t
view inflation as a hindrance to providing more stimulus.  “His downbeat assessment of the economy left the
impression that QE3 may be coming soon,”  Jeffrey Kleintop ,
chief market strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston , which
oversees $350 billion, said in an e-mail. “QE3” refers to a
third round of stimulus measures known as quantitative easing.  Bernanke’s testimony followed data yesterday showing a
contraction in June retail sales and a report today that the
cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in June, a sign
inflation may stay subdued.  Bernanke Testimony  The Fed chairman said policy makers are studying options
for further easing that could be deployed. Bernanke, responding
to questions during testimony today to the Senate Banking
Committee in  Washington , said easing tools include further
purchases of assets, such as mortgage-backed securities,
reducing the interest rate that the Fed pays on reserves banks
keep with the central bank, and altering its communications on
the outlook for  interest rates .  Indexes of health-care, commodity, telephone and consumer-
discretionary stocks rallied at least 1 percent to lead gains in
 all 10  of the main industries in the  S&P 500 .  Walt Disney Co. rallied 3.1 percent to a record $49.35,
leading gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , after Bank of
America Corp. raised the world’s largest entertainment company
to a buy. Coca-Cola Co. advanced 1.6 percent after posting
earnings that topped projections. Mattel Inc. jumped 9.7 percent
after reporting second-quarter profit that exceeded the average
analyst estimate.  Earnings Season  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  rose 0.3 percent, trimming a rally
of as much as 2.9 percent. The bank reported second-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates and said it is selling
its hedge-fund administration unit to State Street Corp. State
Street tumbled 6.4 percent for the biggest drop in the S&P 500.  Earnings beat estimates at 32 of the 45 companies in the
S&P 500 that have reported quarterly results so far, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Profits are down 3 percent for the
group and  earnings (SPX)  are projected to decrease 2.1 percent for the
entire S&P 500.  The S&P 500 slipped in seven of the previous eight  sessions 
and is down almost 4 percent from a four-year high in April as
economic data trailed estimates and investors braced for what is
projected to be the first decline in quarterly profits since
2009. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 forecast for
global economic growth yesterday to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent
as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s recession and slows
expansions in  emerging markets .  Economy Surprises  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which
measures how much data from the past three months is beating or
missing the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys, is at minus
62.3, near the almost 11-month low of minus 64.9 reached last
week. The gauge peaked at 91.9 in January.  Oil rose 0.9 percent to $89.22 a barrel, a seven week high,
amid speculation that inventories fell and as a report showed
U.S. industrial production increased in June.  The dollar weakened against 15 of 16 major peers, losing at
least 0.6 percent versus the Brazilian real, Australian dollar
and Swedish krona.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index of stocks in the region slipped
0.3 percent. Alcatel-Lucent SA plunged 20 percent to a three-
year low after  France ’s largest telecommunications-equipment
supplier said it expects to miss a 2012 profitability target and
posted a second-quarter loss. Petroleum Geo-Services ASA, the
world’s third-largest surveyor of oil and gas fields, surged 9.3
percent in Oslo after raising its full-year forecast.  Yield Watch  German two-year note yields increased to minus 0.047
percent after earlier falling to a record low of minus 0.061
percent. Spain’s two-year notes slipped, pushing the yield eight
basis points higher to 4.73 percent after the nation auctioned
3.56 billion euros ($4.38 billion) of bills. The rate on five-
year  U.S. debt  increased two basis points to 0.62 percent, after
reaching a record-low 0.577 percent yesterday.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.7 percent for a
third day of gains. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6
percent from its lowest close since March 2009 after the
government said it will boost railway infrastructure investment
and forecast economic growth will pick up in the second half.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 1.8 percent. Benchmark indexes gained
in  South Korea  and  Russia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  