-- Costamare Considers Ship Purchases as Rivals Struggle
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-07-17T14:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/costamare-considers-ship-purchases-as-rivals-struggle-correct-.html
(Corrects investment value in fifth paragraph.)  Costamare Inc. (CMRE) , the Greek owner of
46 chartered container ships, is looking to acquire more vessels
as asset values in the shipping industry fall, even as many
rivals struggle to make profit amid low prices to carry freight.  “We make sure that everywhere the markets go, we are well-
capitalized and that we can  make acquisitions  and investments if
opportunities arise,” Chief Financial Officer Gregory Zikos
said in a phone interview today. “While we’re not going to be
buying just to be buying, we will if the numbers make sense.”  The shipping industry has been struggling with high fuel
costs and falling charter and freight rates, mainly caused by an
oversupply of vessels, which has put pressure on earnings. Many
European banks have also exited ship finance, exacerbating the
crisis as operators have found it harder to refinance debt or
raise funds for fleet renewals and investments.  While Athens-based  Costamare  seeks potential acquisitions,
many shipping companies in  Germany , home to the world’s largest
container fleet, are struggling. About 28 percent of German
shipping companies are likely to scale back investments in the
coming 12 months while 8 percent will pull vessels from service
because of the industry’s crisis, according to a survey by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP that was published on June 19.  Since early 2011, Costamare has spent $1.2 billion on new
ships and acquisitions of second-hand vessels, including the
purchase in April of two  container ships  built in 1998, with
capacity of 3,842 standard boxes each, for a total of  $24.9
million , Zikos said.  Finance Arrangements  The company, which counts A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, Hapag-
Lloyd AG and Mediterranean Shipping Co. as customers, charters
its container vessels to other shipping companies. All of its 46
ships are profitable, Zikos said. The company also has orders
for 10 newly built vessels.  Costamare is looking at buying ships with and without a
time-charter agreement, as well as new ships to renew its fleet,
Zikos said. The company, which had  cash and cash equivalents  of
$321 million at the end of March, has access to  capital markets ,
 cash flow  from current vessels and the potential to increase the
leverage on some existing vessels or use banks for funding for
“the right transaction,” he said.  “If there’s deal there, we’re able to do it,” Zikos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  