-- Cost of Living in U.S. Probably Was Little Changed in June
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cost-of-living-in-u-s-probably-was-little-changed-in-june.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably was little changed in June, a sign inflation may stay
subdued as Federal Reserve officials have predicted, economists
said before a report today.  The forecast for the  consumer price index  follows a 0.3
percent drop the prior month, according to the median estimate
of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Separate data may
show industrial production and homebuilder sentiment climbed.  Companies from  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  to Chrysler Group LLC are
offering incentives to boost sales as weak job gains squeeze
households, underscoring limited pricing power among businesses.
With inflation less of a concern, Fed policy makers have room to
take additional steps to ensure the world’s largest economy
keeps expanding.  “The inflation outlook is favorable,” said  Michael Moran ,
chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. in  New
York . “Slowing growth in the U.S. and around the world should
keep prices in check. It keeps the light green for possible
further easing by the Fed.”  The Labor Department will issue the consumer price index at
8:30 a.m. today in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from
a gain of 0.2 percent to a decline of 0.6 percent.  At 9:15 a.m. in Washington, Fed figures may show
manufacturing remains a mainstay of growth. Output at factories,
mines and utilities increased 0.3 percent in June after a 0.1
percent drop the prior month, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  Core CPI  The Labor Department’s report may also show the  core  cost-
of-living index, which excludes volatile food and fuel costs,
rose 0.2 percent for a fourth month, according to the survey
median. Compared with June 2011, the core CPI gauge probably
climbed 2.2 percent, the smallest year-over-year gain since
February.  Businesses may hold the line on prices as slower payroll
gains and unemployment at 8.2 percent sap household spending,
which makes up 70 percent of the economy. Retail sales fell for
a third month in June, the longest stretch of declines since
2008, figures showed yesterday.  Supervalu, the third-largest U.S. grocery chain, plans to
accelerate price reductions and cut costs by an additional $250
million over the next two years. It said dollar-store chains
have grabbed more consumers.  “Consumers’ price sensitivity has intensified given the
continuing weak economic environment,” Craig Herkert, chief
executive officer of the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company,
told analysts on a July 11 call. “This has led many retailers
to become even more aggressive on promotions and price
investment, and to step up their marketing activity.”  Auto Incentives  Automakers are also offering incentives to attract
customers. Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker controlled by Fiat
SpA, said it will let buyers put off monthly payments for the
first 90 days in a national promotion for all of its vehicles
through the end of July.  General Motors Co. (GM)  will offer no-haggle
pricing on 2012 Chevrolet vehicles plus a money-back guarantee
on all new Chevys, running through Sept. 4.  Several Fed officials said more action could be warranted
if growth slows, risks intensify or inflation seems likely to
fall “persistently” below their goal, according to minutes of
the June 19-20 meeting released last week. Central bank staff
“continued to project that inflation would be subdued through
2014,” the text showed.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will address the outlook for
the economy during his semi-annual monetary policy report to
Congress today and tomorrow. He may hint at steps that can be
taken to revive the expansion.  Stocks have declined since the end of April on concerns
about the global economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
lost 3.2 percent since April 30.  Gasoline Prices  Households are getting some relief as lower fuel expenses
contain the cost of living. The price of a gallon of regular
 gasoline  at the pump averaged $3.49 in June, down 22 cents from
May, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization. It has fallen further, reaching $3.40 on July 15.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. About
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and rents.  Producer prices  rose 0.1 percent in June, the first gain in
four months and a reflection of higher food expenses, while the
import-price index declined 2.7 percent in June, the biggest
plunge since December 2008, reports showed last week.  Also today at 10 a.m., a report may show improvement in
housing, which lagged the rest of the economy during the
recovery. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index rose to 30 in July, the highest since May 2007,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  