-- Couche-Tard Says Europe Ripening Within Crisis
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-07-17T20:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/couche-tard-says-europe-ripening-within-crisis.html
Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. (ATD/A) , the
Canadian convenience-store operator whose stock hit a record
high yesterday, isn’t letting  Europe ’s debt crisis get in the
way of its expansion.  Fresh from completing the $2.6 billion purchase of Norway’s
Statoil Fuel & Retail ASA, the Laval, Quebec-based retailer is
considering additional European acquisitions. Analysts such as
Jim Durran at  Barclays Capital  and Perry Caicco at  CIBC World
Markets  say Couche-Tard would probably be interested in Exxon
Mobil Corp.’s German gas stations.  Statoil Fuel “will allow us to take a good shot at growth
opportunities” in Europe, Couche-Tard Chief Executive Officer
Alain Bouchard told analysts on a July 10 conference call.  Couche-Tard, which means “night owl” in French, has more
than doubled in the past five years on rising earnings from its
acquisitions across  North America . Adjusted earnings jumped
almost 10-fold to $2.42 a share in fiscal 2012 from 25 cents in
2003.  With a network of about 4,500 company-operated outlets that
spans 42 U.S. states and all 10 Canadian provinces, Couche-Tard
is  Canada ’s biggest convenience-store operator. The company has
completed at least 40 acquisitions in North America since 2001,
including the $804 million takeover of Circle K in 2003 from
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Couche-Tard’s Class B  stock  fell 41 cents to C$47.92 by 4
p.m. in Toronto today. Yesterday, the stock touched C$48.87, its
highest price since the company began trading in June 1995.  Tops Tim  Couche-Tard has gained 52 percent in 2012, the best
performance among the 12 members of the consumer staples sub-
group of Canada’s benchmark  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index. (SPTSX)  The S&P/TSX has declined 3.2 percent this year. Couche-
Tard’s market value of C$8.58 billion is higher than Tim Hortons
Inc., the country’s biggest coffee chain, and more than twice
the size of BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   Adding Statoil Fuel’s network of about 2,300 gas stations
in Scandinavia, the Baltics, Poland and  Russia  will give Couche-
Tard access to consumers in regions where growth is faster than
in the struggling 17-nation euro area, while providing the
company with a platform for future expansion.  “Statoil in and of itself is a pretty good acquisition,
but it’s that much more valuable in Couche-Tard’s hands,”
Izabel Flis, a research analyst at Bissett Investment Management
in Calgary, said in a telephone interview. “Couche-Tard’s
management is really well known for doing a fantastic job with
acquisitions, integrating them and leveraging the larger scale
that comes with them.”  Cash Available  Bissett and parent Franklin Templeton Investments owned
about 516,000 Couche-Tard shares as of March, according to
Bloomberg  data .  Should other deals arise, Couche-Tard would have about
$1.15 billion at its disposal, including cash on hand of more
than $300 million and existing credit facilities of about $841
million, Chief Financial Officer Raymond Pare said July 10. He
didn’t return a phone call seeking comment yesterday.  Exxon Mobil (XOM) , the world’s biggest energy company by market
value, is weighing a sale of its German Esso gas station chain,
people familiar with the process told Bloomberg News this month.
The unit, which includes more than 1,100 gas stations, may fetch
more than 1 billion euros ($1.25 billion), said two of the
people, who asked not to be identified because talks are
private.  Barclays Capital’s Durran said in a July 5 note to
investors he would support an acquisition by Couche-Tard of
Exxon Mobil’s German gas-station assets “at the right price,
subject to further due diligence.” Doing the deal would
probably force Couche-Tard to issue stock, said Durran, who has
an overweight rating on the company.  German Assets  Exxon Mobil ’s German assets would represent an “attractive
opportunity” for Couche-Tard, CIBC’s Caicco said in a July 10
report. He has a sector outperformer rating on Couche-Tard.  Brandon Snow, lead manager of the C$1.1 billion ($1
billion) Cambridge Canadian Equity Corporate Class  fund , said he
trusts Couche-Tard “to do only a deal that’s right. Obviously
they’ve bitten off a very big chunk with Statoil, and they have
a lot of work to do related to that transaction.”  Citing confidentiality agreements, Bouchard declined to
identify possible targets during the July 10 conference call,
noting that any deal in Europe would require patience.  “It takes months and months to strike a deal” in Europe,
he said. “So I don’t see nothing big happening in the near
future.”  Investment Grade  Bouchard also said the company is “certainly not willing
to risk our investment grade. So we’ll be very careful there.”  Standard & Poor’s  said April 19 it may lower Couche-Tard’s
BBB- credit rating because of the additional debt. A decision
will be made once S&P assesses Couche-Tard’s ability to reduce
debt within 18 to 24 months. The BBB- rating is S&P’s lowest
investment-grade ranking.  Couche-Tard is paying for its European foray with a three-
year, $3.2 billion  credit line  and additional drawings on
existing credit facilities. Couche-Tard  said  in April it expects
to have adjusted net debt of $6.5 billion at the closing of the
transaction, or 3.8 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and rent. The company has said it
plans to cut adjusted net debt to 3 times Ebitdar over 18 months
with the help of free  cash flow .  Couche-Tard is entering Europe at a time of crisis. The
International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global growth
estimate for next year to 3.9 percent from an April estimate of
4.1 percent as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs  Spain ’s recession
and slows expansions in  emerging markets  from  China  to  India .  Even so, Couche-Tard’s track record of prospering from past
acquisitions means investors such as Laura Wallace aren’t
worried.  Low Risk  Wallace, part of a team that manages C$12 billion at the
private client group of  Bank of Nova Scotia , recently bought
Couche-Tard stock in part because of the company’s European
expansion.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  is Canada’s third-biggest lender.  “Couche-Tard is a low-risk way of starting to play in
Europe,” Wallace said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office. “Not everything in Europe is going to zero.”  Investors such as Snow and Sebastian van Berkom of Van
Berkom & Associates say the Statoil Fuel deal will allow Couche-
Tard to deduct interest payments both in Canada and in its new
European division -- a procedure known as double dipping.  “There are a lot of financial synergies that come out of
the Statoil transaction,” said van Berkom, whose Montreal-based
firm manages C$1.8 billion and owns Couche-Tard stock. “The
financing is very clever. There’s double dipping, plus they got
additional financing at low rates. There is going to be a
tremendous accretion to the earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  