-- Agricole to Sell Unit to Kepler; Team Up With UniCredit
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-07-17T17:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/credit-agricole-said-near-exclusive-talks-with-kepler.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  is in exclusive
talks to sell its trading and research unit CA Cheuvreux to
Kepler Capital Markets SA and is considering a partnership with
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  for its equity capital markets business as
commissions plummet.  Credit Agricole , France’s third-biggest bank, would become
a strategic shareholder of Kepler Cheuvreux under the proposed
deal, the companies said in a joint statement today. Terms of
the transaction, which would form the largest brokerage in
France, weren’t disclosed. UniCredit and Credit Agricole are
considering teaming up in advising clients on stock offerings as
part of the plan.  “This is about remaining in the market but cutting back
the resources employed,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-
based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “Middle-ranking banks have to
decide where they want to be.”  Credit Agricole is trimming the bank’s balance sheet and
cutting costs amid higher capital demands from regulators and a
decline in trading and underwriting commissions. Kepler and
UniCredit have already combined brokerage operations in western
 Europe  and some eastern European countries.  “We are responding to critical industry developments by
creating an entirely new type of partnership between a broker
and two banks,” Jean-Yves Hocher, chief executive of Credit
Agricole’s corporate and investment bank, said in the statement.  Cheuvreux, which covers 600 stocks from 13 offices, posted
a 53.9 million-euro ($66 million) loss last year, wider than its
12.5 million-euro loss in 2010. Credit Agricole’s profit dropped
75 percent in the first quarter, hurt by losses at the bank’s
Greek unit,  Emporiki Bank of Greece SA .  Credit Agricole had held talks with bidders including
French investment firm  Viel & Cie. (VIL)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , a
person familiar with the discussions said July 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  