-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Drop as Bernanke Hints at Growth Measures
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-17T21:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-drop-as-bernanke-avoids-new-policy-action.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  outlined
possible tools to boost the economy and reiterated the Fed’s
readiness to act.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 111.1 basis points at 4:37
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  declined as the
company said second-quarter earnings beat estimates.  Investors were looking for hints from Bernanke on more
stimulus plans as a sputtering recovery builds concern that
economic growth will stall, hampering companies’ ability to
repay debt. Bernanke said today in his semi-annual report on the
economy to Congress that the central bank is ready to initiate
growth measures to counter what will probably be “frustratingly
slow” progress in cutting unemployment, and that asset
purchases are among the options.  “We’ve gotten the message pretty clearly that the Fed is
prepared to take more action,” Kathy Jones, a fixed-income
strategist in  New York  for Charles Schwab Corp., which has $1.76
trillion in client assets, said of Bernanke’s comments in a
telephone interview. “We know that he is frustrated with the
pace of growth and we know that he’d like to see unemployment
come down, and I think the low levels of inflation give him some
room here.”  Operation Twist  The  Federal Open Market Committee  decided last month to
extend its program to reduce borrowing costs by increasing the
maturity of its balance sheet, known as Operation Twist.  Additional easing tools include further asset purchases,
cutting the interest rate the Fed pays on the reserves banks
store with it and altering communications on the outlook for
 interest rates , Bernanke said today in testimony to the Senate
Banking Committee in  Washington .  There are “different types of purchase programs that could
include Treasuries, or could include Treasuries and mortgage-
backed securities,” the Fed chairman said in response to
questions from Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican.  Retail sales slumped for a third month in June, data from
the Commerce Department showed yesterday, signaling a slowdown
in  consumer spending  with unemployment more than 8 percent.
Payroll increases missed forecasts in June and private corporate
hiring was the weakest in 10 months as the jobless rate held at
8.2 percent, according to the Labor Department.  ‘Generally Disappointing’  Recent economic data have had a “generally disappointing
tone,” Bernanke said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, said
today net income in the period ended June 30 fell to $962
million, surpassing the highest estimate of 25 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of the New
York-based company fell 1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 260
basis points, the lowest level in almost two weeks, Bloomberg
prices show. Credit-default swaps tied to Goldman Sachs fell as
much as 6.1 basis points earlier.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  