-- Schleck Quits Tour de France in Race’s Second Drugs Scandal
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-18T08:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/cyclist-frank-schleck-has-positive-drug-test-at-tour-de-france.html
Frank Schleck  quit the  Tour de
France  after testing positive for a banned diuretic, the second
drugs scandal to hit the race in a week.  Schleck, who finished third last year, was found to have
Xipamide in a urine sample four days ago, the International
Cycling Union, or  UCI , said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday. The diuretic can be used as a masking agent for
performance-enhancing drugs.  Even though UCI rules don’t mandate an automatic suspension
for the drug in Schleck’s sample, the rider and his RadioShack-
Nissan-Trek team agreed that he should withdraw so the race
“can go on in calm” and allow him time to prepare his defense,
according to a  team statement . Schleck said he requested an
analysis of a secondary sample.  “I categorically deny taking any banned substance,” said
Schleck,  according to a statement  posted on the RTL website. “I
have no explanation for the test result and insist that the B
sample be tested, which is my right. If this analysis confirms
the first result, I will argue that I have been the victim of
poisoning.”  It’s the second drugs-related incident in this year’s Tour.
Remy di Gregorio was suspended by the Cofidis team on July 10 as
it investigates whether the French cyclist tried to take
performance-enhancing drugs. He denies wrongdoing.  Today’s 197-kilometer (122-mile) stage in the Pyrenees is
the 16th of 20. The race ends July 22 in Paris. Bradley Wiggins
leads by 2 minutes, 5 seconds from Team Sky teammate Chris
Froome. Schleck had been 9:45 off the lead in 12th place.  Schleck, a 32-year-old from Luxembourg, was among dozens of
riders to crash 16 miles from the end of stage six, losing time
on the leaders.  Bruyneel Case  Schleck’s positive test is the latest setback for the
RadioShack squad. Manager  Johan Bruyneel  is sitting out the race
after being accused of overseeing doping on the U.S. Postal
Service team that was led by  Lance Armstrong . Bruyneel denies
the charge by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency and has asked for his
case to be heard by an arbitration panel.  The RadioShack team, which leads the team standings over
Team Sky, said Xipamide isn’t present in any medicine that it
uses and the reason for its presence in Schleck’s sample was
“unclear to the team.”  Schleck finished third behind his younger brother, Andy,
and champion  Cadel Evans  at last year’s Tour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Pau,  France , at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  