-- Danish Banks Set for More Failures Amid Debt Woes, S&P Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-17T14:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/danish-banks-set-for-more-failures-amid-debt-woes-s-p-says.html
Five to 15 more banks may fail in
 Denmark  amid “lingering economic imbalances,” Standard &
Poor’s Rating Services said.  The insolvencies may cause an industry loss of 6 billion
kroner ($990 million) to 12 billion kroner, S&P said today in a
Banking Industry Country Risk Assessment report ranking the
Nordic country’s banking system alongside the U.S. and the U.K.
There have been 12 bank defaults since 2007, S&P said.  “Major economic fundamentals underpin the banking
system,” Per Tornqvist, Stockholm-based director of S&P’s
European financial services unit, said by phone. “The high
personal debt and quite high reliance on the capital markets
weigh negatively in the equation.”  Two regional banks, Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors
A/S, failed last year after a real estate bubble burst. The
collapses led to Europe’s first senior creditor losses under a
government framework, locking most of the country’s more than
110 commercial lenders out of  capital markets .  Banks responded by cutting lending to close the gap between
deposits and loans, after writing down 36 billion kroner in 2010
and another 24 billion kroner last year, according to Financial
Supervisory Authority figures. The FSA imposed more stringent
writedown regulations in April.  “We expect there to be potentially 30 billion kroner in
further impairment provisions in Denmark over the coming four
years,” S&P said in the report. “While this represents a
meaningful further adjustment of the banking system, our view is
that the majority of the deleveraging process has already taken
place.”  The ratings company gave Denmark a 3 in its so-called BICRA
system for ranking banking systems on a scale from 1 to 10, with
1 being the healthiest.  “The blend of strengths and weaknesses makes us continue
to see Denmark as a BICRA 3, quite high in the echelons of
 Europe ,” Tornqvist said. “The gross savings ratio, the current
account surplus, the low government debt, the net wealth
position of Danes -- all these underpin stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  