-- Defense Industry Says Budget Cuts May Cost 2 Million Jobs
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-17T21:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/defense-industry-says-budget-cuts-may-cost-2-million-jobs.html
Across-the-board cuts to federal
programs may cost the U.S. 2.14 million jobs and reduce the
gross domestic product by $215 billion next year, according to a
study funded by defense contractors lobbying to forestall the
reductions.  The study of $1.2 trillion in scheduled defense and
domestic cuts over a decade found the  unemployment rate  may
increase as much as 1.5 percentage points next year unless
Congress and President  Barack Obama  act to prevent them from
taking effect beginning Jan. 2. The nation’s unemployment rate
was  8.2 percent  in June.  “This is going to spread over the economy and have other
consequences,” said  Stephen Fuller , director of the Center of
Regional Analysis at  George Mason University  in Fairfax,
Virginia. Fuller produced the study for the Aerospace Industries
Association, which represents  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and other major defense contractors.  Fuller had predicted 1 million jobs lost from defense cuts
alone in an earlier study for the same trade group. His center
has produced reports commissioned by business groups including
the Greater Washington Board of Trade and the National
Association of Industrial and Office Parks, according to its
website.  The industry-backed studies of the budget cuts provide an
alarmist view underwritten by defense contractors “trying to
save their profits,” said Chris Preble, vice president for
defense and foreign policy studies at the  Cato Institute  in
Washington, which advocates for limited government.  Pentagon Remains  “We’re not shuttering the Pentagon,” said Preble, who
said the cuts would return  defense spending  to 2006 levels
adjusted for inflation.  The industry study predicted far greater job losses than
did an independent estimate in June by the Bipartisan Policy
Center. It said about 1 million jobs would be eliminated in 2013
and 2014 from the cuts in defense and domestic programs. The
industry-backed study covered jobs that would be eliminated this
year in anticipation of the cuts as well as next year.  Gordon Adams , a professor at American University in
Washington, wrote today that the study was “flawed and
hypocritical.”  ‘This is a side show about the economy, not a straight-up
argument about whether defense should be affected by deficit and
debt reduction, and whether we can or need to continue spending
the highest sums we have ever spent on defense, peacetime or
wartime, since the end of World War II,’’ Adams, who was an
official in the White House budget office during the Clinton
administration, wrote in a posting on the website of the Stimson
Center, a policy research group.  Cheney’s Visit  A partisan fight over averting the automatic cuts, known as
sequestration, is heating up on  Capitol Hill .  Former Vice President  Dick Cheney  spoke to House Republican
leaders today about topics including sequestration as the
chamber prepares to vote tomorrow on a proposal requiring the
Obama administration to explain how it would implement the
automatic spending cuts. Cheney served as defense secretary
under President  George H.W. Bush .  Tax Increases  Democrats are insisting that Republicans agree to some tax
increases as part of any deal to limit the defense cuts.  Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington, the chamber’s No. 4
Democratic leader, said in a speech at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington yesterday that while Democrats want a compromise
this year, she would “absolutely” seek to continue the debate
into 2013 if Republicans won’t agree to boost revenue. That
would mean letting the budget cuts take effect temporarily along
with tax increases as tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  expire.  Murray was the Democratic co-chairwoman of the
congressional “super committee” created last year to craft a
plan to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion over a decade. The
effort collapsed, triggering the across-the-board cuts.  Marion Blakey, president of the Aerospace Industries
Association, said the new study underscores the need for
lawmakers to forge a broad debt-reduction deal. Everything from
 road construction  to education to health research will take a
hit, she said.  California, Virginia  “It’s an unemployment Armageddon,” she said.  The study said the five jurisdictions that would be hit
hardest are: California, Virginia, Texas, Washington, D.C. and
Maryland.  While there are few signs of compromise in Congress, some
Republicans on the Senate Armed Services Committee say they are
seeking a consensus on revenue increases that could be used to
put off the sequester by one year.  One of those senators,  Kelly Ayotte  of New Hampshire, said
today that she is hopeful lawmakers in both parties will form a
group to negotiate a compromise. Rejecting the idea that tax
increases would be a part of any deal, she said she approves of
other potential “revenue raisers,” such as the sale of excess
federal properties.  “Tax increases would hurt our economy right now,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  