-- Dell CEO Sees Slowing Growth in China, Establishes Fund
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-07-17T21:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/dell-sets-up-60-million-venture-fund-for-storage-technologies.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  said the computer maker is seeing a slowdown in
 China , adding to the list of companies dealing with slackening
growth in the world’s most populous country.  “There are some challenges in China right now,” Dell said
today at a  conference  in Aspen, Colorado. He and the company’s
board plan to visit the country in early September. Asked
whether sales were slowing there, Dell said, “that would be an
accurate statement.”  Dell’s comments add the Round Rock, Texas-based company to
a growing list of technology businesses facing lackluster sales
growth in China. His remarks may fuel concern that electronics
makers can’t count on  Asia  to counterbalance diminished demand
in recession-hit Europe or in the U.S., where a recovery is
taking hold at a slower-than-predicted pace.  Applied Materials
Inc. (AMAT)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  have also pointed to weaker
demand in China.  China recorded its weakest expansion in three years in the
second quarter, when its economy advanced 7.6 percent from a
year earlier, a government report in Beijing showed July 13.  Dell has annual sales of about $5 billion in China, the CEO
said today.  Storage Fund  Dell also said the computer maker has established a $60
million venture fund to invest in storage technologies. The fund
will back startups that aim to house growing amounts of data at
businesses with fewer than 50,000 employees, for example, and
those building computer servers with solid-state storage, the
CEO said at Fortune’s Brainstorm Tech conference.  “We really believe in this explosion of data driven by
smartphones, tablets,” he said “The idea behind the venture
fund is to get out in front and fund some of these new ideas we
think are going to be interesting.”  Jim Lussier, Dell’s managing director for its venture
capital business, wrote in a  blog post  that the Dell Fluid Data
Storage Fund plans to invest $3 million to $5 million per
investment round in startups.  “Storage has been a huge area for Dell,” the CEO said
today. Dell has acquired storage companies such as EqualLogic
Inc. and Compellent Technologies Inc. and is building up its
intellectual property in the area, he said.  Shares of Dell  fell  less than 1 percent to $12.12 at the
close in  New York . The stock has declined 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  