-- Dez Bryant’s Mother Accuses Cowboys Receiver Son of Assault
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-17T20:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/dez-bryant-s-mother-accuses-cowboys-receiver-son-of-assault.html
Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Dez Bryant is facing misdemeanor charges after being accused of
attacking his mother during an argument, according to police.  Angela Bryant, 37, called 911 on July 14 saying that the
National Football League player hit her during an argument,
 DeSoto Police Department  Captain Ron Smith said today in a
telephone interview.  The 23-year-old wide receiver turned himself in to police
yesterday in the Dallas suburb after a warrant was issued for
his arrest, Smith said. If convicted of the family violence
misdemeanor, Bryant could face a maximum of one year in county
prison and a several thousand dollar fine, according to the
police.  Cowboys spokesman Rich Dalrymple declined to comment on the
allegations. Royce West, Bryant’s attorney, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Bryant wasn’t at the house when police arrived after the
911 call, according to Smith. There were no visible bruises on
his mother’s body when police initially arrived, but a follow-up
yesterday revealed swelling on her face and arms, he said.  Bryant posted $1,500 bond, Smith said. The police
department expects to finish its investigation and hand it to a
prosecutor this week.  Picked by the Cowboys in the first round of the 2010  NFL
Draft , Bryant was second on the team in catches (63), yards
receiving (928) and touchdowns (nine) last season. He also
returns punts.  Bryant was ruled ineligible halfway through his junior year
at  Oklahoma State University  after lying to the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  about spending time with former
NFL player  Deion Sanders . Last year he was sued for non-payment
of more than $800,000 worth of jewelry, loans and tickets to
sporting events, according to  ESPN .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  