-- DirecTV Says It’s Closer to Deal With Viacom
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/directv-says-it-s-closer-to-deal-with-viacom.html
DirecTV (DTV)  is closer to restoring
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s 26 channels, including MTV, Nickelodeon and  Comedy
Central , as discussions between the two sides continue,
according to the satellite-TV provider’s head of content.  “There’s been progress,” Derek Chang, DirecTV’s executive
vice president of content, strategy and development, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “We’ve been getting closer. We
would love to be done with this thing, but we have to do it in a
way that we can protect our customers.”  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, lost 17
standard-definition and nine high-definition channels from
Viacom on July 10 after the two sides failed to reach an
agreement on a new contract. Viacom demanded the networks be
dropped and threatened to sue El Segundo, California-based
DirecTV if it didn’t comply, Chang said.  Viacom is asking for a 30 percent rate increase over the
term of the new contract, Chang said, amounting to more than $1
billion in additional costs. DirecTV has forecast that its total
programming expenses will rise almost 10 percent this year.  Viacom has countered by saying its fees account for less
that 5 percent of the satellite service’s programming expenses.  Viacom began offering new episodes of “The  Daily Show ”
and “The Colbert Report” on the Web yesterday after pulling
some of its online programming last week. The New York-based
company said in  a blog posting  that the decision was meant to be
“helpful to our fans with DirecTV.”  Back on TV  “We’re happy Viacom has put programming back on the
Internet because it allows our viewers to watch those shows,”
Chang said. “But clearly we want to get the programming back on
TV at a reasonable price.”  Mark Jafar, a Viacom spokesman, declined to comment.  DirecTV rose 1.2 percent to $48.78 yesterday in  New York 
trading. The shares have climbed 14 percent this year.  Viacom’s
Class B stock , up 3.4 percent to $46.96 in 2012, was little
changed yesterday.  DirecTV isn’t the only pay-TV broadcaster locked in a
contract dispute. Dish Network Corp. failed to reach an accord
with AMC Networks Inc. and replaced its channels on June 30,
affecting 14 million customers.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable
provider, voiced support for DirecTV and Dish in a statement
yesterday, saying television networks were demanding “huge
price increases.”  “We will continue to stand up for consumers against
programmers’ outrageously large price increases that serve no
purpose other than to line network pockets at our customers’
expense,” the New York-based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  