-- Disclosure Vote Leaves Trail of Broken Republican Vows
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-17T22:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/disclose-vote-leaves-trail-of-broken-republican-vows.html
Republicans in the  U.S. Senate  voted
unanimously Monday and again on Tuesday to block adoption of the
Disclose Act, Democratic Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse ’s
legislation to require disclosure of political donations of more
than $10,000 within 24 hours of the money being spent. The votes
were no less remarkable for having been predictable.  For years, congressional Republicans had vowed that
disclosure of donations and spending was the one sure route to
an honest campaign-finance system. Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell , the field general who for two decades has
organized the party’s attacks on campaign-finance regulation,
including the McCain-Feingold reforms, once spoke eloquently of
the sanctity of the First Amendment and of the merits of
disclosure.  What’s more, because McConnell in the 1990s had also come
around to opposing constitutional amendments against flag
burning, he had  credibility  as a First Amendment champion.  Democrats have often supported Rube-Goldberg-inspired
campaign-finance regulations, some based on a conviction that
all political money is bad, others based on the belief that only
the way their opponents raise money is bad. The Disclose Act, by
contrast, is a fairly straightforward effort to subject
political donations to sunlight, and keep the political bagmen
at bay. It’s what Republicans for years had said they wanted.  Hypocrisy is a bipartisan affliction. But congressional
Republicans have escaped the outer orbit of expediency with this
week’s votes. Perhaps once you decide it’s acceptable to label
the health-care policies you previously supported -- individual
mandate, health-care exchanges, etc. -- as the trappings of
dictatorship, your inhibitions disappear.  Although McConnell’s full reversal on disclosure is  well
known , he has lots of company, including the three top leaders
in the  House of Representatives . What follows is a sampling of
words, compiled with help from the pro-disclosure  Campaign Legal
Center.   Speaker of the House  John Boehner : “I think what we ought
to do is we ought to have full disclosure, full disclosure of
all of the money that we raise and how it is spent. And I think
that sunlight is the best disinfectant.” (NBC, “Meet the Press”
 transcript , Feb. 11, 2007)  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor : “Anything that moves us back
towards that notion of transparency and real-time reporting of
donations and contributions I think would be a helpful move
towards restoring confidence of voters.” (Newsweek, “ SCOTUS
Ruling  Spells Disaster for Political Transparency,” Jan. 21,
2010)  House Whip  Kevin McCarthy : “I think people should disclose.
I have no problem with disclosing information. And it should be
that way.” ( National Public Radio, Sept. 23, 2010)    Senate Minority Leader McConnell: “Republicans are in favor
of disclosure. There’s a serious constitutional question,
whether you can require people engaged in what’s called issue
advocacy to disclose. But if you’re going to do that, and the
Senate voted to do that, and I’m prepared to go down that road,
then it needs to be meaningful disclosure, Tim. 527s are just a
handful of groups. We need to have real disclosure. And so what
we ought to do is broaden the disclosure to include at least
labor unions and tax-exempt business associations and trial
lawyers so that you include the major political players in
America. Why would a little disclosure be better than a lot of
disclosure?” (“Meet the Press,” June 18, 2000)  Senator  Lamar Alexander : “I support campaign finance
reform, but to me that means individual contributions, free
speech and full disclosure. In other words, any individual can
give whatever they want as long as it is disclosed every day on
the Internet. Otherwise, you restrict free speech and favor
super-rich candidates -- candidates with famous names, the media
and special interest groups, all of whom can spend unlimited
money. (Washington Post, May 19, 1999)  Senator  Jeff Sessions : “I don’t like it when a large source
of money is out there funding ads and is unaccountable. To the
extent we can, I tend to favor disclosure.” (The Hill, “ Campaign
finance bill  has GOP wary,” April 22, 2010)  Senator  John Cornyn : “I think the system needs more
transparency, so people can more easily reach their own
conclusions.” (McClatchy Newspapers, “ What do both parties  have
in common? Wall Street donations,” April 25, 2010)  A charitable interpretation of these statements is that the
words have no meaning. A less charitable interpretation is that
they convey something important about the speakers.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  amorality of banks and
ineffectual regulators  and on the need for a  tougher Syria
policy ;  Margaret Carlson  on politics as  class warfare ; Clive
Crook on destructive  capitalism-bashing ;  Peter Orszag  on keeping
children from getting  fatter and dumber  during the summer; Nell
Minow on why letting CEOs lead their own boards is like letting
students  grade their own exams .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 