-- Dish Shares Rise the Most Since March After Rosy Report
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-17T20:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/dish-advances-after-wells-fargo-says-little-reason-to-be-bearish.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, gained the most in more than
four months after a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst said investors are
being overly bearish on the stock.  Dish advanced 4.6 percent to $28.90 at in the close in New
York for the biggest one-day gain since March 7. The Englewood,
Colorado-based company has gained 1.5 percent this year.  There are reasons to “debunk” the bear case on Dish,
 Marci Ryvicker , a New York-based analyst for Wells Fargo, wrote
in an investor note. Some investors are concerned Chairman
 Charlie Ergen  will spend billions of dollars building a wireless
network instead of returning cash to shareholders, a scenario
Ryvicker says won’t happen.  “We went through every single earnings transcript since
fourth-quarter 2010 to provide investors comfort” that Ergen
“is not looking to build a wireless network,” wrote Ryvicker.
“It is clear to us that there is no intention to fund a
wireless build solo.”  Dish is more likely to forge a partnership with an existing
wireless company than sell the spectrum or build a network
itself, Ergen said in a conference call last quarter. The
company is “talking to everybody” to best position itself, he
said.  Voom Lawsuit  Investors also shouldn’t fear Dish will pay $2.5 billion in
damages to  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  and  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  in
its breach-of-contract lawsuit over Voom, a collection of high-
definition channels that were supposed to air on Dish until the
satellite provider decided not to carry them.  While a judge ruled Dish destroyed evidence in the case,
“there is plenty of negotiating leverage” to reach a
settlement, Ryvicker wrote. Dish stopped carrying all of AMC’s
networks earlier this month.  Dish’s valuation should include “hidden value” in the
form of its spectrum holdings, acquired from bankrupt TerreStar
Networks Inc. and DBSD North America Inc. for about $3 billion,
Ryvicker wrote.  Ryvicker reiterated her outperform rating on the shares,
although she lowered her valuation range to $47 to $49 from $54
to $56 “to account for a shakier economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  