-- Euro Falls Before Germany Vote on Spanish Aid; Yen Gains
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-07-18T05:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/dollar-trades-near-week-low-before-fed-s-beige-book-data.html
The euro weakened versus the dollar
and yen before German lawmakers vote tomorrow on aid to
recapitalize Spanish banks.  The dollar snapped a one-day advance against the yen on
speculation the  Federal Reserve ’s Beige Book assessment of U.S.
economic conditions due today may add to recent signs of
weakness and before Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies before
Congress for a second day. Japan’s currency gained versus all
but one of its 16 major peers as declines in Asian stocks
spurred demand for safer assets.  “A worsening of the debt crisis and economic fundamentals
is in store for the euro,” said Kengo Suzuki, a foreign-
exchange strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest bank by market value.  “I think the
currency is still on a downtrend for the medium- to long-term.”  The euro lost 0.2 percent to $1.2270 as of 6:43 a.m. in
London after climbing to $1.2317 yesterday, the strongest level
since July 10. It dropped 0.3 percent to 96.88 yen. The dollar
fell 0.1 percent to 78.97 yen after gaining 0.2 percent to 79.06
yesterday in  New York .  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares retreated 0.7
percent, after rising as much as 0.4 percent.  German Vote  Germany’s  Finance Ministry  formally asked lawmakers in a
letter dated July 16 to support Spanish bank recapitalizations
of as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) by the European
Financial Stability Facility and the transfer of the program to
the future European Stability Mechanism.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will get “the majority she
needs” at a vote tomorrow, Steffen Seibert, her spokesman, told
reporters at a regular government press conference July 13.  The Fed is due to release its Beige Book survey of business
conditions in 12 U.S. districts. The  U.S. economy  was described
as growing at a “moderate pace” pace in the central bank’s
June survey.  A report from the Commerce Department today may show
 housing starts  climbed to a 745,000 annual pace last month from
708,000 in May, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. First-time claims for  jobless
benefits  probably increased to 365,000 in the week ended July 14
from 350,000 in the previous period, a separate poll showed
before figures from the Labor Department tomorrow.  Central bank policy makers “are looking for ways to
address the weakness in the economy should more action be needed
to promote a sustained recovery in the labor market,” Bernanke
said in response to questions during yesterday’s testimony in
Washington. He will appear before a House of Representatives
committee today. The  Federal Open Market Committee  is scheduled
to start a two-day  policy meeting  on July 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  