-- Duke Energy Asks North Carolina to Postpone July 20 Hearing
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-17T23:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/duke-energy-asks-north-carolina-to-postpone-july-20-hearing-1-.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  asked  North
Carolina (PEBK)  regulators to wait to question two Duke directors about
their role in an unexpected CEO shuffle at the power company
until Duke provides documents requested by the state’s utilities
commission.  Duke directors Ann Gray and Michael Browning are slated to
appear before the  North Carolina  Utilities Commission on July
20. Former Progress Energy Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson , who was ousted hours after Duke bought his company,
will testify in a hearing July 19 along with two former Progress
directors.  North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper is also
investigating the abrupt CEO switch at Duke after the merger
closed July 2. Florida regulators have asked Johnson’s
replacement, James Rogers, to testify at an Aug. 13 hearing.
Shareholders sued the Duke directors today, alleging that they
misled them and damaged the company’s reputation.  Regulators asked Duke to provide by July 31 all employment
contracts with Rogers, all board and committee meeting minutes
since July 1, 2010, and all memos, letters, e-mails and other
written and recorded communications from Rogers to board
members.  Ann Gray, Duke’s lead director, said that replacing Johnson
with Duke CEO  James Rogers  was the “least bad option”
considered by the board in the weeks before the $17.8 billion
transaction closed, in testimony posted on the commission
website today.  Other Options  Duke directors in a May 30 session debated approaching
Progress about their concerns, which included Johnson’s
management style and his oversight of Progress’s nuclear fleet.
Directors also considered completing the merger and deferring
any action on the CEO “for some period of time,” Gray said.  “The new Duke, its customers, its employees, its
communities and its shareholders will all benefit from this
combination,” Gray said. “In order to realize those benefits,
I believe that moving forward is in the interest of all
parties.”  Sam Watson, general counsel for the commission, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  