-- Duke Energy Directors Sued Over Progress CEO Switch
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-17T21:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/duke-energy-directors-sued-over-ceo-switch-in-progress-deal-1-.html
Directors of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the
largest utilities provider in the U.S., were sued over the
ousting of Progress Energy Inc.’s chief executive officer after
the companies merged.  Lesley C. Rupp, a Duke shareholder since 2009, alleged that
Duke Chairman James E. Rogers and other directors misled
investors and regulators and damaged the company’s reputation
when Progress CEO William D. Johnson was removed as head of the
combined companies shortly after the deal closed.  “The CEO switch was premeditated, deceitful, in bad faith,
and in contravention of the merger agreement,” Rupp’s lawyers
said in the complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington. The directors’ “conspiracy and tactics have had a
devastating effect on Duke’s credibility,” according to the
complaint.  Rupp claimed the directors decided as far back as May that
they would get rid of Johnson once the merger was completed.  Tom Williams , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Duke, said in an e-mailed statement that the company
believes the lawsuit is without merit and will defend itself.  Utilities Commission  In testimony July 10 before the North Carolina Utilities
Commission, which oversees about 45 percent of Duke’s business,
Rogers said directors must make decisions “based on what the
board believes is in the company’s best interests.”  Rogers told commission members that the merger “will
provide significant benefits to all our constituencies.”  After receiving the necessary approval from the commission,
known as NCUC, and other regulatory agencies, Duke’s $17.8
billion merger with Progress was completed July 2.  Johnson became CEO of Duke for what may be one of the
briefest tenures in corporate history, holding the position for
“a few minutes” before the newly formed board held a meeting
that night and voted to oust him and reinstate Rogers at the
helm, according to court documents.  The board comprised 11 Duke directors and seven Progress
directors, according to court papers. The final vote was 10 to
5, with all Duke appointees voting to remove Johnson and all
Progress members voting against the action. Rogers, Johnson and
one other Progress director didn’t participate in the vote.  Johnson received a severance package estimated to be worth
more than $40 million including a $10.3 million cash payment,
according to court filings.  Executives Resign  Three Progress executives, who were expected to have
prominent roles in the combined company, immediately resigned
following the CEO swap, according to court documents. Their
severance packages are being negotiated.  Lawyers for Rupp said in court papers that directors’
actions “placed Duke in ill repute, subjected it to widespread
ridicule,” potentially injured its  credit rating , and exposed
the company to possible damages from loss of rate increases,
increased cost of borrowing, legal defense, and possible costs
of future litigation and settlements.  Rupp’s lawyers asked a judge to order directors to make
restitution to the company and pay interest and attorneys’ fees.  On July 6, NCUC opened an investigation into whether Duke
misled the agency in order to obtain regulatory approval for the
merger, according to court documents. Roy Cooper, the North
Carolina attorney general, also started a probe into the matter.  Corporate Decisions  Duke didn’t disclose its intention to remove Johnson as CEO
because “corporate decisions are announced after they are made,
not when they are being contemplated,” Rogers told the
commission on July 10. The pre-closing Duke board had no
authority to ask for Johnson’s resignation and could only do so
once the merger was finished, Rogers said.  Duke may have jeopardized its relationship with regulators
who control its ability to raise rates, threatening earnings,
Rupp claimed. In  North Carolina , where Duke has 3.2 million
customers, the company is seeking to raise rates 1 percent,
according to court papers.  Duke fell 0.6 percent to $66.34 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The case is Rupp v. Rogers, CA7705, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  