-- Duke Among Schools Joining Stanford With Coursera Courses
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-17T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/duke-among-schools-joining-stanford-with-coursera-courses.html
Duke University , Johns Hopkins
University and the California Institute of Technology have
joined Stanford and Princeton universities in offering free
online courses through startup Coursera Inc.  A total of 16 schools are now partners with Coursera, the
 Mountain View , California-based company said today in a
statement. Caltech and the University of Pennsylvania will also
invest a combined $3.7 million in the company.  Coursera, founded last year by two Stanford computer
science professors, Daphne Koller and Andrew Ng, offers
university classes online, with the aim of educating millions of
people globally for free. The company, which raised $16 million
earlier this year from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and New
Enterprise Associates, will receive an additional combined $2.3
million from the venture capital firms, both of which are based
in Menlo Park, California.  “We have a tremendous amount of great ideas on how to make
the platform a terrific place,” Koller said in a telephone
interview. “That requires engineering resources.”  The new partners and extra funding will enable more than
100 classes to run in the fall. Topics include computer science,
health, math, history, the arts and literature.  “Universities can teach millions worldwide, and make time
on-campus for interactive in-class learning,” Ng said in the
statement. “This is truly the future of higher education.”  Other participating schools are Georgia Institute of
Technology, University of Washington,  Rice University ,
University of Edinburgh, University of Toronto, Ecole
Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne,  University of California  at
San Francisco, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and the
University of Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  