-- Heating Oil Advances on Speculation Bernanke to Hint at Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-17T14:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/heating-oil-advances-on-speculation-bernanke-to-hint-at-stimulus.html
Heating oil advanced to a six-week
high on speculation that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will hint at more measures to stimulate the  U.S.
economy  when he testifies before Congress today.  Futures gained as weakening U.S. retail sales, a stagnant
labor market and an unchanged  Consumer Price Index  indicated the
Fed would have ample reason to initiate a third round of asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, without fear of
inflation. Heating oil is traded as a proxy for diesel.  “Investors are looking at the evidence of weak  job
creation  and low inflation as giving the Fed room to move toward
another round of quantitative easing,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
Connecticut. “The CPI came out today. It is flat, so inflation
is not a problem.”  Heating oil for August delivery climbed 2.09 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $2.8486 a gallon at 9:59 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Prices touched $2.8566, the highest
intraday level since May 23.  The cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in June,
following a 0.3 percent drop in May, a Labor Department report
showed today.  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semiannual report on
the economy and monetary policy before Congress today and
tomorrow. He will begin testimony before the Senate Banking
Committee starting at 10 a.m. in Washington.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank under Bernanke, in two rounds of
quantitative easing, bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011.  “There is a Bernanke premium going into the price,” said
 Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “Based on recent economic data, the market suggests
he’s going to lay the groundwork for a QE3. If he doesn’t talk
about stimulus, they could wipe these gains out very quickly.”  U.S. retail  sales  fell a third straight month in June,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. The 0.5 percent
decline in June retail sales followed a 0.2 percent drop in May.  August-delivery gasoline rose 1.01 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $2.8648 a gallon on the exchange. That’s the fifth
consecutive increase, the longest streak of gains since Dec. 27.
Prices touched $2.8898, the highest intraday level since May 30.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1 cent to $3.406 a gallon, according to AAA. Prices
have risen every day but two since July 1, gaining 8 cents.
Gasoline reached a year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  