-- Hedge Fund Consultant Wesley Wang Admits to Passing Tips
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/hedge-fund-consultant-wesley-wang-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Wesley Wang, a hedge fund consultant
who worked for Trellus Management and Sigma Capital, a division
of SAC Capital Advisors LP, admitted that he passed inside
information about  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   Wang, 39, pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  in Manhattan federal court, according to
a transcript of the July 13 hearing. He’s set to testify against
Doug Whitman, the hedge fund founder indicted in February on
charges of insider trading, at a trial slated to begin July 30,
according to a filing by prosecutors in Whitman’s case.  In the hearing, Wang admitted he passed tips to Dipak Patel, a former portfolio manager at Sigma Capital, while he
worked for the New York-based unit of SAC Capital from 2002 to
2005. Patel hasn’t been charged.  Wang also said he traded inside tips with Whitman and with
 Thomas Hardin , the former analyst at Lanexa Global Management LP
known as “Tipper X” in the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading
case, when he worked worked for New York-based Trellus from 2005
to 2008. Wang was paid $1.5 million for his work for the hedge
fund, according to the criminal charges filed against him.  Wang was released on his own recognizance at the end of the
hearing. A sentencing date wasn’t set. Wang’s lawyer, Michael Celio, yesterday declined to comment on the charges.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, had no
immediate comment on Wang’s allegations. A representative of
Trellus Management didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment
on Wang. Patel couldn’t be located for comment.  Adding Witnesses  In a July 16 court filing in the Whitman case, prosecutors
said Whitman and Wang shared information from 2002 to 2009.
Whitman’s lawyers are trying to block Wang from testifying about
insider tips that aren’t included in the criminal charges.  “It is extraordinary, in my experience, that the
prosecution would be adding a witness like Wes Wang this close
to the trial,” said  David Anderson , who represents Whitman.  Anderson said the move may be a sign prosecutors feel they
need to bolster the testimony of their star witnesses,  Roomy Khan  and Karl Motey.  Prosecutors claim Whitman received material nonpublic
information from Khan, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive who aided
the prosecution of Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam and
Motey, an independent consultant. Both have pleaded guilty and
are cooperating with the government.  Hardin, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in 2010, is awaiting sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 12-cr-00541, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  