-- Medicaid Fraud Case on Resold Drugs Targets 50, FBI Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-17T15:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/medicaid-fraud-case-on-resold-drugs-targets-50-fbi-says.html
The U.S. charged 48 people with
taking part in a “massive” Medicaid fraud scheme to divert and
traffic hundreds of millions of dollars in prescription drugs
around the country.  More than a dozen people were arrested today in  New York  by
agents of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said  Peter Donald , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York office.  An indictment unsealed today in federal court in New York
charges 42 people with obtaining free or low-cost drugs to treat
HIV, schizophrenia and asthma through Medicaid and re-selling
them. Six more people were charged in a separate criminal
complaint. Medicaid is the federal-state program to help cover
the health-care costs of people with low incomes.  “The defendants and their co-conspirators profit by
exploiting the difference between the cost to the patient of
obtaining bottles of prescription drugs through Medicaid --
which typically is zero -- and the hundreds of dollars per
bottle that pharmacies pay to purchase those drugs,”
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in the felony indictment.  Bharara’s office said it would hold a news conference with
the FBI and New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly later today.  To reap maximum profits, the scheme targeted the most
expensive drugs, including HIV medications such as Atripla,
which costs $1,635 a bottle, and Trizivir, which costs $1,347 a
bottle. The Medicaid recipients sold the drugs to corrupt
distribution companies, which acted as wholesale distributors,
thereby concealing the origin of the medications.  The case is part of a crackdown on the illegal reselling of
 prescription drugs , Donald said. Arrests are “ongoing” and 35
people have been taken into federal custody so far, he said.  The cases are U.S. v. Viera, 11-CR-1072; U.S. v. Oria, 12-
MAG-1854, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  