-- Legal Marijuana Debated as Belize Joins Regional Push on Drugs
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-17T19:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/legal-marijuana-debated-as-belize-joins-regional-push-on-drugs.html
Marijuana possession may be
decriminalized in Belize as the Central American nation joins a
list of countries from  Mexico  to  Uruguay  whose leaders have
called for alternatives in the U.S.-led war on drugs.  Prime Minister Dean Barrow’s government has appointed a
committee to evaluate the decriminalization of up to 10 grams of
marijuana, according to an e-mailed statement. Current
legislation considers marijuana possession of less than 60 grams
a criminal offense punishable by a fine up to $50,000 Belize
dollars ($26,000) and as many as three years in prison,
according to the statement.  “The word decriminalization means that the treatment of
the infraction will be adjusted so that most of the detriments
are removed or reduced,” according to the statement. “This
initiative is driven by increasing evidence that the current
legislation clutters the courts and the prison with primarily a
marginalized segment of our population.”  Belize’s move follows Uruguayan President Jose Mujica’s
support for a plan last month to let the government sell
marijuana, while Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina urged
regional leaders to consider decriminalization to limit
escalating drug violence in Central America. Enrique Pena Nieto,
Mexico’s recently elected president, said this month that he
favors a legalization debate.  `Broad Debate’  “I’m not saying we should legalize,” Pena Nieto said in
an interview on PBS NewsHour July 3. “But we should debate in
Congress, in the hemisphere, and especially the U.S. should
participate in this broad debate.”  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos , who helped carry
out a U.S.-led anti-narcotics strategy as his nation’s defense
chief until 2009, called for a legalization debate last year and
likened the war on drugs to a stationary bike.  More than 47,000 people have died in drug-related violence
in Mexico since President  Felipe Calderon  began an offensive
against cartels in December 2006. Pena Nieto will succeed
Calderon in December.  Drug cartels are among the biggest security threats facing
 Latin America  and the Caribbean, General Douglas Fraser, the
head of the U.S. Southern Command, said at an event in Miami
today. Drug trafficking generates about  $320 billion  per year in
profits, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime said in a
report this week.  “The committee wishes to emphasize that the proposal is
not to legalize the offense thereby purging it of all its
penalties; it is merely to reduce and regulate,” the Belize
government release said. “This is further supported by
international trends toward decriminalization.”  Belize said it is taking public comments on its proposal
through July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  