-- Egypt Searches for New Premier as Economic Concerns Deepen
-- B y   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e
-- 2012-07-18T15:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/egypt-searches-for-new-premier-as-economic-concerns-deepen.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
focused his search for the country’s next premier on a list of
technocrats with the experience needed to revive the limping
economy.  Egypt ’s first elected civilian leader said he won’t rush
the formation of a new Cabinet “in order to avoid disrupting
the country or the flow of work,” the state-run Ahram Online
website reported. He was originally due to appoint a prime
minister last week, the state-run  Al Gomhuria  said June 12.  Mursi inherits a $240 billion economy battered by strikes,
unrest and the flight of foreign investment following the
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  last year. In his first
foreign trip as president, he travelled to  Saudi Arabia  last
week to discuss $4 billion pledged to Egypt by the world’s
biggest oil producer. The  International Monetary Fund  has said
it is waiting for political consensus on an economic program
before it proceeds with talks for a $3.2 billion loan.  “It has now been 18 months since we had an administration
capable of making policy,”  Simon Williams , an economist with
HSBC Bank  Middle East , said by phone. “The economic challenges
are huge and external support is essential and a period of
reform is imperative. And there will be no access to external
funding and all kinds of policy measures that local and foreign
investors need to see until we see a government in place.”  While Egyptian stocks have recouped losses since Mursi’s
election win, the  benchmark index  is still more than 30 percent
below its end-2010 level. Yields on benchmark 10-year dollar
bonds are about a percentage point higher at 6.25 percent.  Prime Candidates  Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate for president,
promised to choose a premier from outside the Islamist group.
Candidates tipped for the job by local newspapers include
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., former central bank Governor Mahmoud Abul-Eyoun,
the bank’s current governor, Farouk al-Okdah, and Hazem Beblawi,
a former deputy prime minister and finance minister.  Mursi met with Kamal al-Ganzouri, the country’s interim
prime minister, to discuss the formation of a new government,
MENA reported today.  El-Erian said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday that he hadn’t been approached and wouldn’t take the
job. He said the premier should be chosen from among people
“who have been living in Egypt and who have participated in
person in Egypt’s revolutionary process.”  “An economic background is a key criteria in the person to
be named prime minister,” Said Hirsh, an economist at London-
based  Capital Economics , said by phone. “Politics is a huge
problem at the moment, but sorting out the economic problems
there could eventually make or break his tenure over the coming
months.”  ‘Weak Premier’  Mohamed ElBaradei , a former head of the United Nations
nuclear watchdog agency, was touted by local media as another
potential premier who would elicit the support of secularists
and youth groups opposed to Islamist rule. Mursi is unlikely to
select such a well-known figure, said Hani Sabra, Middle East
and Africa analyst with the Eurasia Group.  “A weak, relatively less-known figure can be scapegoated
and removed from office if the government is unsuccessful and
grows unpopular,” said Sabra in an e-mailed note. “A weak
premier will not be independent-minded, and will be much less
likely to challenge or embarrass the president.”  With a constitution defining his powers yet to be drafted,
Mursi has struggled to assert his authority against the
judiciary and the country’s senior generals, who took power
after Mubarak was toppled.  ‘Wasting’ Reserves  Judges overturned the president’s decision to reinstate the
Islamist-dominated parliament earlier this month, after the
military dissolved the assembly and awarded itself wider
legislative powers. A court hearing yesterday on the legality of
the panel charged with drafting the constitution was adjourned
until tomorrow after protesters disrupted proceedings.  The other candidates named by the Egyptian press are mostly
from financial backgrounds. Abul-Eyoun, who headed the central
bank from October 2001 to December 2003, criticized Egypt’s
monetary policy in March, saying the country was “wasting” its
foreign reserves to support the pound.  International reserves have fallen by more than a half
since the uprising against Mubarak began in January 2011,
reaching $15.5 billion in June. The nation’s domestic borrowing
costs jumped by about 50 percent in the same period as foreign
investors quit the market.  El-Okdah, who took over from Abul-Eyoun at the central
bank, said on June 17 that economic growth is expected to slow
to less than 2 percent this year, from 2.5 percent in 2011. The
IMF in April forecast growth of 1.5 percent.  IMF Talks  El-Beblawi, an economist who served as deputy prime
minister and finance minister after Mubarak’s ouster, said in
September that the government was reaching out to Gulf states
such as the  United Arab Emirates  for financial help. He was
involved in the early stages of the IMF loan request.  Once a new government is formed, Egypt may see a
“breakthrough” in its talks with the Fund, Momtaz El-Saieed,
who replaced El-Beblawi as finance minister, said on July 15.
“Egypt, in any case, doesn’t need the IMF loan in itself, but
we were hoping for the seal of confidence from the fund’s
experts,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  