-- Egypt Court Delays Hearing on Constution Amid Protests
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-07-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/egypt-court-delays-hearing-on-constution-amid-protests.html
A Cairo court delayed until tomorrow
decisions in politically charged cases dealing with the
disbanding of the panel drafting a new constitution and a decree
giving the military sweeping powers at the expense of the
presidency.  The delay extended a case in which supporters of the Muslim
Brotherhood chanted against the generals who had ruled Egypt
after  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster, spotlighting the political tug-of-
war that continues two weeks after Islamist President Mohamed Mursi was sworn in as the country’s first democratically elected
civilian leader.  The administrative court, headed by Judge Abdel-Salam El-
Naggar, said yesterday that it would decide whether to recuse
itself, as requested by lawyers for the Brotherhood, or to move
ahead with the case, Sami Abdullah, the court’s secretary, told
reporters. The court also referred to an advisory panel of
judges a case that could lead to the disbanding of the
parliament’s upper house, Abdullah said.  The lower house had already been dissolved following an
order by the constitutional court last month. Referred to the
same panel was a decision by Mursi to reinstate the legislature.  During the session, demonstrators chanted “Down with
military rule” and “Field Marshal, speak the truth,” a
reference to army chief Mohamed Hussein Tantawi. With riot
police and protesters massed outside, El-Naggar adjourned the
session then relocated it to another courtroom, which was closed
to the public as Brotherhood supporters pounded on the doors.  Political Tensions  The protest underscored the political tensions in  Egypt 
after Mursi, the Brotherhood’s candidate, was sworn in as
president following his election win. Mursi is struggling to
shore up his authority against challenges from the judiciary and
from the country’s senior generals.  The hearing focused on the legality of the process by which
the 100-member constitutional panel was elected. Secular
politicians have complained it was skewed in favor of the
Islamists, like a previous version of the panel that was
abolished by court order.  A verdict dissolving the panel would allow the army to
appoint a new one, under the expanded powers the generals
awarded themselves before they formally handed over to Mursi
last month.  Conspiracy Charge  That decree is also the subject of a court challenge, while
another case could dissolve the upper house of parliament. The
lower chamber was disbanded last month by a court order enforced
by the military council.  Mursi challenged that verdict by reconvening parliament
last week, an effort curtailed by a rebuke from the
constitutional court. He also backed the constitution committee
this week by ratifying the law under which it was set up.  “People will not accept a constitution imposed on them and
will not accept a pre-written one,” Essam El-Erian, the deputy
head of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, told the
state-run Al-Ahram newspaper. “Conspiracies against the
parliament will amount to nothing, and so will the conspiracies
against the constitution-writing panel and the president
himself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltabalwy@bloomberg.net 
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  