-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Third Day on Easing Speculation
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-07-17T22:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-third-day-on-easing-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
one-week high as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
reiterated willingness to take additional steps to boost growth
and as China’s Commerce ministry said the nation’s economy will
gain momentum.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.7 percent to 933.14
as of 5:30 p.m. in  New York  after gaining as much as 0.9 percent
earlier, its highest close since July 10.  Cyrela Brazil Realty
SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes , Brazil’s second-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, led gainers on the Bovespa index and
 Light SA (LIGT3)  jumped after Banco Itau BBA raised its recommendation.
Russia’s Micex Index advanced as OAO MRSK Holding surged and the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose the most since June 29.  Bernanke told Congress that progress in reducing U.S.
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and
reiterated that the Fed is prepared to take further action to
boost the recovery, stopping short of discussing specific steps.
The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global economic
growth forecast yesterday as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs
Spain’s recession and slows expansion in  emerging markets .  “Equity assets are trading along the lines that if we see
deteriorating data, the Federal Reserve could eventually step in
and accelerate the process toward a fresh quantitative easing,”
 Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc.,
said by phone from  London . “Given the signs of slowdown from
very important pockets of growth, the central banks’ role takes
greater importance.”  Valuation  MSCI’s index of developing nations has gained 3 percent
since May as European policy makers work toward taming the
region’s debt crisis. The  gauge  trades at a multiple of 10.2
times estimated earnings, compared with 12.3 for the MSCI World
Index of developed nations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, added 1.3
percent to $38.91. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, declined 7.3 percent to
24.70, its lowest since May 2.  Output at factories, mines and utilities in the U.S. rose
0.4 percent last month after a revised 0.2 percent drop in May
that was larger than previously reported, Federal Reserve data
showed today in Washington. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent
gain. The consumer-price index was unchanged following a 0.3
percent drop in May, another report showed, a sign that
inflation may stay subdued as Fed officials have predicted.  Bovespa  The Bovespa index added 1 percent as Cyrela climbed 5.5
percent to 13.92 reais and Light, a power utility, gained 5.3
percent to 24.23 reais after Banco Itau BBA raised its
recommendation to the equivalent of buy from neutral, citing its
valuation. The  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index rose 0.6 percent, led by a 5.7
percent surge in MRSK Holding, as the company proposed an 825
billion ruble ($25.4 billion) investment program through 2017.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.6 percent from its
lowest close since March 2009. Dubai’s benchmark stock index
climbed 0.8 percent to the highest level in more than two
months.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained less than
0.1 percent, snapping four days of retreats. The rupee rallied
0.4 percent against the dollar. Overseas funds bought Indian
shares for a 10th straight day on July 13, data from the market
regulator showed yesterday, the longest run of net purchases
since March.  China Railway  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390) , the country’s biggest rail
builder by market value, gained 5.9 percent after the railways
ministry said it will increase investment. The government will
boost this year’s railway infrastructure investment plan by 9
percent to 448.3 billion  yuan  ($70.3 billion), according to a
July 6 statement posted on the website of a provincial office of
the National Development and Reform Commission that cited the
Ministry of Railways.  Dongyue Group (189) , a maker of fluorochemicals, advanced 11
percent in  Hong Kong  after Barclays Plc rated the shares new
overweight. Also in Hong Kong,  China Shanshui Cement Group Ltd. (691) 
tumbled 11 percent after Deutsche Bank AG cut its share-price
estimate by 23 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 345, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  