-- Emerging Stocks Rise to One-Week High on Fed Easing Speculation
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-07-17T12:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-on-fed-easing-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
one-week high on speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will indicate further easing and after China’s commerce
ministry said the nation’s economy will gain momentum.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.8 percent to 933.78
as of 12:49 p.m. in London, set for its highest close since July
10 and gaining for a third day. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index jumped 1.8 percent in Hong Kong, its steepest gain since
June 29.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390) , the country’s biggest rail
builder by market value, gained 5.9 percent after the railways
ministry said it will increase investment.  Chinese growth is likely to pick up in the second half and
the government is “confident” it will achieve a 10 percent
target for increasing trade in 2012, Shen Danyang, a spokesman
for the Commerce Ministry, said at a briefing. Bernanke will
deliver his semi-annual report on the economy and monetary
policy before Congress today, after a report yesterday showing a
contraction in June retail sales kindled speculation the Fed
will introduce more measures to support the world’s largest
economy.  “Bets on more stimulus measures and policy cooperation by
key global economies are supporting markets,” Chu Moon Sung, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $28 billion, said by phone today.
“Much of the woes over Europe’s debt crisis and the slowing
global economy appear to be priced in.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied 1.1 percent in Moscow to head for
the highest level since July 4, led by a 1.8 percent gain in OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer.  Petmin  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced 0.2 percent in
Johannesburg.  Petmin Ltd. (PET) , South Africa’s largest anthracite
coal miner, jumped 1.4 percent after it said it was granted a 20
year mining license for an expansion. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
fell 0.1 percent in Turkey.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.6 percent from its
lowest close since March 2009. Dubai’s benchmark stock index
climbed 0.9 percent to the highest level in more than two
months.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained less than
0.1 percent, snapping four days of retreats. The rupee rallied
0.7 percent against the dollar. Overseas funds bought Indian
shares for a 10th straight day on July 13, data from the market
regulator showed yesterday, the longest run of net purchases
since March.  The  Mexican peso  strengthened 0.8 percent and the ruble 0.6
percent.  China Railway  China Railway had its biggest gain since April 3 in  Hong
Kong . The government will boost this year’s railway
infrastructure investment plan by 9 percent to 448.3 billion
 yuan  ($70.3 billion), according to a July 6 statement posted on
the website of a provincial office of the National Development
and Reform Commission that cited the Ministry of Railways.  Dongyue Group (189) , a maker of fluorochemicals, advanced 10
percent in Hong Kong after Barclays Plc rated the shares new
overweight.  Also in Hong Kong,  China Shanshui Cement Group Ltd. (691)  tumbled
10 percent after Deutsche Bank AG cut its share-price estimate
by 23 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 253, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped eight basis points to 346,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  