-- Tennessee Condom Lesson Spurs Ban on Promoting Sex Acts
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/tennessee-condom-lesson-spurs-ban-on-promoting-sex-acts.html
In a Nashville,  Tennessee , high-
school classroom, about a dozen students watched as a woman from
an AIDS prevention group demonstrated how to apply a condom
using only her mouth.  The scene in an elective class two years ago angered
opponents of sex education, and so Tennessee in May adopted the
nation’s first state law defining activities that legislators
said lead to intercourse --mutual masturbation, fondling and
oral and anal sex -- and banning their “promotion” in public
schools.  The law targets groups such as Planned Parenthood, which
discusses those behaviors on its website and provides sex
education in Tennessee schools. The National Abstinence
Education Association says it’s encouraging lawmakers to adopt a
similar restrictions to ensure that teenagers all across the
U.S. keep their hands to themselves.  “We’ve never seen anything like this become law,” said
Elizabeth Nash, state issues manager for the New York-based
Guttmacher Institute, which describes its mission as advancing
sexual and reproductive health and rights. “It’s so weird, it’s
more of a spoof than anything else.”  The Tennessee law bans teachers and outside speakers from
promoting or demonstrating “gateway” activities. The term is
defined as activity that involves the groin, upper thighs,
buttocks, breasts and genitalia. The concept is modeled after
the idea that so-called gateway drugs -- marijuana, for instance
-- can lead users to stronger intoxicants like heroin or
cocaine.  Clean Living  The law lets parents bring complaints against teachers or
organizations that violate the ban. It creates civil liability
for outside groups, which can be fined $500 if the parents
prevail in court. Teachers are exempt from the fines.  “We have every hope that this will serve as a model for
other states,” said Valerie Huber, executive director of the
Washington-based abstinence education organization.  Planned Parenthood  is among groups that have provided sex
education in Tennessee schools. It also offers contraception and
health screening and runs clinics that provide abortions, which
has made it a target of religious groups. Legislatures in
 Arizona ,  Indiana , North Carolina cut funding to the organization
this year.  Looking Outside  In Nashville, Planned Parenthood teaches about 1,000
students a year, said Lyndsey Godwin, education and training
director for Planned Parenthood of Middle and East Tennessee.
The group provides five hours of training that includes
discussion of the risks of touching above the waist and oral
sex, she said. Parents can keep their children out of the
classes.  Planned Parenthood discusses “outercourse” as a form of
abstinence and birth control, said David Fowler, president of
the Franklin-based Family Action Council of Tennessee, which led
the push for the law.  “Outercourse” is defined as “sex play” without vaginal
intercourse on Planned Parenthood’s website. It includes all of
the activities the law says now can’t be taught.  Because of the law, Godwin said schools probably will stop
inviting Planned Parenthood counselors.  Schools often turn to outside groups for sex education,
said Barry Chase, director of Planned Parenthood’s  Memphis 
chapter.  “Teachers and administrators operate under a basic fear of
how they may be perceived or reprimanded or attacked for
providing information about sexuality, which is one of the
reasons they bring in outsiders,” Chase said.  Pregnancy Trigger  Tennessee since 1991 has required high schools to offer sex
education if the pregnancy rate among 15- to 17-year-old girls
in a district tops 19.5 out of 1,000. Abstinence must be the
main lesson, with contraception second.  Hatch Trovillion, a Chattanooga 14-year-old who starts high
school next month, said schools should be able to talk about the
full range of sexual activities.  “Those things should be lightly discussed, so people know
the risks,” he said. “It’s important for us to know these
things before we grow up. You don’t want to grow up
uninformed.”  Will Walker, 19, a student at Union University, a Christian
college near Memphis, supports the law.  “Teens naturally want to rebel,” he said. “If they’re
told this is acceptable and the rest is not, the natural
inclination would be to take it one step further.”  Permission Slips  The 2010 demonstration on an anatomical model at
Nashville’s Hillsboro High School was part of an elective
leadership class, said Meredith Libbey, a school-system
spokeswoman. Libbey said the lesson was inappropriate and
Nashville Cares, the AIDS prevention and education group that
offered it, no longer works on school property.  The students incorporated training to become peer sex
counselors because of concern over pregnancies, Libbey said.  “We were providing information that is more detailed, more
intensive and more graphic than you would see in a school
program,” said Joseph Interrante, chief executive officer of
Nashville Cares. The demonstration was meant to to show how to
protect oneself during involuntary oral sex, and went too far,
he said.  Though parents had to give written consent, one girl never
turned in her form, Interrante said. She was the 17-year-old
daughter of Rodrick Glover, a Christian activist and
motivational speaker.  Glover called reporters and the Family Action Council after
his daughter described what he called a pornographic display. He
said he knew nothing of a permission slip.  “I never signed it, I didn’t see it and the teachers
didn’t let me know what it was,” he said.  Mocked on Television  Armed with Glover’s story, the Family Action Council
approached the Legislature. Republican Governor Bill Haslam
signed the measure in May, and a week later comedian  Stephen Colbert  got interested.  “Kissing and hugging are just the last stop before the
train pulls into Groin Central Station,” he said on his
television show, the Colbert Report.  The state hasn’t issued guidance on complying with the law
because it expects nothing to change, as Tennessee has required
abstinence-centered sex education for 30 years, said Kelli
Gauthier, a spokeswoman for the state Education Department.  Godwin, the Planned Parenthood training director, said she
heard a different story at a Nashville conference last week,
where teachers and counselors said they were leery of offering
any information about intimate matters.  “They said they were less willing to use outside groups
and more uncomfortable with sex education and more scared to
answer questions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  