-- Merck, Whole Foods, Google, ASCAP: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/merck-whole-foods-google-wang-lo-kat-intellectual-property.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Schering-Plough unit
must face a challenge to its agreement with competitors to keep
generic versions of its drug K-Dur off the market, an appeals
court ruled, reversing a lower-court antitrust decision.  Wholesalers and pharmacies sued Schering-Plough beginning
in 2001 over allegedly unlawful agreements to delay the entry
into the market of generic versions of K-Dur, a treatment for
low blood levels of potassium. Consumers incurred extra costs of
more than $100 million because of the deals, according to the
plaintiffs.  A lower court ruled in favor of the company in 2010. The
federal appeals court in Philadelphia overturned that decision
yesterday and asked the lower court to reconsider its ruling.  “This is a landmark decision that clarifies why these pay-
for-delay deals violate mainstream antitrust law,” said  David Balto , a Washington-based antitrust attorney who represents
consumer groups opposed to such agreements. “The decision will
finally reverse the past decade of misguided decisions that have
cost consumers billions in higher drug prices.”  “We are disappointed with today’s ruling,”  Ron Rogers , a
spokesman for  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck, said
in an e-mail statement. “We are reviewing the decision and will
consider all our options.”  Merck bought Schering-Plough in 2009.  Federal appeals panels in New York, Atlanta and Washington
have upheld such agreements as long as they don’t delay generic
drugs beyond the expiration of the underlying patents. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission has campaigned to block the deals,
which are sometimes reached on the eve of patent trials, saying
they cost consumers about $3.5 billion a year in higher
prescription drug prices.  “We cannot agree with those courts that apply the scope of
the patent test,” the Philadelphia panel said in its opinion.
“In our view, that test improperly restricts the application of
antitrust law.”  “The Third Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have gotten
it just right: These sweetheart deals are presumptively
anticompetitive,” said FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  in a
statement. “It’s time for the pharmaceutical companies to
return to the side of consumers.”  The agreements, also known as reverse payments, permit the
sharing of “monopoly rents” between would-be competitors
without any assurance that the underlying patent is valid, the
appeals panel said.  The appeals court directed the lower court to apply an
analysis based on “the economic realities of the reverse
payment settlement rather than the labels applied by the
settling parties.”  In a statement, Ralph G. Neas, president and chief
executive officer of the Washington-based Generic Pharmaceutical
Association, called the decision “inconsistent” with other
federal court rulings.  The case is In re K-Dur Antitrust Litigation, 10-2077, 10-
2078, 10-2079,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  For more patent news, click here  Trademark  Whole Foods Sues Vitamin Shoppe Over ‘Health Starts Here’ Mark  Vitamin Shoppe Inc. (VSI) , the  North Bergen , New Jersey-based
supplement retailer, was sued for trademark infringement by
 Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)   The suit, filed in federal court in Austin, Texas, accused
Vitamin Shoppe of infringing Whole Foods’ “Heath Starts Here”
trademarks.  According to court papers, Whole Foods has used this mark
since 2009 as part of a campaign to promote good nutritional
practices and its chain of retail stores. The company registered
the mark in 2011 for use with retail grocery services, raising
public awareness of proper nutrition and diet, and printed
recipes as a component of food packaging, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  Whole Foods, of Austin, Texas, objects to the Vitamin
Shoppe’s “Core Health Starts Here” campaign. The grocery
company said that to no avail it sent a cease-and-desist notice
to the Vitamin Shoppe.  The public can be confused into falsely assuming an
affiliation exists between the two companies, according to court
papers. Whole Foods accuses the Vitamin Shoppe of attempting to
trade on goodwill and fame of the grocery company through its
use of a similar slogan and claims it is harmed by the Vitamin
Shop’s actions.  In addition to seeking a ban on the Vitamin Shoppe’s use of
“Core Health Starts Here,” Whole Foods is seeking destruction
of all offending promotional materials and awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Vitamin Shoppe spokeswoman Susan McLaughlin said in an e-
mail that her company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Whole Foods is represented by in-house counsel Jay Warren
and  Louis T. Pirkey ,  Christopher L. Graff  and  Jered E. Matthysse 
of Austin’s  Pirkey Barber PLLC .  The case is Whole Foods Market IP LP v. Vitamin Shoppe
Industries Inc., 1:12-cv-00633, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Texas (Austin).  Google Antitrust Probe Should Be Settled, EU Regulator Says  The European Union’s antitrust chief said he’d rather
settle an antitrust probe over claims  Google Inc. (GOOG)  discriminates
against rivals than pursue an enforcement action against the
world’s largest Web-search engine.  “In these fast-moving markets with new activities, new
products and new services, I prefer to find remedies as soon as
possible and this is easier,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday in an interview, referring to a
settlement.  Earlier this month, Google outlined a proposal to end the
EU antitrust investigation. The probe is reviewing allegations
that the company promotes its own specialist search-services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements
with websites and software developers that stifle competition in
the advertising industry.  Almunia said last month he would send Google an antitrust
complaint if the proposed accord didn’t eliminate the issues
identified by the EU. Such a complaint could lead to a fine or
limits on conduct.  Regulators are seeking “to clarify some of the aspects of
the answers we received from Google,” Almunia said. “We have
not yet concluded our conversation, but I hope that in the near
future we will finally decide” whether to settle the probe or
send a statement of objections.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company was cooperating with the commission.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether it’s
thwarting competition in the market for Web searches. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in  Argentina  and
South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  While Microsoft Inc. and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  Guangzhou Pharmaceutical Turns Back Appeal Over ‘Wong Lo Kat’  Guangzhou Pharmaceutical Co. (874) , the Chinese maker of patent
medicines and Chinese pharmaceutical products, has retained
ownership of trademarks for its Wang Lo Kat herbal tea, the
Global Times  reported .  The Beijing First Intermediate People’s Court rejected an
appeal by Hong Kong-based JDB Group to overturn a ruling by the
China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission
awarding the mark to the pharmaceutical company, according to
Global Times.  The two companies had been conducting rival advertising
campaigns for the canned tea, the newspaper reported.  Guangzhou Pharmaceutical has predicted the sales revenues
for its tea will hit 30 billion  yuan  ($4.7 billion) by 2017 and
double that by 2020, according to the Global Times.  Paramount Citrus’ ‘Cuties’ Dispute With Calafia Goes to AAA  A dispute over the “Cuties” trademarks used with easy-
peel clementine and mandarin oranges has exited the federal
court system and moved for resolution to the American
Arbitration Association, The Grower Citrus + Vegetable magazine
reported.  Paramount Citrus Packing Co. of Delano, California, sued
Calafia Farms LP in federal court in  Los Angeles  in March over
Calafia’s use of the marks with its juice operations, the
magazine reported.  The two companies, which have had equal ownership of the
Cuties marks since 2001, had planned a joint juice and
concentrate operation, which did not come to fruition in 2011,
according to The Grower.  This is the second time a dispute between the two companies
over the marks have been sent out for arbitration, the magazine
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ASCAP Asks County to Take License Over Aerobics Class Music  The  American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers 
has accused North Carolina’s Lee County of copyright
infringement, the Fayetteville Observer  reported .  ASCAP, which administers music performance royalties, is
asking the county to enter into a licensing agreement or face
fines, the newspaper reported.  Lee County Attorney Dale Talbert  told the newspaper he is
recommending the county sign the agreement and that ASCAP
concerns may be related to music played at aerobics classes
sponsored by the county’s Parks and Recreation Department, the
Observer reported.  Talbert said the licensing agreement, with the fees based
on the county’s population, could be “cheap insurance” against
potential problems, according to the newspaper.  Court Lets Sanctions Stand Against Adult Filmmaker’s Lawyer  A federal appeals court has affirmed monetary sanctions
against a lawyer who represents a maker of adult films in a
series of copyright cases.  In a July 12 ruling, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed sanctions against attorney Evan Stone of Denton, Texas.
Stone represents Bochum, Germany’s Mick Haig Productions E.K.
against unnamed defendants accused of downloading Haig’s “Der
Gute Onkel” film without authorization.  The sanctions were imposed by a federal court in  Dallas  for
issuing subpoenas without the court’s permission. U.S. District
Judge David C. Godbey said in January that Stone had abused the
discovery process, and termed him a “rogue attorney.” The
court had appointed attorneys to represent the interests of the
unnamed defendants and it was these lawyers who had sought the
sanctions.  The sanctions included attorney fees of more than $22,000
and $500 per day for each day Stone failed to comply with a
court order.  Stone filed an appeal, arguing the sanctions were
unjustified and that the court-appointed attorneys lacked
standing to seek them.  The appeals court didn’t agree. It said “no miscarriage of
justice will result from the sanctions” that were imposed “as
a result of Stone’s flagrant violation” of federal court rules.  The appeals court said Stone committed these violations by
using the power of the court to find the identity of anonymous
 Internet users  “then shaming or intimidating them to settle for
thousands of dollars.”  The appeal is Mick Haig Productions E.K. v. Does 1-670, 11-
10977, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The lower court case is Mick Haig Products E.K. v.
Does 1-670, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 