-- Merkel Export Machine’s Gains Exceed Bailout Costs
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-07-17T11:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/merkel-export-machine-s-gains-exceed-bailout-costs.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
export machine is generating far more in revenue than her anti-
bailout voters are committing to euro-crisis fighting as the
weakening currency adds to the country’s competitive edge.  German  exporters  are enjoying a 100 billion-euro ($122
billion) annual advantage amid the turmoil, said Nathan Sheets,
chief international economist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  New York .
That’s more than 10 times the 8.7 billion euros the country is
contributing this year to the rescue fund being set up.  The figures underscore the benefits to Europe’s biggest
economy of Merkel’s austerity-first strategy, which channels her
voters’ doubts about propping up debt-laden countries. Her
approach has drawn criticism from policy makers around the world
and pleas for easing from southern Europe, where bond spreads
have climbed to euro-era records amid concern about whether the
17-nation currency region can hold together.  “Do they care? I don’t think so,”  David Buik , a market
strategist at Cantor Index in London, said in a July 13
telephone interview, referring to German policy makers. “It’s
dog eat dog out there. It is a question of shore up the dams and
do what we can for ourselves.”  The yield on German two-year debt turned negative for the
first time last month, meaning investors paid the sovereign to
store their cash. The cost of owning two-year bunds reached a
record low 0.061 percent today. Investors are also paying to
park their money Austrian two-year notes, and bills issued by
 Belgium  and the European Financial Stability Facility bailout
fund, as yields for all three turned negative today.  Diverging Yields  By contrast, two-year Italian bond yields traded as high as
3.8 percent today -- three times more than  Germany  paid to
borrow for 10 years -- and the Spanish government paid 4.8
percent.  Competitiveness gains mean Germany now has a currency
that’s about 20 percent weaker than would have been the case if
the deutsche mark still existed, said Sheets. He calculates the
lower currency lifts Germany’s nominal trade surplus by about 4
percent of gross domestic product, or 100 billion euros. The
currency benefit could rise closer to 30 percent due to safe-
haven flows, he said.  The euro touched a two-year low last week, giving a further
boost to an economy where unit-labor costs have risen more
slowly than its neighbors’, translating into increased
competitiveness.  “The much lower euro is certainly a big boost to German
exports and has increased the economy’s resilience,” said
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  Jobless Rates  The  International Monetary Fund   raised its forecast  for
2012 economic growth in Germany, predicting an expansion of 1
percent, against a contraction in the euro area. Germany’s
unemployment rate of 6.8 percent last month compared with the
euro zone’s 11.1 percent in May.  Schulz estimates about 60 percent of German exports are
shipped outside the euro area, compared with about 50 percent
for  France  and 42 percent for  Spain , based on 2010 data. Since
the euro began trading in 1999, German real exports have
increased 120 percent, Sheets reported in January. France and
 Italy  have seen their exports grow only 40 percent and  Greece ’s
just 30 percent.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch currency strategists said in
a July 10 report that Germany has more to lose from leaving the
bloc than any other euro nation. They calculated a new German
currency would gain 14 percent at the outset, helping reduce
economic output by about 7 percent, or 185 billion euros.  ‘Welcome Byproduct’  The currency fillip is a “welcome byproduct” of the
crisis for Merkel rather than her outright goal, according to
Evelyn Herrmann, an economist at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in London.  “It’s very welcome to the industrial sector and therefore
to Merkel, who wants growth,” said Herrmann.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and his Spanish
counterpart,  Mariano Rajoy , have urged their euro-region
colleagues to intervene in the  bond market  to bring down their
borrowing costs or risk splitting the 13-year old currency
union. One obstacle to that move is Germany’s constitutional
court, which won’t decide until Sept. 12 on allowing Merkel to
back the bloc’s permanent financial backstop.  To German executives and policy makers, there’s little to
question.  “There may be anger about Germany in other euro-zone
nations, but it’s a good thing we Germans are holding up the
flag of economic success in Europe,” Philipp Graf von
Walderdorff, a Bonn-based lawyer who advises German companies on
exports and investment, said in a telephone interview.  European Model  “Otherwise, the Chinese and Indians would simply write
 Europe  off,” said Von Walderhoff, former head of international
and political affairs at Germany’s DIHK industry and trade
association. “My hope is that Germany can be a model for other
euro members and coax them into making some of the structural
and labor reforms that have helped make us successful.”  Merkel has sought to reassure Germans of the limits on
concessions to struggling nations. She has said Germany will
have two chances to stop the bailout mechanism funding banks
directly, while reiterating her veto on euro bonds.  “There’s a view that all of the positive developments in
Germany are simply a mirror image of the pain elsewhere in the
euro zone,” said Dominic White, chief European economist at
Absolute Strategy Research Ltd. in  London . “There’s a lot of
truth in that, but it’s not the way the Germans see it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  