-- Heroux-Devtek Jumps on Agreement to Sell Assets: Montreal Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-07-17T20:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/heroux-devtek-jumps-on-agreement-to-sell-assets-montreal-mover.html
Heroux-Devtek Inc. (HRX)  jumped the most
in more than 23 years after the Canadian maker of landing gear
agreed to sell four factories to  Precision Castparts (PCP)  Corp. for
C$300 million ($296 million).  Precision Castparts agreed to buy Heroux-Devtek’s
aerostructures sites in  Quebec , Mexico and Texas and its
industrial products plant in Ohio, the companies said today in
separate news releases. Heroux-Devtek, which is based in the
 Montreal  suburb of Longueuil, said it expects to realize net
cash proceeds of about C$230 million after taxes and expenses.  Heroux-Devtek  rose  33 percent to C$10.42 at 3:59 p.m. in
Toronto, its biggest daily increase since September 1988 and its
highest closing price since August 2007. Earlier today, the
shares touched C$11.75, a gain of 50 percent.  “Given that the company’s balance sheet is already very
strong, we suspect that the company will seek to make further
investments in its landing gear franchise either through
additional acquisitions or through investments in bidding on new
programs,”  Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at National Bank
Financial in Montreal, said in a note to clients. “We consider
it highly likely that the company would distribute at least a
portion of its excess cash back to shareholders.”  Heroux-Devtek is evaluating alternatives for the proceeds,
including a “significant” distribution to shareholders and
debt repayment, the company said without being more specific.
The company plans to focus on growth opportunities in its
landing-gear business, which has about 1,000 employees and
annual sales of C$250 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  