-- Essar Oil Challenges $454 Million Interest Claim in Indian Court
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-07-17T11:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/essar-oil-challenges-454-million-interest-claim-in-indian-court.html
Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , the operator of
India’s second-biggest non-state refinery, challenged a claim by
the Gujarat state government to pay 25 billion rupees ($454
million) as interest on  sales tax  dues.  Essar Oil, controlled by billionaire brothers Shashi and
 Ravi Ruia , contested the demand for interest in the  Supreme
Court  in  New Delhi  today, Mukul Rohatgi, a lawyer for the
refiner, said without elaborating on how the interest amount was
calculated. The company owes 64 billion rupees in sales tax to
the Gujarat government, Rohatgi said.  The top court will hear Essar Oil’s plea seeking the waiver
of interest and a tax repayment schedule after the company pays
10 billion rupees of the principal tax amount by July 30, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Essar Oil lost the benefit of deferring sales tax payments
after it missed an Aug. 15, 2003, deadline to start production
at its refinery at Vadinar. The government of the western state
sealed the company’s bank accounts on July 10 after it failed to
start paying the sales tax.  Essar Oil  declined  1.5 percent to 54.55 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. The stock has gained 8.5 percent this year compared
with an 11 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The court will reverse the sealing of Essar Oil’s bank
accounts after the company makes an initial 10 billion rupee
payment, according to the statement. The order was given by a
two-judge panel headed by Justice A.K. Patnaik.  The refiner is in talks with Indian banks for a 50 billion
rupee loan as a contingency if the sales tax becomes payable
immediately or if it is unable to agree to a repayment schedule,
the refiner said.  Essar Oil was given an incentive by the Gujarat state
government to defer sales tax payment for 17 years on timely
completion of the Vadinar refinery. The company has said the
plant was delayed because of a cyclone and opposition by a civil
society body.  The Supreme Court ordered the unit of London-listed  Essar
Energy Plc (ESSR)  on Jan. 17 to pay the sales tax and rejected a review
petition on April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  