-- Estacio Targets Sao Paulo Schools in Bid to Double Profit
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2012-07-17T15:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/estacio-targets-sao-paulo-schools-in-bid-to-double-profit.html
Estacio Participacoes SA (ESTC3) , Brazil’s
best-performing education stock in the past three months, plans
to expand in Sao Paulo next year and maintain a strategy to buy
small and medium institutions to double profit.  The company, which counts  GP Investments Ltd. (GPIX)  as its
 largest shareholder  with a 19.5 percent stake, will open
campuses and offer online classes in Brazil’s largest city to
boost its student base by more than a quarter in three years,
Chief Executive Officer Rogerio Melzi said. Estacio expects to
double earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, to about 400 million reais ($196
million) in 2014 without any major acquisitions, he said.  “What we are doing in  Sao Paulo  is a transformation,
similar to what we did in the rest of the country, but with a
little delay,” Melzi said in an interview on July 11 at
Bloomberg’s office in Sao Paulo. “There is no future for
Estacio without a strong presence in Sao Paulo.”  Estacio, Brazil’s second-largest publicly traded university
operator by revenue, is vying with rivals  Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3) 
and  Anhanguera Educacional Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  to tap the market
for higher education in Brazil, where less than one in 10 people
has a college degree. Kroton, backed by private-equity firm
Advent International Corp., is counting on a 1.3 billion-real
acquisition to fuel growth, while Estacio aims to expand through
acquisitions of institutions with less than 10,000 students and
at schools it already operates.  More Work  Estacio fell 0.4 percent to 24.60 reais at 12:43 p.m. in
Sao Paulo Trading. The Bovespa index rose 0.5 percent.  “They are two different strategies and moments,”
Jacqueline Lison, an analyst at Banco Fator Corretora, which
rates Kroton a buy and Estacio a hold, said in an interview from
Sao Paulo. “Estacio still has a lot of work to be done. We
prefer to wait a bit to see the results.”  Rio de Janeiro-based Estacio gained 18 percent in the past
three months in Sao Paulo trading before today, while Kroton and
Anhanguera rose 14 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively. Its
year-to-date gain of 37 percent compares with a 33 percent drop
for the Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13
companies and an average 6.9 percent total return for 198
companies listed worldwide that get at least 35 percent of their
revenue from education.  Job Market  “Although  Brazil ’s economy seems to be slowing down, the
job market still shows strength,” Thiago Capucci Macruz, an
analyst at investment bank Itau BBA, said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. “The students going to these universities are
working adults.”  About 8 percent of Brazil’s population above 10 years old
had a college degree in 2010, the latest year for which figures
are available, according to national statistics agency IBGE.  Estacio, which acquired six companies in the past 12 months
and aims to serve about 360,000 students by the end of 2015,
will focus on small and medium acquisitions in the eight
Brazilian states where it doesn’t already have businesses, Melzi
said. States in the north and northeast, capitals and cities
with more than 300,000 people are the main targets, he said.  Kroton announced in December 2011 that it agreed to acquire
Uniao Norte do Parana de Ensino Ltda., known as Unopar, for 1.3
billion reais in cash and stock. Unopar is Brazil’s largest
distance-learning educational institution, adding 162,000
students to Kroton’s register.  Estacio may make a bigger acquisition if an opportunity
arises, Melzi said.  “Our plan A is to grow organically, using small and
medium-sized acquisitions,” Melzi said. “But we never rule out
larger deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  