-- European Profit Estimates Cut Most Since 2009 as Danone Hit
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-07-18T16:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/europe-profit-estimates-cut-most-since-09-as-crisis-hits-danone.html
Analysts are cutting European profit
forecasts at the fastest rate since 2009 as the region heads for
a recession and growth in  China  slows for a sixth quarter.  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  companies will  earn  240 euros a share
in 2012, 6.8 percent more than in 2011, according to more than
12,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 19
percent gain predicted at the start of the year. The reduction
is the biggest since 2009, when analysts trimmed by 42
percentage points.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  started the European earnings
season with its results today as at least seven companies in the
broader Stoxx Europe 600 disappointed.  While Bloomberg data show analysts lowered projections for
32 members of the Euro Stoxx 50 this month, there may be more
cuts to come. Corporations from French dairy producer  Danone SA (BN) 
to  SKF (SKFB)  AB, the world’s largest maker of ball bearings, have
reduced their forecasts and strategists at Macquarie Group Ltd.
and Morgan Stanley, who base their predictions on the economy
rather than individual companies, say earnings will drop as much
as 10 percent this year.  “The environment is becoming more challenging,”  Frances Hudson , who helps manage about $250 billion at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh, said in a phone interview. “A lot of
companies have felt they have to sit on a pile of cash and that
doesn’t feed into superior earnings either. I wouldn’t have
terribly high hopes for this earnings season.”  Valuation Climbs  The Euro Stoxx 50 has gained 8.8 percent since the start of
last month. The gauge is trading at 9.4 times projected
earnings, up from 8.3 times on June 1, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The valuation has averaged 10.3 since 2007. The
index rose 1.5 percent to 2,284.7 today.  More than two years since  Europe ’s debt crisis erupted with
the first bailout of  Greece , the region’s economy is slowing
amid government austerity measures and rising bond yields. A
decline in U.S. hiring and weakening gains in Chinese imports
this month added to concern that the global recovery is losing
momentum.  ASML was the first member of the Euro Stoxx 50 to report
second-quarter results. Europe’s biggest maker of semiconductor
equipment recorded second-quarter order bookings that beat
analysts’ estimates today, while forecasting a decline in
revenue for the second half of the year.  Earnings at companies in the index declined 38 percent in
2008 and 9.6 percent in 2009, Bloomberg data show. They rose 28
percent in 2010 before falling 9 percent last year.  Technology Producers  In the larger Stoxx Europe 600 Index, basic-resources
companies, technology producers and banks have had profit
estimates lowered by an average of 21 percent in 2012, the
biggest reductions, according to Bloomberg data. A gauge of
 financial-services companies , including Deutsche Boerse AG and
ICAP Plc, had the biggest upgrades, the data show.  “This slowdown is reaching into very different industries
and countries, and all the while consensus is still telling us
that earnings will grow,” Laurent Ducoin, a  fund manager  who
helps oversee $13 billion at Carmignac Gestion in Paris, said in
an interview on July 13.  Euro-area gross domestic product will shrink in the final
three quarters of 2012, resulting in a 0.4 percent annual
contraction, according to the median forecast in a survey of 43
economists by Bloomberg.  The average earnings-growth estimate for companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen to 13 percent from 14
percent in January, Bloomberg data show. Estimates for the MSCI
World Index have dropped to 9.5 percent from 13 percent.  Pace Easing  The pace of profit downgrades in Europe may be easing,
according to  Garry Evans  at HSBC Holdings Plc. Analysts’
forecasts for Euro Stoxx 50 earnings in 2012 have fallen less
than 0.1 percent in July, according to Bloomberg data. That
would be the smallest monthly reduction this year.  “We think we are now through the worst of the European
downgrade cycle,” Evans, a Hong Kong-based strategist at HSBC,
wrote in a report distributed July 3. “A combination of a
shallow European recession and slowing, but still decent, global
growth suggest that our target for European EPS growth of zero
to 5 percent is in the right ballpark.”  SKF said June 13 it will cut 400 jobs amid weaker demand
for products and services in western Europe and  Asia  in the
second quarter, sending shares of the Gothenburg, Sweden-based
company down 7.3 percent. Six days later, Paris-based Danone,
the world’s biggest yogurt maker, cut its profitability forecast
after Spanish consumers switched to less-expensive products and
raw-material costs rose. The stock fell the most in three years.  Burberry Sales  Shares of London-based  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  tumbled 7.4
percent on July 11 after the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company
reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-
Andre de Chalendar said June 7 that first-half results at
Europe’s biggest supplier of building materials may be lower
than in the year-earlier period as car sales recede and the
construction market in southern Europe struggles. The Paris-
based company is  forecast  to earn 3.11 euros a share this year,
down from 3.50 euros at the start of January, according to
analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts expect Ludwigshafen, Germany-based  BASF SE (BAS)  to earn
5.63 euros a share this year, down from 5.93 euros on May 1,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Societe Generale
SA analysts  Peter Clark  and Patrick Lambert reduced their
forecast by 8 percent to 5.40 euros on July 9, citing slower
Asian growth.  Strategist Forecasts  Daniel McCormack, a strategist at Macquarie, estimates
earnings in Europe will drop 10 percent in 2012. Morgan Stanley
strategists  Graham Secker , Ronan Carr and Matthew Garman expect
an 8 percent contraction. JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts a 5
percent decline.  “The overall earnings picture for companies globally
cannot decouple from the underlying macro slowdown,” Andreas Utermann, Frankfurt-based global chief investment officer at
Allianz Global Investors, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with Francine Lacqua on July 12.
His company oversees about $305 billion. “We will see quite a
few disappointments. I’m convinced of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  