-- Euro Leaders Sleepless Summits Seen Prone to Mistakes
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-07-18T11:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/euro-leaders-sleepless-summits-seen-prone-to-mistakes.html
If the leaders of the 17 euro-area
countries really want to solve the debt crisis shadowing their
currency, they may want to sleep on it.  That’s not likely to happen. Of  Europe ’s last six summits,
three ended no earlier than 4 a.m. The most recent, on June 29,
ended at 5 a.m. And finance chiefs’ monthly gatherings routinely
extend past midnight.  Those late hours haven’t served European leaders well and
may be one reason why their next meeting, to hammer out a
bailout for  Spain ’s banks on July 20, is scheduled to begin at
noon. Lack of sleep, the evidence shows, has played a role in
 faulty decision-making  that led to disasters at Three Mile
Island, Chernobyl, and the Exxon Valdez oil spill as well as the
ill-fated launch of the space shuttle Challenger.  “We’re not well designed to work well into the night,”
Chris Idzikowski, a co-founder of the  British Sleep Society  who
has explored the land of nod for more than three decades, said
in an interview. “It has to be one of the worst times to do
negotiations.”  Remaining awake too long mimics the effects of being
legally drunk, according to recent research. Staying up past
your natural bedtime can make you more vulnerable to another’s
influence and likelier to take risks. It can impair brain
function and lead to misjudgments.  European political leaders, then, may want to go to bed at
a “normal” time, say between 10 p.m. and midnight, and let
sleep do its job, said Idzikowski, who is director of the
 Edinburgh Sleep Centre  in  Scotland . “The brain does think about
solutions during sleep,” particularly during rapid-eye
movement, or REM, sleep, a phase associated with learning,
memory and dreaming.  Wartime Research  Sleep is as necessary to life as eating or breathing. The
first study of long-term sleep deprivation was published more
than a century ago, and interest in research  increased  during
the two world wars, as scientists sought ways to make workers
more productive and radar operators more attentive.  Scientists are still trying to explain the effects of sleep
loss on the brain, with funding from industries that operate
around the clock, such as  transportation  and the military. That
research is becoming more important as both work hours and
commuting times grow, and improvements in functional magnetic
resonance imaging, or fMRI, are enabling scientists to more
quickly conduct these experiments.  “New pictures of the brain have only been possible in
recent years,” says James Maas, who taught psychology for 48
years at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New York . “The brain had
been kind of a black box.”  Power Nap  How many Z’s people require depends on genetics and
environment, says Maas, who coined the term “power nap” and
has consulted for companies including  IBM Corp. (IBM)  Most adults
should sleep between 7 1/2 and 8 1/2 hours a night, though a few
can get by on less and some need more, Maas says. About 70
percent of adults are sleep-deprived, he says.  In people awake for 16 hours, Maas says brain activity is
similar to that of someone with a blood-alcohol content of 0.05
percent, which is legally drunk in some jurisdictions. Staying
awake for 24 hours is equivalent to having a blood-alcohol
content of 0.10 percent -- exceeding the  legal-intoxication
limit  in all countries involved in the talks.  “It takes a tremendous toll,” says Maas, who co-wrote the
 books  Power Sleep and Sleep for Success! Everything You Must
Know About Sleep but Are Too Tired to Ask.  Emotions can be one casualty of sleep loss, Maas says.  Emotional Toll  “Kids, when they’re sleep-deprived, they do indeed get
cranky and cry,” he says. “Adults get wired. They get
irrational, they get emotional, with symptoms similar to
attention-deficit disorder. If you track mood during the day,
around 4 to 5 p.m., people get really touchy,” and without a
nap, it could be downhill from there.  European finance ministers met for 13 1/2 hours to hammer
out a deal on a second Greek bailout, capping it with a press
briefing that didn’t end until almost 6 a.m. on Feb. 21  “In the past two years and again this night, I have
learned that ‘marathon’ is indeed a Greek word,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  At the midnight briefing a month earlier, Rehn said: “The
timing of this press conference seems to suggest that we are
back in normal times.”  European leaders meet when they must, with no regard to
considerations of comfort, said Guy Schuller, a spokesman for
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also heads
the group of euro-area finance chiefs.  At Stake  “The issues at stake in a lot of these meetings are often
bigger than the comfort of those sitting inside the meeting,”
said Schuller said yesterday by phone. “Juncker has never
ducked a meeting that ran late into the night and often he was
the one to initiate such a late meeting.”  Losing a full night of sleep can impair a lot of brain
function, said Scott Huettel, director of the  Center for
Interdisciplinary Decision Science  at  Duke University  in Durham,
 North Carolina . Participating in a fast-moving meeting, such as
a gathering of finance ministers, and having to respond to
different people talking or toggle between conversations would
be much more difficult, Huettel said.  Distorted Information  While the brain is still able to process information, the
information may be distorted before it’s processed, Huettel
said. One night without sleep can lead to increased activity in
the regions of the brain that weigh positive outcomes, and
decreased activity in areas that assess negative outcomes,
according to an fMRI  study  of 29 people by Huettel and his
colleagues published in the Journal of Neuroscience last year.  “If you make someone more attentive to good outcomes and
less attentive to bad outcomes, it will look like they’re more
risk-seeking than they are,” Huettel said in a telephone
interview.  The trial, funded in part by  Singapore ’s Defense Science
and Technology Agency, was the first to show that sleep loss
could change the way the brain determines economic value, making
people more likely to make choices that increased monetary gain
and less likely to select options that reduced loss, the Duke
researchers said.  Changing Views  “The decisions someone makes depend on raw materials: what
the good outcomes are, what the bad outcomes are, and then
preferences for risk,” Huettel said. “Usually people say sleep
deprivation makes people more impulsive. What we’re saying is it
may change the way you view the raw materials.”  Not all brain functions are dulled by fatigue, according to
Adrienne Tucker, a post-doctoral researcher who led a study that
found performance in some areas may be enhanced. Participants
were better at coming up with words beginning with a certain
letter in one minute when they were tired, a test that measures
verbal fluency and is a sign of flexible thinking, according to
the  study , which was published in the journal Sleep in 2010 and
funded by the U.S. Department of Defense.  “It was a surprising finding,” Tucker said in a telephone
interview. “The entire brain is deprived of sleep, so you’d
think everything would be worse, but it’s not.”  Group Dynamics  A follow-up trial showed significant differences from
person to person in how much their flexible thinking improved,
Tucker said. Because there is little scientific data on how
sleep-deprived people perform in a group setting, like the euro
talks, it’s hard to say how lab results apply in the real world,
and more research is needed, she said.  “The fact that the negotiations are occurring into the
night likely changes the landscape of who has the most sway, as
some people will be much more impacted by fatigue than others
and, further, people will be impacted in different ways,”
Tucker said. “One person might have more flexible and creative
thinking, while another may become more rigid in rejecting
offers perceived as unfair.”  Some politicians, such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , have turned the
effects of sleep loss to their advantage.  At a meeting that began on the evening of Oct. 26, the
European leaders summoned bankers at midnight to nail down a
deal. Gathered in European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy ’s
office, the bankers, represented by  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the  Institute of International Finance , were given
the ultimatum: Take the package that involved a 50 percent
writedown of Greek debt or face worse consequences.  The politicians had their answer two hours later.  Fierce Message  “It was the fiercely delivered wish by Merkel, Sarkozy,
Juncker, that if a voluntary agreement with the banks was not
possible, we wouldn’t resist one second to move toward a
scenario of the total insolvency of  Greece ,” Juncker told
reporters. That “would have cost states a lot of money and
would have ruined the banks.”  With evidence pouring in that lack of sleep causes serious
health and mental problems, why do people persist in pulling
all-nighters? The answer is simple, Maas says: Ignorance.  “When the adrenaline is going, it seems like a good
idea,” he says. “Why do we do a lot of things that are bad for
us? There’s a lack of ability to convince people not to do it.”  The rush to get something done drove the leaders at their
last summit through the night to 5 a.m. on June 29.  Pressing On  “There is something about nightlong negotiations,” one of
the 17 euro-government chiefs told a small group of reporters.
“You know that when you start the night you want to finish and
get an accord at the end, because coming back to it in the
morning is never a great solution. Merkel agreed to go ahead
with the negotiations because almost everyone in the room knew
we had to come up with an agreement for breakfast.”  Sometimes a lack of sleep does get the better of Europe’s
leaders.  Queried about the fine points of the agreement June 29,
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  told reporters, “I’m
not going now into details; I slept less than three hours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  