-- European Stocks Drop as Alcatel Profit Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-18T01:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/european-stock-futures-gain-on-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
European stocks  fell for the first
time in three days as companies including  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) 
reported lower earnings and Wolseley Plc said it would sell its
French business.  Alcatel plunged the most in almost 14 years after France’s
largest telecommunications equipment supplier posted a second-
quarter loss. Wolseley slid 1.9 percent after saying it may sell
its French business and write down the value of the unit.  CSR
Plc (CSR)  surged 34 percent after Samsung Electronics Co. agreed to
buy its wireless technology unit. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told congress that more easing tools are
available and the central bank is examining what to do if more
needs to be done to boost jobs.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.3 percent to 256.09 at
the close of trading, erasing an earlier advance. The benchmark
measure has still climbed 9.5 percent from this year’s low on
June 4 as the  European Central Bank  and People’s Bank of China
cut their benchmark  interest rates  and euro-area leaders eased
repayment rules for Spanish banks and conditions for possible
Italian aid.  “The market was trading most of the day on hopes that Fed
Chairman Bernanke would signal some more QE moves,” said
Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities
in  London . “But what Bernanke said is that easing tools
shouldn’t be used lightly, which means we are somehow far from
another round of QE. I think that after that kind of statement
there will be more bears than bulls.”  National benchmark indexes fell in eight of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  declined 0.6 percent
and France’s CAC 40 slipped 0.1 percent. Germany’s DAX rose 0.2
percent.  Bernanke Testimony  Recent economic data have had a “generally disappointing
tone,” Bernanke said in the first of two days testifying before
Congress as part of the central bank’s semiannual monetary
policy report. He said the Fed is prepared to take further
action “as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability ,” without offering any specific
policy ideas.  Minutes from the Fed’s June meeting, released on July 11,
showed that two participants supported additional bond
purchases, while two others said only a further deterioration in
the economy would warrant them.  Industrial production in the U.S. increased in June, led by
gains among automobile and machinery makers. Output at
factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent last month after
a revised 0.2 percent drop in May that was larger than
previously reported, Fed data showed today. Economists had
forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Profitability Target  Alcatel-Lucent tumbled 20 percent to 91 euro cents, the
largest drop since September 1998. The company said it expects
to miss a 2012 profitability  target  after posting a second-
quarter loss as demand for phone gear wanes.  Wolseley (WOS)  slid 1.9 percent to 2,283 pence, a fifth day of
losses. The building-materials supplier said it may sell its
French business and write down the value of that unit and Danish
operations amid “difficult market conditions in continental
 Europe .”  Soitec (SOI)  SA sank 22 percent to 2.13 euros, the largest
decline since 2002. The manufacturer of semiconductors and solar
products reported a 27 percent drop in first-quarter sales and
forecast a first-half operating loss.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  tumbled 13 percent to 53 euro cents, a record
low. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said nationalized
lenders, including Bankia, will receive fresh capital and be
privatized once bad assets are transferred to a bad bank that
will be operational before the end of the year, La Vanguardia
reported.  CSR, Samsung  CSR rallied 34 percent to 292 pence, the biggest increase
since it sold shares in 2004. Samsung, the world’s largest
mobile-phone maker, agreed to buy the company’s wireless
technology unit for $310 million in cash and take a minority
stake in the British chip designer.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS) , an oilfield surveyor, climbed
9.3 percent to 83.25 kroner after the world’s third-largest
surveyor of oil and gas fields said second-quarter earnings
would exceed estimates.  CGGVeritas, the biggest seismic surveyor of oilfields,
soared 5.7 percent to 22.73 euros in Paris trading, the highest
since March. TGS Nopec Geophysical ASA advanced 2.9 percent to
168 kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  