-- Europe’s Crisis Casting Shadow on Swedish Economy, Riksbank Says
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-17T07:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/europe-s-crisis-casting-shadow-on-swedish-economy-riksbank-says.html
Europe’s debt crisis is casting a
“shadow” on  Sweden  as central bank policy makers in the
largest Nordic economy disagreed on how expansionary interest
rates need to be, the Riksbank said.  “A central issue, for several members of the
Executive Board when making the monetary policy decision, was
how the unexpectedly strong development of the Swedish economy
should be seen in relation to the increased concern about weaker
development in the euro area,” the bank said in minutes
published today from its rate meeting earlier this month. “The
Executive Board agreed that the repo rate needs to be low to
stimulate the economy. However, there were differences with
regard to how expansionary monetary policy should be.”  The Riksbank kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 1.5
percent this month, after two cuts since December, and signaled
it may be prepared to lower rates again as  Europe ’s debt crisis
weighs on growth in the largest Nordic economy. The bank said on
July 4 that its rate will be at 1.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, versus an April forecast for 1.5 percent. It will
average 1.6 percent in the third quarter next year, versus a
previous prediction for 1.8 percent.  The bank raised its economic forecast for Sweden for this
year to 0.6 percent growth from 0.4 percent. The economy will
expand 1.7 percent in 2013, compared with an April forecast for
1.9 percent, it said. Gross domestic product will grow 2.8
percent in 2014, it estimates.  Swedish  inflation  has trailed the central bank’s 2 percent
target every month this year and was at 1 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 Kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  