-- Ex-Lone Pine Manager Is Said to Start $500 Million Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-07-17T02:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/ex-lone-pine-manager-is-said-to-start-500-million-hedge-fund.html
Eashwar Krishnan, former Asia head
of  Lone Pine  Capital LLC, raised $500 million for his own Asia-
focused hedge fund that bets on rising and falling stocks, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Tybourne Capital Management (HK) Ltd.  can draw down an
additional $500 million available from investors later this year
as opportunities arise, said the people who asked not to be
identified as the information is private. Tybourne Equity Fund
started trading in Hong Kong on July 2, they said. Krishnan,
Tybourne’s chief investment officer, declined to comment.  Krishnan is among former Asia heads of long-established U.S.
hedge funds that are leading the largest startups this year in
the region as investors become more reluctant to back new
managers in their early days. Fifty-nine new  Asia  hedge funds
that started in the first five months raised on average $23.5
million each, according to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte.  Krishnan was with Lone Pine, the Greenwich, Connecticut-
based hedge fund run by Stephen F. Mandel Jr., for 12 years,
including five as its Asia head in Hong Kong, said one of the
people.  He left in the fourth quarter last year to plan his own
hedge fund with Tybourne’s Chief Operating Officer Tanvir Ghani,
said the person. Ghani worked for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for
11 years, most recently as managing director on the New York-
based bank’s prime brokerage team in Hong Kong, the person said.  Fund’s Strategy  The new fund will employ a long-short strategy and will be
based on analyzing company fundamentals, said one of the people.
In a short sale, a manager borrows a stock and sells it hoping
it can be bought back later at a lower price.  Tybourne is implementing a so-called lockup under which the
majority of the capital cannot be withdrawn in less than three
years unless investors pay a penalty fee, the person said.  Alp Ercil, the former Asia head of New York-based hedge
fund Perry Capital LLC, received about $440 million of initial
capital commitments from investors for his Asia distressed asset
fund by its first subscription deadline in the second quarter,
three people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Carl Huttenlocher, the former Asia head of Highbridge
Capital Management LLC, raised $900 million by March 1 for his
Myriad Opportunities Master Fund Ltd. after opening it to
outside investors on Dec. 1, said two people with information of
the matter then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  