-- Texas’s Perry Not Considering Ethanol Waiver in Corn Drought
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-17T20:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/texas-s-perry-not-considering-ethanol-waiver-in-corn-drought-1-.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  isn’t
considering asking the Obama administration for a waiver of the
renewable fuels requirements because of a drought in the Midwest
that has boosted corn prices.  Crop conditions are the worst since 1988 when corn
production fell 30 percent from a year earlier as the most
severe drought in more than two decades stunts development for
the grain and biofuel feedstock. Ethanol is projected to account
for about 38 percent of this year’s corn harvest, the
Agriculture Department said July 11.  The biofuel, made mostly from corn in the U.S., is part of
the nation’s strategy to reduce dependence on crude oil. A
government mandate calls for refiners to use 13.2 billion
gallons of ethanol this year. In April 2008, Perry, a
republican, asked the Environmental Protection Agency to ease
the requirements by 50 percent because of grain shortages and
rising food costs.  “At this point the governor isn’t considering asking for a
waiver, however he will continue to monitor the situation
closely,” Allison Castle, a spokeswoman for the governor, said
today in an e-mail.  Corn futures rose to a 13-month high today after a
government report showed that an expanding drought is damaging
crops.  Denatured ethanol for August delivery rose 2 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $2.689 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
highest settlement since Nov. 16. Prices have gained 22 percent
this year.  Earlier Request  The EPA rejected the 2008 waiver request from Texas, the
largest U.S. beef producer. As part of the process, the agency
would have to find that the program is causing economic
“harm,” according to  Matt Hartwig , a spokesman at the
 Renewable Fuels Association , a Washington-based industry group.  “We think that any request from Governor Perry would
submit this time would find a similar fate to the one he
submitted in 2008,” Hartwig said in a telephone interview. “We
don’t think any waiver request submitted to the EPA would pass
muster.”  Cathy Milbourn, a spokeswoman for the agency, said that it
can’t “speculate” on waiver requests that it hasn’t received.  Poet LLC, is the largest U.S. ethanol producer, followed by
 Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , in Decatur,  Illinois , and  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  