-- Fed’s Pianalto Says Continued Weakness May Warrant Easing
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-17T17:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/fed-s-pianalto-says-more-weak-data-would-warrant-more-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said additional weakness in the  U.S.
economy  may spur the central bank to ease policy further.  “If recent weak economic data persist and cause my outlook
for economic growth and inflation to become weaker than I
currently anticipate, additional policy actions could be
warranted,” Pianalto said today in the text of prepared remarks
given in Erie, Pennsylvania.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee extended
its so-called Operation Twist program last month in an effort to
lower interest rates and spur hiring. Progress in reducing
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and the
central bank is prepared to take further steps to boost the
recovery, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress today.  “If warranted, further asset purchases would have
benefits,” the Cleveland Fed chief said at  Pennsylvania State
University ’s Behrend College in Erie.  Speaking before the Senate Banking Committee today in
Washington, Bernanke said the Fed’s easing tools include further
asset purchases, reducing the interest rate the central bank
pays on reserves banks keep with the Fed and altering its
communications on the outlook for interest rates.  ‘Limited Experience’  Pianalto added today that the U.S.  central bank  has
“limited experience” using securities purchases to bolster the
economy and called for “more analysis” on the benefits and the
costs associated with such options.  “We are using large-scale asset purchases as a policy tool
in an unusual financial and economic environment -- one in which
future benefits may be more muted,” she said. “It is
conceivable that, at some point, policies designed to promote
further declines in rates could interfere with financial
stability.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  increased 0.8 percent today
to 1,363.90 at 1:32 p.m. in New York.  Pianalto, 57, votes this year on the FOMC. She has been
president of the district bank since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  