-- Fed Regional Directors Saw Economic Weakness in May, June
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/fed-regional-directors-saw-economic-weakness-in-may-june.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks were concerned about the outlook for unemployment
and the expansion at meetings in May and June, while
anticipating that the economy will grow moderately.  “Directors noted relative weakness in recent economic data
but generally expected moderate economic growth to continue over
the coming quarters,” according to minutes released today in
 Washington  summarizing the discussions.  Board members of the 12 banks said “in labor markets, the
pace of gains in employment had slowed, and the elevated
 unemployment rate  remained a source of concern,” the minutes
said.  The minutes covered meetings on May 21, June 4 and June 18
by the  Fed’s Board of Governors  to discuss the discount rate,
which the central bank charges on emergency loans to banks. The
Fed kept the rate unchanged at 0.75 percent.  A different Fed panel, the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
met June 19-20 and announced a plan to extend its Operation
Twist program through the end of the year. The minutes of the
FOMC meeting in June were released last week.  Directors of the Fed’s regional banks, who are mostly
bankers and business executives, “cited ongoing downside risks,
including still-significant strains in global financial markets
and domestic fiscal uncertainty, as resulting in heightened
caution regarding hiring and investment.”  Same Recommendations  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
meetings since December. Members of the Boston Fed’s board of
directors urged a quarter-percentage point discount-rate
reduction, to 0.5 percent, while the Kansas City Fed repeated
its request for a quarter-point rise. The other 10 banks did not
request a change.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that requests discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the  Fed Board ,
which consists of the central bank’s seven Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  