-- Fed's George Says U.S. Growth May Not Exceed 2% in 2012
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-17T01:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/fed-s-george-says-u-s-growth-may-not-exceed-2-in-2012.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City 
President Esther George said the  U.S. economy  probably won’t
grow much faster than 2 percent this year, held back by caution
among consumers and businesses.  The economy “is growing slowly for sure and some may
characterize it as growing erratically,” George said today in a
speech in Kansas City, Missouri. Growth will be “not much
beyond 2 percent” in 2012, with some pickup in following years.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted last month to
extend a program swapping short-term securities for long-term
bonds in the Fed’s portfolio with the aim of bolstering a
slowing U.S. economy and enlivening the job market. The Fed also
said it would consider more stimulus if needed.  Policy makers face a “real challenge” in weighing whether
more accommodative Fed policy will spur growth in employment,
George said.  “We have provided a highly accommodative stance of
monetary policy,” said George, who doesn’t have a vote on
policy this year. “Will monetary policy put people back to work
at this point? That is not clear to me.”  The U.S. recovery over the past three years has been marked
by periods of solid growth followed by disappointing slowdowns,
she said. “It looks like this summer’s slowdown will be no
exception to that.”  Employment Weakness  Retail spending has waned, hurt by weakness in employment,
the Kansas City Fed leader said. Businesses have raised their
cash holdings and are reluctant to invest in part because of
uncertainties including fiscal policy, the  European debt crisis 
and the “regulatory landscape,” she said.  Bright spots have included a surge in U.S. auto sales this
year and “long overdue” gains in the housing market, George
said.  While inflation has been low, the Kansas City Fed chief
said the central bank can’t be complacent.  “We know from past periods that inflation doesn’t give you
a lot of advance notice,” she said. “You don’t want inflation
to get ahead of you.”  Just 80,000 U.S. jobs were added in June and the jobless
rate remained at 8.2 percent, the U.S. Labor Department reported
July 6. Growth in private payrolls was the weakest in 10 months.
The figures underscore concern among some Fed policy makers that
growth isn’t fast enough to lower unemployment stuck above 8
percent since February 2009.  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
 Thomas Hoenig , who retired last year. She joined the Fed in
1982, spent much of her career in bank supervision and became
first vice president in 2009. The Kansas City district
represents  Colorado , Kansas,  Nebraska , Oklahoma,  Wyoming ,
northern  New Mexico  and the western third of Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  