-- Foie Gras Goes Underground at California ‘Duckeasies’
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/foie-gras-goes-underground-at-california-duckeasies-.html
On July 15, about a dozen people
walked into a cozy San Francisco restaurant with a window sign
reading “private event” to savor foie gras,  California ’s
newest forbidden fruit.  They paid $100 apiece for “a 10-course tasting of quasi-
legal goodness,” according to the online  notice  for the
“Duckeasy” event. Each received an e-mail with the address
only hours before the first sandwich of Wonder bread, grape jelly
and foie gras mousse was served.  “I want to support the people who believe in foie and who
will defy the rules,” Jolanda Nuestro, 48, a homemaker, said at
the communal table before a toast broke out: “To foie!”  “To being force-fed foie!” another guest added.  Two weeks after California’s ban on selling and producing
the fatty duck liver, chefs are hosting clandestine events,
offering it as a free side dish or selling it to regulars
without listing it on the menu.  In an unscientific survey, four of eight restaurants
visited in the two weeks since the ban offered foie gras. Four
that had it on their menus before the ban refused to serve it
when asked.  David Rieken, 49, a personal assistant from  San Francisco 
who discovered the Duckeasy dinner through a friend, said he was
drawn in part because of its secretive nature.  “I would be lying if I said there wasn’t a certain
exclusivity that is cool and a defiance against a law that we
think is rooted in double standards,” Rieken said while sipping
a glass of French red wine before dinner.  Eating Up  The 2004 law that went into effect July 1 is backed by
animal-rights activists who say force-feeding ducks and geese
through a tube to produce a fat liver is cruel. Violators are
subject to a fine of as much as $1,000 per infraction, and as
much as $1,000 for each day it continues.  Daniel Mallahan, 27, a San Francisco resident and one of
the Duckeasy dinner’s chefs and organizers, said the event fell
within the law.  “We’re not charging for foie at all,” Mallahan said.
“We’re charging for tickets to an event. None of the foie is
actually from the state of California. That’s not really an
issue.”  On July 14, the Presidio Social Club, a San Francisco
restaurant, drew a crowd to savor a $20 seared foie gras slider
garnished with pineapple and a main dish of steak with an $18
foie gras side in honor of Bastille Day.  Dead Either Way  The restaurant, once a barracks in the Presidio of San
Francisco, a former Army post near the Golden Gate Bridge that
is now a national park, is on federal land and immune from the
state law, owner Ray Tang, 44, said during the dinner.  “We’re really not in California,” Tang said.  Jim Lewis, 43, a San Jose computer engineer, and his wife,
Susan, ordered the sliders.  Animals are raised for food and “we’re going to end up
eating them anyway,” Lewis said. “It’s not like it makes sense
to treat them very well and then turn around and kill them and
eat them.”  Outside, about 20 protesters held photos of animals being
force-fed and chanted “There’s no excuse for animal abuse!” as
police stood by.  “As of July 1, virtually every single restaurant in the
state is now complying with the law,” Dana Portnoy, 32, one of
the protesters and a Bay Area campaign organizer for the Animal
Protection and Rescue League, said in an interview. “So the law
is working despite the fact that they’re trying to evade
enforcement.”  Liver Lovers  The threat of enforcement is not deterring some chefs in
 Southern California .  At Cafe Mimosa in San Clemente, about an hour south of  Los
Angeles , those in the know ask for the “fancy bread.”  “It’s family, it’s friends,” said Antoine Price, the
restaurant’s general manager. “You have to be known. I’m not
trying to blatantly put it out there.”  Hot’s Kitchen, just steps from the  Pacific Ocean  in Hermosa
Beach, lists “The Burger” with foie gras as a
“complimentary” side. The dish, topped with balsamic thyme
onions and whole-grain mustard, costs $13, more than double the
other burgers.  Opponents of the law say serving the liver free gets around
the ban since the legislation prohibits only its sale.
Supporters say it violates the law because customers know they
are paying to get foie gras.  Pot With That?  “I live in a state where I can buy marijuana down the
street, but I can’t buy foie gras,” Sean Chaney, 45, chef and
owner at Hot’s Kitchen, said in an interview at the restaurant.
“There’s something fundamentally wrong.”  No  law enforcement  has attempted to halt the practice,
Chaney said.  “I’m never going to stop serving it,” Laurent Quenioux, a
French-born Los Angeles-based chef who operates a pop-up, or a
temporary restaurant, called Bistro LQ, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s law as a society that makes sense, there’s
law that you don’t wish to follow and this is one of them.”  The  Los Angeles Police Department  hadn’t issued any
citations, Officer Karen Rayner, a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail last week.  Kathleen Brown, deputy director of the San Francisco
Department of Animal Care and Control, said while her agency
hasn’t issued any citations, it’s investigating a complaint.  Illicit Pleasure  Hot’s Restaurant Group Inc., which owns Hot’s Kitchen;
Hudson Valley Foie Gras, a Ferndale, New York-based producer;
and Association des Eleveurs de Canards et d’Oies du  Quebec , a
Canadian nonprofit representing foie gras producers, on July 2
sued to block the law.  The ban has been a boon for private chefs, said Jeffrey
Nimer, owner and chef at Haute Chefs in Los Angeles, who
prepares French cuisine in people’s homes at a rate of $125 to
$350 per person. He said the ban doesn’t apply to foie gras
prepared in private residences.  “Demand has gone way up,” Nimer said. “It’s just like
Prohibition. The more you say it’s not allowed, the more people
are going to want it.”  -- With assistance from Ryan Flinn in San Francisco. Editors:
Stephen Merelman, Mark Schoifet  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 