-- For-Sale Homes Decline in a Sign of U.S. Housing Bottom
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-07-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/for-sale-homes-decline-in-a-sign-of-u-s-housing-bottom.html
The number of homes for sale dropped
in the U.S. last month, led by shrinking inventories in
California from  San Francisco  to San Diego, as buyers returned
to one of the country’s worst-hit housing markets.  There were 1.88 million single-family houses, condos,
townhomes and co-ops on the market nationwide in June, down 19
percent from a year earlier, according to the National
Association of Realtors’ website. Seven of the 10 metropolitan
areas with the biggest inventory reductions were in California,
Realtor.com said in a study released today.  The shrinking inventory is an indication that the U.S.
residential real estate market has “bottomed out,” said
 Lawrence Yun , chief economist for the Chicago-based association.
The number of homes for sale plummeted throughout California,
where prices plunged and foreclosures soared during and after
the U.S. recession. Transactions and values are beginning to
recover in the most populous state.  “The markets that underwent the biggest pain after the
bubble, these are the markets that are showing the fastest price
recovery,” Yun said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“Buyers recognize that prices over-corrected -- a great bargain
opportunity.”  Home prices  fell in April at the slowest pace in more than
a year, the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 U.S.
cities showed last month. The median age of the inventory of
for-sale listings fell 9.7 percent in June from a year earlier
to 84 days, according to Realtor.com, which is operated by
Campbell, California-based  Move Inc. (MOVE)  Median list prices, boosted
by tight supplies, gained 2.7 percent to $195,000.  Continued Decline  Rising prices traditionally encourage sellers to enter the
market, adding inventory and stabilizing prices, said Julie
Reynolds, a vice president at Realtor.com.  “We haven’t seen that,” she said in an interview. “We
continue to see inventory levels drop.”  Some of the biggest declines in inventories were in regions
where homeowners owe more on their properties than they’re worth
following a drop in prices, which makes selling difficult,
Realtor.com said. In California, the portion of mortgaged homes
with negative equity rose to 30.5 percent in the first quarter
from 29.9 percent in the previous three months.  Home inventories in 10 California metropolitan areas,
including  San Jose , Riverside and  Sacramento , fell at least 33
percent from a year earlier, according to the report. The
biggest decline was in Oakland, where the supply dropped 58
percent, Realtor.com said.  Nationwide, “the decline in inventory is a sure sign that
prices will strengthen over time -- and in one sense the price
recovery is very good for the  U.S. economy ,” Yun said. “The
wealth effect of housing will be a significant indicator of
economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in  New York  at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  