-- Ford Said to Try to Narrow Canada-U.S. Union-Labor Gap
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/ford-said-to-try-to-narrow-canada-u-s-union-labor-gap.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , entering contract
talks with the Canadian Auto Workers union, will try to close a
$15 an hour all-in labor cost gap versus what the company pays
its U.S. workers, according to a senior company official.  Ford pays $79 an hour for wages and benefits to its hourly
workers in the country, said the official, who asked not to be
identified because negotiations with the union are private. That
labor rate is the highest Ford faces worldwide and compares with
$64 an hour in the U.S., the person said. Ford has about 4,500 
hourly workers at three vehicle and engine-making plants in 
Canada, Kerri Stoakley, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Ford, General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC will begin
negotiations with the CAW next month after reaching accords last
year with the  United Auto Workers  that included profit-sharing
checks instead of raises or cost-of-living pay increases. Ford’s
agreement helped pave the way for the company to resume paying a
dividend and reclaim investment-grade credit ratings.  Canada’s auto industry has been confronted by a 52 percent
increase in the Canadian dollar against its U.S. counterpart in
the past 10 years that has made the nation’s factories less
competitive globally. The CAW proposed a national auto  policy  in
April that included a call for the government to intervene to
lower the value of its currency and to negotiate “manufacturing
footprint commitments” with automakers.  Labor costs calculated by Ford include base wages worth $34
an hour in Canada, compared with $28 an hour for senior workers
in the U.S., as well as pensions, some retiree provisions and
other benefits, the person said yesterday.  CAW Disputes  The CAW disputes Ford’s estimates, saying much of the gap
relates to former employees. Without those so-called legacy
costs, union labor runs a little more than C$62 ($61.23) an
hour, compared with about C$60 for UAW members, according to Jim Stanford, the union’s economist.  “This claim that we are completely out of the ballpark on
costs is absolutely wrong,” he said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Ford is making great money in Canada. They are the
sales leader in Canada.”  Canada will probably lose new-vehicle assembly work to
lower-cost  Mexico  through the next decade, according to industry
researcher R.L. Polk & Co. The country’s share of North American
car and light-truck assembly may slip to 12.6 percent in 2017
and 12.1 percent in 2022, from 15.8 percent this year, Polk said
in a July 9  report  on its website.  Strong Currency  “Many Canadian automotive plants in operation were
constructed at a time when exchange rates made Canada a lower-
cost alternative to the U.S.,” said Anthony Pratt, an analyst
at Southfield, Michigan-based Polk. “Now that the Canadian
dollar value is nearly on par with the  U.S. dollar , Canadian
labor costs are relatively high.”  The CAW, based in Toronto, has resisted the givebacks that
the Detroit-based UAW union has provided. The UAW agreed in 2007
to a two-tier wage system with U.S. automakers that paid new
workers about half the hourly rate of senior laborers. The union
negotiated raises for those new members last year.  Ken Lewenza , president of the CAW, last year called such a
system “divisive” and said he won’t support a similar
arrangement in Canada.  Ford retrenched last year to one assembly plant in Canada,
the Oakville, Ontario, factory that makes the Ford Edge and Flex
and Lincoln MKX and MKT. The company in September closed its St.
Thomas, Ontario, facility that made the Ford Crown Victoria
police cruiser and Lincoln Town Car sedan.  While the automaker’s website also lists 1,540 employees at
two casting factories, the one in  Windsor  ended operations five
years ago.  GM Closure  GM said June 1 that it plans to shut its consolidated
assembly line in Oshawa, Ontario, in June 2013, which will lead
to the loss of 2,000 jobs, according to the CAW.  The CAW’s Lewenza called GM’s decision to close its
consolidated line in Oshawa “ ill thought-out ” and “a betrayal
of the tremendous work and sacrifices by our members that went
into keeping General Motors afloat in 2008-2009, when the
company was on the verge of bankruptcy.”  Canada and Ontario provided a combined  C$13.7 billion  to
the rescues of GM and Chrysler and retained ownership stakes in
both companies to protect an estimated 52,000 jobs, according to
the country’s 2012 budget plan. Canada holds about 140 million
shares, or  9 percent , of GM’s common stock. The country exited
its Chrysler investment in July 2011.  Pressure Mounting  “While labor peace is important for the automakers given
the current uptick in sales, the pressure is mounting for the
CAW to accept some concessions in order to prevent further
closures,” the  Conference Board of Canada  said in a  report 
issued June 27.  Car and light-truck sales in Canada climbed 7.1 percent in
the first six months of the year, according to data compiled by
DesRosiers Automotive Consultants Inc. Dealers in Canada sold
about 864,900 vehicles from January through June, up from about
807,800 in the same period a year earlier.  Industry sales in the U.S., Canada’s biggest export market,
are on pace to rise by at least 10 percent for three straight
years for the first time since 1973, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. Deliveries climbed 15 percent to 7.27 million
this year through June, said Autodata, which is based in
 Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  Oshawa’s Loss  GM will move production of its Chevrolet Equinox sport-
utility vehicle from its Oshawa plant to a former Saturn plant
in Spring Hill,  Tennessee , which is set to reopen later this
year. The automaker reopened the Spring Hill factory after the
UAW agreed to staff the plant with workers making wages of about
$14 an hour, less than half the wage paid at the Oshawa plant,
according to the Conference Board of  Canada .  GM said Dec. 16 it will continue to assemble its Chevrolet
Impala sedan at its Oshawa, Ontario, complex, investing C$68
million and securing 350 jobs. The automaker announced in May
that Impala output would be added to its Detroit-Hamtramck
plant, which also produces the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid
car, next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  