-- Ford Escape Probed by U.S. After Arizona Crash
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/ford-escape-probed-by-u-s-after-arizona-crash.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Escape sport-utility
vehicles are being investigated by U.S. auto-safety regulators
for possible unintended acceleration after a January crash that
killed a 17-year-old girl in  Arizona .  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  is
probing about 730,000 Escapes and identical Tributes made by
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , including 2002 models like the one that
teenager Saige Bloom was driving, the agency said yesterday in
an e-mailed report of the probe. NHTSA received 99 complaints
about unintended acceleration in the SUVs, including 13 crashes,
eight injuries and Bloom’s death.  The investigation of model years 2001 to 2004 follows a
July 10 letter from  Clarence Ditlow , executive director of the
Center for Automotive Safety, to Ford Chief Executive Officer
 Alan Mulally , asking him to recall all Escapes from model years
2002 to 2004 for what he called a “lethal cruise control cable
defect.”  “We ask that you exercise that moral leadership by
recalling all Ford Escapes with the defective cruise control
cable in the 2002-04 model years to avoid more deaths and
injuries which would otherwise occur if Ford waits” for NHTSA
to investigate, Ditlow wrote.  Previous Investigations  Escapes from the 2002 model year have been the subject of
eight previous NHTSA investigations, according to the agency’s
database. Some of the vehicles have been recalled for engine
stalling, an electrical short in the antilock brake system and
leaking brake fluid.  “We are aware of the investigation and we will fully
cooperate with NHTSA on it,” Marcey Zwiebel, a spokeswoman for
Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , said in an e-mail. Ford
previously controlled Mazda, based in Hiroshima,  Japan .  The probe will get attention from consumers because it’s
related to unintended acceleration, for which  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
recalled more than 10 million vehicles worldwide in 2009 and
2010, and to Ford, whose Explorers with Firestone tires led to
recalls a decade ago and prompted a tougher auto-safety law,
said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst based in  Santa Monica ,
California, for auto-researcher Edmunds.com.  “It’s unintended acceleration, somebody had died and this
is something we’ve just gone through a few years ago,” Caldwell
said. “It seems to be this problem of unintended acceleration
is something that comes up every once in a while and doesn’t
have any silver bullet. I don’t think ghost in a machine is a
good enough answer.”  Unintended Acceleration  U.S. investigators from NHTSA and  NASA , the country’s space
agency, didn’t find an electronic cause for reports of
unintended acceleration in Toyota and Lexus vehicles. The
company blamed floor mats that could jam accelerator pedals and
pedals that could stick.  Some of the complaints about the Escape allege that the
throttle’s failure to return to idle when the accelerator pedal
is released is related to repairs performed as part of 2004
recalls for an accelerator cable assembly defect, the auto-
safety regulator said.  Because the investigation involves older models, it isn’t
likely to affect sales of the Escape, which ranked second last
week behind the Nissan Motor Co. Altima among vehicles drawing
the most interest from visitors to Edmunds.com, Caldwell said.  “The new Escape is getting a lot of buzz,” she said. “It
is a completely different car.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  