-- Forest Labs Net Falls on Generic Competition to Lexapro
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-17T20:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/forest-labs-profit-falls-as-lexapro-faces-generic-competition.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , the
drugmaker in a proxy battle with billionaire  Carl Icahn , said
first-quarter profit dropped 79 percent after its top-selling
medicine, the antidepressant Lexapro, lost patent exclusivity.  Net income in the three months ended in June sank to $55.3
million, or 21 cents a share, from $258.1 million, or 90 cents,
a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Earnings excluding one-time items of 28 cents a share
missed by 4 cents the average of seven analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Forest started selling three new products before Lexapro,
which accounted for almost half of the company’s  revenue  in
fiscal 2011, faced competition from cheaper generic copies in
March. The drugmaker is fighting its second proxy battle in as
many years with Icahn, who contends the company’s management
didn’t adequately prepare for the loss of Lexapro’s exclusivity.  “The quarter was OK, not great,”  Corey Davis , an analyst
with Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone interview today. “But
it wasn’t expected to be great. All the newer products did
pretty well, but they’re still so small that it’s hard for them
to impact the numbers.”  Revenue declined to $821.1 million, falling short of
analysts’ average $830.3 million  estimate .  New Drugs  Teflaro, an antibiotic, was approved in 2010 by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to treat pneumonia and skin
infections. Viibryd was approved in January 2011 for major
depressive disorder, while Daliresp was cleared in March 2011
for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD.  Forest also sells Namenda for  Alzheimer’s disease , Bystolic
for hypertension and Savella for fibromyalgia. The company said
it expects to hear from U.S. regulators in the next few weeks
about the approval status of aclidinium for long-term
maintenance treatment of COPD, and to hear later this summer
about linaclotide for irritable bowel syndrome and chronic
constipation.  “We have deliberately and strategically diversified our
product portfolio so that we would not be dependent on any
single product or therapeutic area,” Howard Solomon, Forest’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “We are pleased
with the performance this quarter of three of our most recent
product launches, Teflaro, Daliresp and Viibryd, which were
introduced last year. It is still early days for these products
but they are performing well in-line with our expectations.”  Forest rose 1.8 percent to $35.82 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 6.9 percent in the last 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  