-- Fortescue Seeks $1 Billion as Expansion Costs Overrun
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-17T07:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/fortescue-seeks-1-billion-as-expansion-costs-overrun-1-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the
biggest mining issuer of  junk bonds , is in advanced talks to
secure additional funding of as much as $1 billion after
expansion costs rose.  Fortescue,  Australia ’s third-biggest iron-ore shipper,
today reported a cost overrun of 7.1 percent to $9 billion for
an expansion to nearly triple output capacity at the Perth-based
company’s mines in West Australia’s Pilbara region. Fortescue
will also seek more funds to boost liquidity.  “We may go up to $1 billion just to make sure we have that
liquidity fully covered,” Stephen Pearce, Fortescue’s chief
financial officer, told reporters on a conference call. “We
have a number of options in front of us. We are fairly well
advanced in those discussions.”  Fortescue, with total debt of $8.9 billion, will probably
choose a short-term funding option rather than sell more bonds,
Pearce said. The company said it’s not considering an equity
raising or taking on partners to help raise funds.  Fortescue fell 2.2 percent to A$4.54 at the close in
Sydney, while the S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.9 percent.  Mining companies in Australia are struggling with
escalating costs as a record project pipeline in the world’s
biggest iron ore, coal and alumina exporter drives labor
shortages and equipment wait times.  Fortescue, controlled by billionaire founder  Andrew Forrest , has more junk-rated bonds outstanding than any other
mining company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on debt
graded by  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service or Fitch
Ratings.  Junk, or high-yield bonds, are rated below Baa3 at Moody’s
and BBB- at S&P and Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  