-- France Will Raise Power, Gas Rates by 2%, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-17T21:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/france-will-raise-power-gas-rates-by-2-minister-says.html
The French government will raise the
rates that Electricite de  France  SA and GDF Suez SA can charge
for power and natural gas by 2 percent, Energy Minister Delphine Batho said.  The increase is less than GDF, France’s biggest gas
distributor, had requested, Batho said in an interview today
following Senate hearings in Paris. The increase, which will be
published in two separate decrees “very soon,” may be
challenged in court, she said.  The government’s decision to raise rates comes after the
nation’s highest court, the Conseil d’Etat, on July 10 struck
down a freeze on  gas prices .  “The Conseil d’Etat blamed the former government for not
raising rates,” Batho said. “This has unfortunately led to the
need for a catching up. We are obliged to apply the court
decision.”  New legal challenges to the 2 percent increase are “a risk
that we are taking and we will assume because we want a fresh
start,” Batho said. Spokesmen for Courbevoie-based  GDF (GSZ)  and
Paris-based EDF declined to comment today.  GDF Suez, which has 87 percent of France’s residential
market and 63 percent of business sales, challenged the former
government’s decision in April 2011 to freeze consumer prices,
saying its costs weren’t being covered. The freeze led to an
earnings shortfall of 400 million euros ($491 million) last
year, including 290 million euros in the fourth quarter, the
company said.  The court suspended the freeze in November while it
considered GDF Suez’s case. The government began allowing GDF
Suez to charge households 4.4 percent more in January as it
awaited the court’s final decision.  GDF Request  GDF Suez asked the national energy regulator last month to
increase regulated consumer tariffs by about 5 percent,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. Under
French law, the government sets the rates. France’s regulator
calculates the costs of supply and advises the government.  The French government said July 9 it would seek to limit
the price increase by GDF Suez and Electricite de France, the
nation’s biggest power generator, at 2 percent. The inflation-
pegged caps are aimed at “protecting purchasing power,” Batho
said in a statement on that day.  The regulator urged the government to raise rates on Oct. 1
by as much as 10 percent. The regulator is scheduled to rule in
the coming days on whether the latest government decision on
rates covers supplier costs, a formula that was used previously
by the court to rule in GDF’s favor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  