-- Fukushima Radiation May Cause 1,300 Cancer Deaths, Study Finds
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-07-17T22:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/fukushima-radiation-may-cause-1-300-cancer-deaths-study-finds.html
Radiation from the Fukushima nuclear
plant may cause as many as 1,300 cancer deaths globally,
according to a study that showed fallout from  Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s (9501)  crippled reactors may be deadlier than predicted.  The March 2011 nuclear disaster may cause as many as 2,500
cases of cancer, mostly in  Japan ,  Stanford University  scientists
said. They incorporated emission estimates into 3-D global
atmospheric modeling to predict the effects of radiation
exposure, which was detected as far away as the U.S. and  Europe .  Cancer cases may have been at least 10 times greater if the
radiation hadn’t mostly fallen in the sea, said  Mark Z.
Jacobson , co-author of the first detailed analysis of the
event’s global health effects. Identical emissions from a
hypothetical accident at  California ’s  Diablo Canyon Power Plant 
would be 25 percent deadlier because of differing weather
patterns, according to the study published yesterday in the
journal  Energy & Environmental Science .  “There was a lot of luck involved,” said Jacobson, a
professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford, in
a telephone interview. “The effects vary significantly with the
meteorological conditions and the only reason this wasn’t a lot
worse was because 81 percent of all the emissions were deposited
over the ocean.”  The failure of backup power at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, located 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of  Tokyo , caused
the worst atomic accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  DNA Damage  Radiation fallout forced the evacuation of about 160,000
people surrounding the plant. It also left about 132 square
kilometers as a no-go zone, some of it uninhabitable for
decades. Prolonged exposure to radiation in the air, ground and
food can damage DNA, causing leukemia and other cancers.  The best estimates of cancer cases resulting from the
Fukushima disaster is 180, and range from 24 to 2,500,
yesterday’s study said.  The most likely number of cancer deaths is 130 and
estimated to range from 15 to 1,300, the authors said, adding
that the ranges reflect uncertainties about emissions and the
methods the researchers used to calculate their impact.  “They have demonstrated there are no significant public
health effects” from  radiation exposure , said Evan Douple,
associate chief of research at the Hiroshima Radiation Effects
Research Foundation. “Their best estimate of 130 cancer deaths
in Japan would be lost in the background wash of the hundreds of
thousands of cancer deaths that would be occurring in the
million or so people in the population exposed.”  Mental Health  The biggest health effects were psychological, said Douple,
whose team is studying the impact from Fukushima. Stress from
the earthquake, tsunami and meltdown may cause a range of health
effects, including cancer, he said.  About 600 people died because of the evacuation, mostly due
to fatigue and exposure among the elderly and chronically ill,
the Stanford researchers said, cautioning against drawing
conclusions about evacuation policy.  “You still have an obligation to evacuate people according
to the worst-case scenario,” Jacobson said in statement.  Those affected by the fallout of radioactive material were
overwhelmingly in Japan, according to the researchers’ model. It
predicted “extremely small effects” in mainland  Asia  and  North
America .  The U.S. would have 0 to 12 cancer deaths and 0 to 30
cases, the researchers said, acknowledging that their methods
used were less precise for areas that saw only low radionuclide
concentrations.  Global Impact  “These worldwide values are relatively low,” study co-
author John Ten Hoeve said in the statement, adding that they
should “serve to manage the fear in other countries that the
disaster had an extensive global reach.”  In a nuclear accident, radioactive isotopes including
iodine-131 and cesium-137, which are normally contained inside
the fuel rods, may be released into the atmosphere as gases or
particulates if the rods are damaged. These can be inhaled or
ingested through contaminated food or water.  Radioactive barium, cesium, iodine and tellurium were
detected March 16, 2011, in a radiation plume released by
damaged nuclear reactors at Fukushima. A partly dispersed cloud
passed by the Tokyo area the same day,  Austria ’s Meteorological
and Geophysics Center reported.  Children Susceptible  Children are especially susceptible to radiation poisoning
from iodine, which can accumulate in the thyroid gland,
according to the  World Health Organization . Infants can suffer
most because their cells are dividing more rapidly and
radiation-damaged RNA may be carried in more generations of
cells.  Cesium-137 that enters the body is distributed throughout
the soft tissues, especially in muscle. Cesium-137 is eliminated
faster from the body than other radionuclides, according to the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may have emitted about 900,000
terabecquerels of the iodine equivalent of radioactive iodine
131 and cesium 137 into the air at the height of the disaster,
the utility known as Tepco said in May. The amount is about 2
times more than the 480,000 terabecquerels estimated in February
by the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency or NISA, the utility
said.  The total radiation release at the Chernobyl accident was
estimated to be about 5.2 million terabecquerels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net ; 