-- U.K. Lawmakers Say They Lack Confidence in G4S Olympics Security
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-17T13:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/g4s-chief-faces-u-k-lawmakers-over-olympic-security-shambles-.html
U.K. lawmakers said they have no
confidence in  G4S Plc (GFS) ’s ability to provide security at the
London Olympics that start next week, accusing Chief Executive
Officer Nick Buckles of “making it up as you go along.”  Buckles, who heads the world’s largest security company,
was facing a House of Commons committee today to explain the
staffing shortfall that forced the government to deploy
thousands more soldiers and police last week. He said he
regretted taking on the contract, apologized for G4S’s
performance and agreed it was a “humiliating shambles.”  “Most of us had very little confidence in G4S’s ability to
fulfill this contract, and now we don’t have any at all,”
Conservative lawmaker Nicola Blackwood said to Buckles at the
hearing in  London . “You’re making it up as you go along,” a
Labour Party colleague, Bridget Phillipson, told the G4S CEO.  G4S’s share price fell for a fourth day on concern about
its ability to win more work from the U.K. government. Shares of
the Crawley, England-based company dropped as much as 6.4
percent and traded at 238.5 pence as of 2:22 p.m. in London.
That’s a decline of 17.8 percent since July 11.  “G4S is likely to be the subject of increased scrutiny on
contracts with government customers, which may influence
decision-making on forthcoming tenders,” Andrew Ripper, an
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. The
bank cut its recommendation on the stock to neutral from buy.  Management Fee  Buckles and Ian Horseman-Sewell, the company’s global
events specialist, said G4S still expects to keep a management
fee “in the order of 57 million pounds” ($89 million) for
running security staffing at the games. Lawmakers expressed
astonishment.  “We still expect to deliver a significant number of
staff,” Buckles told them. The company previously expected a
profit of 10 million pounds on the 284 million-pound contract
and now foresees a loss of 50 million pounds, he said.  The committee chairman, Labour lawmaker Keith Vaz, told
Buckles he had secured the Olympics contract for the sake of
“vanity.” Conservative Lorraine Fullbrook, told by the CEO
that the military was now in charge of security provision, said
“thank God for that.”  Buckles said his company decided last week would not bid
for security contracts at the 2014 soccer  World Cup  in  Brazil  or
the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  He said he informed the Olympics organizing committee,
Locog, of the shortfall in staffing on July 3 and that officials
at the  Home Office  were told on July 4 or the following day.
Home Secretary Theresa May said yesterday she knew of G4S’s
difficulties on July 11.  ‘Logistical Challenge’  “It’s not where we’d want to be,” Buckles said. “To get
10,000 people plus on the ground has been a huge logistical
challenge. We didn’t know the contract was not going to perform
until very late on.”  Asked by Labour lawmaker David Winnick if it was a
“humiliating shambles for the company,” Buckles answered, “I
can’t disagree with you.”  Buckles said he would consider paying a bonus to the
military and police who had to be brought in to cover the staff
shortfall.  He said G4S will be able to cover all Olympic venues and
expects to supply a minimum of 7,000 staff.  “Our normal no-show rate is normally about 10 percent,”
he said. “Our problem at the moment is shortage of staff;
purely and simply, we don’t have enough staff to turn up.”  Buckles said his future position in the company is “not my
current concern.”  ‘First Priority’  “My first priority is to deliver as many people as we can
on this contract,” he said. “I feel I am the right person to
make sure this happens.”  Separately, G4S won’t be charged over the death of a man
restrained by three of its guards at London’s Heathrow airport
on an Angola-bound aircraft in 2010.  There isn’t enough evidence for a trial because medical
experts gave several potential causes for the death of Jimmy
Mubenga, who was being deported from the U.K., and there’s no
proof a “sufficiently senior person” at G4S made a criminal
failure to act, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said in a
statement today.  Capita Plc (CPI) ,  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  and  Mitie Group Plc (MTO) , which
compete with G4S for government contracts, may benefit from
their rival’s downfall, Ripper said.  In the next 12 months, there are contracts derived from the
U.K. government worth 759 million pounds that are up for
bidding,  Mike Allen  and  Paul Jones , analysts at Panmure Gordon,
said today in a note. The Olympics “debacle” will lower G4S’s
growth rate for U.K. government work, they said, reducing their
recommendation to hold from buy.  Buckles escaped pressure from investors to reshuffle the
board in the wake of G4S’s failed $8 billion bid last year for
cleaning company ISS. Investors balked at the level of planned
borrowing and risk attached to diversifying into cleaning. Alf Duch-Pedersen, chairman at the time, quit at the start of the
year amid pressure from shareholders including Edoardo Mercadante of Parvus Asset Management LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net  