-- Gap’s Athleta Stalks Lululemon One Yoga Store at a Time
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-07-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/gap-s-athleta-stalks-lululemon-one-yoga-store-at-a-time.html
Last month  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) 
opened a store in Durham, North Carolina. Three weeks later
Athleta,  Gap Inc.’s (GPS)  answer to Lululemon, opened its own location
in the same mall.  The pattern -- Lululemon store opens, Athleta shop pops up
nearby -- is happening across the U.S. as Gap mounts the most
potent threat so far to the Vancouver-based yoga powerhouse.  Besides stalking Lululemon across the landscape, Gap’s
Athleta is borrowing from its rival’s playbook, then
undercutting the chain on price. Like Lululemon, Athleta is
hooking up with local yoga instructors and sponsoring classes
such as Mommy & Me Yoga. Like Lululemon, Athleta trains staff to
make garment recommendations tailored to customers’ pursuits --
a half-marathon, say, or paddle boarding. Gap’s yoga upstart is
making inroads. Exhibit A: Lululemon “brand ambassadors” are
buying Athleta clothes.  “Athleta is opening stores close to Lulu locations so I’d
say they’re turning into the biggest threat,” said  Paul Lejuez ,
an analyst at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York .
“Gap looks at what Lulu has established and says, ‘Well, why
not play off the traffic they attract and if we offer our
product at a slightly lower price, we’ll get share.’”  It’s easy to see why Gap is keen to cash in on women’s
active wear. The $14.3 billion U.S. market is growing twice as
fast as women’s apparel overall, according to NPD Group, a
market research firm based in  Port Washington , New York. Stylish
yoga gear also commands higher prices and margins than other
athletic apparel. As more women pursue sports, many are willing
to “trade up” to fabrics that wick away perspiration and
reduce odors, says Tess Roering, Athleta’s head of marketing.  Formidable Brand  In Lululemon, Gap faces a formidable brand. With a canny
blend of fashion and lifestyle marketing, the Canadian chain has
built a cult-like following since moving into the U.S. in 2003.
Lululemon generated a record $1 billion  in sales  last year with
112 U.S. locations. It boasts the fourth-highest sales per
square foot among North American retailers after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and  Coach Inc. (COH)  The shares have advanced 19 percent
this year, closing yesterday at $55.42.  Still, Athleta is leveraging the expertise and financial
resources of America’s biggest retail chain. Gap has more than
doubled Lululemon’s stock gain this year with a 51 percent rally
to $27.97. It had $1.97 billion in cash and equivalents at the
end of April, dwarfing Lululemon’s $424.3 million.  Athleta Acquisition  Gap bought Petaluma, California-based Athleta in 2008 for
$150 million to extend its position in women’s premium sports-
clothing and active-wear beyond its Gap Body division. Founded
in 1998, Athleta had a built-in following and sold products
through catalogs and its website.  Gap (GPC)  is using its expertise
operating more than 3,000 stores to turn Athleta into a brick-
and-mortar retailer.  Of Athleta’s 22  locations , 13 are about a mile or less away
from a Lululemon, based on the addresses listed on both
company’s websites. Athleta is opening seven more stores this
summer and fall from  Seattle  to  Boston , and all but one will be
a 12-minute walk or closer to a Lululemon. Gap plans to have 50
Athleta locations by the end of next year.  The geographic proximity to Lululemon locations is a
coincidence, and Athleta is simply opening stores where,
according to a “heat map,” online customers buy the most, said
Toby Lenk, head of Gap’s online operations.  “There are locations where we’re not anywhere near that
particular competitor,” he said in a telephone interview.  Personalized Service  Yet the similarities between the two chains are hard to
ignore. In an echo of Lululemon’s personalized service, Athleta
staff write customers’ names on whiteboards outside fitting
rooms. The boards allow salespeople to address the customer by
name while they are trying on clothes and helps them put a name
to the face if they come back.  Offering yoga classes is another Lululemon innovation
Athleta has borrowed. While the Canadian retailer typically
offers them offsite, Athleta holds classes in its stores -- the
racks are on wheels and can be rolled aside -- and tailors them
to local affinities, whether it’s Pilates, yoga or running,
Roering said.  “They both make quite an effort to create a community,”
said Annie Foster, a 27-year-old yoga instructor and blogger in
New York, who attended an Athleta marketing event and received
free pants and a top for her trouble. “I don’t think I had
really heard of them before, and it was a really cool way to lay
the groundwork before they set up shop here.”  Where Lululemon offers a 15 percent in-store discount for
certified fitness instructors in exchange for feedback on
garments, Athleta offers 30 percent. That’s for all fitness
professionals, no input required.  More Affordable  Foster said that while she loves both brands, Athleta’s
discount makes it more affordable.  Garment after garment, Athleta is undercutting Lululemon on
price. Cropped padded cycling pants sell for $88 online at
Lululemon, while similar shorts cost $64 at Athleta’s website.
Yoga pants are $15 more at Lululemon.  Lori Burgwyn, a 47-year-old brand ambassador for Lululemon
in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , said she buys athletic jackets,
skirts and dresses at Athleta. Garments at the two brands hold
up after multiple washes and uses, making them her two favorites
for the gear, she said.  Approached by Lululemon months before it opened its store,
Burgwyn said an Athleta store manager recently took a class at
her studio and left cards with teachers highlighting the 30 
percent discount.  Market Sliver  Lululemon professes confidence in its staying power, saying
in January that while Athleta and  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s Lucy active-wear chain 
may take “a sliver” of its market, their impact isn’t significant.  For now, Gap’s yoga business is relatively small. The
company reports sales from Athleta and its Piperlime Web store
together. At $301 million in the year ended Jan. 28, their
combined revenue is less than a third the size of Lululemon’s.
Still, Athleta is a sufficiently important part of the business
for Gap Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  to tell investors
and analysts last month at a Jefferies & Co. conference in
Nantucket,  Massachusetts , to “watch out” for the brand.  “The stores are doing very well so far,” he said. It’s a
“big play going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  