-- Generali Among Italy Insurers Downgraded by Moody’s
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-07-17T23:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/generali-among-italy-insurers-downgraded-by-moody-s.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  was among
three Italian insurers downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited the nation’s “weakening” creditworthiness.  Generali, the country’s largest insurer, had its senior
debt cut to Baa2 from A2, Moody’s said yesterday in a statement
on the Trieste-based company.  “Generali’s ability to share further asset losses with
policyholders diminishes with increasing investment losses
across the portfolio,” and the insurer’s domestic-life business
may be hurt by  Italy ’s weakening economy, Moody’s said.  Moody’s has lowered bank ratings this week, saying the
Italian state faces “increased risk” of being unable to
support firms in distress. The company cut Italy last week to
Baa2 from A3, and said further downgrades are possible as weak
growth and elevated unemployment threaten the government’s plan
to cut the  budget deficit  and rein in bond yields. The new grade
is two levels above junk.  Allianz SpA, a subsidiary of Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV) , was
downgraded to A3 from A1, Moody’s said yesterday. Unipol
Assicurazioni SpA was cut to Baa2 from A3 and remains on review
for possible downgrades amid its proposed acquisition of insurer
Fondiaria-SAI, which could weaken its capital strength, Moody’s
said.  The outlook on the insurers is negative, in line with the
government’s, Moody’s said, and all three companies may be cut
further if Italy’s sovereign rating is downgraded again.  Lucia Sciacca, a Generali spokeswoman, Allianz’s Patrizia
Guglielmetti and Stefano Genovese of Unipol didn’t respond to
e-mails requesting comment outside regular business hours.  The French subsidiaries of Generali had their insurance
financial-strength grade lowered to Baa1 from A1. The company’s
German subsidiaries’ grade was cut to A3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  