-- Most German Stocks Rise as Confidence Outweighs Bernanke
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-17T16:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/german-stocks-rise-on-fed-stimulus-speculation-bmw-rises.html
Most German stocks advanced as
better-than-expected investor confidence data outweighed
disappointment that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
refrained from discussing specific stimulus steps in his semi-
annual testimony before Congress.  BASF SE (BAS)  climbed 1.2 percent after saying a new fungicidal
ingredient was cleared for use in crop-protection products.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  gained as a report showed car sales increased in
the country for the first half of the year. Deutsche Boerse AG
lost 0.5 percent after analysts at Commerzbank AG and  DZ Bank  AG
reduced their estimates on the share price.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.2 percent to 6,577.64 at the close in
Frankfurt, having advanced as much as 0.7 percent and lost as
much as 0.4 percent. Nineteen of the gauge’s 30 members rose,
while 11 fell. The index has climbed 10 percent from its 2012
low on June 5 as Greece formed a new government and European
Union leaders agreed to directly recapitalize Spanish banks
using the euro area’s permanent bailout fund. The broader HDAX
Index also advanced 0.2 percent today.  “The market’s been marched up the hill all day by
expectations, and  Ben Bernanke ’s marched them all the way back
down,” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC Markets
U.K. Plc in London. “The economic data is not great but it’s
not horrible, and it’s too politically difficult for him to
implement QE3 right now,” he said, referring to a third round
of quantitative easing.  Bernanke said in a semi-annual testimony to Congress today
that the Fed is ready to take further action to boost economic
growth, without identifying specific steps. Progress on reducing
unemployment may be “frustratingly slow,” he said.  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said.  The Fed is “prepared to
take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery.”  German Confidence  German investor confidence declined for a third month in
July as the euro area’s debt crisis and the cooling global
economy dimmed the economic outlook.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
minus 19.6 from minus 16.9 in June. Economists forecast a drop
to minus 20, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  New-car registrations in the first half of 2012 rose 0.7
percent in Germany, even as sales in Europe dropped 6.3 percent,
the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said today in
a statement.  BASF Advances  BASF gained 1.2 percent to 56.91 euros after saying it
received European Union approval to use its fungicidal active
ingredient Xemium in crop-protection products. Xemium is “on
track” to beat peak potential sales of 200 million euros ($244
million), the company said.  Volkswagen climbed 0.4 percent to 137.40 euros, paring
gains of as much as 1.9 percent.  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s largest potash producer, rose 1.6 percent
to 38.56 euros after Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA said in a
report the company’s second-quarter earnings may beat estimates.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  dropped 0.5 percent to 41.11 euros after
Commerzbank cut the share-price target to 48 euros from 53
euros. DZ Bank also reduced the share price target and said it
no longer expects a capital market recovery in the second half
of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  