-- Germany May Scrap Energy-Source Goal as Overhaul Stumbles
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-07-17T14:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/germany-may-scrap-energy-source-goal-as-overhaul-stumbles.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government said it may have to scrap some of its targets for
shifting the source of its electricity supply, a move that would
water down a commitment to bolster renewable energy in  Europe ’s
biggest economy.  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told today’s Bild
newspaper that  Germany  may readjust targets linked to the plan
to exit nuclear energy-generation by 2022 if jobs are
threatened. The comments came a day after Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier told Bild the coalition may fail to reach a goal
to cut power consumption 10 percent by 2020. Merkel said July 14
that Germany probably won’t use  carbon capture  and storage
facilities after passing the required bill in parliament.  “Instead of questioning targets or declaring the entire
energy switch a failure, we now need the right decisions for
more  energy efficiency , grid expansion and smart market
design,” Claudia Kemfert, the chief energy expert at the
Berlin-based DIW economic institute, said today by e-mail.  The government is struggling to grasp the scale of the
effort needed to shift Germany away from nuclear power 16 months
after Merkel promised to phase out reactors in favor of
renewable such as solar and wind following the meltdown in
 Japan . Merkel named Altmaier in May to steer the overhaul after
sacking his predecessor, Norbert Roettgen, amid reports that he
wasn’t listening to industry concerns about the transition.  Election Challenge  Overhauling the energy mix while making sure it remains
secure, affordable and environmentally friendly “is not an easy
path,” Merkel said yesterday in Berlin. She faces elections in
the fall of 2013 as the power shift gathers pace.  Germany plans to close its remaining nine nuclear stations
by 2022, build offshore wind farms that will cover an area six
times the size of  New York  City and build or upgrade as much as
8,200 kilometers (5,100 miles) of  power lines . The nuclear exit
is coupled with goals to increase energy efficiency and raise
the share of renewable-energy output in its power mix to at
least 35 percent by the end of this decade.  Altmaier told reporters in Berlin today that he had raised
the lack of progress in terms of reducing power consumption to
spark a debate over what’s needed to reach that target.  To make the energy switch a success and benefit the German
economy, “we have to know where we stand, what kind of problems
have come up and where we need to do more or improve things,”
Altmaier said. The costs linked to the energy switch should be
as low as possible, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  