-- German Two-Year Yields Below Zero After Bernanke, Spanish Sale
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-17T16:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/german-bonds-fall-after-spanish-auction-french-securities-gain.html
German two-year note yields stayed
below zero as investor confidence declined to a six-month low
and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from
announcing new policy measures to boost the U.S. recovery.  Bunds erased earlier declines after Bernanke said progress
in reducing unemployment was likely to be “frustratingly
slow.”  Austria ’s two-year yield fell below zero for the first
time as investors sought higher returns than German debt. French
bond yields fell to records, pushing the premium investors
demand to hold the securities instead of bunds to the narrowest
in nine months.  Spain ’s notes dropped as the nation sold bills.  “German yields below zero are a sign for many investors to
give up some safety for the higher yields they can find in the
semi core,” saidPiet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV
in Brussels. “It’s a story of the semi-core countries such as
Austria,  France  and  Belgium . The safety of these bonds is good
enough in comparison to Spain and  Italy .”  Germany ’s two-year  note yield  was little changed at minus
0.05 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time after dropping to a record
minus 0.061 percent. The zero percent note due in June 2014
traded at 100.09. The 10-year yield was unchanged at 1.23
percent.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations in Germany,
fell to minus 19.6, the lowest since January, adding to evidence
output in the region’s largest economy is coming under pressure
from the sovereign debt crisis.  ‘Decelerated Somewhat’  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said in testimony to the Senate
Banking Committee in  Washington . The Fed is “prepared to take
further action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic
recovery,” he said.  Minutes of the Fed’s June meeting showed a few participants
believed the Fed will need to do more, while several others said
new easing would be warranted if growth slows.  “Bernanke is keeping the door ajar for further monetary
easing if the U.S. economy takes a turn for the worse but the
chances of a move in August have diminished,” reducing demand
for Treasuries and bunds, said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at broker RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.  France, Austria  The French 10-year yield dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.09 percent after falling to a record 2.07
percent. The spread over similar-maturity bunds narrowed to as
little as 85 basis points, the least since October 2011. Two-and
five-year yields also declined to records.  Austria’s  10-year yield  fell five basis points to 1.88
percent after reaching a record low 1.861 percent. The two-year
yield slid as much as three basis points to a record minus 0.018
percent, before rising four basis points to 0.05 percent.  Austria, which was stripped of its AAA rating by Standard &
Poor’s this year, has the lowest unemployment in the European
Union and has a ratio of debt to gross domestic product of 72
percent, beaten only by the Netherlands,  Finland  and Spain among
major economies sharing the euro. It still holds a top credit
grade at  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service.  “There is a steady hunt for yield” supporting bonds of
countries including Austria and France, said Lyn Graham Taylor,
a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
Investors will focus on the Spanish “bond sale later this
week,” he said, referring to the offerings of notes due between
2014 and 2019 planned for July 19.  Bill Sale  Spain sold 3.56 billion euros of bills today, surpassing
its maximum target of 3.5 billion euros. The Treasury auctioned
12-month securities at an average yield of 3.918 percent, versus
5.074 percent at the previous sale on June 19, and 18-month
bills at 4.242 percent, compared with 5.107 percent.  Spanish notes declined, with the  two-year yield  rising
eight basis points to 4.73 percent.  Irish notes advanced as Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  met
for talks with European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  The talks took place against the backdrop of a possible
move by the ECB to advocate losses on senior bondholders at some
euro-area banks.  The yield on Ireland’s 4 percent note due in January 2014
dropped 28 basis points to 4.25 percent.  Volatility on Austrian government debt was the highest in
the euro area, followed by Belgium and France, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps.  German bunds have returned 4.2 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Austrian debt gained 7.8 percent,
and French bonds rose 7.7 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  