-- Goldman Sachs to Cut $500 Million in Costs on Profit Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-17T20:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/goldman-sachs-profit-falls-11-beating-estimates.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
cut $500 million of expenses this year, mostly from
compensation, after reporting the lowest first-half revenue and
earnings in seven years.  “We’re controlling the levers that we can, which are
expenses and capital,” Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar,
56, said today on a conference call with analysts. “We
obviously don’t want to go too far on either one because we
think that the world will get better.”  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, who has run
the company for six years, cut 3,200 jobs in the past 12 months
to contend with a slowdown that he said was a temporary reaction
to the 2008 financial crisis. After revenue in all of the firm’s
businesses fell in the first half of 2012, the company is adding
new cost cuts to the $1.4 billion achieved since last year,
Viniar said.  Second-quarter net income slid to $962 million, or $1.78 a
share, in the three months through June 30, from $1.09 billion,
or $1.85, a year earlier, New York-based Goldman Sachs said
today in a statement.  Earnings beat the highest estimate among 25 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg, boosted by a gain in asset-management
revenue. Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
climbed 0.3 percent to $97.98 in  New York  trading at 4:15 p.m.,
below the company’s $126.12 in tangible book value per share at
the end of June. The company bought back $1.5 billion of shares
during the quarter, it said today.  ‘Managing Well’  “They are managing well in a difficult environment,”
 Thomas Brown , CEO of Second Curve Capital LLC, said in an
interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.” “It’s still low profitability.”  Return on equity, or ROE, a measure of how well the firm
reinvests shareholders’ money, fell to 5.4 percent in the second
quarter from 6.1 percent a year earlier and 12.2 percent in the
first three months of 2012.  “I would not expect that we’re going to have appropriate
ROEs in a macro environment like this,” Viniar said, adding
that markets were slower on concern about European government
finances and economic growth in the U.S. and  China .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, last
week said second-quarter profit at its investment bank fell 7
percent from a year earlier even as it reduced costs 12 percent.
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, reported a 12
percent drop in second-quarter earnings yesterday and said it
lowered total operating expenses 6 percent.  Asset Management  Goldman Sachs’s second-quarter revenue from asset
management rose 5 percent to $1.33 billion, exceeding the $1.18
billion average estimate of seven analysts. The figure was
boosted by $217 million in so-called incentive fees, which the
funds collect from clients based on their performance.  Viniar said incentive fees were helped this quarter by an
April sale by Goldman Sachs’s private-equity funds of $2.5
billion in shares of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
known as ICBC. Without that transaction, the fees would have
been less than $100 million, he said in response to an analyst’s
question.  Investing & Lending, the segment that includes Goldman
Sachs’s profits and losses from stakes in private-equity and
hedge funds as well as from companies such as ICBC and  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , produced a $203 million gain in the second quarter, down
from a $1.04 billion gain a year earlier. The estimates of seven
analysts polled by Bloomberg ranged from a $700 million loss to
a $200 million gain.  ‘Volatile Business’  Investing & Lending “is a volatile business -- you do ask
questions as to whether investors want to be in this business,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in
 London , who rates Goldman Sachs shares neutral.  In Facebook’s initial public offering in May, Goldman Sachs
sold 6.18 million of the 14.2 million shares in its own account
as well as 22.5 million of the 51.7 million shares held in funds
managed for clients, according to the Facebook prospectus. After
being sold at $38 apiece in the IPO, which Goldman Sachs helped
to manage, Facebook shares have dropped, closing yesterday at
$28.25.  Major global stock market indexes including the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  and  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped in the second quarter
amid signs of slowing economic growth in China and the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe .  “Market conditions deteriorated and activity levels for
both corporate and investing clients were lower given continued
instability in Europe and concerns about global growth,”
Blankfein said in the statement.  Banking Unit  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that Goldman
Sachs is targeting $100 billion in loans from its banking
subsidiary, up from $12 billion at the end of March, as it
places more emphasis on a deposit-taking and lending unit run by
Esta E. Stecher. Blankfein was quoted in the article saying “it
is a no-brainer that we’ll build our banking business.”  Asked about the plans on today’s conference call, Viniar
downplayed them, calling the account an “overstatement” of the
company’s strategy of offering loans to wealthy individuals and
corporate clients from its banking unit.  “We’re raising deposits and we’ll use some of those
deposits for private individual loans, some of it for corporate
loans, but we’re not a retail bank,” Viniar said. “We don’t
have branches, we’re not going to bring in $1 trillion of
deposits, and so there is no change in the strategy of Goldman
Sachs.”  Goldman Sachs had $50.9 billion in deposits at the end of
March, a fraction of the $1.13 trillion held by JPMorgan,
according to company filings.  Revenue Decline  Second-quarter revenue at Goldman Sachs fell 9 percent from
a year earlier to $6.63 billion and was down 33 percent from the
first quarter. The average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for $6.25 billion.  For the first six months of the year, Goldman Sachs
produced $16.6 billion of revenue, down 14 percent from a year
earlier and the lowest since $11.2 billion in 2005. Net income
of $3.07 billion in the first six months was the lowest since
the company made $2.38 billion in the first half of fiscal 2008.  The firm, which began counting consultants and temporary
workers in its staff numbers in 2009, said today it employed
32,300 people on June 29, down from 32,400 at the end of March.
At the end of the first half of 2008, the company had 21,800
full-time employees.  Second-quarter expenses of $5.21 billion were down 8
percent from a year earlier. Compensation, the biggest portion
of the firm’s expenses, fell 9 percent to $2.92 billion.  Compensation Costs  For the first six months of the year, the compensation
cost, which includes salaries, bonuses, benefits and the expense
for awards granted in previous years, totaled $7.29 billion, or
44 percent of revenue. That’s an average of $225,789 per
employee, down from $237,662 a year earlier.  Viniar said he expects most of the extra $500 million in
cost savings to be “people related,” even though he said the
number of employees at the firm will probably increase when the
firm brings in junior recruits this summer. Compensation will
decline because “we’ll have a more junior and less senior
weighted headcount,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 