-- Google+ Debuts at Top Spot in Customer Survey as Facebook Falls
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/google-debuts-at-top-spot-in-customer-survey-as-facebook-falls.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s social network debuted
at the top spot on a customer-service index of social-media
websites, including  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which sank to a record low in
the annual report.  Google+, which was started in June 2011, tied information
aggregator  Wikipedia  with a score of 78 in the social-media
category on the American Customer Satisfaction Index E-Business
Report, which ranks companies on a 100-point scale. Facebook,
criticized for changes to its interface, had a score of 61, down
from 66 last year and 64 in the 2010 report.  Already owner of the world’s largest search engine, Google
is counting on Google+ to help it challenge Facebook for user
attention and to provide more data to improve its core web-query
service. Google+ already has reached more than 250 million
users, compared with more than 900 million for Facebook.  “Facebook is having a hard time with its customers, but
they kind of own the concept of social network,” said Larry
Freed, chief executive officer of researcher ForeSee Results
Inc., which helps produce the index for the Internet industry.
“If you want to see pictures of your grandkids or share them
with your grandparents, you’re not going to find them on Google+
today. But if that network continues to grow, then they could be
a very serious competitor.”  As a category, social media slipped 1.4 percent in the
customer-satisfaction index to 69, the ACSI said.  Twitter Inc. ,
the microblogging service that has more than 140 million users,
was a new entry to the category with a score of 64.  LinkedIn, Pinterest  Professional-networking site  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  had a score of
63, and Pinterest Inc., an image-based social site, fared better
at 69. Both were also new entries to the category.  Facebook’s score of 61 puts it among the five lowest-
scoring companies of the 230 that the ACSI measures across
different markets. Other complaints about Facebook included an
excess of ads and privacy concerns, Freed said.  The ACSI was founded at the  University of Michigan ’s
Stephen M. Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor . To compile the
index, data from interviews with about 70,000 customers annually
are used to help measure satisfaction on the companies, which
include 47 industries and 10 economic sectors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  