-- Google’s Motorola Seeks to Prevent Phone Ban in Microsoft Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-17T02:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/google-s-motorola-seeks-to-prevent-phone-ban-in-microsoft-fight.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
said it is working to ensure there is no disruption in sales of
its Android mobile phones that were found to infringe a patent
owned by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Barring a last-minute reprieve from President  Barack Obama ,
an order barring imports of some Motorola Mobility phones will
take effect tomorrow. The company can get clearance from the
 U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  by certifying that it has
worked around a Microsoft patent covering a program which lets
users coordinate schedules between their phones and personal
computers or removed that feature.  “Motorola has taken proactive measures to ensure that our
industry-leading smartphones remain available to consumers in
the U.S.,” the company said yesterday in a statement without
providing details. “We respect the value of intellectual
property and expect other companies to do the same.”  The dispute is over a feature called ActiveSync that
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft licenses to other companies.
Microsoft won a U.S. International Trade Commission ruling in
May that Motorola Mobility can’t import Asia-made smartphones
into the U.S. that incorporate ActiveSync. The case targeted
models including the Droid 2, Droid X, i1, Cliq XT, Devour,
Backflip, Charm and Clip that run on Google’s Android operating
system.  It’s part of a broader effort by Microsoft to extract
patent royalties from devices that run on Android. The company
said it gets royalties from 70 percent of the Android
smartphones made in the U.S. by companies including Samsung
Electronics Co.,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  Motorola
Mobility had licensed the ActiveSync feature before the contract
expired in 2007.  Intellectual Property  “Microsoft brought this case only after Motorola stopped
licensing our intellectual property but continued to use our
inventions in its products,” Microsoft Deputy General Counsel
 David Howard  said in a statement. “It’s unfortunate we’ve been
forced to pursue legal action, but the solution for Motorola
remains licensing our intellectual property at market rates as
most other Android manufacturers have already done.”  Motorola Mobility, which was bought by  Mountain View ,
California-based Google in May, has its own case against
Microsoft, and is seeking to block imports of the software
maker’s Xbox video-gaming system.  Reconsider Findings  The ITC on June 29 ordered one of its judges to reconsider
his findings that the Xbox infringed four Motorola Mobility
patents. In a statement last month, Microsoft said the review
should end in the dismissal of the case.  Motorola Mobility has said it would be willing to license
its own patents, some of which cover technologies, such as video
compression, that are essential to meeting industrywide
standards used by all manufacturers. Microsoft has said the
offer was unreasonable and accused Motorola Mobility of
breaching its obligations to license such standard-essential
patents on fair terms.  The Microsoft case against Motorola Mobility is In the
Matter of Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components
Thereof, 337-744, and the Motorola Mobility case against
Microsoft is In the Matter of Gaming and Entertainment Consoles,
337-752, both U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  