-- Greenberg Appeal to Be Heard by New York’s Highest Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/greenberg-appeal-to-be-heard-by-new-york-s-highest-court.html
Ex- American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s challenge
to parts of a ruling that allowed a state lawsuit against him to
proceed will be heard by  New York ’s highest court.  An appeals court in Manhattan yesterday granted Greenberg’s
request for permission to appeal its ruling from May, which
upheld state Supreme Court Justice Charles Ramos’s October 2010
order denying motions by Greenberg and former AIG Chief
Financial Officer Howard Smith to dismiss the lawsuit, according
to a court filing.  Former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  sued
Greenberg and Smith in 2005 in state court in Manhattan,
accusing them of using sham reinsurance deals and other
transactions to distort the insurer’s financial condition.  “The appeal will determine the validity of the Martin Act,
which the New York attorney general and his predecessors have
used prodigiously, but with questionable legality in light of
conflicting federal standards,”  David Boies , an attorney with
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP in New York who is representing
Greenberg, said in a statement.  Lawyers for Greenberg and Smith will present arguments to
the state Court of Appeals in Albany on whether New York’s
Martin Act securities-fraud statute and Executive Law are pre-
empted by federal laws, Boies said.  ‘Hearsay Evidence’  The federal laws are intended to provide uniform national
standards governing securities fraud liability, because the
state laws allow claims against corporate executives without
“actual knowledge of or participation in the wrongdoing
alleged,” Boies said.  The lawyers will also present arguments on whether an
action based “solely on hearsay evidence” can survive a motion
for summary judgment, Boies said.  “Our office is confident the Court of Appeals will uphold
the lower court’s decision, and we look forward to trying this
case,” James Freedland, a spokesman for the state attorney
general’s office, said in a statement.  “We expect to prevail based on overwhelming evidence,
including the defendants’ own testimony,” Freedland said.  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  