-- Gross Says U.S. Nearing Recession as BlackRock Sees Fed Step
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-07-17T09:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/gross-says-u-s-nearing-recession-as-goldman-sachs-cuts-forecast.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
the U.S. is approaching a recession as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  expects
the Federal Reserve to take more steps to support growth.  Five-year Treasury yields slid to a record 0.577 percent
yesterday after an unexpected drop in U.S. retail sales
rekindled speculation Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will use
testimony today to hint at further monetary easing. That
followed data earlier this month showing American employers
added fewer-than-estimated workers to payrolls.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank AG cut forecasts for U.S. growth.  The U.S. is “approaching recession when measured by
employment, retail sales, investment, and corporate profits,”
Gross, who manages the $263 billion Pimco’s Total Return  Fund (PTTRX) ,
wrote on Twitter yesterday.  Ten-year Treasury  yields  added one basis point to 1.48
percent as of 4:11 p.m. in Singapore, compared with the all-time
low of 1.44 percent reached June 1. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
shares rose 0.2 percent.  Bernanke will present his semi-annual monetary policy
report to lawmakers in the Senate and House of Representatives
today and tomorrow. He said on June 20 that the central bank
will be prepared to take more steps, including additional asset
purchases, if the labor market doesn’t improve continuously.  Everything ‘Weaker’  Retail sales fell 0.5 percent in June, figures from the
Commerce Department showed yesterday, exceeding the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. U.S. employment
increased 80,000 last month, according to a Labor Department
report, trailing the 100,000 increase projected by economists.  “Pretty much everything is way weaker,” Ewen Cameron Watt, chief investment strategist at the BlackRock Investment
Institute, told reporters today in a teleconference from London.
“There will be some more action from the  Federal Reserve , but
not probably dramatic action in a sense of massive stimulus.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from 2008 to 2011, seeking to cap
borrowing costs and bolster the economy. Last month, it expanded
the program known as Operation Twist that replaces short-term
Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-term debt.  With U.S. debt yielding nears record lows, Treasuries are
“already expensive,” Cameron-Watt said. The securities have
returned 5.2 percent this year on an annualized basis, which
would be the smallest yearly gain since 2009, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Goldman Forecast  A cooling job market is sapping household spending that
makes up 70 percent of the economy, curbing sales at retailers
such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Macy’s Inc. Fed Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George said yesterday the  U.S. economy  probably
won’t grow much faster than 2 percent in 2012.  Goldman Sachs analysts led by Jan Hatzius cut their
estimate for second-quarter economic growth to 1.1 percent from
1.3 percent, while Deutsche Bank chief U.S economist,  Joseph LaVorgna , reduced his forecast to 1 percent from 1.4 percent.  “The sharp downward momentum in the economy” increases
the probability of further Fed easing either in the form of
another round of quantitative easing or other nonconventional
measures, LaVorgna wrote in a note yesterday. “We need a couple
of more weak employment reports, with figures near zero and with
the  unemployment rate  increasing, for the Fed to undertake
easing action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  