-- HSBC, Libor, JPMorgan, Credit Cards, Peregrine: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-17T19:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/libor-jpmorgan-ryanair-visa-mastercard-schering-compliance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  did business with
firms linked to terrorism, failed to guard against money-
laundering violations in Mexico and bypassed U.S. sanctions
against Iran, according to U.S. Senate investigators.  HSBC affiliates worldwide gave terrorists, drug cartels and
criminals a portal into the U.S. financial system, the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations said in a 335-page report
yesterday detailing a decade of lax controls. Lawmakers plan to
question senior executives from the London-based bank, Europe’s
largest, at a hearing in Washington today.  Senate investigators focused on New York-based HSBC Bank
USA NA as a “nexus” for U.S. dollar services and transfers.
Their report will be the basis of a hearing in which senators
question senior executives including Irene Dorner, president and
chief executive of HSBC North America Holdings Inc., and the
U.S. regulators accused in the report of failing to act.  “We will acknowledge that, in the past, we have sometimes
failed to meet the standards that regulators and customers
expect,” Robert Sherman, an HSBC spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will apologize, acknowledge these mistakes,
answer for our actions and give our absolute commitment to
fixing what went wrong.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Peregrine’s Fraud Went Undetected in Two U.S. Government Reviews  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission reviewed
operations at Peregrine Financial Group Inc. at least twice
since 2006 without detecting the fraud that led to the collapse
of the futures broker and a $200 million shortfall in client
funds.  The Washington-based agency conducted examinations at
Peregrine in 2007 and 2008, according to a list of CFTC reviews
obtained through a public records request. The list, which
includes reviews between 2006 and Nov. 9, 2011, does not detail
what records or procedures examiners evaluated.  A third review was listed in 2011. A CFTC official said the
2011 exam was scheduled to oversee compliance with foreign
exchange regulations but didn’t take place because of limited
resources. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because
the agency was still reviewing the matter.  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, is scheduled to testify today
at the Senate Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction over
the agency. Stephanie Allen, a CFTC spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the reviews.  The CFTC sued Peregrine over the shortfall on July 10, less
than a year after being scolded for poor oversight following the
collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which left an estimated
$1.6 billion gap in customer funds.  For more, click here.  Libor Manipulation Losses Investigated by Five U.S. State  Attorneys general in at least five states are conducting
investigations tied to alleged manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate, adding to probes by U.S. and U.K.
authorities.  The probes by New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Florida
and Maryland are in different stages, according to the states.
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and George Jepsen in
Connecticut are working together, and Massachusetts is talking
with other states about possible coordination.  “The New York and Connecticut attorneys general have been
looking into these issues for over six months, and will continue
to follow the facts wherever they lead,” James Freedland, a
spokesman for Schneiderman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, last
month was fined 290 million pounds ($453 million) for submitting
false rates for Libor, a benchmark interest rate for financial
products valued at $360 trillion.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , UBS AG,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
among lenders facing inquiries over alleged rigging of Libor.  Barclays traders who allegedly manipulated rates from 2005
to 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors before Labor Day,
Sept. 3, according to a person familiar with the U.S. Justice
Department’s investigation. The scandal led to the resignation
of  Robert Diamond  as the bank’s chief executive officer.  New York and Connecticut are investigating whether the
states incurred losses as the result of manipulation, according
to Schneiderman’s office. Jaclyn Falkowski, a spokeswoman for
Jepsen, said the states are investigating “with the goal of
providing restitution to state agencies, municipalities, school
districts and not-for-profit entities nationwide that may have
been harmed by any illegal conduct.”  Massachusetts is looking into the effect on state
investments and is working with state agencies and
municipalities, said Brad Puffer, a spokesman for Attorney
General  Martha Coakley . Massachusetts is talking with other
states about the possibility of working together. Puffer
declined to name the states.  “We are currently investigating the serious allegations
around the manipulation of the Libor and working diligently to
determine what, if any, impact it may have on Massachusetts
investments,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Florida Attorney General  Pam Bondi ’s office is “reviewing
the matter,” spokeswoman Jenn Meale said. The inquiry isn’t a
formal investigation, she said. Maryland Attorney General
Douglas Gansler is “looking into” the allegations, spokesman
David Paulson said. Meale and Paulson declined to comment
further.  For more, click here.  Ohio Files Motion to Lead JPMorgan ‘Whale’ Fraud Suit  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine filed a motion seeking to
lead a proposed class-action lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  involving the activities of a U.K. trader known as the
“London Whale.”  Ohio pension funds lost more than $27.5 million due to the
alleged fraud, DeWine’s office said July 13 in a  statement .
Spokesman Dan Tierney, speaking in a telephone interview, said
the state is seeking lead plaintiff status in the case because
of “the size of the losses.”  JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said its
chief investment office has had $5.8 billion in losses on the
trades so far, and that figure may climb by $1.7 billion in a
worst-case scenario.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti  declined to comment when
reached via e-mail by Bloomberg News.  Ohio is seeking to lead a class action initiated by
Louisiana, Tierney said, one of four class actions that have
been filed.  Public pension funds in Oregon and Arkansas as well as a
Swedish national pension fund are seeking to join the Louisiana
lawsuit, according to the Ohio statement.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees
Retirement System v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 12-cv-4729, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ryanair Sues to Block U.K. Antitrust Probe of Aer Lingus Stake  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount airline,
asked a U.K. appeals court to block an antitrust regulator’s
“unlawful” investigation of its 30 percent stake in Irish
competitor  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   Ryanair, which started a bid last month to buy the rest of
Aer Lingus for 694 million euros ($851 million), sued to block
the U.K. Competition Commission from investigating the minority
stake it acquired six years ago. The airline said it would
overlap with any parallel merger review by the European Union,
according to a document describing the case posted yesterday on
the website of the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London.  The probe by the British watchdog is “oppressive and
prejudicial to the proper conduct of both investigations” and
“is contrary to the public interest,” lawyers for Ryanair told
the court, according to the document.  Ryanair has been fighting with regulators over the stake
since it acquired the Aer Lingus shares in 2006 as part of an
earlier takeover bid that was ultimately blocked by the European
Union on competition grounds. The two airlines, both based in
Dublin, carry more than 80 percent of the 370,000 passengers
that travel between the U.K. and Ireland each month, regulators
have said.  The Competition Commission, which said last month it would
decide by Nov. 29 on Ryanair’s stake, put the investigation on
hold until the court rules on the matter, Rory Taylor, a
spokesman for the agency in London, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  “There’s nothing in the law that says what exactly should
happen in this situation,” Taylor said. “We’d be looking at
the minority share and Europe will be looking at the takeover of
the whole company.”  Ryanair is also seeking a court order allowing it to
withhold information the Competition Commission requested for
the probe, according to the document. Another hearing in the
case was scheduled for July 27.  Ex-Schwab Executive Daifotis to Pay $325,000 in SEC Accord  Ex- Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  fund manager Kimon Daifotis agreed
to pay $325,000 to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit alleging he misled investors about the
company’s YieldPlus mutual fund.  Daifotis, who led the fund’s investments, knew or should
have known that the fund’s regulatory filings masked violations
of its concentration policy, the SEC said in a 2011 complaint
filed in federal court in San Francisco. Daifotis didn’t admit
or deny wrongdoing, according to a court filing yesterday.  Daifotis agreed to pay a $75,000 fine and $250,000 in
disgorgement, according to the filing, in addition to a three
year bar from the securities industry. Schwab, based in San
Francisco, last year agreed to pay $119 million to resolve an
SEC lawsuit over the YieldPlus Fund.  The fund fell to $1.8 billion in assets in 2008 from a peak
of $13.5 billion in 2007 after deviating from its stated policy
by investing more than 25 percent of fund assets in private-
issuer, mortgage-backed securities, according to the SEC.  “In light of the time-limited nature of the bar, Mr.
Daifotis looks forward to exploring the possibility of returning
to the securities business at the appropriate time,” said
Covington & Burling partner David Bayless, lead counsel for
Daifotis. Daifotis “is pleased to put this matter behind him,”
Bayless said.  The case is SEC v. Daifotis, 11-137, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Compliance Policy  Visa Among Payment Firms to Win Partial WTO Ruling on China  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  were
among companies to win partial support from World Trade
Organization judges in a U.S. claim that China unfairly
restrains the payment processors.  WTO judges in Geneva yesterday agreed with the U.S. that
China unfairly discriminates against foreign suppliers of
electronic-payment services by imposing requirements on them
that aren’t applied to domestic companies. They rejected the
U.S. argument that China UnionPay Data Co., the world’s fastest-
growing bank-card network, monopolizes the handling of domestic-
currency payment-card transactions.  The U.S. protested to the WTO about the limits on payment
processing, saying China favors Shanghai-based UnionPay and
forbids foreign companies from issuing their own bank cards
denominated in its currency, building networks to support such
cards or handling interbank point-of-sale transactions.  “We are hopeful that this ruling will pave the way for
international payment companies to participate in the domestic
payments marketplace in China,” said Will Valentine, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Visa, the world’s biggest
bank-card network. “In the meantime, our existing business in
China is healthy.”  MasterCard, the No. 2 network, forecast in September 2010
that China will overtake the U.S. as the largest market for
credit cards by 2020, with about 900 million cards in
circulation. Total cards probably will increase 11 percent a
year as transaction value climbs 14 percent annually until 2025,
the Purchase, New York-based company said at the time.  “MasterCard has long been of the view that open payment
systems promote growth by reducing the need for cash payments,
fostering innovation and reducing system risk,” Jim Issokson, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for Riverwoods, Illinois-based
 Discover Financial Services (DFS) , which has an agreement with
UnionPay to process the Chinese firm’s card transactions in the
U.S., declined to comment. Sarah Meron, a spokeswoman for New
York-based American Express, didn’t return an e-mailed request
for comment.  In the Courts  Schering-Plough’s K-Dur Antitrust Ruling Reversed by Court  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Schering-Plough unit must face a challenge to
its agreement with competitors to keep generic versions of its
drug K-Dur off the market, an appeals court ruled, reversing a
lower-court antitrust decision.  Wholesalers and pharmacies sued Schering-Plough beginning
in 2001 over allegedly unlawful agreements to delay the entry
into the market of generic versions of K-Dur, a treatment for
low blood levels of potassium. Consumers incurred extra costs of
more than $100 million because of the deals, according to the
plaintiffs.  A lower court ruled in favor of the company in 2010. The
federal appeals court in Philadelphia overturned that decision
yesterday and asked the lower court to reconsider its ruling.  “We are disappointed with today’s ruling,”  Ron Rogers , a
spokesman for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are reviewing the decision and
will consider all our options.”  Merck  bought  Schering-Plough in 2009.  Federal appeals panels in New York, Atlanta and Washington
have upheld such agreements as long as they don’t delay generic
drugs beyond the expiration of the underlying patents. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission has campaigned to block the deals,
which are sometimes reached on the eve of patent trials, saying
they cost consumers about $3.5 billion a year in higher
prescription drug prices.  “We cannot agree with those courts that apply the scope of
the patent test,” the Philadelphia panel said in its opinion.
“In our view, that test improperly restricts the application of
antitrust law.”  “The Third Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have gotten
it just right: These sweetheart deals are presumptively
anticompetitive,” said FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  in a
statement. “It’s time for the pharmaceutical companies to
return to the side of consumers.”  The case is In re K-Dur Antitrust Litigation, 10-2077,
10-2078, 10-2079, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  Citigroup’s Stoker Misled Investors, SEC Argues at Trial’s Start  The former director of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s collateralized debt
obligation structuring group misled investors in the deal at the
center of the bank’s proposed $285 million settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, an agency lawyer told
jurors.  The SEC claims that Brian Stoker negligently violated
securities law in putting together the assets underlying a $1
billion collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, called “Class V
Funding III.”  “Brian Stoker made untrue statements and material
misstatements to investors,” Jeffrey Infelise, an SEC lawyer,
told the jury yesterday at the start of Stoker’s civil trial in
Manhattan federal court.  The SEC claims Citigroup structured and sold the CDO in
2007 without telling investors that it helped pick about half
the underlying assets and was betting they would decline in
value by taking a $500 million short position. The SEC seeks an
order requiring Stoker to disgorge profits from the deal and pay
a fine.  Stoker’s lawyer, John Keker, urged jurors to look beyond
any dislike they may have for Citigroup or for trading in
synthetic CDOs, which he called “high-stakes, high-level
gambling.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is overseeing the
Stoker trial, last year rejected Citigroup’s $285 million
settlement with the SEC in which the bank wasn’t required to
admit any liability. That ruling is on appeal.  Rakoff last week denied Stoker’s request to dismiss the
SEC’s claims, ruling that there is enough evidence for a jury to
find him liable.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Peregrine’s Wasendorf Sued for Mixing Firm and Client Funds  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the chief executive officer of
bankrupt futures brokerage Peregrine Financial Group Inc. facing
criminal charges, was sued by a customer claiming the CEO and
his son illegally commingled firm and client money.  U.S. regulators sued the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based firm and
Wasendorf Sr. in federal court in Chicago on July 10 alleging
they misappropriated at least $200 million in client money.  Michael LaSalvia of Naperville, Illinois, in a complaint
filed in the same courthouse July 13, seeks class-action, or
group, status on behalf of anyone who had money on deposit with
Peregrine from January 2010 to July 10, 2012.  Russell Wasendorf Jr., who served as Peregrine’s chief
operating officer, and two other executives are named as co-
defendants in the complaint, which seeks unspecified money
damages for alleged violations of the U.S. Commodity Exchange
Act.  Wasendorf Sr., 64, is charged criminally with making false
statements to Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulators
about how much client money the firm had on deposit. Jane Kelly,
a federal public defender representing Wasendorf Sr. in the
criminal case, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is LaSalvia v. Wasendorf, 12-cv-05546, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-cv-05383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Microsoft Wins Ruling Ending Novell Suit Over WordPerfect  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  won the dismissal of Novell Inc.’s
antitrust lawsuit over the WordPerfect computer program.  U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz granted Microsoft’s
request to close the case in an order issued yesterday. A trial
of the suit ended in a mistrial in December after jurors in Salt
Lake City said they were unable to reach a unanimous verdict.  Novell “did not present evidence sufficient for a jury to
find that Microsoft committed any acts that violated” federal
antitrust laws “in maintaining its monopoly in the operating
systems market,” Motz wrote in his ruling.  Novell sought as much as $1.3 billion in damages over
allegations that Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, while
developing the Windows 95 operating system in 1994, blocked an
element of the software to thwart Novell’s WordPerfect and
Quattro Pro programs.  Jim Lundberg, vice president of the company’s legal
department, said in an e-mailed statement that the company is
disappointed in the ruling and “still believes in the strength
of its claim and we do intend to pursue an appeal,”  Novell, which was bought by Seattle-based Attachmate Corp.,
claimed WordPerfect’s share of the word-processing market fell
to less than 10 percent in 1996 from almost 50 percent in 1990.  WordPerfect’s value dropped from $1.2 billion in May 1994
to $170 million in 1996, when it was sold to Ottawa-based Corel
Corp., Novell said. Novell settled separate antitrust claims
against Microsoft for $536 million in 2004.  The case is Novell Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 04-01045, U.S.
District Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  Interviews and Speeches  Google Antitrust Probe Should Be Settled, EU Regulator Says  The European Union’s antitrust chief said he’d rather
settle an antitrust probe over claims  Google Inc. (GOOG)  discriminates
against rivals than pursue an enforcement action against the
world’s largest Web-search engine.  “In these fast-moving markets with new activities, new
products and new services, I prefer to find remedies as soon as
possible and this is easier,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday in an interview, referring to a
settlement.  Earlier this month, Google outlined a proposal to end the
EU antitrust investigation. The probe is reviewing allegations
that the company promotes its own specialist search-services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements
with websites and software developers that stifle competition in
the advertising industry.  Almunia said last month he would send Google an antitrust
complaint if the proposed accord didn’t eliminate the issues
identified by the EU. Such a complaint could lead to a fine or
limits on conduct.  Regulators are seeking “to clarify some of the aspects of
the answers we received from Google,” Almunia said. “We have
not yet concluded our conversation, but I hope that in the near
future we will finally decide” whether to settle the probe or
send a statement of objections.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company was cooperating with the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  