-- Microsoft Faces EU Antitrust Probe Over Web-Brower Choice
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-17T15:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/microsoft-faces-eu-antitrust-probe-over-web-brower-choice.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  risks European Union
penalties for failing to comply with a settlement to give users
a choice of web browsers, more than two years after it tried to
end a decade-long clash with antitrust regulators.  EU Competition Commission Joaquin Almunia said Microsoft
may have misled regulators by failing to display a browser
choice screen to users of the  Windows operating system  since
February 2011. The world’s largest software company blamed a
technical error for not showing the screen to some users and
offered to extend its commitment until March 2016.  Microsoft has already been fined 1.68 billion euros ($2.06
billion) in EU antitrust probes, including an 899 million-euro
penalty for failing to obey an order to share data with
competitors. The Redmond, Washington-based company agreed to
offer access to rival browsers as a part of a 2009 settlement to
repair its relationship with the bloc’s regulators. It told
regulators last December that it was complying with its
commitments.  “I trusted that the company’s reports were accurate,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an e-mailed
statement. “If, following our investigation, the infringement
was confirmed, Microsoft should expect sanctions.”  Microsoft said it only learned this month that it didn’t
offer its browser choice software to some 28 million computers
running Windows 7 Service Pack 1, or 10 percent of the computers
that should have received it. It blamed a technical error and
said it has already started distributing a fix.  Deep ‘Regret’  “We deeply regret that this error occurred and we
apologize for it,” Microsoft said in a statement. “We
understand that the commission may decide to impose other
sanctions.”  Almunia said he may have to step up how regulators
supervise companies’ commitments to end antitrust probes.  Recent binding pledges by  Standard & Poor’s (MHP)  and  Electricite
de France SA (EDF)  “are particularly complex and require
strengthening of our monitoring,” Almunia told reporters in
Brussels.  Michael Privitera, a spokesman for  Standard & Poor’s  in  New
York , declined to immediately comment. EDF in Paris declined to
comment.  Regulators only became aware that Microsoft’s browser
choice screens weren’t working when they received complaints, he
said, without identifying who had alerted the EU.  The EU’s new probe is a “real surprise, given Microsoft’s
long and painful past” with regulators and earlier fines
imposed for not complying with the earlier investigation, said
Mark Tricker, a lawyer with Norton Rose LLP in Brussels.  Repeat Offenses  Any fines for Microsoft may take into account repeat
offenses, Almunia said in a reference to the EU’s 2008 penalty
for the company’s failure to obey an earlier EU decision. That
ruling ordered it to provide information to software developers
to make compatible products. EU antitrust fines are usually
capped at 10 percent of yearly revenue.  Under the terms of Microsoft’s 2009 pledge, consumers who
buy personal computers were given a choice of the 12 most widely
used browsers to install in addition to, or instead of,
Microsoft’s Internet Explorer. Microsoft said today that it
would extend this browser choice for an extra 15 months, or
until March 2016.  After settling with the EU, Microsoft moved to the other
side of the fence, filing complaints against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
what is now its Motorola Mobility unit for alleged antitrust
violations.  Microsoft declined 0.7 percent to $29.25 at 11:21 a.m. in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 