-- Lieberman Seeks Cybersecurity Changes to Add Senate Votes
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-07-17T21:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/lieberman-seeks-cybersecurity-changes-to-add-senate-votes.html
U.S. Senator  Joseph Lieberman  is
considering changes to his cyberdefense bill, which has been
stalled over disagreements about whether the government should
set security standards.  Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, said today he’s
looking at revising sections of the bill on protecting critical
infrastructure and on the sharing of cyberthreat information
between businesses and government to build support for the
measure. He said he’s seeking to garner 60 votes, which is the
minimum needed to get over a procedural hurdle in the Senate and
begin floor debate.  “I’m open to changing some parts of it,” Lieberman said
in an interview outside the Senate chamber. While he considers
his measure to be “the best idea” among competing proposals,
Lieberman said “I want to get something passed this year, and I
think this problem is only going to grow more serious.”  Republicans in Congress and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
have criticized the approach of Lieberman’s bill, which would
let the  Homeland Security  Department set cybersecurity
requirements for critical infrastructure such as power grids and
water-treatment plants. Federal regulations, they say, would
saddle companies with bureaucracy and fail to keep pace with
evolving hacker threats.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
pledged to bring the Lieberman bill, which is backed by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration, to a Senate vote
without giving a date. Lieberman said he expects the bill will
go to the Senate floor next week.  The Senate is scheduled to go on a summer recess Aug. 6.  Cyber-Espionage  Lawmakers haven’t reached consensus on an approach for
protecting U.S. networks as concerns increase about cyber-
espionage and potential disruption of infrastructure connected
to the Internet. Hackers in China and Russia are pursuing U.S.
technology and industrial secrets, jeopardizing an estimated
$398 billion in research spending, according to a November
 report  from the U.S. government’s Office of the National
Counterintelligence Executive.  Eight Senate Republicans including  John McCain  of Arizona
and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas have introduced a measure that
would encourage voluntary sharing of cyberthreat information
between businesses and government, without setting requirements.
The Republican-controlled House passed a similar measure in
April.  Considering Compromise  Lieberman said he’s considering elements from a compromise
being developed by Senators  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, and
 Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode Island Democrat. Kyl and Whitehouse
are leading an effort to create voluntary incentives rather than
mandatory standards for protecting critical infrastructure.  Kyl and Hutchison said today they didn’t think the
compromise would be ready next week.  “There are just a few things that could be done that would
vastly increase cybersecurity -- but without a new whole
regulatory regime, which is what many people think the
Department of Homeland Security would do,” Hutchison said.  Lieberman is working on revisions with his bill’s co-
sponsors, Republican  Susan Collins  of  Maine  and Democrats  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia and  Dianne Feinstein  of California,
his spokeswoman, Leslie Phillips, said in an e-mail.  The Obama administration threatened to veto the House bill,
saying it doesn’t address critical infrastructure or adequately
safeguard consumer data that might be shared. Civil liberties
groups have criticized the information-sharing provisions in the
Lieberman, McCain and House bills, saying they don’t protect the
privacy of consumer data.  Electrical Grid  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat who leads the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, plans to offer a
measure he sponsored last year on electrical-grid security as an
amendment to Lieberman’s bill when it reaches the Senate floor,
Bill Wicker, a committee spokesman, said in an interview.  “We need to address these vulnerabilities that are clearly
before us,” Bingaman said at a hearing today to highlight cyber
threats to the nation’s power systems.  Lieberman and Collins today sent a letter to the  Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission  asking it to investigate
allegations that some entities are receiving certificates
authorizing entry to the electric grid’s cyber business systems
for longer than the maximum 20 years allowed by agency rules.  “If these allegations are true, the violations could
undermine part of the security system protecting our grid,” the
senators wrote.  The Lieberman bill is S. 2105. The McCain bill is S. 3342.
The House bill is H.R. 3523. The Bingaman bill is S. 1342.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 