-- LightSquared Judge Prepared to Approve $51.4 Million Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-17T15:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/lightsquared-judge-prepared-to-approve-51-4-million-loan.html
LightSquared Inc.’s bankruptcy judge
is prepared to approve a loan of as much as $51.4 million that
will allow Philip A. Falcone’s bankrupt wireless broadband
venture to operate while under court protection from creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  said
today she would review changes to the loan and was prepared to
approve an agreement allowing the company to borrow
$30.6 million immediately.  The loan, to LightSquared affiliate One Dot Six Corp., was
modified since initial terms were proposed last month, Matthew
Barr, a lawyer for the company, told Chapman today in court. An
initial amount of $30 million was increased to $41.4 million,
and the company will have the option to borrow $10 million more
under certain conditions, Barr said.  “Around $23 million of the $30.6 million will go to make
lease payments,” Barr said. Challenges to the company’s
financing could be brought until Sept. 11, a month later than
the first deadline, he said.  The so-called debtor-in-possession loan would be until
November. The money would be used for lease payments and
building projects, Barr told Chapman.  U.S. Bank  U.S. Bank  NA, an agent to pre-bankruptcy lenders already
owed $322.3 million by the company’s “Inc.” unit, will serve
as an agent to the new loan.  One Dot Six is among LightSquared affiliates, known as the
“Inc. obligors,” which need funding to operate in bankruptcy.
Another group of “LP” affiliates is using cash set aside as
collateral.  Lenders owning $1.1 billion of debt in the LP unit said in
court papers that while they didn’t object to the new loan, it
may trigger a default and LightSquared Inc. might be unable to
pay legal, administrative and other reorganization costs.  The loan allocates $56 million in reorganization expenses
to the LP unit and only $12 million to the Inc. unit, the group
said in objections filed to the original agreement. The
allocation is inconsistent with the company’s view that all of
its estates “are wildly solvent,” the lenders said.  Default Held Possible  “The court could eventually be faced with the prospect of
rendering a decision on reallocation that would cause
LightSquared Inc. to default under the DIP facility or that
would render LightSquared Inc. administratively insolvent,” the
group said.  The group of LP lenders includes Capital Research &
Management Co., Appaloosa Management LP and  Fortress Investment
Group LLC. (FIG)   The judge said she will continue to monitor the company’s
situation closely.  “I wouldn’t expect a situation to develop that would lead
to administrative insolvency or a Chapter 7, not on my watch,”
Chapman said.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy last month with plans to try to resolve concerns of
U.S. regulators who thwarted the company’s attempt to deliver
high-speed wireless service to as many as 260 million people.  Failing to get the new financing “would irreparably harm
the Inc. obligors, their estates, their creditors, and equity
holders, and the possibility for a successful reorganization,”
LightSquared said.  Harbinger  Capital Partners , Falcone’s New York-based hedge
fund, invested about $3 billion in LightSquared and owned about
74 percent of it as of Jan. 27.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 