-- Illinois Jobless-Debt Sale Buoyed by Lowest Yields: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/illinois-jobless-debt-sale-buoyed-by-lowest-yields-muni-credit.html
Illinois  is set to pay close to a
record-low yield on a bond sale this week, even as it contends
with the nation’s worst-funded pension system and as much as $8
billion in unpaid bills.  The state plans to issue $1.5 billion of debt as soon as
tomorrow to repay federal loans for jobless benefits. It joins
counterparts including Texas and  Michigan  taking advantage of
the  lowest  tax-exempt borrowing costs since  Lyndon B. Johnson ’s
presidency to refinance the obligations.  The unemployment-bond issues “have been well received by
the market and with rates continuing to come down at these low
levels, it’s probably in the best interests of the states to do
this,” said Duane McAllister at BMO Asset Management U.S., who
said he plans to buy the Illinois securities.  As Treasuries rallied yesterday on an unexpected drop in
retail sales, municipal debt gained across all maturities,
driving yields close to historic depths. A Bloomberg Fair Value
 index  of 10-year borrowing costs for Illinois issuers was 3.52
percent, about 0.3 percentage point above the lowest level since
1994.  The $3.7 trillion municipal market has earned about 5
percent this year, compared with 2.6 percent for Treasuries,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Weakest Funding  Illinois had assets equal to 45.4 percent of projected
retirement obligations as of fiscal 2010, the weakest of any
state, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard & Poor’s  said
in January it may cut Illinois’s A+ rating, four levels below
the top and lower than any state except  California , if pension
funding levels deteriorate and debt levels increase
“significantly.”  At the end of June, the state’s unpaid obligations included
a $3.7 billion backlog of bills and fund transfers, as well as
Medicaid and insurance liabilities of $3.5 billion, Comptroller
Judy Baar Topinka said yesterday.  As a result, Illinois may still have to pay more relative
to other issuers to get this week’s bond deal done. The extra
yield may be at least 0.2 percentage point, said McAllister, who
helps manage $2.5 billion of munis, including Illinois debt, at
BMO in  Milwaukee .  “With the troubles that everyone knows all too well in
Illinois, there should be at least a modest yield premium
attached to this one,” he said.  Session Over  Lawmakers ended their legislative session May 31 without
passing a bill to help reduce the pension liability. Since then,
legislative leaders have met with Governor  Pat Quinn  regarding
pension changes, according to the offices of Senate President
John Cullerton and House Speaker Michael Madigan. All three are
Democrats.  S&P rates the sale AA, two grades above Illinois’s general
obligations. While repayment of the debt is separate from the
state’s general fund, buyers will want added income just to hold
Illinois securities, McAllister said.  The bonds are secured by taxes that for-profit employers
pay on workers’ income to help support the state’s unemployment
insurance fund.  “The funding to repay these bonds is totally segregated
from the state of Illinois’s cash-flow and by federal law can
only be used to either pay benefits or to repay these bonds,”
John Sinsheimer, the state’s director of  capital markets , said
in an interview.  Michigan Sale  This week’s sale includes bonds due in 2021, the longest
maturity, according to bond documents. The Michigan Finance
Authority on June 13 priced unemployment bonds rated AAA and due
in 2021 with a yield of 1.88 percent, or about 0.1 percentage
point above benchmark yields.  Twenty-two  states  and the Virgin Islands owed the federal
government a combined $30 billion as of July 11 that helped
boost their unemployment funds, according to U.S. Labor
Department data. They piled up the debt as the longest recession
since the 1930s pushed the nation’s jobless  rate  to a 26-year
high of 10 percent.  Illinois’s May unemployment rate was 8.6 percent, above the
8.2 percent national average.  The state anticipates it will pay down the bonds before
their maturities because any excess revenue must go toward
repaying the debt.  While the average life of the bonds is 4.9 years, the state
anticipates paying the debt off in 3.2 years, Sinsheimer said.  Compensation Demanded  Investors will also demand extra yield because they won’t
know exactly when the bonds will mature, Blake Miller, who helps
oversee $6 billion of munis at Neuberger Berman Group LLC in  New
York , said in an interview.  “There’s some uncertainty as to how fast that revenue
stream is going to come in and for any bit of uncertainty, muni
investors should be compensated,” Miller said.  Illinois bonds have earned 5.5 percent this year, beating
44 states, Barclays Capital data show.  Illinois businesses in 2013 will gain about $200 million in
tax credits because of the sale, Sinsheimer said.  Quinn in April proposed a voluntary 3 percent boost in
pension contributions from current employees and a cut in cost-
of-living increases for retirees.  Following are pending sales:  PENNSYLVANIA, which Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
yesterday by one step to Aa2, its third-highest grade, plans to
sell $364 million of general-obligation debt as soon as July 24,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will refund
debt. (Added July 17)  WASHINGTON is set to issue $591 million of general-
obligation debt as soon as this week. A portion of about $197
million is to be repaid with motor-vehicle fuel taxes, according
to bond documents. Another segment, about $119 million, is
taxable. S&P rates the sale AA+, second-highest. (Added July 17)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  