-- Impregilo Shareholders Back Salini’s Proposal to Revoke Board
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-07-17T14:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/impregilo-shareholders-back-salini-s-proposal-to-revoke-board.html
The board of  Impregilo SpA (IPG) ,  Italy ’s
biggest construction contractor with projects from Brazilian
highways to the Panama Canal, was ousted by investors led by
competitor Salini SpA.  Salini, which wants to merge its family business with
Impregilo, won shareholder approval at a Milan meeting today to
revoke the board backed by Italy’s Gavio family. Investors
appointed directors led by Claudio Costamagna, a former head of
European  investment banking  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., who was
named chairman.  “We will bring the merger proposal to the board and then
ask shareholders to approve it,” Pietro Salini, who’s set to
become Impregilo’s new CEO, told reporters after the meeting.
“We hope everyone will work in the interest of shareholders.”  Impregilo, with a market value of 1.36 billion euros
($1.67 billion), builds tunnels and roads and is working on the
expansion of the Panama Canal. Its main highway concession asset
is a 29 percent stake in  Brazil ’s Ecorodovias, the manager of
five toll roads in the country. Gavio and Salini have waged a
proxy battle that gave minority shareholders such as Amber
Capital LP a rare opportunity in Italy to decide the outcome.
Amber, with a stake of 8.5 percent, voted for the board
revocation, said legal representative Umberto Mosetti.  The Gavio and Salini families each  own  a stake of just
less than 30 percent in Milan-based Impregilo, the threshold
that triggers a mandatory bid. Salini has claimed that Impregilo
under Gavio hasn’t created enough  shareholder value  and it
hasn’t respected the company’s corporate mission.  Stock Performance  “Return for shareholders was close to zero” in the
period Gavio was the controlling investor, Nicola Ricolfi, a
 fund manager  at Nextam Partners SGR SpA, which owns a stake of
about 0.2 percent in Impregilo, told investors at today’s
meeting.  The stock’s performance in the past five years was hurt by
a 2007 ruling by an Italian court that seized 750 million euros
in assets as part of a Naples waste probe. The decision was
later reversed.  Still, Impregilo shares have risen 79 percent since Salini
announced its first purchase on Oct. 4, the  best performance  in
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  in the period. Some analysts
are concerned the shares offer little upside after their recent
performance and because of the risk the Salini-Gavio power
struggle may result in a deadlock. Impregilo was down 0.5
percent to 3.28 euros as of 3.53 p.m.  “The result is a stalemate,” said Pompeo Locatelli, an
investor with 12,000 Impregilo shares. “There will probably be
a request for revocation of the new board as well. Whoever
wanted control should have launched a bid offer.”  Full Bid  Both Gavio and Salini have ruled out a full bid for
Impregilo, which could cost about 1 billion euros, and have said
they don’t want to sell their stakes.  At the center of the shareholders’ tussle are proposals of
unlisted Salini to sell Impregilo’s highway concessions, pay a
special dividend of as much as 800 million euros and merge the
two construction businesses, targeting 7.5 billion euros of
revenue by 2015. Salini said in an interview on July 10 his
family would back a merger “unanimously.”  Gavio opposes a combination and has enough shares to veto
any extraordinary transaction. He’s proposed a share buyback of
as much as 300 million euros and an extraordinary dividend of at
least 100 million euros, if the company has enough cash. “The
merger is unfeasible,” said Bruno Binasco, who heads IGLI, an
 investment company  controlled by Gavio, during the meeting.  Beniamino Gavio, who heads his family’s business, said in a
July 5 interview that his rival is seeking control of the board
in order to push through a merger that would use proceeds from
the Ecorodovias stake sale as a guarantee for bank financing.  The two families have spent the last two months in a war of
words and legal actions. A legal challenge by Gavio against
Salini’s proxy collection is still pending and the Milan
tribunal will make a decision Aug. 22. Gavio also filed a
complaint with market regulator Consob, claiming that Salini and
Amber acted in concert. Salini’s lawyer Sergio Erede denied
that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  