-- Independent Chairmen Are Smart Investments
-- B y   N e l l   M i n o w
-- 2012-07-17T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/independent-chairmen-are-smart-investments-nell-minow.html
We don’t let students grade their
own exams, but we let CEOs chair their own boards.  At 281 of the S&P 500 companies, the chairman is the
current chief executive officer. At 38 of the 500, the chairman
is a former executive or has some other connection to the CEO or
company. And at 72 others, the chairman is listed as an
independent outside director, yet a closer look too often
reveals relationships that squeezed through loopholes in the
“independence”  definition  set by the  stock exchanges , including
connections through non-profit groups. The result is a level of
independence that meets the letter of the law yet isn’t enough
to ensure arms-length oversight, especially when most CEOs
decide who sits on the board.  In the U.K., by contrast, almost every board has an
independent, outside chairman. This is a revolutionary change
considering that, as recently as the 1980s, most British boards
were primarily made up of insiders. Robert Boothby, a former
Conservative member of Parliament, described in a speech what
board service was like in that era: “No effort of any kind is
called for. You go to a meeting once a month, in a car supplied
by the company. You look grave and sage, on two occasions say ‘I
agree,’ say ‘I don’t think so’ once, and if all goes well you
get 500 pounds a year.” He added, “If you have five of them, it
is total heaven, like having a permanent hot bath.”  Company Scandals  In the early 1990s, Adrian Cadbury, the former chairman of
Cadbury Schweppes, led a  committee  that proposed reforms to
improve governance and reassure the investor community after a
series of high-profile scandals among British companies. One of
the recommendations called for independent outside chairmen.
Within a decade, most U.K. companies had adopted the
recommendation due to pressure from regulators and investors.  Separating the chairman and CEO roles has never been widely
accepted in the U.S., where CEOs like to pile up titles and
don’t like answering to someone else. Chief Executive magazine
reported in June that 63 percent of CEOs said in a survey that
they would recommend a combined role for their replacements,
despite the concerns of shareholder groups. The Council of
Institutional Investors, for example, calls dual roles “a
fundamental conflict of interest.”  Over the past decade, the idea of an independent “lead
director” has become a  popular  compromise. Of the S&P 500
boards, 284 have a director with that title. Generally, lead
directors act as an ombudsman for the outside directors. They
also preside over executive-session meetings (those held without
management present) that are required by post-Enron reforms. But
a lead director isn’t the same as an independent chairman, who
sets the agenda and committee assignments and presides over the
meetings.  Some companies, in times of stress or management
transition, have divided the jobs only to reverse themselves
later, as both Walt Disney Co. and General Motors Co. did. In
2004,  Michael Dell , the founder of computer-maker Dell Inc.,
decided to give up the CEO job and stay on as chairman; three
years later, he changed his mind and again holds both titles.  More recently, Chesapeake Energy Corp. appointed an
independent chairman when the oil-and-gas company became the
target of shareholder anger over a series of governance
failings, including excessive pay and revelations that the CEO
was running a secret hedge fund. The appointment of former
ConocoPhillips Chairman Archie Dunham as Chesapeake’s chairman
was intended to reassure investors.  Should it? A number of academic studies have tried to
determine if shareholders benefit when the roles are split, and
the results have been inconclusive. That isn’t because splitting
the jobs is unimportant; it’s because we have an imperfect test
for determining when the positions are in fact split.  No Oversight  A CEO at a company where the chairman and chief executive
jobs were divided once told me off the record that the reason
for the separate chairman was that the former CEO had refused to
relinquish his position unless he could keep the chairman title.
Because he didn’t oversee the agenda or preside over meetings,
no one was really monitoring management.  In one unusual case, a runner-up for the CEO position was
enticed to stay on by being named chairman, a full-time job.
When the CEO left, the chairman became the new CEO and retained
the chairman title as well. The company never split the two
again, and was ultimately sold. This month, Duke Energy Corp.
made headlines when it split the two titles in a merger, but
hours later ushered the new CEO out the door with a $44 million
departure package, handing the CEO title to the chairman.  My company, GMI Ratings, has a new  study  of 180 large North
American corporations. Most previous studies compared companies
that combined the CEO and chairman positions with those that
split the roles, finding little or no difference in shareholder
returns. But GMI found that CEOs who wear both hats are more
expensive than their CEO-only counterparts. They are also
associated with significant indicators of risk.  Executives with both titles received a median total
compensation of $16 million, versus $11 million paid by
companies where the CEO and chairman were separate. Companies
with independent outside chairmen were less risky in several
categories, including problems with Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.  Companies that combined the top two roles were also 86
percent more likely to register as “aggressive” in our
assessment of their financial reporting. They showed a greater
risk of defaulting on debts, laying off employees, selling
assets or restructuring, or taking other steps to deal with a
weakened financial condition.  ’Hot Bath’  Boards have unquestionably become more independent than the
“hot bath” days. The massive legislative changes imposed by the
2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and the Dodd-Frank financial reform law
of 2010 -- following the sobering failures of the Enron-WorldCom
era and the bailouts of Wall Street banks and the  auto industry 
-- have made board members aware of the need to be more
involved. “The board’s job is to act in case of emergency,” a
director told me in the 1980s. “The board’s job is to prevent an
emergency,” I said.  Splitting the two titles, of course, is no guarantee. At
Barclays Plc, the independent chairman, the CEO and other top
executives all resigned over the Libor rate-fixing scandal (with
the chairman returning only to lead the search for a new CEO).
Still, genuinely independent oversight is impossible when the
chief executive is also the one who sets the board’s agenda,
makes committee assignments, and determines the quantity,
quality and timing of information provided to directors. In pure
return-on-investment terms, an independent outside chairman is a
solid buy.  ( Nell Minow , the co-founder and director of GMI Ratings,
which evaluates governance risk at public companies, co-authored
the textbook, “ Corporate Governance ,” now in its fifth edition.
This is the first of three articles on corporate governance
issues. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  amorality of banks and
ineffectual regulators , on the need for a  tougher Syria policy 
and on Republicans’  campaign-finance betrayal ;  Margaret Carlson 
on politics as  class warfare ; Clive Crook on destructive
 capitalism-bashing ;  Peter Orszag  on keeping children from
getting  fatter and dumber  during the summer.  To contact the writer of this article:
Nell Minow at  nminow@gmiratings.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  