-- Industry Group Loses Challenge to Nitrogen Dioxide Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-17T17:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/industry-group-loses-challenge-to-nitrogen-dioxide-rules.html
The first new U.S. standard for
nitrogen dioxide in at least 35 years was upheld by a federal
appeals court, which said the Environmental Protection Agency
had the authority to attempt to improve  air quality  around the
nation’s busiest roadways.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  today threw out a challenge by the American Petroleum
Institute to regulations restricting the peak amount of nitrogen
dioxide, or NO2, from tailpipes and smokestacks that can be
present in the air during a one-hour period. Levels of the toxic
gas are limited to a one-hour standard of 100 parts per billion.  “Because the record adequately supports the EPA’s
conclusion that material negative effects result from ambient
air concentrations as low as the 100 ppb level, we cannot
conclude that the agency was arbitrary and capricious” in
adopting that standard, U.S. Circuit Judge Douglas Ginsburg
wrote for the court.  Nitrogen dioxide, a contributor to smog, has been tied to
respiratory problems, especially in people with asthma,
according to the EPA. There had been no one-hour rule for
nitrogen dioxide, unlike the time-based restrictions on carbon
monoxide and ozone.  When drafting the rule in 2010, the EPA said it was
establishing monitoring requirements in urban areas that will
measure nitrogen dioxide levels around major roads. The monitors
must be located near roadways in cities with at least 500,000
people, and cities with at least 1 million residents must have
community-wide monitoring, the agency said.  More Stringent  The  American Petroleum Institute  argued that the rules are
more stringent than necessary to protect the public’s health.
The Washington-based API, which represents more than 500 oil and
gas companies, said in an e-mail that it is reviewing the
ruling.  “EPA relied on unpublished, non-peer-reviewed scientific
studies to set the new standard and outright ignored published
scientific studies that questioned the agency’s conclusions,”
Howard Feldman, API director of regulatory and scientific
policy, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 10-1079, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  