-- ThinkStrategy’s Kapur Indicted for Securities Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-17T22:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/thinkstrategy-s-kapur-indicted-by-for-securities-fraud.html
ThinkStrategy Capital Management
LLC’s Chetan Kapur was accused by the U.S. of deceiving
investors into buying shares in his  hedge funds  in a scheme that
lasted from 2002 to 2010.  Kapur, ThinkStrategy’s sole managing director, was charged
with  securities fraud , investment adviser fraud and wire fraud
in an indictment unsealed today by prosecutors in the office of
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Kapur “deceived investors into purchasing shares in the
ThinkStrategy Capital Fund and ThinkStrategy Multi-Strategy Fund
through false and misleading statements and omissions,”
prosecutors alleged.  In November, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and Kapur agreed to settle claims that ThinkStrategy deceived
investors about its track record of positive returns. The SEC
said ThinkStrategy invested with fraudulent funds including
Arthur Nadel’s Valhalla and Victory funds and Samuel  Israel ’s
Bayou Superfund.  Nadel, who pleaded guilty in 2010 to defrauding investors
of $168 million, died in April while serving a 14-year prison
sentence. Prosecutors alleged he operated a  Ponzi scheme  for 10
years beginning in 1999, covering withdrawals with money from
new investors.  Investors were told the funds’ accounts had more than
$360 million, although less than $125,000 was available when the
scheme collapsed, according to prosecutors. Nadel took in
$63.9 million in fees and trading profits, including $45 million
from 2005 to 2007, the U.S. said.  Israel Sentence  Israel, Bayou’s co-founder, is serving a 22-year prison
term. He pleaded guilty in 2005 after admitting he hid hundreds
of millions of dollars in losses from a Ponzi scheme at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Bayou.  Today’s indictment offers no details of Kapur’s alleged
crimes and doesn’t mention Israel, Nadel or their funds by name.  Kapur made an initial court appearance before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Frank Maas, who ordered him detained. Kapur was
arrested yesterday as his flight arrived at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  in  New York , Assistant U.S. Attorney
Bonnie Jonas said.  Maximum Sentence  Kapur faces a statutory maximum of 125 years in prison if
convicted of all seven counts, Bharara’s office said. Kapur was
scheduled to be arraigned before U.S. District Judge John Keenan
on July 25.  Barry Zone, Kapur’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment about his
client.  Kapur and ThinkStrategy, which the SEC said managed
$520 million in assets at its peak in 2008, didn’t admit or deny
the agency’s claims in the settlement. A final judgment was
entered in the civil case on Nov. 18,  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman, said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kapur, 12-mj-535, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  