-- Innovation City Wins Bid for London Olympic Media Centers
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-17T13:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/innovation-city-wins-bid-for-london-olympic-media-centers.html
Innovation City , a unit of data
center provider Infinity SDC Ltd., was chosen to lease two media
centers built for the London 2012 Olympics, according to the
company managing properties built for the games.  The joint venture between closely held Infinity and U.K.
developer Delancey Estates Plc, was selected from four bids to
lease the Main Press Centre and International Broadcast Centre
after the summer games, the London Legacy Development
Corporation said today in an e-mailed statement. No financial
details were disclosed.  The agreement will “act as spring board for major  job
creation  and new opportunities for local people,” London Mayor
 Boris Johnson  said in the statement.  London 2012 Olympic officials are seeking buyers for
buildings and sports facilities erected for the games after
previous host cities were left with underused or dormant
structures. Innovation city, or iCITY, plans to create a
technology, design and research hub at the Olympic site that
includes a “digital academy” and brings together start-up
business and investors, spokesman Nick Colwill said by e-mail.
The project will have a conference center and a public square,
according to the statement.  The media centers, located in the northwest corner of the
Olympic Park in Stratford, East London, will house 20,000
journalists during the games. The Broadcast Centre will have
95,000 square feet (8,826 square meters) of offices and 575,000
square feet of commercial space available for occupation after
the games. The Press Centre will have about 317,000 square feet
of offices.  Delancey and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. agreed
in August to buy the athlete’s village at the Olympic park for
557 million pounds ($870 million) for conversion into homes.  Infinity SDC is a  Milton Keynes , England-based data center
operator that has investment from Rothschild Investment Trust
and Lansdowne Partners, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 