-- Intel’s Sales Forecast Falls Short of Some Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-17T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/intel-s-sales-forecast-falls-short-of-some-analysts-estimates.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, forecast third-quarter sales that were
lower than some analysts had estimated as an economic slowdown
in China, the largest computer market, erodes demand.  Revenue in the current period will be $14.3 billion, plus
or minus $500 million,  Santa Clara , California-based Intel said
in a statement today. Analysts had projected sales of $14.6
billion, the average of estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. A year
earlier, sales were $14.2 billion.  Intel’s forecast adds to concern that expansion in China is
no longer enough to counter an economic slump in Europe and
sluggish growth in the U.S. The company, whose chips are in
eight out of 10 of the world’s personal computers, had
maintained that demand outside the U.S. and  Europe  would drive
sales of PCs as more consumers in developing nations become able
to buy their first machines.  “It will be difficult for Intel to achieve the type of
growth that they were looking for the rest of the year,” said
Tristan Gerra, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. “This year
it’s looking more like flat” growth for the PC market, he said.  Gerra, who is based in San Francisco, has an outperform
 rating  on the company’s stock, because it gets a higher
proportion of sales from the business-PC market than rival
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , he said.  Last week, AMD disclosed that revenue unexpectedly slumped
11 percent in the second quarter. The company blamed weakness in
 China  and Europe for the decline, which contrasted with a
previous estimate for growth of as much as 6 percent.  Intel  shares  climbed 1 percent to $25.38 at the close in
 New York . That left the shares up 4.7 percent this year.  Gross Margin  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, will be about 63 percent in the
current period, Intel said. Analysts on average had projected
gross margin of 64 percent. In last year’s third quarter,
Intel’s gross margin was 63.4 percent.  Because its chips power more than 80 percent of the world’s
PCs,  investors  view Intel’s earnings as a broad indicator of
demand for desktop, server and laptop computers. The company’s
announcement kicks off two weeks of earnings reports by the
largest U.S. technology companies.  For the second quarter, Intel said net income was $2.83
billion, or 54 cents a share, compared with $2.95 billion, or 54
cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 3.6 percent to $13.5 billion.
Analysts had projected profit of 52 cents a share on sales of
$13.5 billion. In April, Intel had predicted sales of $13.6
billion, plus or minus $500 million.  PC shipments totaled 87.5 million units in the second
quarter, a decline of 0.1 percent from the same period a year
earlier, market researcher Gartner said last week.  Intel’s biggest customers are PC makers Hewlett-Packard Co.
and Dell Inc., according to a Bloomberg  supply-chain analysis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  