-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Rises on Europe Crisis
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-07-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-rises-on-europe-crisis.html
International demand for U.S.
financial assets rose in May as investors sought shelter from
the debt crisis in  Europe .  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$55 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$27.2 billion in April, the  Treasury Department  said today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net
buying of $41.3 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $101.7 billion in May, compared with net
selling of $8.2 billion the previous month.  “The euro zone troubles had not yet reached their zenith
in May and the dollar’s surge against the euro is a sign that
global investors shifted assets into the safe haven of U.S.
Treasuries and other securities,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said
by e-mail before today’s report. “The U.S. despite its slower
economic growth remains an oasis of safety for investors seeking
to keep their portfolio’s free from danger.”  Maintained Attraction  U.S. assets have maintained their attraction as European
Union leaders grapple with a financial crisis that has pushed up
Italian borrowing costs while the euro area bails out Spanish
banks.  China ’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, while the  International
Monetary Fund  said the world economy will increase 3.9 percent
next year, down from 4.1 percent projected in April.  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
May ranged from net buying of $5 billion to $50 billion,
according to four economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  “A flight to safe assets led to a collapse of yields on
 government bonds  in the U.S.,  Germany , and  Switzerland , and
pushed the dollar to a 20 month high against major currencies,”
the IMF said yesterday in a report on global financial
stability.  The U.S. has avoided the turbulence rocking Europe, where
five nations have sought bailouts as their borrowing costs
soared because investors boycotted their bonds. Instead, they
have sought U.S. assets as a haven because of the dollar’s
status as the world’s primary reserve currency, pushing note
yields to record lows even though the amount of public debt
outstanding has grown to $15.9 trillion from less than $9
trillion in 2007.  China Biggest  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in May after its holdings rose $5.2 billion to $1.17 trillion,
according to the Treasury.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China, raised its
holdings of Treasuries by $400 million to $145.4 billion.  International net purchases of  U.S. Treasuries  rose to
$45.9 billion in May from $38.7 billion the month before.  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  The Treasury said in February it was shifting from a
transaction-based survey to a custodial survey to keep track of
foreigners’ holdings. As a result, month-to-month comparisons
are not comparable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  