-- Intel Cuts 2012 Forecast as U.S., Europe Fail to Rebound
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-18T20:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/intel-s-sales-forecast-misses-some-analysts-estimates-1-.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, scaled back its annual sales forecast as
personal-computer demand fails to rebound among consumers in the
U.S. and  Europe .  Revenue will rise 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012, the
company said in a statement yesterday. That was lower than an
earlier projection for a gain at a percentage in the high single
digits.  Santa Clara , California-based Intel posted $54 billion
in sales last year, and analysts on average  estimated  growth of
4.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With demand in developed countries ebbing, Intel is relying
on PC purchases in emerging regions such as  China  and  India  for
growth. Though its third-quarter sales forecast fell short of
some analysts’ projections, the company’s data-center group,
which makes chips used in the server machines that underpin
networks, posted a sales gain of 15 percent in the second
quarter, helping keep profitability at record levels.  “They’re definitely recognizing the weakness out there,”
said  Patrick Wang , a New York-based analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. “Margins were fairly robust. Data center continues to work
for them.”  Revenue in the third quarter will be $14.3 billion, plus or
minus $500 million, Intel said. Analysts had projected sales of
$14.6 billion, the average of estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.
Gross margin will be about 63 percent this quarter, the company
said, compared with 63.4 percent in the second quarter.  AMD’s Forecast  Intel  shares  increased 3.3 percent to $26.21 at the close
in  New York . The stock has gained 8.1 percent this year.  Last week, Intel rival  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
disclosed that revenue unexpectedly slumped 11 percent in the
second quarter. The company blamed weakness in China and Europe
for the decline, which contrasted with a previous estimate for
growth of as much as 6 percent. Applied Materials Inc., Intel’s
biggest  supplier , also cited China in lowering its forecasts.  Intel’s better performance allayed some concerns that the
company might say that there would be no growth in the computer
market this year, said  Daniel Amir , an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets.  “It’s better than the worst fears out there,” he said.  Analysts on average had projected third-quarter  gross
margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after deducting
costs of production, of 64 percent. In last year’s third
quarter, Intel’s gross margin was 63.4 percent, and sales were
$14.2 billion.  Economic Environment  “The macroeconomic environment’s really a little weaker
than we saw when we began the year,” Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said in Bloomberg Television interview.  Consumers in Europe and the U.S. haven’t started spending
again as quickly as Intel had expected, and growth in China has
moderated, forcing the company to reduce its sales target for
the year, Smith said in a separate phone interview. While
inventory has increased because PC makers don’t want to risk
having unused stockpiles of parts, Intel is confident that it
can sell the chips it has on hand in the current quarter, he
said.  The company didn’t lower prices and has taken market share
in cheaper laptops and desktop machines from AMD with better
products, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said. Intel is
sticking to its prediction that Ultrabooks, slim-line notebook
PCs that resemble  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s MacBook Air, will reach 40
percent of consumer laptops sold this year, Otellini told
analysts on a conference call yesterday. Intel set the
specifications for the new devices, made by Dell Inc. and other
PC makers, hoping to fire up consumer interest.  Second Quarter  For the second quarter, Intel said net income was $2.83
billion, or 54 cents a share, compared with $2.95 billion, or 54
cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 3.6 percent to $13.5 billion.
Analysts had projected profit of 52 cents a share on sales of
$13.5 billion. In April, Intel had predicted sales of $13.6
billion, plus or minus $500 million.  Because its chips power more than 80 percent of the world’s
PCs,  investors  view Intel’s earnings as a broad indicator of
demand for desktop, server and laptop computers. The company’s
announcement kicks off two weeks of earnings reports by the
largest U.S. technology companies.  PC shipments totaled 87.5 million units in the second
quarter, a decline of 0.1 percent from the same period a year
earlier, market researcher Gartner Inc. said last week.  Intel’s biggest customers are PC makers Hewlett-Packard Co.
and Dell, according to a Bloomberg  supply-chain analysis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  