-- Investors Pay to Fund EFSF Aid With Bills at Negative Yield
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-07-17T13:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/investors-pay-to-fund-efsf-aid-with-bills-at-negative-yield-1-.html
Investors are paying the European
Financial Stability Facility for the privilege of financing
 Europe ’s temporary rescue fund, with demand to buy its debt
increasing even as yields drop below zero.  The facility auctioned 1.49 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of
six-month bills at a yield of minus 0.0113 percent today,
Germany’s Bundesbank, which acts as agent for the sales, said in
a statement. Participants bid for 2.97 times the amount of debt
allocated, compared to a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.06
when the fund sold 182-day bills at a yield of 0.1421 percent on
June 19. A negative yield on EFSF bills means investors who hold
them to maturity will receive less than they paid to buy them.  “Investors are keen to snap up any kind of paper that can
offer security and the EFSF, to some extent, has safe-haven
status,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist
at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “You can call it a paradox,
but that’s the reality of the market.”  The EFSF joins Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, the
Netherlands and Switzerland in being able to attract investors
to pay for the safety of holding their debt. Borrowing costs of
Europe’s higher-rated nations have plunged since the  European
Central Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.75 percent
and lowered its deposit rate to zero on July 5.  ‘Significant Demand’  The EFSF was set up in 2010 for three years to raise money
in the debt markets to fund Europe’s rescue packages. It’s
backed by guarantees from euro-area governments and has a total
lending capacity of 440 billion euros, according to its  website .
Greece, Ireland and Portugal benefit from EFSF loans.  The EFSF has the top AAA credit grade from Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings and is rated AA+, the
second-highest rank, by  Standard & Poor’s .  “There is very significant demand for short-dated paper
from the organization,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London. With an
“uncertain backdrop” in Europe, “EFSF issuance backed by the
tax-raising powers of the non-bailed out euro-zone countries is
an attractive place to park your money, even if you have to pay
a parking fee,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  