-- Investors Halve U.S. Equity Holdings Amid Growth Concern
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/investors-halve-u-s-equity-holdings-amid-growth-concern.html
Asset allocation in U.S. equities
more than halved in July to a nine-month low as investors sold
technology companies amid concern about the outlook for global
growth, a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  survey showed.  A net 14 percent of respondents, who together manage $567
billion, said they were overweight U.S. stocks, meaning they
owned more than represented in global benchmarks. That’s down
from 31 percent last month. Holdings in technology companies
were reduced to a seven-month low, with 32 percent now
overweight the industry versus 41 percent in June.  “Investor sentiment deteriorated further despite a rally
in equities and commodities since the June survey,” wrote BofA
strategists  Michael Hartnett  and  Gary Baker  in the report to
clients dated today. “Pessimism was sharpened by a big drop in
corporate-profit expectations and fading hopes for quantitative
easing in the third quarter.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has climbed 5.9 percent
since June 1, rebounding from two months of declines, as central
banks around the world announced stimulus measures to support
economic growth. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24
commodities has rallied 13 percent from its 2012 low on June 21.  Even so, asset allocators remained “significantly”
underweight in equities and overweight cash in July as growth
expectations for global growth fell for a second month. Money
managers also reduced their holdings in commodities to the
lowest level since February 2009 with 25 percent of respondents
now anticipating a global recession.  The outlook for corporate earnings also slumped in July,
with 38 percent expecting lower profit growth compared to 19
percent in June.  Emerging-market stocks were the most favored amongst
respondents, with 19 percent overweight the group, while
investors remained underweight in the euro area.  BofA conducted the global survey from July 6 to July 12
which included 190 respondents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  