-- Investcorp to Buy 30 Percent of Turkish Menswear Group Orka
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-07-17T12:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/investcorp-to-buy-30-percent-of-turkish-menswear-group-orka-1-.html
Investcorp Bank BSC, a private
equity firm with investments in Gucci and  Saks Fifth Avenue 
among other luxury brands, signed an agreement to buy a 30
percent stake in Turkish fashion menswear retailer  Orka Group .  The companies didn’t disclose the value of the transaction,
which is subject to approval by  Turkey ’s antitrust board,
according to an e-mailed statement in Istanbul today.  Investcorp, which had $12 billion of assets under
management at the end of June, is making the acquisition through
its Gulf Opportunity Fund and it’ll be the Bahrain-listed buyout
firm’s third investment in Turkey, Mohammed Al-Shroogi,
Investcorp’s president for Gulf business, said in a separate e-
mailed statement today.  Last year, 46 mergers and acquisitions were done by private
equity firms in Turkey, out of a total 241 deals in the country,
 Deloitte & Touche LLP  said in January. BC Partners Ltd., Abraaj
Capital Ltd. and the  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  are among international
private equity firms that have invested in Turkey in recent
years as companies seek to tap the country’s $772 billion
economy, which grew 8.5 percent in 2011, the fastest pace among
Group of 20 countries after China and Argentina.  Help Expansion  Investcorp’s investment will help Orka to enter new markets
and grow in Turkey, chairman Suleyman Orakcioglu said in the
statement. Orka’s fashion products, which include brands such as
Damat, Tween and D’S Damat, are sold in more than 250 stores in
40 countries, according to the statement.  Turkey’s organized luxury menswear market is about $7.4
billion and is expected to sustain its growth, according to the
statement.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , Chaumet, Breguet, Ebel and Carter’s
are other brands that Investcorp has invested in, it said.  Orka Group has hired UniCredit Menkul Degerler AS, the
Turkish unit of  Unicredit SpA (UCG) , to sell a minority stake and
several bidders, including L Capital, a unit of the Paris-based
luxury goods group  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , are in
talks, Unicredit Menkul chief executive Kaan Basaran said Jan.
13.  Investcorp’s first investment in Turkey was in Istanbul-
based computer distributor  Arena Bilgisayar (ARENA)  Sanayi & Ticaret AS,
whose 49.4 percent stake it acquired for $42.5 million in 2010
through its unit Redington Gulf, which it agreed to sell in
February, spokesman Firas el-Amine said in a phone interview.
Investcorp also bought a minority stake for $50 million in
Tiryaki Agro, a producer and seller of wheat and pistachio
products in southeastern Gaziantep, it said in September 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 