-- Irish Urge London Bankers to Swap Olympic Rat Race for Guinness
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-07-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/irish-urge-london-bankers-to-swap-olympic-rat-race-for-guinness.html
With the promise of tranquility and
pints of creamy Guinness, Ireland is seeking to attract harassed
Londoners seeking refuge from the Olympics.  A new  advertisement  emphasising how London’s transport
system will be overcrowded and the city clogged with visitors
during the games contrasts the “madness” to the peace of the
Irish countryside. The ad claims a Londoner could make it to
Ireland and enjoy a pint of Guinness before a banker could cross
the city to sip a latte in his office.  “Travel nightmare,” says a voiceover by Irish actor Chris
O’Dowd, who starred in the movie “Bridesmaids.” “Victory
won’t bring you happiness, young banker.”  The clip is part of Ireland’s 500,000-euro ($612,000)
campaign to cash in on the Olympics, which are due to start on
July 27. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government has put tourism
at the center of its efforts to rebuild the economy, struggling
to emerge from the worst recession in its modern history.  In Paris, which lost to  London  in the competition among
cities to host the games, the Ile de France tourist board last
month said it planned to award an all-expenses-paid trip to the
French capital for two days to two British people for every gold
medal a U.K. athlete wins at the games. The campaign is called
“ Celebrate Your Victories in Style. ”  “Tourism Ireland’s ‘Escape the Madness’ campaign is
targeting Londoners by presenting the island of Ireland as the
ideal escape destination,” Niall Gibbons,  Tourism Ireland ’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Transport Challenge’  London  is dedicating motorway lanes for Olympians, with the
games presenting a “transport challenge,” according to the
organizing committee, led by Sebastian Coe.  On the busiest days, an extra 3 million journeys will be
undertaken in the U.K. capital and the Olympic Road Network will
affect as much as 30 percent of road traffic in Greater London,
according to the website.  The reserved roads stretch from the Wimbledon tennis venue
in southwest London, past Hyde Park and eastward to the Olympic
Park in Newham. An evening car ride from Wimbledon to the
Athletes’ Village in Stratford will be 47 minutes longer than
usual, according to estimates by getaheadofthegames.com, which
helps people navigate London during the event.  “While the Olympics will be an exciting time for many
Londoners, the increased demand on public transport with the
mass influx of sports fans, athletes and media will not be for
everyone,” said Gibbons.  The Irish ad, which lasts 2:20 minutes, shows a stressed
office worker battling with a heaving transport system, buses
too full to stop, taxis stuck in traffic, and tourists blocking
his route as he tries to get a coffee on the way to his office.
Meanwhile, his friend goes to Waterford, southeast Ireland, and
sips a pint of Guinness looking out to sea.  Visitor numbers to Ireland fell 19 percent between 2007 and
2011, according to the country’s  statistics agency . The U.K.
accounts for about 44 percent of tourists.  “How will you deal with the madness?” finishes the Irish
ad. “Will you embrace it, or escape it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  