-- This Time ‘Class Warfare’ Cry is True
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-07-17T22:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/this-time-class-warfare-cry-is-true.html
Republicans have been waging class
warfare for years -- and winning without working up a sweat. For
proof, just take a look at the welfare program for the wealthy
that is the U.S. tax code.  Such victories aside, Republicans have always claimed that
it’s Democrats who play the class card. Whisper that the top 1
percent pay the lowest  tax rate  in 80 years and you’re
trafficking in class resentment. Help the working and middle
classes get health care and you’re a socialist.  Last week, Mitt Romney called the social safety net “free
stuff.” In other words, if the unemployed get insurance or the
poor receive  food stamps , it’s a giveaway. If a private equity
manager pays 14 percent tax on his millions while a firefighter
pays 28 percent on his thousands, that’s rewarding risk takers.  This summer, though, Republicans finally have a point.
Democrats really are playing class warfare. They haven’t won
yet, but with Romney as the Republican standard bearer,
they just might.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign met with resistance when
it first attacked Romney as an out-of-touch businessman whose
experience at Bain Capital LLC, rather than qualify him for the
presidency, disqualifies him. A few Democrats, dependent for
campaign cash on life’s big winners, complained that Obama was
attacking free enterprise.  Newark ,  New Jersey , Mayor  Cory Booker 
called the attacks “nauseating,” echoing the complaints of  Rush Limbaugh  and the Wall Street Journal editorial page, who had
jumped on Romney’s primary rivals when they characterized his
business tactics as “vulture capitalism.”  Exploiter Class  Democrats have stopped complaining. In the best  political
ad  in years, Obama’s campaign features Romney singing an off-key
“America the Beautiful” with lines such as “amber waves of
grain” and “God shed his grace on thee” illustrated by images
juxtaposing shuttered factories in the U.S. with the Romney  tax
havens  of  Bermuda , the  Cayman Islands  and  Switzerland .  The attack on Romney as exemplar of the exploiter class has
been so effective that the Republican candidate has gone rogue
on his own resume, distancing himself from his private equity
career. When Securities and Exchange Commission documents
surfaced listing Romney as sole shareholder, chairman, chief
executive officer and president of Bain through 2002, Romney
cried like a stuck pig. Although he continued earning income as
a Bain executive, he now claims it was a no-show job after 1999.
(The assertion, made without irony, coincides with the Romney
campaign accusing Obama of “crony capitalism.”)  Romney is so spooked by the attack, he gave five network
interviews on July 13, which means four of the interviewers
didn’t even work for Fox. Curiously, Romney’s attempt to
distinguish between “the owner of an entity” and the “person
who’s running an entity” did not clarify his political muddle.
Republican strategist  Ed Gillespie  did Romney one better,
describing Romney’s untenable existential quandary -- being
chairman and CEO of a company in which he had no role -- with a
phrase that would make Orwell blush. Romney, Gillespie
explained, had achieved a state of “retroactive retirement” in
2002. It was political doublespeak for the age of the Higgs
boson.  Rather than surrender to demands that he release his tax
returns, Romney instead insisted on a presidential apology --
the last refuge of a whiny candidate who looks even weaker when
the apology never materializes.  Campaign Requirement  Asking for tax returns, of course, is not a plot against
the candidate; it is a requirement of running. In 1968, Mitt’s
father, George Romney, unfurled 12 years of returns as he sought
the Republican presidential nomination.  Mitt Romney  turned over
23 years to the McCain campaign when he was being vetted for the
2008 ticket. His prospects declined when McCain’s staff added
Romney’s houses to those McCain owned and the tally reached
double digits.  We’ve had wealthy presidents before; wealth is practically
a prerequisite for running. But a major-party candidate who
stashes his riches in foreign tax havens is new. It’s also not
playing well to independent voters, 19 percent of whom say they
are  troubled by Romney’s wealth .  Class warfare has been so good to Obama that he has opened
up a  lead in swing states , where Romney’s favorable ratings have
declined.  The battle isn’t about Romney’s wealth, and it’s only
partly about where he keeps it; mostly it’s about how he made
it. Romney piled companies with debt, extracted dividends and
fees for himself and investors, and then walked away from the
debt-laden carcasses as the jobs and pensions went bust.  Romney’s experience would look good on an application for a
job in private equity. It does not look good on an application
for the White House.  Meanwhile, as Romney tries to get the bull’s-eye off his
back, the cool guy in the Oval Office is warming up on the
campaign trail. “I’m one of you” is not a natural appeal for a
son of  Hawaii  whose father hailed from  Kenya  and whose single
mother spent much of her son’s youth in  Asia .  Yet getting personal has been working for Obama. He told a
crowd last week in Pittsburgh about childhood travels with his
mother, sister and grandmother on buses, trains and, once, on
summer vacation, via the luxury of a rented car. He recalled
staying at a Howard Johnson.  “It didn’t matter how big the pool was,” he said. “I’d jump
in. I was 11 years old, and I was excited just to go to the
vending machine and get the ice bucket and get the ice.”  It’s a scene millions of strapped Americans instantly
recognize. Obama captured the universal kid experience of
sitting in the back seat watching the world whiz by on the
interstate, eager to plunge in to whatever comes next. Right
now, it looks like it might be a second term.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  amorality of banks and
ineffectual regulators , on the need for a  tougher Syria policy 
and on Republicans’  campaign-finance betrayal ; Clive Crook on
destructive  capitalism-bashing ;  Peter Orszag  on keeping children
from getting  fatter and dumber  during the summer; Nell Minow on
why letting CEOs lead their own boards is like letting students
 grade their own exams .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 