-- Netanyahu Coalition Loses Major Ally in Draft Law Dispute
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-07-18T08:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/israel-s-kadima-quits-netanyahu-coalition-over-draft-dispute-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s largest coalition partner quit in a dispute over
proposed changes to a law on draft deferments for ultra-Orthodox
Jews, leaving the government more dependent on religious and
nationalist parties.  Kadima voted to pull out about two months after party
leader Shaul Mofaz struck a surprise deal with Netanyahu to
create the biggest government alliance in 20 years, with 94
seats in the 120-member Knesset in  Jerusalem . Netanyahu will
retain a majority in parliament without Kadima’s 28 seats.  “I regret your decision to give up on an opportunity to
make a historic change,” Netanyahu said yesterday in a letter
to Mofaz that was e-mailed to journalists.  Kadima joined Netanyahu’s coalition on May 8 after the
prime minister promised to change government policy that lets
ultra-Orthodox men defer mandatory military service as long as
they are engaged in full-time religious studies. Broadening the
coalition nullified plans to hold early national elections in
September, which Netanyahu had called amid strains among his
allied parties.  The coalition between Likud and Kadima was billed as a
super-majority that would enable Netanyahu to pass legislation
that previously proved problematic, including the elimination or
reduction of draft deferments. It also was suggested that, freed
from the demands of religious and nationalist parties in the
coalition, Netanyahu might find it easier to make compromises
with the Palestinians that could lead to a breakthrough in the
 peace process .  ‘Necessary Seats’  “Netanyahu has the necessary seats to survive this and it
may be in the interest of every party in the coalition to keep
the government going until its expiration date in autumn next
year,” said  Gerald Steinberg , professor of political science at
Bar Ilan University outside Tel Aviv. “Both Netanyahu and Mofaz
come out of this looking bad. They had an opportunity to make a
historic law and made too many tactical mistakes.”  After a government panel appointed by Netanyahu failed to
agree on a law that would limit deferments for ultra-Orthodox
men, he entered into direct negotiations with Mofaz. The Kadima
leader said he couldn’t agree to granting the ultra-Orthodox an
initial draft deferment up to the age of 26 that would be
lowered only later.  “I was ready to make historic compromises, but there were
also red lines I wasn’t willing to cross,” Mofaz said, speaking
at a televised press conference.  ‘Only Way’  Netanyahu said that the “only way to implement this on the
ground is gradually and without tearing Israeli society apart.”  United Torah Judaism, a religious party in the coalition,
has demanded that the draft exemption be maintained and another
religious coalition member, Shas, has also opposed changes.  Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said today that his
Yisrael Beitanu party, now the second-biggest faction in the
coalition with 15 seats, has no intention of resigning even
though Netanyahu opposes its position that both ultra-Orthodox
Jews and Israeli Arabs should be drafted at 18. “We are
definitely not leaving the government,” Liberman told  Army
Radio , adding that early elections are now a possibility.  Working out a national service policy for the ultra-
Orthodox, or haredim as they are called in  Israel , would enable
more of them to enter into the workforce. The ultra-Orthodox may
be subject to the draft if they leave seminary studies to look
for work.  About 45 percent of ultra-Orthodox men work, compared with
about 80 percent of other Jewish males in Israel, according to
the  Bank of Israel . While the ultra-Orthodox make up about 8
percent to 10 percent of the population, they will represent 17
percent of working-age Israelis in 20 years because of their
high birthrate, according to the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  