-- Japan Mulls Extending Tax Break in Earthquake Zone
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-07-17T13:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/japan-mulls-extending-tax-break-in-earthquake-zone-correct-.html
(Corrects to say July 13 instead of June 13 in second
paragraph.)  Japan ’s government may consider
extending corporate tax breaks beyond the current five years for
companies investing in the disaster-ravaged northeast, a policy
maker said.  “The government will consider an extension depending on
circumstances,” Yoshinori Suematsu, Japan’s vice minister for
reconstruction, said July 13 in an interview at his Tokyo
office. “It’s an extremely unique situation in the disaster
area and we hope to attract many companies from both inside and
outside of Japan.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is plowing 19 trillion yen
($241 billion) into rebuilding from last year’s earthquake and
tsunami. Japan, which has one of the highest corporate tax rates
among advanced economies, in December created reconstruction
zones providing tax relief and incentives for projects in 227
municipalities.  “We hope to lure 100 Japanese or foreign companies into
the disaster area” in the next two to three years, said
Suematsu, 55, who is also a ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
lawmaker. The government hopes to double the amount of direct
foreign investment in Japan to 35 trillion yen by 2020 from 17.5
trillion yen in 2011, he said.  The reconstruction zone legislation includes measures such
as five-year exemptions on paying the national corporate tax of
26 percent for companies setting up facilities in disaster
areas. It also provides tax breaks for companies employing
disaster victims, and special depreciation or tax relief on
purchases of machines and equipment.  Japan’s effective corporate tax rate, which includes
national and local taxes, is 36 percent, according to the
Ministry of Finance. This compares with 41 percent in the U.S.,
33 percent in France and and 24 percent in the U.K.  Receiving Approval  Suematsu said about 300 companies have received approval
for using some of the tax waivers. Only one company has so far
been approved for a five-year corporate  tax exemption , according
to the ministry.  About 9 trillion yen, or 61 percent, of the 15 trillion yen
allocated for rebuilding in the fiscal year ended March was
spent in that year, according to the reconstruction agency. The
remaining 6 trillion yen will be rolled over to the current
fiscal year or allocated to state coffers. This is in addition
to the further 4 trillion yen initially allocated for fiscal
2012.  Attracting Investment  The Japan External Trade Organization, in collaboration
with the government, is visiting overseas cities in the first
tour of its kind to lure investment to the quake-stricken Tohoku
region. The trade body is hosting a forum in  New York  today,
having visited  Hong Kong  on July 9. It will go to Taipei on July
23.  The objective of the tour “is to create jobs and rebuild
communities in Japan as part of the reconstruction drive,” said
Suematsu, who worked at the foreign ministry for 14 years before
being elected to parliament’s lower house in 1996.  The American Chamber of Commerce in Japan sees the perks as
insufficient.  “Companies are not going to invest in Tohoku solely
because of subsidies or tax breaks,” said Jonathan Kushner, co-
chair of the ACCJ’s Tohoku Revitalization Task Force. “The
country needs to become more conducive to entrepreneurship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  