-- Jenner & Block, Orrick, Ropes & Gray, Cleary: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/jenner-block-orrick-ropes-gray-cleary-business-of-law.html
Entertainment executive and
litigator Kenneth L. Doroshow, who helped win a U.S. Supreme
Court ruling granting video games First Amendment protection,
has joined Jenner & Block LLP as a partner in the  Washington 
office. He will be a member of the firm’s content, media and
entertainment practice.  Doroshow was senior vice president and general counsel of
the Entertainment Software Association, the video game
industry’s national trade group, from 2008 to 2011. Before that,
he was senior vice president, litigation and legal affairs, for
the  Recording Industry Association of America , where he worked
from 2005 to 2008.  While at ESA, Doroshow and Jenner partner Paul M. Smith,
led the legal team that won a 2011 U.S. Supreme Court decision,
in Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association, finding that
video games are entitled to First Amendment protection.  Steven B. Fabrizio, co-chairman of Jenner’s content, media
and entertainment practice, called Doroshow one of the best in
the field and said he’d been recruiting him “hard” for more
than a decade. “Since the RIAA, we knew he was one of us in
every regard.”  Doroshow’s connections to Jenner date back many years.
Early in his career, Doroshow worked as a civil trial attorney
and a criminal prosecutor in the computer crime and intellectual
property section of the U.S. Justice Department.  While there in the 1990s, he worked with many colleagues
who subsequently left for Jenner, including Thomas Perrelli, the
former U.S. Associate Attorney General who was a managing
partner of Jenner’s Washington office as well as co-chairman of
the firm’s entertainment and new media practice.  Doroshow says it was in 2005, while at RIAA, that he began
working most closely with Jenner lawyers. At RIAA, he worked on
strategies for the protection and enforcement of sound recording
copyrights, including numerous lawsuits throughout the country
involving peer-to-peer software, Usenet services, satellite
radio, link sites,  search engines  and transnational anti-piracy
enforcement, the firm said.  Fabrizio notes though, that Doroshow’s earliest experience
at Jenner wasn’t as a lawyer but as a musician. His band
Amaretto played a Jenner holiday party in 1997.  “I was moonlighting before my kids came along,” Doroshow
says of his time as a guitar player with the band and Justice
Department attorney.  Doroshow, who was most recently managing director of the
Burford Group, which is an  investment adviser  to a provider of
investment capital for commercial litigation, says that he left
Burford because he missed his litigation practice.  “I missed this area of law -- content protection and media
and entertainment. I couldn’t give it up,” Doroshow said. There
was never any question which firm he would join, he said.  “I’ve worked with Jenner & Block attorneys for many years
on important issues. I know these lawyers very well. I don’t
think there’s a firm out there with a practice group that deals
so consistently, at the most cutting edge intersection of
entertainment and technology.”  Jenner has about 450 lawyers in  Chicago , Los Angles,  New
York  and Washington.  Deals  Glaxo to Pay $3 Billion for Human Genome to Own Lupus Drug  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed to buy  Human Genome Sciences
Inc. (HGSI)  for $3 billion in cash, winning control of its U.S. partner
on the Benlysta lupus therapy after a three-month takeover
battle and two decades of collaboration.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  and Wachtell Lipton
Rosen & Katz provided legal counsel to Glaxo. Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP represented Lazard and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as financial
advisers to Glaxo.  Human Genome  received legal advice from Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP and DLA Piper LLP and financial advice from
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   The Cleary Gottlieb corporate team includes partners Victor Lewkow and Benet O’Reilly.  Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by corporate partner Adam O. Emmerich and also included corporate partner David K. Lam and
litigation partner William Savitt.  The Gibson Dunn deal team is led by New York corporate
partners Dennis Friedman and Eduardo Gallardo.  From Skadden, Washington mergers and acquisitions partners
Marc Gerber and Michael Rogan handled the deal.  The DLA Piper team representing Human Genome Sciences was
led by global co-chairman of the corporate practice Jay Smith
and included partners Jason Harmon on corporate, Linda Thomas on
executive compensation and Paolo Morante on antitrust.  Glaxo raised its bid 9.6 percent to $14.25 a share, almost
twice the price of the stock on April 18, the last day of
trading before public disclosure of Glaxo’s initial $13-a-share
offer. Human Genome shareholders have until midnight New York
time on July 27 to tender their shares, London-based Glaxo said
in a statement yesterday. Including debt and cash, the deal is
valued at about $3.6 billion.  Drugmakers, facing generic competition in the U.S. and
price cuts in  Europe , have been acquiring companies to add new
medicines. Buying Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome gives
Glaxo full control over marketing Benlysta, which won U.S.
approval last year as the first new lupus drug in five decades.
Glaxo and Human Genome are also collaborating on two
experimental medicines that are in late-stage testing:
albiglutide for diabetes and darapladib for  heart disease .  Glaxo has won U.S. approval of more than  15 new drugs  and
vaccines in the U.S. since 2008, and last year won clearance for
three new products, including Benlysta. The company is trying to
rebuild its diabetes business after the Avandia drug was
withdrawn from the market in Europe in 2010 and sales were
limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of heart
attacks. The drugmaker sold the first HIV drug a quarter century
ago and is also staging a comeback in that market.  Glaxo’s strategy has been to acquire companies with which
it already collaborates on medicines. The U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker this year has agreed to pay 61 million pounds for the
80 percent share of Cellzome it didn’t own and increased its
stake in  Theravance Inc. (THRX) , its partner on respiratory medicines.  For more, click here.  Par Pharmaceutical to Be Bought by TPG for $1.9 Billion  Par Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX) , a maker of generic drugs, agreed
to be acquired for $1.9 billion by TPG Capital as the private-
equity firm looks to gain from efforts to curtail health-care
costs.  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP acted as Par’s legal
adviser, JPMorgan Chase & Co. acted as financial adviser.
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as independent legal counsel
to Par’s Board of Directors.  Ropes & Gray LLP acted as legal adviser to TPG, Bank of
America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
acted as financial advisers and provided financing to TPG.  The Orrick partners are King Milling in New York and
Richard Vernon Smith in  San Francisco . Cravath mergers and
acquisitions partners Scott A. Barshay and George F. Schoen led
the firm’s team.  Ropes & Gray’s deal team was led by  Boston  corporate
partner Will Shields and included Boston corporate partner
Amanda Morrison and New York debt finance partner Jay Kim.  Par stockholders will receive $50 a share in cash, the
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based company said in a statement
yesterday. The offer carries a 37 percent premium over Par’s
closing share  price  on July 13. Par rose to $50.19 at 10:43 a.m.
New York time yesterday, above TPG’s offer, indicating that
investors are expecting a higher bid.  Under the agreement, Par will seek a better offer through
Aug. 24, the company said. The price is low compared with recent
deals for generic-drug makers and Par likely will draw other
bidders, said Jim Molloy, an analyst with ThinkEquity LLC in
Boston. Potential buyers may include Endo Health Solutions Inc.
or Mylan Inc., he said.  “I think this is an opening bid,” Molloy said in a
telephone interview. “Endo or someone that is looking to expand
in the generic space would be able to pay higher.”  Nina Devlin, a spokeswoman for Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-
based Mylan, and Kevin Wiggins, a spokesman for  Chadds Ford ,
Pennsylvania-based Endo, both declined in an e-mail to comment
on whether their companies would be making a bid for Par.  Par generated $926 million in revenue last year and has
more than 50 products on the market and 30 in development.  TPG has health-care investments including Aptalis Pharma
Inc., Biomet Inc. and IASIS Healthcare LLC. The firm oversees
$51.5 billion of assets under management.  For more, click here.  News  New York Bar Forms Task Force on Lawyer Employment  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s Carey R. Dunne, the president
of the New York City Bar Association, has organized a committee
to explore the cause of the drop in legal employment
opportunities.  The committee, formed after the  American Bar Association 
found that only 55 percent of recent law graduates found full-
time legal employment, will be comprised of law school deans,
government attorneys, large and small firm leaders and in-house
counsel, among others.  “Too many law graduates face diminished opportunities to
launch their careers and fear they will never get on track. Even
those who are employed are justifiably worried about their
longer-term prospects for a productive and satisfying career in
the law,” Dunne said in a statement. “Whether these recent
changes are temporary or reflect a more fundamental shift in the
structure and operation of the legal profession, the time has
come for the leaders of our profession to respond.”  Large firm leaders include Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP’s
chairman, Richard I. Beattie; Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP’s executive partner Eric J. Friedman; Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP’s chairman Brad S. Karp; U.S.
managing partner of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, Julian
Pritchard, and Kathleen M. Sullivan, a partner at Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP.  Mark Morril, vice president of the New York City Bar
Association and senior vice president and deputy general counsel
at Viacom Inc., will be chairman of the committee. It will
convene in September and issue a report next summer, according
to the bar association statement.  Fees  MF Global Parent’s Unpaid Fees Total $24.9 Million  Louis Freeh  and lawyers from his firm,  Freeh Sporkin &
Sullivan LLP , who are representing him as trustee for MF Global
Holdings Ltd. have run up $15.7 million in fees that can’t be
paid because there isn’t available cash, according to the June
operating report filed with the  bankruptcy court  in New York.  On top of fees for the trustee, lawyers for the official
creditors’ committee have $9.2 million in currently unpayable
fees.  MF Global Holdings is the parent of MF Global Inc., the
liquidating commodities broker $1.6 billion short in accounts
holding customer property. The expenses of the separate trustee
for the broker are paid by the Securities Investor Protection
Corp.  The MF Global companies under Freeh’s control generated
$2.25 million in cash in June, when the outflow was $4 million.
The net outflow in the month was $2.25 million.  Freeh ended June with $16.5 million in cash still available
for use in paying expenses other than professional fees. During
June, $1.66 million of cash was used from so-called cash
collateral of secured lender  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA. (JPM)   At the outset of bankruptcy in October, the holding company
had no available cash other than $25.3 million in an account
held by the bankrupt finance subsidiary MF Global Finance USA
Inc. The account was maintained at JPMorgan, which claimed the
money in the account was collateral for loans the bank made and
could only be used with the bank’s permission. Arrangements were
later made to use the bank’s cash collateral to pay expenses
other than professional fees.  Last week, the bankruptcy judge approved $17.3 million in
fees for the primary counsel for James Giddens, of Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP, the trustee liquidating the brokerage
subsidiary. The approved fees cover the period from the
beginning of the case through Feb. 29. About $3 million in fees,
or 15 percent, are being held back for payment later in the
case. SIPC approved the amount of fees paid.  The MF Global Holdings parent and the commodity brokerage
subsidiary went into separate bankruptcies on Oct. 31.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  