-- Jeremy Lin No Longer Benefits MSG Stock, Gamco’s Marangi Says
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-17T20:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/jeremy-lin-no-longer-benefits-msg-stock-gamco-s-marangi-says.html
Gamco Investors (GBL)  Inc.,  Madison Square
Garden Co. (MSG) ’s third-largest shareholder, has a “sell” rating on
Jeremy Lin.  The National Basketball Association’s New York Knicks,
owned by MSG, should allow the 23-year-old point guard to go to
the Houston Rockets because his contract overvalues him,  Chris Marangi , a portfolio manager at Rye, New York-based Gamco, said
in a telephone interview.  New York can keep Lin by matching Houston’s three-year,
$25.1 million offer. The third year of the deal would be worth
$14.8 million, nearly three times higher than the average NBA
salary. The signing of veteran  Jason Kidd  and the trade that
brought  Raymond Felton  back to the team indicate the Knicks may
be planning for a future without the Harvard University
graduate.  “We like it when companies shop for bargains, and Ray Felton looks like a bargain compared to Jeremy Lin,” Marangi
said. “We’re value investors.”  Gamco and Gabelli Funds, a sister investment program, own
about 5 million shares of MSG, approximately 8 percent of the
company and trailing only Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and
T Rowe Price Group Inc. in the firm’s holdings.  Lin’s back-loaded contract, when combined with the salaries
of New York’s  Carmelo Anthony , Amar’e Stoudemire and  Tyson Chandler , would cause the James Dolan-owned team to pay tens of
millions of dollars in luxury taxes, the NBA’s method of
preventing large-revenue clubs from hoarding the league’s best
players.  The luxury tax on Lin’s deal may cost the Knicks an extra
$35 million to $45 million in payments by the third year of the
contract if the team keeps Anthony, Stoudemire and Chandler.  ‘Fiscal Restraint’  “From the point of fiscal restraint, I don’t see how you
can argue for Jeremy Lin, in any shape or form,” Rich Tullo, an
analyst at Albert Fried & Co., said in an interview.  Lin has played 64 NBA games -- less than a full season --
and is returning from a knee injury that kept him out of the
final 17 games of the 2011-12 regular season and the playoffs.  His meteoric rise, dubbed “Linsanity,” peaked in February
after Lin scored 38 points against  Kobe Bryant  and the  Los
Angeles Lakers  and 28 points against the defending champion
Dallas Mavericks. Lin led the Knicks to a 10-4 February record
and his fame was credited with encouraging  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC)  and MSG to sign a contract to carry the MSG Network, which
airs Knicks games.  Lin’s success fueled a 37 percent increase in ticket and
merchandising sales last quarter to $216.1 million. While that’s
an $80 million boost, his presence already has been priced into
the stock, said  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York.  MSG shares, which have gained 25 percent this year, fell
0.5 percent to $35.81 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.  Biggest Effect  The TV rights deal will be Lin’s biggest effect on the
Knicks, even if the team signs him to a new contract, Tullo
said. Cable and satellite-TV operators pay more than $4.50 a
month per subscriber for MSG and MSG Plus, according to
researcher SNL Kagan.  “The benefit of Linsanity was manifested in the Time
Warner Cable affiliate agreement that’s providing the team with
an annuity in the future, and the Knicks have already received
that benefit,” Tullo said.  Ultimately, signing Lin won’t be as important to MSG’s
performance as a winning Knicks team, Marangi said. “I think
Jeremy Lin would be forgotten if the Knicks are able to put
together a strong run next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  