-- Jindal Steel Terminates $2.1 Billion Bolivia Iron Project
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-07-17T22:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/jindal-steel-terminates-2-1-billion-bolivia-iron-project.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) ,  India ’s
second-biggest steelmaker by market value, said it terminated a
contract to build the $2.1 billion El Mutun iron mine in
 Bolivia , the biggest investment project to be canceled since
President  Evo Morales  took office in 2006.  Bolivia offered a quarter of the 10 million cubic meters a
day of natural gas originally pledged and failed to provide
enough land for the project, New Delhi-based Jindal said today
in a statement posted on its  website . Bolivia’s government said
it will call for new bids for the project within six months.  “Due to the non-fulfillment of the contractual obligations
and unwillingness to fulfill the contract on the part of the
government of Bolivia, Jindal has been forced to terminate the
contract,” the company said, adding it plans to pursue
international arbitration.  Jindal, which signed a contract in 2007 to develop 20
billion tons of iron-ore reserves at El Mutun, had planned to
build a 1.7 million ton-per-year steel plant in addition to a
sponge-iron factory, a pellet unit and a power project,
according to the company’s  website . Jindal has spent $90 million
on the project to date, according to the company.  Investment has dwindled in the landlocked Andean nation
since Morales nationalized gas fields, telecommunications and
electricity companies. During the past month, the government has
seized mines belonging to  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and  South
American Silver Corp. (SAC)   ‘Economic Weakness’  Jindal withdrew from the project for lack of funds and not
because of government pressure, Mining Minister Mario Virreira
said. The government seized the company’s $36 million guarantee
for failing to meet its contract, he said.  “We’re all aware of Jindal’s lack of serious economic
management and economic weakness,” Virreira said today in a
press conference in  La Paz  broadcast by state Radio Patria
Nueva. “This puts an end to Jindal’s participation in the
country.”  Future bidders will have to provide financial guarantees
for at least 25 percent of investment commitments, Virreira
said.  Jindal’s New Delhi-based spokesman Vivek Sharma didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call and e-mail outside
business hours.  Jindal, which posted a $1 billion profit on $3.55 billion
in revenue last year, fell 0.8 percent to 415.65 rupees in
Bombay. The shares have dropped 8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  