-- JPMorgan Can’t Justify Withholding E-Mails, FERC Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-17T16:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/jpmorgan-can-t-justify-withholding-e-mails-ferc-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  can’t show that
25 e-mails sought in an investigation of possible energy-market
manipulation contain advice from lawyers and should remain out
of reach of regulators, the U.S.  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  told a federal magistrate.  The agency, in a filing today in U.S. District Court in
 Washington , said that JPMorgan made identical attorney-client
privilege claims for 28 other e-mails that were later turned
over to regulators. Some of the earlier e-mails that JPMorgan
claimed contained legal advice were messages that said “Great
job compliance,” “Are you being sarcastic?” and “Plse call
ASAP,” according to the filing.  “JPMorgan’s current privilege claims are the same as those
it improperly made about unprivileged documents,” Thomas Olson
and Vivian Chum, lawyers for the agency, wrote in the filing.  FERC sued JPMorgan on July 2 to release the e-mails in an
investigation of possible manipulation of power markets in
 California  and the Midwest by J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp.
U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly directed JPMorgan to
explain why the e-mails shouldn’t be turned over to
investigators.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , submitted copies of the e-
mails to the court on July 13 so they can be examined by U.S.
Magistrate Deborah Robinson, who is handling the dispute.  ‘Advice of Counsel’  “Each of the e-mails relates to the advice of counsel with
respect to the investigation -- not the adoption of the bidding
practices under investigation,” Michele Roberts, a lawyer for
JPMorgan, wrote in the bank’s filing. “The only possible use
the commission could make of the e-mails would be to peer into
the details of respondent’s legal strategy.”  FERC opened the probe in August after complaints from
California and Midwest grid operators that JPMorgan’s bidding
practices were abusive, according to the agency’s initial court
filing.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately comment on today’s filing because she hadn’t seen it
yet. Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the filing.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12-mc-352, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 