-- King Defends BOE Libor Role After Scrutiny on Geithner Memo
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-17T13:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/king-says-geithner-didn-t-allege-wrongdoing-as-scandal-persists.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King  said that he only became aware of Libor wrongdoing two weeks
ago and that a memo from  Timothy F. Geithner  in 2008 didn’t
highlight malpractice.  King told Parliament’s Treasury Committee today in  London 
that the e-mail sent by the then president of the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  included recommendations rather than
allegations at a time when global regulators were expressing
concern on the quality of the borrowing benchmark.  “Mr. Geithner was sending that to us as a suggestion for
how these rules should be constructed and we agreed with him,
but neither of us had evidence of wrongdoing,” King said. “The
first I knew of any alleged wrongdoing was when the reports came
out two weeks ago.”  King and Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner 
faced repeated questioning today on Libor and their roles in the
resignation of former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond . At risk is the Bank of England’s reputation as
the guardian of London’s financial district at time when the
government is preparing to put it in charge of regulation.  The Bank of England initially became embroiled in the
scandal over an October 2008 phone call between Diamond and  Paul Tucker , at the time markets director at the central bank. A memo
by Diamond of the call suggested Tucker might have hinted that
Barclays could lowball its Libor submissions.  ‘Congratulations’  Correspondence released today included a congratulatory e-
mail from Diamond in December 2008, when Tucker was promoted to
Bank of England deputy governor.  “Congratulations Well done, man. I am really, really proud
of you. Talk soon. Bob.” Tucker’s response is: “Thanks so much
Bob. You’ve been an absolute brick through this. Paul.”  Other e-mails show Tucker encouraged contact between
Barclays,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
on the subject of Libor during the 2008 banking crisis.  “Have spoken to HSBC and RBS,” Tucker wrote to Diamond in
an e-mail sent on May 28, 2008. “Sense similar across all three
of you. I encouraged contact among Mark Dearlove peer group.”  Dearlove was head of Barclays’s money market desk at the
time and responsible for the bank’s Libor submissions. Tucker
said today the correspondence related to his desire for banks to
participate in a comprehensive review of Libor by the  British
Bankers Association  “at a more senior level.”  Barclays Fine  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($453 million) last
month for its involvement in manipulation of Libor, a benchmark
for $500 trillion of financial products. In addition to Diamond,
Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry del Missier also resigned after the fine.  Lawmakers quizzed King and Turner on how explicit they were
in demanding Diamond’s resignation.  Turner said he didn’t give an “instruction or direction”
to Agius about Diamond, but told the chairman he would have to
think about the CEO’s “brand” and “whether he was the right
person” to lead necessary change at the bank. King said he
wanted Agius to tell the bank’s board about “the depths of
concerns that the regulators had about the executive management
of the bank.”  “What had happened over many months was that the board of
Barclays had been in something of a state of denial,” King
said. He said he encouraged Agius and the board to “go away and 
reflect” on the concerns of regulators.    “I did not know what the outcome of that meeting would
be,” King said. Diamond resigned afterwards as CEO.  Tyrie’s Response  Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie  said in a
statement after the hearing that regulators “should not be able
to bring arbitrary pressure to bear on the boards of private
companies.”  “It appears that governance checks need bolstering,” he
said, adding that the Financial Services Bill that will give the
Bank of England new powers “must rectify this deficiency.”  Questioned on Geithner’s e-mail, King said he received it
one evening while on a visit to  Frankfurt , and he forwarded it
to Tucker. Geithner, who is now the U.S. Treasury secretary,
sent the memo to King on June 1, 2008, after the two discussed
Libor at a meeting of central bankers in  Basel ,  Switzerland , the
previous month.  Geithner’s recommendations included one to “establish and
publish best practices for calculating and reporting rates,
including procedures designed to prevent accidental or
deliberate misreporting.”  BOE Nudged  Tucker passed the comments to  Angela Knight , then the CEO
of the BBA, according to correspondence released by the Bank of
England last week. The BBA, which is responsible for Libor and
was reviewing the benchmark at the time, said it would take the
recommendations on board. King said the association needed
encouragement to address Libor concerns.  “They did have to be nudged to get into the right
direction, but once they had been nudged they worked very
hard,” he said. “I don’t believe the BBA could possibly be
held responsible for monitoring whether the rate was 1 basis
point too high or too low.”  All of Geithner’s recommendations were in the BBA’s
consultation document on Libor, though some were eliminated
because “the players in the market felt they were not
practicable,” King said. Some of the proposals were in the
reforms that followed the consultation, and “at no stage after
that did the  New York  Fed or any other central bank or player
express any concern about the final outcome.”  King told lawmakers that it was quite understandable for
Geithner to show concern on the quality of Libor as a global
borrowing benchmark because of the New York Fed’s role as a
regulator. The  Bank of England  didn’t have such responsibilities
at the time, he said.  Parliament is currently considering a bill that would
expand the Bank of England’s powers beyond monetary policy,
including giving it authority over  macro prudential tools  and
banking supervision to help prevent another financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  