-- Knicks Allow Lin to Join Houston as New York Linsanity Era Ends
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-07-18T04:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/knicks-plan-to-let-jeremy-lin-go-to-houston-rockets-nyt-reports.html
Linsanity is over in  New York  after
the Knicks decided not to match the  Houston Rockets ’ contract
offer to point guard Jeremy Lin.  The departure of Lin, who averaged 14.6 points and 6.2
assists in 35 National Basketball Association games for the
Knicks last season, was probable after New York signed 39-year-
old point guard  Jason Kidd  and re-acquired point guard  Raymond Felton  in a trade.  The Knicks had until yesterday to decide whether to match
Houston’s three-year, $25 million offer -- a back-loaded
contract that, under the new collective bargaining agreement,
would have cost New York $25 million to $35 million more in the
final season because of the league’s luxury tax.  “I can confirm that we are not matching,” Knicks
spokesman  Jonathan Supranowitz  said in an e-mail.  Lin, the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the NBA, boosted Knicks’ television ratings as well as
merchandise and ticket sales after joining the team’s starting
lineup on Feb. 6. The Harvard University graduate now returns to
a Rockets team that cut him before he joined the Knicks.  “Extremely excited and honored to be a Houston Rocket
again!!” Lin, 23, wrote on his  Twitter account . “Much love and
thankfulness to the Knicks and New York for your support this
past year...easily the best year of my life.”  The Knicks’ decision to pass on Lin, a restricted free
agent, ended a period during which his return to New York
changed from seemingly inevitable to fiscally unreasonable due
to the structure of the Rockets’ offer.  Linsanity Trademarked  On July 11, Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said that the team
would match any offer for Lin, who emerged as a star on and off
the court in his one abbreviated season in New York. Lin in May
trademarked the term Linsanity, the catchphrase that
encapsulated his rise from undrafted player to starter.  The Rockets offered Lin $5 million in the first season,
$5.225 in the second and $14.8 million in the third, ESPN said,
citing unidentified team officials.  If the Knicks agreed to match the contract, they would have
had to pay Lin,  Carmelo Anthony , Amar’e Stoudemire and  Tyson Chandler  a combined $75 million in 2014-15. Next season, teams
have to pay the NBA $1 in tax for every $1 that their player
payroll exceeds $70.3 million. If over the luxury-tax threshold,
Lin’s third year under the new contract would have cost New York
$43 million,  according to ESPN .  Lin, who had surgery in April to repair a torn meniscus in
his left knee, will take over as the point guard in Houston
after the Rockets traded Kyle Lowry to the  Toronto Raptors .  Following Yao  The Rockets, who will host the NBA’s All-Star Game next
season, get Lin a year after  China ’s Yao Ming retired from the
NBA because of ankle and foot injuries.  “In his limited opportunity last season, Jeremy showed
that he has all the skills to be a great player in this league
for many years to come,” Rockets Owner Leslie Alexander said in
a statement. “Jeremy is a winner on and off the court and we
view him as an important part of our plan to build a
championship contender.”  Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey welcomed Lin to Houston
on  Twitter  and wrote that “we plan to hang on this time.” Lin
was cut by both the Rockets and  Golden State Warriors  before the
Knicks picked him up in December. He had a base salary of about
$762,000 last season and has played in a total of 64 regular-
season NBA games.  Biggest Market  Lin started 25 games last season, helping the Knicks make
the playoffs and expand marketing opportunities in China, the
world’s biggest market. His emergence was also a boon to the
team’s sponsorship deals.  Coca-Cola Co. (COKE)  added courtside
advertisements in Chinese and the Knicks signed agreements with
Taiwan-based Maxxis International, a tire manufacturer, and  Acer
Inc. (2353) , the fourth-largest computer maker.  Lin’s departure captured the attention of other sports
figures in New York, including New York Yankees All-Star first
baseman  Mark Teixeira , who acknowledged the “end of Linsanity”
after last night’s win against the  Toronto Blue Jays .  “Thanks for two great months Jeremy and good luck in
Houston,” Teixeira wrote on  Twitter .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  