-- Korea’s KB Says It Bid for ING Korea Life, Mulling Woori
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2012-07-18T04:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/korea-s-kb-says-it-bid-for-ing-korea-life-mulling-woori.html
KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  bid for  ING
Groep NV (INGA) ’s South Korean life insurance business and may enter
the race to take over  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) , Chairman Euh Yoon Dae said.  KB Financial, owner of the country’s largest bank, has the
capacity to borrow 5 trillion won ($4.4 billion), Euh, 67, said
in an interview yesterday in Seoul. The company has almost 2
trillion won in free  cash flow , according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We have enough money,” Euh said. “If both are feasible
and economically excellent options, we’ll go for both.”  KB has slumped 29 percent in Seoul in the two years through
yesterday since Euh became chairman as Woori surpassed KB in
assets and  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  acquired  Korea Exchange
Bank. (004940)  ING, led by Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, is selling
the Asian units separately from European operations as the
region’s debt crisis damps divestment prospects there.  Euh, who was the president of Korea University before he
became chairman of KB, said he would also consider setting up
joint ventures in South Korea with rival bidders for ING’s
operations, such as  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  KB will pay out its
excess capital in  dividends  if it fails in its acquisition plans,
he said.  “Having $2 billion-plus assets of life insurance would
have a big impact on diversification,” Euh said. “It will help
in changing the composition of our business.”  Manulife, Korea  Life Insurance  Co. and KB are among firms
that made second-round bids for the ING Asian insurance assets,
said three people with knowledge of the matter. Manulife offered
to buy most of the regional unit, while Korea Life bid for ING’s
Southeast Asian business, said the people, asking not to be
identified because the information is private.  Employee Opposition  “I’m not sure whether the pursuit of two deals at the same
time is feasible or good for KB,” said Han Sang Soo, a  fund
manager  at Seoul-based Samsung Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of about $100 billion. “It would be
tough for KB to soothe opposition from employees and
shareholders in buying Woori and that could make the purchase
more expensive than the chairman is predicting.”  Shares of KB dropped 2.1 percent to 35,350 won at 1:31 p.m.
in  Seoul . The stock’s two-year  slide  since Euh took office
compares with the 5.1 percent gain in the benchmark Kospi index
and the Korea Financial Industry Index’s 19 percent decline.  Asked to grade KB under his leadership, Euh said the
company has lagged behind rivals.  ‘Not Brilliant’  Performance has been “acceptable, but not brilliant
because stock prices have gone down, though not only because of
the international influence of European banks,” he said.
“Comparably, I don’t think we’ve done better than other Korean
companies and banks.”  Still, he predicted KB’s businesses would improve
considerably from 2014 on lower borrowing costs and better asset
quality.  KB is looking at the possible  takeover targets  as a way to
ease dependence on commercial banking in  South Korea , which
accounts for about 90 percent of its earnings, Euh said.  Profit from its Kookmin Bank unit totaled 524.7 billion won
or 87 percent KB’s consolidated  earnings  of 603.2 billion won in
the quarter ended March 31.  “In terms of business portfolio, Woori is better than us
because they have a balanced business between retail and
wholesale,” Euh said. “And they have an IB business, the
second in the industry.”  South Korea plans to take preliminary bids for its 57
percent stake in Woori on July 27, in a third attempt to divest
holdings in the country’s biggest financial group by assets.  Based on yesterday’s closing price of 11,350 won a share,
the government’s stake in Woori is valued at 5.2 trillion won.  Brokerage, Insurance  The company, whose operations include brokerage, asset
management and insurance, was established in 2001 after rescued
banks and financial firms were merged into the nation’s first
financial holding company in the wake of the 1997-98 Asian
currency crisis.  “Our principle for investment is that we look for
opportunities where the value of current stockholders will
increase,” Euh said. “We’ll not invest for the sake of size or
just for diversification. The  price  should be right, otherwise
we will not invest.”  If he proceeds with the takeover, he’d like to make the
deal in a “welcoming atmosphere” in society, Euh said. Bank
employees and some politicians urged the government to delay the
sale until a new administration takes over next year.  South Korea’s bank employees union, which includes KB’s
Kookmin Bank union, voted last week in favor of a one-day strike
on July 30 to protest the government’s sale of Woori as it
fights for higher wages and job security. The workers will
extend the strike if their demands aren’t met, the union said at
the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  