-- Kosovo Gets $59 Million From IMF as Economy Avoids Euro Crisis
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-07-17T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/kosovo-gets-59-million-from-imf-as-economy-avoids-euro-crisis.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it approved the disbursement of 48 million euros ($59 million)
to Kosovo under a standby-loan agreement as its economy remains
shielded from the euro area’s debt crisis.  Once the government in the capital, Pristina, draws the
funds, the landlocked Balkan country that was part of  Serbia 
more than four years ago will have received 53.2 million euros
under the accord, the Washington-based lender said in a report
today. The authorities will finance the central bank’s special-
reserves fund for emergency liquidity assistance to local banks,
the IMF said.  “Kosovo has remained largely shielded from the euro-area
crisis due to limited trade and financial links with the rest of
Europe,” the IMF said in the report. The economy is forecast to
expand 3.8 percent this year, supported by “robust remittances
and capital inflows” that originate from Kosovars living
outside the country.  Kosovo’s economy is driven by investments and cash sent
from its residents living in  Europe . Central bank Governor Gani Gerguri said July 13 that the 2 million mainly ethnic-Albanian
nation is “lucky that the majority of its diaspora is living in
 Germany  and Switzerland,” which have so far avoided a recession
that is battering peripheral euro countries like Spain and
 Greece .  The aim of the $137 million IMF program, approved in April,
is to restore “a sustainable fiscal position and sufficient
government cash buffers, anchoring fiscal policy through the
introduction of a fiscal rule and enhancing the resilience of
the financial system,” the IMF said in today’s report.  Kosovo’s banking industry, dominated by Germany’s ProCredit
Holding AG and Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , is
well capitalized, liquid and profitable, according to the IMF.
The average capital adequacy ratio of the banking system stood
at 18 percent at the end of April with the share of non-
performing loans at 6 percent, the IMF said.  Kosovo, like its Adriatic Sea neighbor  Montenegro , has been
unilaterally using the euro since 2002, providing the country
with the macroeconomic stability, according to Gerguri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  