-- N.Z. Earnings Little Changed in Six Months to June 30, AMP Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-17T03:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/n-z-earnings-little-changed-in-six-months-to-june-30-amp-says.html
New Zealand company earnings
probably were little changed in the six months through June amid
modest economic growth and slowing global sales, according to
the country’s biggest non-government fund manager.  Operating profit at the nation’s 43 largest publicly traded
companies that will report in the next six weeks likely rose 0.6
percent from a year earlier while earnings per share fell, Guy Elliffe, head of New Zealand equities at AMP Capital Investors,
told reporters in Wellington today. AMP Capital manages NZ$1
billion ($799 million) in stocks.  “It’s going to look pretty sluggish,” he said, referring
to the January-June results. “There is still margin pressure.
Looking forward, based on the economic outlook, we see some sort
of rebound.”  New Zealand consumers have reduced spending while export
growth has slowed, curbing the nation’s economic  recovery .
Weakness in  Australia ’s construction industry adds to pressure
on earnings by companies such as  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , the
second-largest listed stock, Elliffe said.  “Economic growth is being reflected in the fundamentals we
see at the company level,” he said. “We’ve got a high degree
of confidence that valuations are attractive, dividends are
sustainable and growing, cyclical stocks are absolutely cheap
and the economic rebound will occur.”  Still, investment opportunities exist among stocks with
high dividend policies or those with the potential to increase
future earnings when the economic recovery accelerates, he said.  Dividend Growth  Companies such as utilities, casino owners and electricity
retailers have high dividends or the prospect for strong
dividend growth, and many are in industries where competition is
limited, preserving their value, he said.  Cyclical companies that currently have depressed earnings
are also  “materially cheaper” than so-called defensive
stocks, Elliffe said.  “We wouldn’t say defensive stocks are overvalued; we just
think they are expensive relative to some of the cyclical
names,” he said. “We see a lot of opportunities of companies
that will benefit from the economic turnaround.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  