-- Nabors Industries Reports Earnings Miss
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-07-17T13:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/nabors-industries-reports-earnings-miss.html
Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR) , the world’s
largest land-rig drilling contractor, said second-quarter
operating results will miss analysts’ estimates on higher costs.
The company also adopted a shareholder rights plan, designed to
deter an unsolicited takeover.  Nabors, which provides rigs and well services including
hydraulic fracturing to oil and natural-gas producers, expects
to earn $220 million to $230 million, excluding some items, the
Hamilton, Bermuda-based company said today in a statement. The
forecast is at least $15.5 million lower than the average of 11
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We had full expectations of a negative quarter,”  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston,
said in a telephone interview. He rates the shares at
accumulate, which means investors should buy the stock.  Uhlmer said he was expecting Nabors to report operating
income of $235 million in the quarter.  “It’s late startups,” said Uhlmer. “This has been a
perennial issue with them.”  The company’s production affiliate had $150 million in
reduced value for its reserves. Second quarter operating  cash
flow  was almost $500 million, Nabors said.  Nabors will consolidate its U.S. well-servicing and
pressure-pumping businesses into one unit, called Nabors
Completion and Production Services. The consolidation and
various other costs will lead to a non-cash charge of about $150
million in the second quarter, the company said.  Under the shareholder rights plan, common shareholders will
have the right to buy a new series of preferred stock. The plan
is designed to deter any person or group from gaining control
without paying a premium to all shareholders, according to a
separate statement today.  Nabors rose 0.8 percent to $13.30 at 9:43 a.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  