-- New Jersey Cities Abusing Pension Law May Waste Millions
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-17T17:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/new-jersey-cities-abusing-pension-law-may-waste-millions.html
New Jersey  local governments failed
to remove hundreds of contractors such as lawyers and engineers
from pension rolls, which may cost taxpayers millions of dollars
a year in improper payouts, a state audit shows.  Auditors identified 202 contractors who work for 134
communities and 25 school districts and participate in the
Public Employees’ Retirement System even after a 2007 ban on
their participation. Hundreds more probably are still enrolled
by more than 1,100 other local government units, according to a
report today from Comptroller Matthew Boxer.  “These 202 enrollees have accrued pension credits that
could result in the state paying them a total of approximately
$1.9 million per year” in retirement, according to the report.
“Removing these professionals as of the 2008 cut-off date would
significantly reduce the future annual pension payouts.”  Boxer said he referred the 202 enrollees to the state
Division of Pensions and Benefits for removal of improper
credits. His report didn’t identify the individuals.  Pension ‘Tacking’  The comptroller’s audit found that many of the contractors
boost pensions by working for multiple government units, a
method called “tacking.”  The audit cited an attorney who works for both the borough
of Fairview and the Guttenberg school board, earning $241,654 a
year combined and amassing credit for 22 years of service and an
annual pension of $97,196 if he quit tomorrow. The amount could
be cut by $29,420 if the lawyer’s eligibility had ended in 2008,
it said.  The attorney, John Schettino, said in a telephone interview
today that he’s worked for both entities for more than 20 years,
and their boards determined in 2008 that he fit Internal Revenue
Service guidelines to be considered an employee. In both cases,
he said he’s paid a salary and doesn’t charge a retainer or bill
hourly.  “It’s unfair to be singled out, especially since there are
many IRS criteria under which I satisfy the terms to be
considered an employee and therefore eligible,” Schettino said
when reached at the Hackensack office of his private law  firm .
Schettino said he also maintains offices at both Fairview and
Guttenberg and handles all of the legal work for both entities.  Funding Hole  New Jersey’s pension system has a funding deficit that
reached $53.9 billion in 2010 after the state expanded benefits
and skipped payments over a decade. The gap fell to $36.3
billion after Governor  Chris Christie  signed bills in 2011 that
boosted employee contributions to pensions and health care,
raised the minimum  retirement age  for new workers and froze
cost-of-living adjustments.  The unfunded liability swelled to $41.8 billion by June
2011 after Christie, a Republican, skipped a $3 billion pension
payment. The deficit would have been more than $61 billion
without his benefits overhaul, the state treasury has estimated.  A law enacted by Christie in 2010 required the state to
begin phasing in full pension payments over seven years. The
budget he signed for the fiscal year that began July 1 includes
a $1.03 billion pension contribution.  “These individuals are vendors, not public employees, and
giving them pension credits is a taxpayer rip-off and a
violation of the law,”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for
Christie, said in an e-mail today. “We didn’t go through the
exercise of achieving hard-fought, critical reforms of the
pension system to ensure its long-term health and solvency only
to have it abused and disregarded.”  No Grandfather  Drewniak said Christie has asked the state's Division of
Local Government Services to require as part of the municipal
auditing process an examination of whether towns are treating
vendors as employees. The state may withhold aid to 
municipalities that don't comply with the statute, he said.  With about $69.4 billion in assets as of May 31, New Jersey
 pension funds  provide benefits to almost 800,000 active and
former employees through seven retirement systems. Using just 10
contractors, with credits for almost $412,000 in payments, as
examples, Boxer’s report said taking them off the rolls as of
2008 would save $151,473 in annual obligations.  Municipalities failed to consider facts and situations that
would bar a professional from pension enrollment under the 2007
law, according to the audit. In some cases, governments
improperly treated professionals as municipal employees or
incorrectly said exemptions were allowed for contractors
enrolled in the pension system before the law took effect.  Several governments opted to keep their attorney enrolled
in the pension system based on legal advice from that person,
the report said.  “Government officials should not be relying on pension
eligibility advice from the very attorney whose eligibility is
at issue,” Boxer said. “That just flies in the face of common
sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  