-- New York Wholesale Power to Surge Tomorrow as Heat Boosts Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-07-17T17:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/new-york-wholesale-power-to-surge-tomorrow-as-heat-boosts-demand.html
New York City  wholesale electricity
for delivery tomorrow jumped to the highest price in almost a
month as air conditioners use more power during a heat wave.  The high in  Manhattan ’s Central Park may rise to 96 degrees
Fahrenheit (36 Celsius), 12 above normal, from a projected high
of 95 today, according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . Cooling demand in the city will be 65 percent
above normal tomorrow, according to Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri .  The peak hourly price for power in the five boroughs
tomorrow gained 81 percent from today’s peak to $325 a megawatt-
hour, the highest price since June 21, according to the New York
Independent System Operator Inc., which manages the state grid.
Prices in the day-ahead market yesterday for delivery  today  rose
as high as $179.67 for the hour ending at 5 p.m.  “Peak demand can spike sharply during extreme summer
weather conditions as air conditioning and cooling systems
increase electricity consumption,” Kenneth Klapp, a spokesman
for the grid operator in Rensselaer,  New York , said today in an
e-mail.  Outages at power plants or transmission lines “can require
more expensive generation to be dispatched in certain areas,”
causing day-ahead prices to rise, he said.  Electricity use  in New York City will be 5.8 percent higher
tomorrow at 11,077 megawatts compared with today’s expected
peak, according to the grid operator’s forecasts.  Most power needs for a given day are secured the previous
day in what is known the day-ahead market. Spot prices, which
represent demand that exceeds the previous day’s estimate or
reflect unexpected supply disruptions, can surge hundreds of
dollars within minutes.  Spot power  was trading at $172.85 a megawatt-hour as of
12:20 p.m., compared with $56.85 for the same time yesterday.  One megawatt of electricity is enough to power between 800
and 1,000 homes, according to the New York ISO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 