-- New Oriental Leads Tumble on SEC Probe: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-17T21:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/new-oriental-leads-tumble-on-sec-investigation-china-overnight.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  tumbled the most on record, leading declines in New
York-traded Chinese stocks, after the company said the U.S.
regulator started a probe into the consolidation of its units’
financial statements.  American depositary receipts of New Oriental,  China ’s
largest private education provider, lost 34 percent to $14.62
yesterday in  New York , the biggest decline since its initial
public offering in 2006. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of
the most-traded Chinese shares in New York slid 1.9 percent to a
nine-month low of 84.91. Sina Corp. sank to the lowest since
September 2010 while  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  slumped to the
least in three years.  New Oriental said yesterday the Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating its accounting practices, the second
Chinese company in a month incurring a regulator probe. The SEC
ordered on June 29 a two-week trading suspension of  China
Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) , citing questions on the accuracy of
reported information. Sino-Forest Corp. filed for bankruptcy in
March after it was accused by a short-seller of misstating
business and assets.  “Investors’ confidence in Chinese companies hasn’t
improved at all and most people probably just have given up on
the space,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million, said by phone from
Lisle,  Illinois . “Even if we don’t know whether it’s company
specific, in this type environment, people sell things first and
ask questions later.”  China ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 2.2 percent to $33.19,
set for the biggest gain in two weeks. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  added 0.7 percent to 1,363.67 as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told senators that the central bank is prepared
to act to boost growth if the labor market doesn’t improve.  Bernanke told lawmakers yesterday that progress in reducing
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated
that the central bank is ready to take further action to boost
the recovery, while refraining from pledging any new policies.  New Oriental said the SEC is investigating “whether there
is a sufficient basis for the consolidation of Beijing New
Oriental Education & Technology (Group) Co., a variable interest
entity of the Company, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, into
the Company’s consolidated financial statements,” according to
its statement yesterday.  The company changed the shareholding structure of Beijing
New Oriental so that it’s held solely by a group controlled by
Chief Executive Officer Minhong Yu, according to the company’s
statement on July 11.  A spokesman at the SEC declined to comment when contacted
by Bloomberg News yesterday.  Variable Interest Entities  Chinese Internet companies such as Sina and  Baidu (BIDU)  Inc. have
used so-called variable interest entities, or VIEs, to work
around Chinese restrictions and seek foreign investors since
2000.  Sina, which provides a Twitter-like service in China,
dropped 7.3 percent to 44.36 in New York, the lowest level since
Sept. 10, 2010. Beijing-based social media company  Renren Inc. (RENN) 
declined 3.5 percent to $4.14, the lowest price since January.
Baidu, the nation’s biggest online search engine, fell 2.2
percent to $104.98, the least since January 2011.  Investors didn’t consider it an issue for U.S.-listed
companies to have VIE structures when they first became listed,
according to Trace Urdan, an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co.  ‘Harder and Harder to Own’  “Since then we’ve had a number of stories of how people
manipulated the VIE structure in China to take advantage of U.S.
shareholders,” Urdan said by phone yesterday from  San
Francisco . “The bigger issue is simply that every day with each
new development in China, these Chinese stocks become harder and
harder for investors to own because of the risks and the risks
seem to continually build.”  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , an Internet data center services
provider, tumbled 16 percent to $9.37, the biggest slump on
record. Video website owner  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  lost 11 percent, the most
since November, to $16.03. Its smaller competitor Tudou Holdings
Inc. also sank 11 percent to a four-month low of $24.34. The two
companies said in March Youku will acquire Tudou in a stock swap
deal.  New Oriental’s  profit  for the quarter ended May 31 rose 14
percent from a year earlier to $16.3 million, it said in
yesterday’s statement. Analysts had forecast net income of $17.6
million, the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  New Oriental Forecasts  For the June-August quarter, the company forecast a 26
percent to 31 percent growth in revenue to at least $342.7
million, compared with a 41 percent in the same period last
year. Analysts projected $354 million in sales. CEO Yu said
“the lower-than-normal projected revenue growth” is partly due
to “the negative impact from a slowing of Chinese consumer
discretionary spending” in the statement.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of shares traded in mainland
China rallied 0.6 percent yesterday to 2,161.19, rebounding from
a three-year low, after the government said it will boost
railway infrastructure investment and forecast economic growth
will pick up in the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  