-- Nextera’s Hay Says Wind Break Must Stay at Least 5 Years
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-17T15:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/nextera-s-hay-says-wind-break-must-stay-at-least-5-years.html
The U.S. production tax credit for
wind energy should be extended and phased out over five to 10
years, said Lew Hay, executive chairman of  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ,
the country’s largest producer of wind and solar energy.  The production tax credit of 2.2 cents per kilowatt hour
expires for wind projects placed in service after Dec. 31.
Industry advocates have warned that shrinking demand as a result
of the credit’s uncertain future is causing job losses in the
supply chain.  “At some point, every technology should stand on its own,
but hitting a cliff I don’t think is smart,” Hay said at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast in  Washington  today. “I don’t
see any other industry saying we’re willing to sign up for a
reduction and a total phase-out in the tax benefits we get.”  The wind industry and its advocates in Congress have
garnered bipartisan support for extending the tax credit, though
lawmakers haven’t reached agreement on continuing it. The issue
is caught up in a broader debate over expiring income tax cuts
and automatic spending increases also scheduled to take effect
in 2013.  The American  Wind Energy  Association, the trade group
advocating the credit’s extension, has said it’s willing to work
with lawmakers on the future of the credit and has said it
doesn’t need to exist forever. The group, which is seeking an
immediate one-year extension, hasn’t taken a position on the
length of such a phased reduction in the credit.  Because 29 states have renewable portfolio standards, Hay
said, companies will still invest in wind energy.  Continued ’Demand’  “There’s still going to be demand for wind and solar,”
Hay said. Without the tax credit, he said, prices for customers
will be higher.  Hay and the chief executives of  The Southern Co. (SO)  and NV
Energy Inc. are in Washington today to meet with lawmakers and
congressional staff on another issue that is part of the end-of-
year fiscal cliff: the scheduled tax increase on dividends.  “When we think about the effects of taxing capital
formation, it is exactly the wrong federal policy to pursue
right now,” said Thomas Fanning, the chairman, president and
chief executive officer of Southern, which has customers in
 Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia  and  Mississippi .  Ordinary Income  If Congress doesn’t act, dividends would be taxed as
ordinary income in 2013, returning to the  tax policy  in effect
before 2003. The top rate, including a tax on unearned income
from the 2010 health-care law, would be 43.4 percent, up from 15
percent this year. Republicans want to keep the current tax
rates for a year and then overhaul the U.S. tax code.  Senate Democrats are proposing to set the top rate at 23.8
percent. That would apply, depending on the circumstances, to
many individuals with incomes exceeding $200,000 a year and
married couples with incomes exceeding $250,000.  “Those people aren’t just going to sit back and do
nothing,” Hay said, adding that dividend-paying stocks would
become less attractive. “Capital moves quickly in response to
tax rates.”  A dividend tax-rate increase would increase the cost of
capital for  utility companies , the executives said, which would
attempt to recoup the cost through higher rates on customers.  Hay cited estimates from Barclays Plc that utility stock
prices would drop by 6 percent if dividend tax rates go up.  “It’s exactly the wrong thing to do in this economy,”
Fanning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  