-- Nomura Must Clean ‘Wounds’ on Insider Probe, Nakatsuka Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-07-18T02:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/nomura-must-clean-wounds-on-insider-probe-vice-minister-says.html
Japan  wants  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  to
clean its “wounds” and uphold higher ethical standards after
the country’s biggest brokerage leaked information used for
 insider trading , the deputy banking minister said.  “I urge Nomura’s executives and employees to reevaluate
their professional ethics and identify the problems with their
internal controls and business practices,” Financial Services
Senior Vice Minister Ikko Nakatsuka said in an interview
yesterday. “I want Nomura to drain the pus from its wounds.”  The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission is
continuing to inspect Nomura after finding that its employees
gave tips to traders on share sales it managed. As part of its
efforts to crack down on insider trading, the regulator this
month asked Nomura,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and 10 other
brokerages to review how they handle confidential information.  “If any brokerages misrepresent facts or conduct
insufficient internal inspections, they should fully understand
they will face reputational risks,” said Nakatsuka, 47, a
lawmaker from the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan. “We may
conduct further probes and impose penalties in that case.”  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita asked the
12 firms to submit reports by Aug. 3.  Nomura said on June 29 that it cut top executives’ pay,
forced two managers to step down and suspended some operations
following an internal probe into leaks ahead of 2010 equity
offerings by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  Sales staff appeared to have been “willing
to do anything to meet sales targets,” lawyers hired by Nomura
to investigate the breaches said in a report.  Wider Investigation  “We will continue to cooperate with the SESC on its
special investigation,” Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman
for Nomura, said by phone. “We renewed our compliance system
and will continue our internal examination.”  Nomura Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe, 59, told
reporters on June 29 that he wasn’t sure whether there were
additional leaks. The brokerage doesn’t plan to pursue any more
investigations by outside lawyers, he said.  The ruling party wants a wider investigation after finding
spikes in trading volumes of 20 stocks before share sales were
unveiled between July 2009 and July 2011, said lawmaker Tsutomu
Okubo.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange last week informed Okubo about an
increase in trading volumes for  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  shares
before the carrier announced an  equity offering  on July 3. The
TSE added the case to the list of 20 stocks that were traded
heavily before share offerings were unveiled since 2009.  “Japan needs to tighten up rules and impose stricter
penalties to create a system to deter any suspicion,” said
 Masaru Hamasaki , chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management
Co., which oversees the equivalent of about $24 billion in
assets. “Japan has been witnessing insider-trading cases for a
long time, and we know their habits and attitudes haven’t
changed. I wonder if they can press out all bad things this
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  