-- North Dakota Must Face Landowner Mineral Rights Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/north-dakota-must-face-landowner-mineral-rights-lawsuit.html
North Dakota  must face a lawsuit by
landowners who accuse the state of usurping oil and mineral
rights worth millions of dollars.  Williams County District Court Judge David W. Nelson
rejected Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s request to dismiss
the suit, according to a copy of the decision provided by the
landowners’ lawyer. Yesterday’s ruling couldn’t be immediately
confirmed in online court records.  Owners of land next to North Dakota’s navigable rivers and
lakes contend they own the mineral rights between the high and
low water marks. State officials countered that the issue of
ownership is at best unclear.  “The  Supreme Court  of North Dakota has not had occasion to
consider the question of who has the right to the minerals under
the shore zone,” Nelson wrote. That issue must be resolved
before the court addresses the landowners’ claims that their
land is being taken unlawfully.  North Dakota, the third-smallest U.S. state by population
with 672,591 residents as of 2010, is ranked second in crude oil
output. Only  Texas , with 54.4 million barrels, produced more
crude oil in March than North Dakota’s 17.8 million barrels,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration  data .  Nelson heard arguments on the state’s dismissal motion on
June 12 at a courthouse in Williston, 70 miles from the Canadian
border.  Three Lawsuits  Three similar cases are now pending in the Williams County
court, the judge said in his ruling. Counsel should confer on
which one should go forward on the common issue of shore-zone
ownership rights, he said.  Liz Brocker, a spokeswoman for Stenehjem, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment yesterday after regular business hours
on the ruling.  “It’s an important order in that he’s left our claims
intact,” Jan Conlin, a lawyer for the landowners, said in a
phone interview. She called Nelson’s decision to decide the
shore zone rights issue first “an appropriate way to proceed.”  The case is Reep v.  State of North Dakota , 53-2012-
CV-00213, District Court of North Dakota, Northwest Judicial
Circuit (Williston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  