-- North Korea Replaces Army Chief in Sign of Kim Shift
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-17T03:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/north-korea-replaces-army-chief-in-sign-of-kim-shift.html
North  Korea  named General Hyon Yong
Chol vice marshal of the Korean People’s Army two days after
firing its military chief in the biggest public power shift
since leader Kim Jong Un succeeded his late father in December.  The Workers’ Party and the National Defense Commission
promoted Hyon, the official Korean Central News Agency reported
today without giving details. While there are at least four
other vice marshals, the timing indicates Hyon has probably
replaced Ri Yong Ho, said analysts including Koh Yu Hwan,
professor of North Korean studies at Seoul’s  Dongguk University .  The shuffle at the top of the country’s 1.2 million-strong
army underscores Kim’s effort to cement control of the
impoverished state he inherited from his father,  Kim Jong Il .
The U.S., which has led efforts to isolate North Korea over its
nuclear weapons program, pushed yesterday for reform that goes
beyond personnel appointments.  “We can’t immediately conclude that Hyon is Ri’s
replacement but the near-simultaneous announcements allow us to
assume that he’s been chosen as a key military figure in the new
Kim Jong Un era,” Koh said. “An unknown figure being publicly
singled out proves that he’s of the new Kim regime, unlike
veteran officials like Ri.”  Hyon has been mentioned in only three KCNA reports since
2008. Little is known about his education, background, or age.
The former lieutenant general of the eighth army was promoted to
general at the September 2010 Workers’ Party meeting, when Kim
Jong Un made his debut.  Stocks Rise  South Korea 's military has not changed its military alert
level at news of the North Korean shuffle, Defense Ministry 
spokesman Kim Min Seok told reporters today in  Seoul . Hyon is 
believed to be in his early 60s, Kim said, without elaborating.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  of stocks rose 0.6 percent to
1,828.10 at 12:04 p.m. in Seoul. The South Korean won rose 0.2
percent to 1,144.55 per dollar.  The Workers’ Party relieved Ri from his military and
Politburo posts on July 15, KCNA said yesterday. While KCNA
cited illness as the reason for Ri’s demise, it was probably due
to a power struggle as Kim deployed military resources for
infrastructure projects, said analyst Cheong Seong Chang, citing
conversations with defectors and contacts in the North.  “Ri Yong Ho was most likely fired for resisting the
Workers’ Party leadership, mainly on mobilizing soldiers for
economic initiatives,” Cheong said. “The party is on board
with Kim Jong Un’s decision to improve the economy through
flagship construction projects over bolstering military might.”  ‘Highly Unexpected’  Hyon needs to be named chief of the General Staff of the
Korean People’s Army to be confirmed as Ri’s replacement, said
Kim Hyung Suk, spokesman of South Korea’s  Unification Ministry.  The ministry has no comment on both the firing and the
promotion, Kim said, while noting the report on Ri’s removal a
day after the decision as a “highly unexpected move.” State
media often issues news days or weeks after the fact.  “The speedy reporting may be a sign that the North is
heading toward reform and transparency, but we still need to
monitor the developments for stronger evidence,” he said.  Any changes in personnel without fundamental changes in
policy “mean little,” Patrick Ventrell, a U.S. State
Department spokesman, told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan expressed hope
for a North Korean reform hours after the news of Ri’s removal,
in an interview yesterday. The ministry has a team analyzing
 North Korea  and contingency plans, Bahk said, while adding that
predicting what’s ahead for the totalitarian regime is harder
than forecasting the future of the euro region.  Lauding Soldiers  Immediately following the report on Ri’s firing, KCNA said
Kim sent a message of thanks to North Korean soldiers for
“their tremendous feats in major construction projects,”
including the country’s largest hydroelectric power plant, a
food processing factory and a university library.  Ri, 69, was an advocate of the so-called military-first
policy espoused by Kim Jong Il, said Yang Moo Jin, a professor
at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.  “The firing of Ri means the end of the country’s hawkish
military-first policy putting the troops before any other policy
objective, and possibly the beginning of governance more focused
instead on improving the economy,” Yang said.  Kim, who was schooled in  Switzerland  and is believed to be
less than 30 years old, has been trying to gain public support
and strengthen his own grip on power. About 16 million of North
Korea’s 24 million people suffer from chronic food insecurity,
high malnutrition rates and deep-rooted economic challenges,
Jerome Sauvage, United Nations resident coordinator in the
capital of Pyongyang, said in a June 12 statement.  Impoverished North  North Korea’s economy, isolated from most of the world’s
markets over its nuclear weapons program, contracted in four of
the past six years, according to South Korea’s central bank.
Gross domestic product in the communist nation increased 0.8
percent in 2011 after a 0.5 percent decline in 2010, according
to an estimate published by the  Bank of Korea  in Seoul.  North Korea’s per capita income was 1.33 million won
($1,160) while South Korea’s was 25 million won, according to
its estimates. North Korea relies on  China , its biggest trade
partner, for energy and food assistance.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  urged the North last
month to follow the example of the political opening of Myanmar.
The Southeast Asian nation’s efforts to reengage with the global
economy were rewarded last week by President  Barack Obama 
authorizing U.S. companies to invest in Myanmar for the first
time in about 15 years.  Funeral Procession  In December, Ri and Kim lead the funeral procession for Kim
Jong Il in below-zero weather through the snow-covered streets
of Pyongyang. Ri appeared healthy in delivering an April 25
speech marking the 80th anniversary of the North Korean
military’s foundation.  Signs of division emerged after the April 15 celebrations
of North Korean state founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth centenary.
Choe Ryong Hae, a civilian official was promoted later that
month to director of the General Political Bureau of the Korean
People’s Army, a position similar in ranking to Ri’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  