-- New York Council Approves NYU Expansion
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-25T20:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/nyu-scales-back-expansion-plan-in-bid-to-win-city-council-vote.html
The  New York City  Council voted to
allow  New York University  to add 1.9 million square feet to its
 Greenwich Village  campus for classrooms, a gym and housing in
the face of objections from residents and faculty who said it
would change the character of the neighborhood.  Council members voted 44 to 1 to amend the area’s zoning
and permit construction of four buildings after the university
last week submitted a scaled-down plan with 20 percent less
density than the 2.1 million-square-foot proposal the city
Planning Commission approved in June.  The reduced plan won support last week from council member
Margaret Chin, a Democrat who represents the area and had
threatened to block the original proposal.  “It is important for  New York  City and the Village that
NYU has the capacity to meet its growing academic needs,” Chin
said today before casting her vote. “As this plan comes into
being in the next 20 years, I’m confident that it will not
overwhelm the wider Greenwich Village community.”  NYU, whose enrollment of 41,000 makes it the largest
private, nonprofit university in the U.S., is seeking to
accommodate plans to grow to 46,500 by 2031, President John Sexton told the council last month.  Greenwich Village, between Houston and 14th streets, has
been home to artists, writers and musicians, including  Edward Hopper ,  Jackson Pollock ,  Henry James , Edgar Allan Poe,  Mark Twain  and  Bob Dylan . The actor  Matthew Broderick  joined hundreds
of neighbors at council meeting last month to oppose the plan.  Question of Balance  “This plan appropriately balances the need of an important
university to grow and expand, which is good for our city, with
the historic neighborhood it’s in,” said City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn. “The historic low-rise nature of Greenwich
Village will be protected and NYU will be allowed to grow.”  The university’s expansion, combined with that of the
city’s other private higher-education institutions, has been
part of the New York’s economic growth over the past 10 years.  Private higher-education jobs have increased 22 percent, to
106,300 in April from 86,900 in April 2002, according to  state
Labor Department statistics . During the same period, Wall Street
jobs remained unchanged, at about 169,000.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  last year awarded city-
owned land and $100 million in infrastructure improvements to
 Cornell University  and the Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology to create a $2 billion applied-sciences graduate
school that will serve more than 2,000 students on Roosevelt
Island in the  East River .  Important Link  “There is a clear consensus among our city’s leaders and
leading thinkers about the important linkage between higher
education and the economy, and between the economy and New York
City’s future well-being,” Sexton said as he presented the plan
to council members in June.  The project’s economic benefits would include 18,200
construction jobs, 2,600 long-term employment opportunities,
$490 million in economic output and almost $27 million a year in
taxes over 20 years, Sexton promised.  NYU sought a zoning change to build  four facilities  for
classrooms; residential units for faculty and students; an
athletic facility; and stores. Lynne Brown, a university
spokeswoman, said the university will maintain about 3 acres of
publicly accessible open space.  The four buildings would be built on two Village
“superblocks,” six blocks fused into two in the 1950s and
1960s. They run north and south between West Third and Houston
streets, and east and west by Mercer Street and LaGuardia Place.  The  expansion  is part of 6 million-square-foot, 20-year
growth plan costing from $3 billion to $4 billion. It also
includes a nursing school near the university’s hospital on the
East Side and an applied-sciences school in downtown  Brooklyn .
The  Planning Commission  passed the application to the council
after approving it June 6.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent company Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  