-- Obama Home Refinancing Effort Hits Banks’ Risk, Capacity Limits
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/obama-home-refinancing-effort-hits-banks-risk-capacity-limits.html
White House efforts to push
widespread refinancing of mortgages for homeowners who owe more
than their properties are worth may be limited by banks’
stretched capacity to originate loans and their concerns that
the borrowers are too risky.  By the end of May, 78,000 homeowners with mortgages at
least 5 percent larger than the value of their homes had
refinanced into lower  interest rates  under the new rules for the
Home Affordable Refinance Program, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  reported yesterday. Of those, 11,000 borrowers were
defined by the agency as deeply underwater, owing at least 125
percent of their homes’ value.  About 2.3 million borrowers with loans backed by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac might be eligible for the expanded program,
which took effect in January, because they are underwater on
their loans or have almost no equity in their homes, according
to data provider CoreLogic.  “There’s a huge subset of the exact borrowers they
originally wanted to reach who they just haven’t been able to
reach largely because the banks are not incentivized to take on
these loans,” Isaac Boltansky, Washington policy analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC, said in an interview.  The constraints extend to President  Barack Obama ’s separate
effort to bolster refinancing of loans insured by the  Federal
Housing Administration . On June 11, the FHA reduced fees in its
so-called streamline refinance program, which allows borrowers
who are current on their loans to obtain lower interest rates
without income verification or appraisals.  Clients Only  Lenders including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Bank of America Corp.  have said they will accept FHA
streamline applications only from clients whose loans they
currently service, citing an inability to keep up with demand.
Banks also are turning away applications for HARP loans for all
except current clients because they say they are worried about
liability if the loans sour.  “The real limitation is that for one reason or another the
programs seem to be limited to the existing servicer of your
loan,” said  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance,
an industry newsletter. “The government really thought it could
get around that and create more of a competitive market but that
really hasn’t happened.”  The Obama administration this year has called for a
widespread refinancing effort to save homeowners an average of
$3,000 year if they obtain rates as low as 3.65 percent on a 30-
year fixed-rate mortgage. The White House, saying Republicans in
Congress are unlikely to move on initiatives that would require
legislative approval, the administration has been focused on
expanding existing programs that have not reached as many
borrowers as proponents expected.  HARP 2.0  HARP, which been used by 1.3 million borrowers whose loans
are backed by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , was supposed to reach
as many as 4 million borrowers when it was introduced in early
2009. The new version, known as HARP 2.0, offers lenders
liability protection on loans they refinance for existing
customers. The FHA also offered lenders expanded protection by
promising not to count loans in the streamline refinance program
in their comparisons of bank performance.  That has not stopped banks that are concerned about the
risks of refinancing an underwater loan from turning away
borrowers who might be eligible on paper for a government-backed
refinancing, said Dan Green, a Cincinnati, Ohio-based loan
officer who  blogs  about federal loan programs and works for
Waterstone Mortgage Corp. of Wauwatosa,  Wisconsin .  Reality ‘Disconnect’  “The government keeps rolling out these wonderful programs
to help people who have lost equity, and it’s sometimes hard to
find a bank that will underwrite to the government guidelines,”
Green said in an interview. “There’s a disconnect between how
the program is being touted and what a homeowner can actually
receive.”  Some lenders are requiring higher credit scores than the
minimum necessary or are asking for appraisals even on
streamline refinances, according to Boltansky and other housing
industry analysts.  The HARP program accounted for about a fifth of the 341,209
refinances of loans backed by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac in May,
FHFA said. The volume of mortgage refinancings  backed by the
two government-sponsored enterprises is down from March, when it
reached almost 500,000.  The government agencies in charge of the programs say they
are pleased with the results so far.  As of May, the number of HARP refinances for underwater
borrowers had passed the amount for all of 2011, the FHFA said.  HARP’s Successes  “These numbers show HARP 2.0 is accomplishing the goals
set forth -- to provide relief to borrowers who might otherwise
be unable to refinance due to house price declines,” Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the FHFA, said yesterday in a
statement.  David Stevens , president of the  Mortgage Bankers
Association , said the program seems to be most effective in
states with the steepest home-price declines. More than half of
borrowers who obtained HARP loans in  Nevada  in May were
underwater, the FHFA reported. At the same time, the percent of
refinances in the state that were done through HARP surged to 48
percent in May after averaging 27 percent over the past three
years, the FHFA reported.  “The significant increase in the percent of loans coming
from Nevada that are HARP shows that at least at some level, the
eligible population is clearly seeing a lift as a result of
these HARP enhancements,” Stevens said in an interview.  ‘Strong Interest’  The Federal Housing Administration is “continuing to see
strong interest in the streamline product,”  Brian Sullivan , an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Since fees and premiums were cut, 74,757 people have
applied for a streamlined refinance, Sullivan said. The agency
estimated that the recent price cuts could expand the reach of
the program by 3.4 million households paying interest rates
higher than 5 percent.  The effect of the refinancing programs may be limited, but
they are doing better than critics expected, Cecala said.  “From the mortgage industry standpoint, there was some
skepticism about whether either of these programs would be a big
hit and show much traction,” Cecala said. “The feeling is they
are going to meet and surpass expectations, but that doesn’t
mean everybody in the U.S. is going to be able to refinance an
underwater mortgage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  