-- Obama Gets Preview of Men’s Basketball in Olympic Exhibition
-- B y   M a t t   B o k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-17T02:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/obama-gets-preview-of-men-s-basketball-in-olympic-exhibition.html
President  Barack Obama  got an early
look at the U.S. men’s national basketball team’s prospects for
London, a squad he said would have a tough time against the
original Dream Team no matter what  Kobe Bryant  says.  He and Vice President  Joe Biden  were in the audience
tonight as the U.S. team, made up of National Basketball
Association stars, defeated Brazil, 80-69, in an exhibition game
at the Verizon Center in Washington.  In an interview with ESPN at halftime, Obama said he would
pick the 1992 Olympic team to defeat the current batch of NBA
stars. Of Bryant, the president said, “You expect him to do a
little trash-talking whenever the case arises.”  Bryant, the 33-year-old Los Angeles Lakers guard who is the
team’s oldest player, said during training camp that this year’s
team “is a bunch of racehorses who are incredibly athletic,”
while the 1992 squad “consisted mainly of players at the tail
end of their careers.”  Obama said he is confident this year’s team will win the
gold medal at the Olympics. “The talent we’ve got is
unbelievable.”  In the game against  Brazil  tonight, the USA team trailed
early before recovering.  Obama, who spent part of the day campaigning in Ohio,
arrived after the women’s game, as the U.S. team defeated Brazil
99-67 in the first contest of a double-header at the arena.  Women’s Match  “You guys don’t even look tired,” Obama said earlier as
he greeted members of the women’s squad. “You are great
representatives of the nation. We could not be prouder.”  A smiling Obama posed with the women for a photo and was
presented with a red USA jersey with number 1 on it. The
president, dressed in blue jeans and a blue windbreaker, was
greeted with a loud ovation from the sellout crowd as he and
Biden took their seats for the men’s game.  The 12-man U.S. men’s team returns five players from the
group that won a gold medal in Beijing four years ago, including
 New York  Knicks forward  Carmelo Anthony , Miami Heat forward
 LeBron James  and Bryant.  This is the team’s second exhibition leading up to its
first Olympic game on July 29 against France. The team beat the
Dominican Republic 113-59 on July 12 and has three more
exhibitions scheduled in Europe.  While Obama won’t be at those games, Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who ran the 2002 Winter
Olympics in  Salt Lake City , is scheduled to be in London for the
opening ceremonies  Gold Medal  The U.S. men’s team has won a gold medal in four of the
five Olympics since the 1992 games in Barcelona, when it first
began using active NBA players.  The 1992 Dream Team featured 11 future Hall of Fame
inductees, including  Michael Jordan ,  Magic Johnson  and  Larry Bird , and outscored opponents by an average of 43.8 points. The
U.S. team won a bronze medal at the 2004 games in Greece.  The U.S. women’s team has earned the gold medal four
consecutive Olympic games and six of the last seven. This year’s
team includes former Women’s National Basketball Association
MVPs Candace Parker and Diana Taurasi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Bok in Washington at 
 mbok3@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  