-- Romney Resisting More Tax Disclosures Hits Obama on Jobs
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-07-18T16:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/obama-hits-romney-on-taxes-as-republican-counters-on-economy.html
Mitt Romney , facing heightened
attacks by President  Barack Obama ’s campaign for refusing to
disclose more of his tax returns, confronts escalating calls
from within his own party to put the issue to rest by providing
additional filings.  Obama used a new television ad to suggest that the presumed
Republican presidential nominee -- who has estimated his
personal wealth to be as much as $250 million -- is hiding
something about his finances by withholding to provide more
information.  “Tax havens, offshore accounts, carried interest,” the
narrator of the ad says. “Mitt Romney has used every trick in
the book.” The commercial ends with: “Makes you wonder if some
years he paid any taxes at all.”  Romney has released his 2010  tax return  and promised to
make his 2011 documents public when they are ready, saying that
amount of disclosure should be sufficient. He reiterated that
position in an interview with the National Review magazine
yesterday.  He said “the opposition research of the Obama campaign is
looking for anything they can use to distract from the failure
of the president to reignite our economy. And I’m simply not
enthusiastic about giving them hundreds or thousands of more
pages to pick through, distort and lie about.”  Romney’s Focus  As prominent Republicans lend their voices to the
Democratic calls for Romney to provide more details of his
finances, the former private equity executive is trying to stay
focused on his central campaign theme of blaming Obama for
persistent joblessness.  Campaigning in the swing state of  Pennsylvania  yesterday,
Romney accused Obama of believing the government -- not business
people or workers -- deserves credit for American private-sector
achievement.  “President Obama attacks success, and therefore under
President Obama, we have less success,” Romney told several
hundred people packed into a warehouse at Horizontal Wireline
Services, an oil and gas services company in Irwin,
Pennsylvania. “He wants Americans to be ashamed of success; I
want Americans to welcome it, to celebrate it.”  Bain Issue  Obama, on a $4 million fundraising swing yesterday in San
Antonio and Austin, Texas, told contributors the public had a
right to scrutinize Romney’s business record, given that he
presents it as his prime qualification for the White House. His
campaign is pushing to spotlight Romney’s years as the chief
executive of Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, a company that made
business deals with some firms that ultimately closed plants in
the U.S. and shipped jobs overseas.  “Governor Romney -- his main calling card for running for
office is his business experience,” Obama told about 1,100
supporters at the Austin  Music Hall  who paid $250 to hear him
and a performance by country singer Jerry Jeff Walker.  Romney’s background, Obama said, involved “investing in
companies called pioneers of outsourcing,” referring to a
Washington Post story that has been used in television ads
targeting Romney. “I want to be a pioneer of in-sourcing,” the
president said.  Joel Benenson, Obama’s chief pollster, said today the Bain
and tax return issues speak to “a character dimension” and are
fair game for debate.  “It translates into where Romney wants to take the
country,” Benenson said at a Bloomberg Breakfast with
reporters in Washington.  Republican Voices  Democrats pressing Romney to reveal more about his tax
filings got some help from Republicans -- including two of
Romney’s primary rivals -- who said it was time for him to offer
up proof he has done nothing wrong.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul 
of Texas, who challenged Romney for the nomination, said Romney
should divulge more tax records, adding their voices to former
Republican Party national chairman  Haley Barbour  and
commentators  George Will  and William Kristol.  “The advice I would give Romney is: Who cares about your
tax returns? Release them,” Barbour told ABC News in a July 16
interview. “We need for this campaign to be about Obama’s
record.”  The Republican-leaning National Review, in an editorial
published online after its interview with Romney, echoed that
view.  “By drawing out the argument over the returns, Romney is
playing into the president’s hands,” the magazine said. “He
should release them, respond to any attacks they bring, and move
on.”  Past Candidates  Presidential candidates have been inconsistent in the past
about releasing returns. Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  have
released 12 years of returns. Senator  John McCain  of Arizona,
the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, disclosed only two.
Former Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton  each released
eight, while Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , the 2004
Democratic nominee, provided four.  Ronald Reagan  made seven years’ worth public and  George
H.W. Bush  disclosed three years. Romney’s father, George,
released 12 years of returns while running for president in
1968.  2010 Returns  Romney’s 2010 return showed $21.66 million in income from
 capital gains , ordinary dividends, taxable interest and other
business-related income. He paid an effective tax rate of 13.9
percent, primarily because of preferential treatment of capital
gains and dividends.  McCain, who considered Romney as a vice presidential
running mate in 2008, said yesterday he could “personally
vouch” that “there was nothing in his tax return that would in
any way be disqualifying for him to be a candidate.”  “To somehow intimate that, without any basis in fact, is
the sleaze campaign that this Obama campaign is running, and it
is disgraceful,” McCain told reporters on  Capitol Hill .  The returns the McCain camp reviewed in 2008 would have
pre-dated the financial collapse beginning that year that caused
major losses for many wealthy investors, which may have affected
their tax rates for several years.  Romney’s campaign yesterday declined to answer questions
about how much tax information it is seeking from potential
running mates. Spokeswoman Andrea Saul cited the campaign’s
policy of not discussing the vice presidential search process.  Defending Romney  Other Republicans came to Romney’s defense. Former New
Hampshire Governor John Sununu, a surrogate for him, told
reporters in a conference call yesterday that given the volume
and complexity of the candidate’s filings, providing the 12
years of tax returns Democrats say they want would only offer
ammunition for more attacks.  “There will be about six feet of returns in which they can
find whatever nit they want to use as a distraction,” Sununu
said. “There was a movie called ‘The Neverending Story,’ and I
think that issue falls into that category.”  As it tries to brush the tax issue aside, Romney’s campaign
is also moving to complete its vice presidential search, a
closely watched process that has the potential to reset the
race’s storyline. Romney’s campaign yesterday named two
experienced operatives to manage the vice presidential rollout,
which top aide  Eric Fehrnstrom  said two days ago could come as
soon as this week.  Fehrnstrom later added that the announcement could occur
anytime between now and the Aug. 27 start of the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa, Florida.  Understanding Capitalism  In his bid to refocus the campaign on Obama’s record,
Romney yesterday accused the president of failing to understand
and appreciate how capitalism works. He seized on a remark Obama
made to voters July 13 while campaigning in Roanoke, Virginia,
when the president said: “If you’ve got a business, you didn’t
build that. Somebody else made that happen.”  Romney said the comment was “not just foolishness, it’s
insulting to every entrepreneur and every innovator in
America.”  Obama in his remark said he was referring to “this
unbelievable American system,” that through tax dollars
provided school teachers and the roads and bridges used in
commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  