-- Lockheed Joined by Cheney in Push Against Defense Cuts
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/lockheed-may-fire-10-000-under-budget-cuts-stevens-says.html
As  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s chief
predicts he may have to fire 10,000 workers under across-the-
board federal spending cuts, a familiar voice is warning
Republican leaders that U.S. defense readiness is at stake.  Former Vice President  Dick Cheney  said at a private meeting
with Senate Republicans yesterday that the projected cuts
totaling $500 billion could be “devastating” to military
modernization and planning, South Carolina Senator Lindsay Graham told reporters.  Cheney, 71, said defense spending is “not a spigot you can
turn on and turn off, that you need to keep money flowing in a
predictable way so you can plan for the next war,” Graham said
after the Senate Republicans’ weekly luncheon. They heard from
the former vice president, who was President  George H.W. Bush ’s
defense secretary from 1989 to 1993.  The defense industry and its Republican allies in Congress
are increasing their volume this week in a concerted push to
avert the defense cuts, part of $1.2 trillion in automatic
reductions over a decade that will start in January unless
Congress and President  Barack Obama  agree on an alternate plan.  Today, Robert Stevens, chairman and chief executive officer
of Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, will offer
a “seat of the pants” estimate that 10,000 jobs would be lost
at his company, according to testimony prepared for an
appearance by industry executives before the Republican-led
House Armed Services Committee.  2.14 Million Jobs  Cheney made his visit yesterday hours after the Aerospace
Industries Association, a trade group for defense contractors,
presented a study predicting the across-the-board cuts in
federal programs may cost 2.14 million jobs and reduce the gross
domestic product by $215 billion next year.  “It’s an unemployment Armageddon,” Marion Blakey,
president of the trade group said in presenting the study.  Such predictions of massive job cuts and damage to the
national defense are “flawed and hypocritical,” said  Gordon Adams , a professor at American University in  Washington  who was
an official in the White House budget office during the Clinton
administration.  The debate is “a side show about the economy, not a
straight-up argument about whether defense should be affected by
deficit and debt reduction, and whether we can or need to
continue spending the highest sums we have ever spent on
defense, peacetime or wartime, since the end of World War II,”
Adams said in a posting on the website of the Stimson Center, a
policy research group.  Saving Profits  The warnings are an orchestrated push by defense
contractors “trying to save their profits,” according to Chris Preble, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at
the  Cato Institute  in Washington, which urges limited
government.  “We’re not shuttering the Pentagon,” said Preble, who
said the cuts would return defense spending to 2006 levels
adjusted for inflation.  A partisan fight over averting the automatic cuts, known as
sequestration, is heating up on  Capitol Hill . Most Republicans
have ruled out tax increases, while Democrats have said any
budget cuts must be financed partly by letting tax cuts first
enacted in 2001 and 2003 for the highest-earning Americans
expire at year-end.  Cheney told lawmakers that “what we were able to achieve
in the first  Gulf War ” that expelled Iraqi troops from Kuwait
“was the result of planning and spending” during the 1980s,
according to Graham. Cheney was defense secretary when the first
President Bush began the first Persian Gulf war in 1991 after
Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein  invaded Kuwait the previous year.
Cheney was vice president for  George W. Bush  when the U.S.
invaded Iraq in 2003.  Debate in 2013  Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington, the chamber’s No. 4
Democratic leader, said in a speech at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington this week that, while Democrats want a compromise
this year, she would “absolutely” seek to continue the debate
into 2013 if Republicans won’t agree to boost revenue. That
would mean letting the budget cuts take effect temporarily along
with tax increases as tax cuts expire.  Murray was the Democratic co-chairwoman of the
congressional “super committee” created last year to craft a
plan to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion over a decade. The
effort collapsed, triggering the across-the-board cuts.  ‘A Prod’  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Senate Armed Services Committee, has said he is confident
sequestration will be avoided. He has called the prospect of
across-the-board cuts “a prod to get us to do the right thing
in terms of  deficit reduction .”  Some Republicans on the Senate Armed Services Committee,
including Graham and Senator  Kelly Ayotte  of New Hampshire, have
discussed ways to finance a one-year postponement of defense
cuts through sale of assets and ending some tax breaks.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has said it is up to
Congress to propose a way to avoid the defense cuts he has said
would ``inflict severe damage to our national defense for 
generations.''  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” P.
McKeon, a California Republican, said Obama has a responsibility
to help forge a solution.  “This is crazy to put our defense industry in this kind of
position, especially when we are fighting a war over in
 Afghanistan  right now,” McKeon told reporters after House
Republican leaders met yesterday with Cheney. “I can’t
understand why we can’t get the president, the commander in
chief, the only person that’s elected by everybody, to engage in
this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  