-- Oil Near Seven-Week High on Iran Tension, Fed Speculation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-17T12:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/oil-near-seven-week-high-on-iran-tension-fed-speculation.html
Oil traded near its highest level in
seven weeks in New York on estimates that U.S. supplies declined
last week, concern that tensions with  Iran  will worsen and signs
that the  Federal Reserve  may boost stimulus measures.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell 750,000 barrels last
week, a fourth weekly drop that further erodes the biggest glut
since 1990, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will deliver his semi-annual report on the economy before
Congress today. The U.S. will use “all elements” of American
power to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons, Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in  Jerusalem .  “Iran and stimulus hopes are keeping prices supported,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt,
who estimates Brent prices should fall to $100 a barrel, based
on fundamentals. “I’m wondering how long oil can withstand the
combined headwinds of weak economic growth, continued oversupply
and a stronger dollar. Oil is still going up, and this can’t
last.”  Crude for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as 49 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $88.92 a
barrel and was at $88.85 at 1:43 p.m. London time. The contract
gained 1.5 percent to $88.43 yesterday, the highest close since
May 29. Prices have declined 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained $1.13, or 1.1 percent, to $104.50
a barrel. The European benchmark front-month contract was at a
$15.27 premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade,
compared with $15.12 yesterday.  U.S. Stockpiles  A contraction in June  retail sales  reported by the Commerce
Department yesterday fanned speculation that the Fed will renew
the program of asset purchases known as quantitative easing
intended to cap borrowing costs and foster growth.  Refineries in the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer,
probably boosted production to 93.1 percent of capacity last
week, according to the median estimate of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. That would be a five-year high and an increase of
0.4 percentage point from a week earlier.  Gasoline inventories may have increased  1.1 million
barrels , the survey showed. Stockpiles of distillates, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, are expected to
have gained 1 million barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
supply data in  Washington  today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Oil in New York may be advancing too quickly for further
gains to be sustainable, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude’s 30-day stochastic oscillators have climbed to
almost 70, a level that would indicate prices are overbought.
Futures also formed a so-called “death cross” yesterday when
the 100-day moving average fell below the 200-day mean, a signal
for investors to sell contracts.  Iran Tension  Clinton departed  Israel  for Washington today after a nine-
country, 12-day trip. She met with Israeli leaders on issues
including Iran, upheaval in the Arab world, the stalled Israeli-
Palestinian  peace process  and the political transition in  Egypt ,
where she spent a day and a half.  “We all prefer a diplomatic resolution, and Iran’s leaders
still have the opportunity to make the right decision,” Clinton
told reporters. “The choice is ultimately Iran’s to make. Our
own choice is clear: We will use all elements of American power
to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  Iran has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for about a fifth of the global oil shipments, in
response to sanctions on its nuclear program. The Persian Gulf
nation, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, says the program is for civilian use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  