-- Oil Drops From Seven-Week High on Outlook for Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-07-18T06:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/oil-trades-near-seven-week-high-on-stockpiles-stimulus-outlook.html
Oil fell from a seven-week high in
 New York  on concern fuel demand may falter after  China  signaled
more economic weakness and analysts cut their profit forecasts
for European companies at the fastest rate since 2009.  Futures slid as much as 0.7 percent after advancing a fifth
day yesterday, the longest run of gains since April. The labor
situation in China, the world’s second-biggest crude user, will
become more “severe,” Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, according to a
statement on the government’s website. Profits at Euro Stoxx 50
Index companies will rise 6.8 percent this year, more than
12,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a 19 percent gain predicted at the start of the year.  “I don’t think we have a very strong momentum on the oil
market because the economy is not that strong in  Europe , the
U.S. and China,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivative
sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo . “We would expect some
profit taking after five days of gains.”  Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 63 cents to
$88.59 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.98 at 2:57 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract gained 0.9 percent yesterday to $89.22, the highest
close since May 29. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange declined as much as 78 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $103.22 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a $14.41 premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade, down from $14.46 yesterday.  Technical Resistance  Oil in New York climbed too quickly for further gains to be
sustainable, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day
stochastic oscillators are above 70 for the first time since
March, a level that signals price gains are exaggerated. Sell
orders may be clustered near technical resistance along the
upper Bollinger Band, around $90 a barrel today.  “If $90 can’t be breached then I think we’ll come in for a
bit of a correction lower,”  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets
newsletter in Sydney, said in a telephone interview. “You can
possibly see a pretty ugly scenario from Europe developing.”  Euro Stoxx 50 Index companies will earn 240 euros a share
in 2012, 6.8 percent more than in 2011, according to more than
12,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 19
percent gain predicted at the start of the year. The reduction
is the biggest since 2009, when analysts trimmed by 42
percentage points.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  starts the European earnings
season with its results today.  U.S. Stockpiles  Crude has declined this year on concern Europe’s debt
crisis will derail global economic growth. The European Union
accounted for 16 percent of the world’s oil consumption last
year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual Statistical Review of World
Energy. The U.S. accounted for 21 percent and China for 11
percent.  Prices rose yesterday after an American Petroleum Institute
report showed U.S. crude inventories fell and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is prepared to
act to boost growth if the labor market doesn’t improve.  Stockpiles dropped 2 million barrels last week, the
industry-funded API said. An Energy Department report today will
probably show supplies decreased 1.3 million barrels, according
to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Gasoline inventories slid 116,000 barrels, the API said.
They are forecast to increase  1.2 million barrels  in the
government report, according to the survey. Distillate supplies,
a category that includes diesel and heating oil, climbed 3.4
million barrels, compared with a projected 1.3 million-barrel
gain.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Bernanke said tools available for policy easing include
further purchases of assets, reducing the  interest rate  on bank
reserves kept at the Fed, and altering its communications on the
outlook for rates. He made the remarks responding to questions
during testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  