-- Oil Advances in New York, Reversing Earlier 1.2% Decline
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-17T20:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/oil-rises-fifth-day-on-stimulus-speculation-inventory-outlook.html
Oil rose to a seven-week high on
speculation that inventories fell and as a report showed U.S.
industrial production increased in June.  Prices advanced as  supplies  probably dropped 1.3 million
barrels last week, a Bloomberg survey of analysts showed.
Industrial output rose 0.4 percent. Prices fell earlier as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained from pledging
new stimulus policies, then rebounded with equities as Bernanke
said the central bank is ready to act to boost growth if labor
markets don’t improve.  “The economic data is pretty good and it’s painting a
better picture for oil demand,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The market is
getting prepared for tomorrow’s inventory report.”  Crude for August delivery increased 79 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $89.22 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest settlement since May 29. Prices have declined 9.7
percent this year. The five-day streak of gains is the longest
since April 27.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  said oil inventories fell 2.01 million barrels to
379.9 million last week. The August contract gained 61 cents to
$89.04 a barrel at 4:32 p.m. in electronic trading in New York.
Oil was at $89.09 before the API report’s release at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for September settlement advanced 63 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $104 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Crude Inventories  U.S. oil  supplies  probably fell to 376.9 million in the
week ended July 13 as refineries processed more crude into
gasoline, the Bloomberg survey showed. Analysts also predicted
gains of 1.2 million barrels in gasoline stockpiles and 1.3
million in distillate. The refinery utilization rate increased
to 93 percent of capacity, which would be a five-year high.  Crude inventories dropped 4.7 million barrels in the week
ended July 6 to 378.2 million, the lowest level since April 27,
the Energy Department reported last week.  “While traders may react to what Bernanke says, there is a
completely independent, physical fundamental story,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “The demand-supply balance is going to be significantly
tighter in the third quarter than it was in the second.”  The  International Energy Agency  on July 12 forecast that
world oil demand will increase next year by 1 million barrels a
day to 90.9 million a day. Consumption in emerging economies
will surpass developed nations for the first time ever in 2013,
the Paris-based agency said.  Industrial Output  The increase in June industrial production was bigger than
the 0.3 percent forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The Fed also revised May data to show a 0.2 percent decline that
was larger than first reported.  Oil also rose as confidence among homebuilders climbed in
July to the highest level in five years and U.S. equities
advanced. Crude, which reached an intraday high of $89.46,
settled above the 50-day moving average for a second day.  “As we start breaking out above $90, the trend followers
are starting to get long,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “That’s very
bullish for oil.”  Oil fell as much as 1.2 percent in intraday trading after
Bernanke said progress in reducing unemployment is likely to be
“frustratingly slow” and refrained from discussing specific
monetary actions to spur the economy.  Bernanke said in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee
that economic growth slowed during the first half of this year.
Equities advanced after Bernanke said he doesn’t view inflation
as a hindrance to providing more stimulus.  ‘A Disappointment’  “Bernanke’s testimony is a disappointment to those hoping
that we get another affirmative step in terms of stimulus,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “He acknowledged a
slowing economy but he didn’t come across with anything
substantive as to what the Fed is going to do about it.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are considering whether the economy will need more
stimulus to reduce a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009. Last month, they decided to extend Operation
Twist, which lengthens maturities of assets on the Fed’s balance
sheet, to the end of the year.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 555,204
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 503,009
contracts yesterday, 10 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.44 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  