-- Japan Utilities Drop on Nuke Safety Concern: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d ,   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-07-17T06:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/hokuriku-electric-drops-on-report-of-fault-under-reactor.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  led
declines among Japan’s utilities after Nikkei news report that a
tariff increase will be less than anticipated amid escalating
opposition to the country’s plans for restarting nuclear
reactors and reorganizing the industry.  Tepco, as the utility at the center of last year’s nuclear
disaster is also known, dropped 12 percent to 123 yen, a new
low.  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505)  plunged 8.3 percent to 1,115
yen after Kyodo News reported a fault line beneath one of the
company’s reactors may be active. The Topix Electric Power & Gas
Index fell 4.6 percent, the most in a year, after tens of
thousands of people rallied in  Tokyo  to protest nuclear power.  Kansai Electric  Power Co., the country’s second-largest
utility, fell 7.2 percent to 809 yen after alarms went off at a
reactor scheduled for restart tomorrow, underscoring protesters’
concerns about the safety of the country’s nuclear generators. A
government advisory body on July 13 recommended breaking up the
regional monopolies enjoyed by generators.  “If the active fault is relatively big, that may prevent
the company from resuming operations,” said Hidetoshi Shioda,
an energy analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
“Investors are probably concerned that if you look elsewhere,
you’ll find similar problems.”  Government research suggests a fault may be active beneath
Hokuriku Electric’s Shika nuclear power station about 300
kilometers (190 miles) northwest of Tokyo, Kyodo said, citing
people familiar with the matter.  On April 26, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency,
known as NISA, did release findings that said  Japan  Atomic Power
Co.’s Tsuruga nuclear plant northeast of  Osaka  may be on an
active earthquake fault line. NISA said an investigation is
needed to assess the risk before any decision is made to restart
the Tsuruga reactors.  Ohi Restart  Japan’s nuclear regulator said on July 15 that the No. 4
reactor at Kansai Electric’s Ohi plant can be restarted as
planned because pressure gains that triggered alarms didn’t
damage equipment and operations won’t be affected, according to
a  statement  on the utility’s website. All of Japan’s reactors
were shut following last year’s nuclear disaster.  Tens of thousands of people packed Tokyo’s Yoyogi Park
yesterday to oppose the restart of nuclear reactors in Japan’s
biggest anti-nuclear rally since the meltdowns at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant. Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  last month approved the restart of two reactors
at Kansai Electric’s Ohi plant.  In other potentially damaging developments for power
utilities, an advisory board to the Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry on July 13 said the electricity transmission and
distribution networks should be spun off from the utilities’
generating plants or be taken over by an independent operator.  New Trend  “It seems utilities cannot change the trend toward the
separation of power generation and transmission operations. The
market had expected it, but it’s still a negative factor,” said
Takashi Aoki, a  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co.  Tokyo Electric has also run into objections from Japan’s
Consumer Affairs Agency over plans to raise electricity prices
to help pay for the Fukushima disaster. The agency said today
the utility needs to cut labor costs of its employees by at
least 30 percent, compared with the current 20-25 percent, as
part of its assessment of the utility’s rate increase plan.  The agency’s report didn’t specify a figure for the rate
increase, though  Kyodo News  reported today the government aims
to cap the electricity price rise for households and small users
at less than 9 percent from a planned 10.28 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  