-- Olympic Security Firm G4S Not Charged Over 2010 Flight Death
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-17T16:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/olympic-security-firm-g4s-not-charged-over-2010-flight-death-2-.html
G4S Plc (GFS) , the U.K. security company
hired to protect the  Olympic Games , won’t be charged over the
death of a man restrained by three of its guards at London’s
Heathrow airport on an Angola-bound aircraft in 2010.  There isn’t enough evidence for a trial because medical
experts gave several potential causes for the death of Jimmy
Mubenga, who was being deported from the U.K., and there’s no
proof a “sufficiently senior person” at G4S failed to act, the
Crown Prosecution Service said. Still, the probe found
“shortcomings in the training given to the security guards.”  “I cannot bring a prosecution unless there is sufficient
evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction,” Gaon Hart, a
lawyer for the  Crown Prosecution Service ’s special crime unit,
said in a statement today.  The decision comes as Crawley, England-based G4S faces a
separate scandal over its failure to supply enough security
guards for the London Olympics, which start on July 27. The
company’s market value has dropped about 600 million pounds
($938 million) in four days.  The three guards were arrested about a week after Mubenga’s
death on Oct. 12, 2010, and no longer work for G4S. Prosecutors
didn’t receive a full file of evidence from police until
January, the CPS said.  “The care and welfare of those in our custody has always
been our top priority and we are pleased that the CPS has
concluded there is no basis on which to bring charges against
either G4S or its former staff,” the company said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Cardiorespiratory Collapse  While the technical cause of Mubenga’s death was deemed to
be cardiorespiratory collapse when he was being restrained, it
isn’t clear if the condition was brought on by the physical
contact or some other combination of elements, prosecutors said.  “There is insufficient evidence that the restraining
methods used by the security guards were, in themselves,
illegal,” Hart said. “No witness had an unrestricted or
uninterrupted view of what happened, and there is no overall
clear picture of what happened in that key window of time.”  Prosecutors were advised they would need to prove Mubenga
was held in a “severely splinted position” with his head on or
below his knees, restricting his diaphragm, and that the
position was “more than a minimal cause of Mr. Mubenga’s
death,” CPS said.  ‘Positional Asphyxia’  G4S’s training was flawed because guards weren’t’ properly
shown how “positional asphyxia” might occur or how to identify
the warning signs, CPS said. The company also failed to train
workers on how to perform such restraint on an aircraft.  The medical experts said Mubenga was in an “agitated
state” during the incident and that they couldn’t rule out his
death may have been caused by “adrenalin, muscle exhaustion or
isometric exercise,” the prosecutors said.  G4S followed training recommended by the U.K. Border Agency
and the National Offenders Management Service, the CPS said.
Hart said the CPS would notify both agencies about the findings
from the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  