-- Olympic Javelins Power UPS Bid to Ride Out Europe Slump: Freight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/olympic-javelins-power-ups-bid-to-ride-out-europe-slump-freight.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is
betting sailboats and javelins will catapult it to the forefront
of  Europe ’s package-delivery business as the  Olympic Games  help
it ride out the region’s recession.  The world’s largest package delivery company will shift
more than 30 million items as part of its contract to support
the Olympic and Paralympic competitions in London that start on
July 27 and end Sept. 9. At the same time, the company is
courting investors to consolidate its position in Europe with a
$6.3 billion purchase of Dutch carrier  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   That deal would put UPS on an equal footing in Europe with
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market leader, pitting them in a
fight for dominance as the region’s economy struggles to grow.
With European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  predicting a
“mild recovery” by the end of the year, a successful Olympics
operation could provide a platform for UPS’s expansion.  “Europe won’t be in recession forever,”  Helane Becker , an
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in  New York  with a “hold” rating
on UPS, said in a telephone interview. “These problems will
eventually get sorted out and UPS will be there.”  Expanding in Europe is “critically urgent” for UPS as its
domestic U.S. market is saturated, Becker said, adding that the
Olympics could provide “a jumping-off point” for expansion.  While the euro-area economy may shrink this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  sees growth returning in 2013 with a
a 0.7 percent expansion. For the 27-country European Union,
which includes the U.K., the forecast is for no growth this year
and a 1 percent rise in gross domestic product in 2013.  Ticket Sales  Shares in Atlanta-based UPS have risen 7.4 percent this
year, matching the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and compared with
a 21 percent increase for Deutsche Post. Combined with
Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT, UPS would command more than
$60 billion in annual revenue.  Britain will welcome 14,700 athletes from more than 200
countries for the Olympic and  Paralympic Games , and the events
will be watched by billions of people around the world. About 11
million tickets have been sold for the competitions, which
involve 46 sports.  For UPS, that means delivering 1 million pieces of sporting
equipment such as javelins, racing bikes and sailing boats, as
well as anti-doping equipment and Olympic medals, to 34
competition and training venues. The London Games will eclipse
the 2008 Beijing Olympics, when UPS moved 19 million items.  Pursuing the acquisition of TNT as it juggles the Olympics
has heightened the risk to UPS’s reputation, according to Jean-
Paul Louisot, a professor of risk management at the University
of Paris-Sorbonne.  Security Lapses  “It’s clear that the stakes of the games are higher than
they would have been otherwise,” Louisot said in a telephone
interview. “It’s worth investing more in the security and
safety of the operations than it would’ve normally been.”  The risk to companies involved in such a high-profile event
were underlined in the past week, when  G4S Plc (GFS)  failed to deliver
enough security personnel, forcing the government to deploy
3,500 extra soldiers. The security provider’s shares have fallen
17 percent since July 11 and Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles appeared before lawmakers yesterday to explain the
failure.  “If we mess up, then obviously it’s very visible,” Cindy Miller, head of UPS’s U.K., Ireland and Nordic operations, said
in a telephone interview. “We see Europe in general as such an
important market despite some economic difficulties that are
going on.” The UPS’s Olympics operation has experienced no
delays and is on schedule, she added.  Behind Estimates  Britain, which is struggling to recover from a recession,
is counting on a smooth running of the Olympics to help bolster
 London ’s international profile. In the short term, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. forecasts the games may boost third-quarter  gross
domestic product  by as much as 0.4 percentage point.  UPS posted first-quarter  net income  of $1 a share in April,
compared with the average estimate of $1.01 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 23 analysts. Revenue gained 4.4 percent to $13.1
billion.  The company’s planned 5.16 billion-euro ($6.3 billion)
purchase of TNT is the biggest deal in its 105-year history. It
says the acquisition will produce pretax cost savings of 400
million euros to 550 million euros annually after four years.  TNT, which agreed to accept the bid of 9.50 euros a share
in March, will hold an investor meeting on Aug. 6 to brief
shareholders on the takeover. The U.S. courier on July 13
extended the offer period to the fourth quarter because the
European Commission needs more time to examine the impact of the
transaction.  “Their margin for error is smaller,” Logan Purk, an
equity analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an
interview, with reference to UPS chasing TNT during the
Olympics. “It’s a big step for them because this is by far
their biggest acquisition. It gives them the premier status in
Europe and we don’t doubt that and I think that’s a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  