-- Tom Hanks Brings Animated Dystopia to Yahoo Video Line-Up
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/tom-hanks-brings-animated-dystopia-to-yahoo-video-line-up.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which named Google’s
 Marissa Mayer  as its new chief yesterday, is pushing for a
larger share of the online video audience with “Electric
City,” an animated sci-fi series featuring Tom Hanks.  Produced by Hanks’s Playtone and India’s Reliance
Entertainment, “Electric City” tells the story of a
futuristic, dystopian society through 20 five-to-seven minute
episodes, starting today at Yahoo Screen.  For the company, the second-largest U.S. Web video
provider, the series marks a high-profile bid to improve its
standing as an original producer and close the gap with  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and its YouTube unit, the Web video leader. Mayer, 37, will
be charged with helping the company regain the attention of Web
audiences who have shifted to competitors.  “They’re figuring at some point they actually attract new
users who say, ‘This  Tom Hanks  thing is worth giving a shot.
It’s on Yahoo? Well, I didn’t realize that was an option,’”
said James McQuivey, an Internet analyst at Forrester Research
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Video clips, with fashion advice, celebrity gossip, sports
and financial news, have become a focus for Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo, the world’s most popular Web portal, as
it looks to replace revenue lost to Google and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Interim CEO Ross Levinsohn had pointed to deals with  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC News and the Spotify Ltd. music service as
growth opportunities.  “Eighty-five percent of Internet users watch videos,”
said Erin McPherson, Yahoo’s vice president of video
programming. “We need to be at the center of that.”  Interactive Features  Yahoo fell 0.6 percent to $15.65 yesterday in  New York . The
company reports second-quarter results today after markets
close. “Electric City” will air at screen.yahoo.com, home of
the company’s entertainment programming.  In addition to the 90-minute story, “Electric City” will
offer viewers character bios, an interactive map where they can
follow the action, and links for posting comments on social
networking sites while watching on a multiscreen format. Along
with Hanks, an Academy Award winner, the cast includes Jeanne Tripplehorn and Ginnifer Goodwin.  Rather than releasing episodes one at a time over several
weeks, Yahoo is putting 10 episodes out the first day and the
rest over the next two days. The effect is that of a three-day
television miniseries, McPherson said.  ‘Cybergeddon’ Plans  “Electric City won’t have any ads. Instead, Yahoo is
acting as the sole sponsor. ‘‘Cybergeddon,’’ a program planned
for later this year, will be sponsored by  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) ’s
Norton anti-virus software.  Advertising associated with online videos, at less than $4
billion a year industrywide, remains a fraction of the $60
billion-plus devoted to TV networks, McPherson said.  ‘‘The ad dollars have yet to come,’’ she said. ‘‘We’re
still in the early stages.’’  Yahoo isn’t the only Internet company turning to A-list
entertainers for original online programming.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the
subscription video service, is producing five original series,
including ‘‘House of Cards’’ with  Kevin Spacey .  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
Crackle online unit will carry a Web series from  Jerry Seinfeld 
starting this month. YouTube is spending about $100 million to
develop original videos with partners such as Disney.  The number of videos watched online in the U.S. climbed 14
percent in the past year to 36.6 billion in May, according to
researcher  ComScore Inc.  Yahoo ranked second with 57.7 million
video viewers in May, behind Google Inc. and its YouTube unit
with 151.6 million.  Mobile Games  ‘‘Electric City’’ was shopped to other firms before being
picked up by Yahoo, McPherson said. She declined to reveal terms
of the deal. Financing is from Reliance Entertainment which is
also releasing mobile games based on the characters.  Ben Schachter , an analyst with Macquarie Securities in New
York, said Yahoo has held early leads in other businesses, such
as e-mail, and its financial results have still disappointed.
Yahoo’s sales last year fell to $4.98 billion, down 30 percent
from their 2008 peak of $7.21 billion, as the company lost ad
revenue to Google and others.  ‘‘I think given the history of the company, people need see
them actually execute on a strategy, not just talk about it,’’
Schachter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  