-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Rises Most Since September 2002
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-rises-most-since-september-2002.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
increased in July by the most in almost a decade, indicating
further improvement in residential real estate.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo
 confidence index  climbed 6 points, the biggest gain since
September 2002, to 35 this month, a report from the Washington-
based group showed today. The gauge exceeded the most-optimistic
projection in a Bloomberg News survey of 46 economists. Readings
below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Builders said they were more upbeat about sales prospects
as both current purchases and buyer traffic improved, showing
the industry is being fueled by record-low mortgage rates and
cheaper properties. At the same time, limited job growth,
stricter credit standards and foreclosures are hurdles for the
industry that precipitated the last recession.  “The housing market has turned the corner as more buyers
perceive the benefits of purchasing a newly built home while
 interest rates  and prices are so favorable,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and a
builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said in a statement.  The index reached the highest level since March 2007. The
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey called for an increase
to 30, and estimates ranged from 28 to 32. The gauge, which was
first published in January 1985, averaged 54 in the five years
leading to the recession in December 2007. It reached a record
low of 8 in January 2009.  Sales, Traffic  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  The measure of  present  single-family home purchases climbed
to 37 in July, the highest since February 2007, from 31. An
index of sales in the next six months increased to 44 this
month, the highest since April 2007, and  buyer traffic  was the
strongest since February 2007.  “This is particularly encouraging at a time when other
parts of the economy have begun to show softness,”  David Crowe ,
the association’s chief economist, said in a statement.  Confidence increased among builders in all four U.S.
regions, today’s data showed. The measure of sentiment climbed
to 44 this month in the West from 32 in June. Confidence
increased to 36 in the Northeast from 28; to 32 in the South
from 27; and to 34 in the Midwest from 31.  Pent-up Demand  “It’s been seven years since this all began to turn down,
and you have people that are just ready to move on with their
lives, take advantage of great interest rates,” Douglas Yearley, chief executive of  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, said at a June 14 conference. “We have all
this pent-up demand that has not been in the market. That is
coming back out.”  Cheaper properties, rising household incomes and low
 mortgage rates  combined to push home affordability to an all-
time high in the first quarter, according to the National
Association of Realtors. The  average rate  on a 30-year, fixed-
rate mortgage reached a record-low 3.56 percent last week,
according to  Freddie Mac .  The  Federal Reserve ’s latest Beige Book assessment of
economic conditions indicated residential real estate may be
reviving. Several of the central bank’s districts said
“consistent indications of recovery in the single-family
housing market, although the recovery was characterized as
fragile.” The Fed’s next Beige Book report will be released
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 