-- London Cab Drivers Protest Olympic Dedicated Traffic Lanes
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-07-17T16:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/london-cab-drivers-protest-against-olympic-traffic-chaos-.html
London  taxicab drivers blocked
traffic to protest the  Olympic Route Network  designed to
transport athletes and officials around the city after they were
banned from using the lanes during the games.  More than 200 black cabs blocked traffic in  Parliament
Square  in central London for two hours today in a demonstration
organized by Cabbies Against Boris, a campaign group for the
city’s taxicab drivers, who will be excluded from using the
lanes from 6 a.m. until midnight. Only official vehicles will be
allowed in the lanes during these hours.  “We just want to do our job,” said David Barret, a London
taxicab driver. “People are already getting out of the cabs
because all the roads are blocked. I’m going to be about 70
percent down on my earnings.”  The protesters say taxicabs should be given access to the
special lanes to carry visitors who may be unable to use trains
and buses, such as disabled people, the elderly, and families
traveling with small children. The exclusive lanes are designed
to make it easier for athletes and officials using official
transport to access the Olympic village in Stratford, East
London, and other venues. The games are due to start on July 27.  “We strongly urge taxi drivers to ignore calls to join
these unnecessary protests and instead show why they are
regularly voted the best in the world,” said John Mason,
director of London Taxi and Private Hire, in an e-mailed
statement today.  Cab drivers also say the Olympic road network is confusing
for drivers because it is badly signposted, causing further
traffic congestion. Olympic organizer said today bus companies
taking athletes from  Heathrow airport  to the stadium are
“becoming familiar” with routes after reports of lengthy
delays yesterday as drivers became lost.  The traffic lane system will be fully operational on July
25, two days before the Olympic opening ceremony. A dedicated
lane on the M4 motorway, running from Heathrow Airport in the
west to central London, is already operating from 5 a.m. until
10 p.m. as athletes start to arrive at the airport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  