-- Looming Copper Surplus Contracting as Mining Fails
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-07-18T22:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/looming-copper-surplus-contracting-as-mining-fails-commodities.html
Analysts are slashing predictions
for the first copper glut in four years as producers from  Chile 
to  Indonesia  contend with aging mines and strikes at a time of
record demand.  The global surplus will total 18,500 metric tons, according
to the median of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, 85
percent less than a January forecast of 124,000 tons. Barclays
Plc expects shortages in the first half of next year and Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. anticipate an annual deficit.
Prices will rally as much as 14 percent to $8,700 a ton by Dec.
31, the median in a survey of 15 analysts shows.  Mining companies on average are processing about 15 percent
more ore than they were in 2000 to extract the same amount of
metal, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX)  shut Grasberg, site of the world’s largest reserves,
for two weeks in the first quarter after violent protests,
following a three-month strike in 2011. Demand growth will
accelerate to 4.7 percent next year from 1.5 percent in 2012,
Morgan Stanley estimates.  “It’s really a matter of scarcity in copper, with mined
supply lagging behind expectations,” said Thomas Benedix, a
Stuttgart, Germany-based metals analyst at Tiberius Group, which
manages about $2.1 billion of assets. “At the start of the year
people were expecting that the supply side could really start
delivering on their targets, and now it’s not going to happen.”  Bear Market  Copper fell 17 percent in the four months to June 8 on the
 London  Metal Exchange, 3 percentage points less than the common
definition of a  bear market . It’s since rallied 4.8 percent to
$7,643.75, for an annual gain of 0.6 percent, beating the 1.3
percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials. The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 4.5
percent and Treasuries returned 2.6 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  While the International Copper Study Group forecasts mine
output will expand 5.1 percent this year and 7.6 percent in
2013, production has missed the Lisbon-based group’s initial
forecasts in each of the past five years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank AG cut its 2013 surplus forecast to 260,000
tons from 300,000 tons on July 3 and JPMorgan is now predicting
a 295,000-ton shortfall, compared with a January projection for
a 259,000-ton glut. Bank of America Merrill Lynch said July 9 it
expects a 7,000-ton surplus from 120,000 tons forecast in April.
Barclays puts the last surplus in 2009.  Largest Producer  Morgan Stanley’s prediction for additional consumption of
almost 1 million tons next year is more than Santiago-based
Codelco, the world’s largest producer, can extract from Codelco
Norte, its biggest source of copper, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The changing forecasts have yet to be recognized by  hedge
funds . Speculators more than doubled their net-short position,
or bets on declining prices, in the week ended July 10, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  The funds have been bearish since the end of May, the
longest streak since January, on mounting concern that central
banks and other policy makers will fail to shore up growth.
About $4.6 trillion was erased from the value of global equities
since the end of March, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Copper
buyers are delaying purchases because Europe’s debt crisis may
derail the global economy, Codelco Chief Executive Officer
 Thomas Keller  said in an interview June 6.  Service Industries  A purchasing managers’ index for  China , the biggest copper
consumer, reached a seven-month low in June, HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics said July 2. U.S. manufacturing shrank in
June for the first time since July 2009, the  Institute for
Supply Management  reported the same day.  Service industries  and
factory output in the 17-nation euro area contracted for a fifth
consecutive month, Markit reported July 4.  “Things have definitely worsened in the past few months,”
said  Dan Smith , a commodities analyst at Standard Chartered Plc
in London. “In the short term, the economic picture is going to
get weaker and that will affect the copper market. Sentiment is
really what drives this stuff.”  The  European Central Bank  reduced  interest rates  to a
record low on July 5 and the  Bank of England  announced the
resumption of bond purchases on the same day. Federal Reserve
policy makers are scheduled to announce a rate decision Aug. 1.  Global Expansion  China cut rates in June and this month and reduced reserve
requirements for banks three times since November. The stimulus
may boost copper demand later this year, according to Jeremy Baker, who manages the $800-million Vontobel Belvista Commodity
Fund in Zurich. The country will use 6 percent more copper next
year, almost twice the pace of the global expansion, Barclays
estimates. The total amount of construction across China is
equivalent to building a city the size of  Chicago  every year,
JPMorgan Asset Management said in a report in May.  Mining companies will struggle to keep up because the metal
content of ore is declining, new deposits are getting harder to
find and wages and fuel bills are increasing. Costs are rising
by as much as 10 percent a year for some producers, Macquarie
said. The average ton of ore contains about 1.1 percent copper,
compared with more than 1.3 percent in 2000, it estimates.  Lower Output  Codelco’s output for the first five months of this year was
7.5 percent lower than a year earlier and Rio Tinto Group’s
first-half production also slid 7.5 percent. Its Bingham Canyon
open pit mine in  Utah , the London-based company’s second-biggest
copper operation, is more than 100 years old and now more than
three-quarters of a mile deep. Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, extracted 4 percent
less copper in its financial year that ended June 30.  Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc reported a 36 percent
slump in copper output at their Collahuasi copper mine in
northern Chile in the first five months of this year, compared
with the same period in 2011, Chilean state copper researcher
Cochilco said today.  A rebound in prices would help sustain earnings for the
companies as output contracts. Shares of BHP will rise 33
percent to A$40.20 in the next 12 months, the average of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s
industrial metals unit accounted for 20 percent of sales in the
year to June 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global stockpiles monitored by the LME fell 32 percent to
253,575 tons this year as inventories tracked by the Comex
exchange in  New York  retreated 44 percent to a three-year low of
49,097 tons. Reserves in bonded warehouses in China stand at
about 500,000 tons, from more than 600,000 tons in April,
Barclays estimates.  “The issues facing the supply side of the copper market
haven’t disappeared overnight,” said  Gayle Berry , an analyst at
Barclays in London. “The problems like declining ore grades,
delays in bringing on new production and so on are not things
that happen in one year and disappear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  