-- Mortgage Seizure Fight Poised to Raise Agency-Backed Loan Rates
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-17T13:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/mortgage-seizure-fight-poised-to-raise-agency-backed-loan-rates.html
A change in rules for the most
liquid part of the agency mortgage-bond market as Wall Street
fights municipal seizures would make even government-backed
loans costlier for certain borrowers, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
has discussed with its members who set guidelines for To-Be-
Announced, or TBA, trading of the debt whether to exclude loans
from areas that use eminent domain powers to buy “underwater”
mortgages, saidKenneth Bentsen, an executive vice president at
the New York-based group. San Bernardino County,  California ,
last month created an authority to consider the action.  Excluding loans from the TBA market, where forward sales
contracts can be filled with any bonds matching a broad set of
characteristics, “would have a significant effect on credit
 availability  for borrowers in these locations,” JPMorgan
analysts led byMatt Jozoff wrote in a July 13 report.  The rule change would reflect powers available to investors
and banks to withhold  new mortgages  now that the ubiquity of
tax-supported programs has reduced the influence of other loans.
Lenders restricted credit last decade in  North Carolina , Georgia
and  Maryland  in response to state predatory lending laws, the
analysts said. Government-backed programs guarantee more than 90
percent of originations, even as both Democratic and Republican
policy makers in  Washington  say they hope to reduce that amount.  For other loans, the use of eminent domain would lead
investors to demand  interest rates  as much as 2 percentage
points higher “or simply not lend there at all,” the JPMorgan
analysts said.  Curbing Defaults  TBA trading is used in the $5.4 trillion market for so-
called agency mortgage securities guaranteed by taxpayer
supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.
Officials who want to bolster housing by curbing defaults among
underwater homeowners, or those who owe more than properties’
values, are considering seizing non-delinquent loans from the $1
trillion of bonds without those guarantees for an amount deemed
fair value in order to lower borrowers’ debts.  Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC, which proposed the
initiative to San Bernardino County, is also reaching out to
officials in  Florida ,  Nevada , and elsewhere in California,
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC said yesterday in a report.
Suffolk County, New York, is also considering the plan, the New
York Times reported July 15, citing a county executive.  Antitrust Law  Robert Hockett, a professor of law at  Cornell University ,
said in a telephone interview that he believed the talk from
Sifma wasn’t serious because the move would potentially run
afoul of so-called redlining or antitrust laws. Hockett
describes himself as “an unpaid adviser” to San Francisco-
based MRP after getting a “small payment” for research from
the firm.  Being eligible for the TBA market, which Sifma says
involves “hundreds of billions of dollars of daily trading,”
boosts bond prices by making debt easier to buy and sell,
reducing loan rates. TBA trading also represents the backbone of
lending because it allows originators to sell bonds before
they’re created, making it easier to lock rates for borrowers.
The Wall Street Journal reported the potential exclusion of
loans from areas using eminent domain last week.  “The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  has concerns with this
use of eminent domain and is communicating with county officials
to better understand their intentions,” said Corinne Russell, a
spokeswoman for the overseer of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Government Role  Terry Carr, a spokeswoman for Ginnie Mae, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail yesterday seeking comment.  Brian Sullivan , a spokesman for the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, which manages agencies that insure loans put into
Ginnie Mae bonds, declined to comment.  Pacific Investment Management Co., AllianceBernstein LP and
Western Asset Management Co. have said the eminent domain
proposal adds to state and federal actions that will reduce
their desire to buy non-agency mortgage bonds once the
government seeks to lessen its role in lending.  Laurie Goodman , the Amherst Securities Group analyst who
opposes using eminent domain even after saying more principal
cuts for homeowners are needed to rescue housing, suggested
using TBA changes to push back on the strategy in a report last
month. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own more than $100
billion of non-agency securities, could “stop the program
immediately” by refusing to back certain new loans, she wrote.  Sifma explored the TBA exclusion on a conference call last
week and “generally, participants were in favor,” Barclays Plc
analysts including Nicholas Strandwrote in a July 13 report.  ‘Risk Characteristics’  The JPMorgan analysts said “the rationale is that these
loans could have significantly different risk characteristics
than generic loans.” Loans excluded for similar reasons include
debt with prepayment penalties or loan-to-value ratios of more
than 125 percent, and securities filled more than 10 percent
with mortgages exceeding typical size limits, they said.  “The fundamental concept that underlies TBA market is
homogeneity,” Bentsen said in an e-mail. “The integrity of
this market is of utmost importance, and market participants
share a similar feeling of responsibility to ensure the market
works as efficiently as possible so as to provide maximum
benefits to consumers, lenders and other market participants.”  Any move to exclude a county’s loans before it makes a
final decision would be “illegal,” David Wert, a San
Bernardino County spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We plan to
have a public discussion on this idea and any others that might
provide relief to homeowners and get our economy moving again,
despite any intimidation tactics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  