-- Mosaic Says China Potash Price More Likely to Rise
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-07-17T20:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/mosaic-says-china-potash-price-more-likely-to-rise.html
China , the world’s largest potash
consumer, is more likely to pay a higher price for imports of
the fertilizer after grain prices soared because of a drought in
the U.S., according to  Mosaic Co. (MOS)   Corn futures have jumped 52 percent in  Chicago  in the past
month and soybeans have climbed 21 percent as the worst U.S.
drought in a generation damages crops. Mosaic Chief Executive
Officer Jim Prokopanko said that will influence talks currently
in progress between China and North American potash suppliers
about a six-month supply accord.  “That strengthens our hand,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Mosaic’s headquarters in Plymouth,
 Minnesota . “The more grain is worth, the more fertilizer is
worth.”  Mosaic, based in Plymouth, Minnesota, rose 5.1 percent to
close at $58.21 yesterday in  New York , the biggest gain since
April 25.  Most market watchers expect China will end up paying the
same or less,  Edlain Rodriguez , an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets LLC in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “It is very unlikely Canpotex will get a higher price,”
Rodriguez said, referring to Canpotex Ltd., the international
trading arm of the largest U.S. and Canadian potash producers.
“North American inventories are relatively high.”  India Talks  Mosaic yesterday posted fiscal  fourth-quarter earnings  and
revenue that beat analysts’ estimates. The company said it sold
potash at an average of $455 a metric ton in the quarter through
May, 13 percent more than a year earlier. It forecast an average
price of $415 to $440 a ton in the current quarter.  China currently pays about $470 a ton for potash including
freight costs, unchanged from the previous contract, Rodriguez
said.  Prokopanko said he expects  India  to conclude potash price
talks as early as September. A weaker rupee and cuts in
government fertilizer subsidies may mean an agreement isn’t
possible this year, he said.  Mosaic said it plans to raise its quarterly  dividend  to 25
cents a share from 12.5 cents. Fourth-quarter net income dropped
22 percent to $507.3 million, or $1.19 a share, from $649.2
million, or $1.45, a year earlier.  Profit excluding plant-closing costs, losses on derivatives
and including a 2-cent foreign-exchange gain was $1.27 a share,
topping the $1.15 average of 16  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.4 percent to $2.82 billion, beating the
$2.56 billion average of 11 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  