-- Osborne Plans $80 Billion U.K. Infrastructure Spending Boost
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-18T10:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/osborne-to-outline-plan-to-spur-80-billion-in-infrastructure.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  outlined plans to encourage as much as 51 billion pounds
($80 billion) of spending on U.K. infrastructure and exports in
the latest effort pull the economy out of recession.  The Treasury will operate a 40 billion-pound loan-guarantee
program to underwrite a share of projects that face financing
difficulties and are ready to begin in the next 12 months. It
will also provide 6 billion pounds in loans to 30 public-private
partnership projects and a further 5 billion pounds of export
guarantees for infrastructure and manufacturing companies.  “The credibility the government has earned through
tackling the deficit is already helping,” Osborne said at the
announcement of the program in London today, according to
remarks released by his office. The guarantees “will use that
hard-won fiscal credibility to provide public guarantees of 50
billion pounds of private investment in infrastructure and
exports.”  The announcement follows other initiatives aimed at lifting
the economy out of its second recession since 2009. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  pledged this week to invest more than 9
billion pounds in the U.K. rail network, while the Treasury and
Bank of  England  last week gave details of a plan to boost credit
to companies and households by at least 80 billion pounds.  Other efforts focus on involving pension funds in financing
infrastructure. The opposition  Labour Party  says more is needed
to boost demand in the short term and advocates tax cuts.  Limiting Risk  The Treasury said projects identified in the 2011 National
Infrastructure Plan that face funding difficulties can apply for
support from today. The plans need to be credible “with equity
finance committed and project sponsors willing to accept
appropriate restructuring of the project to limit any risk to
the taxpayer.”  The 6 billion pounds of loans to private-public
partnerships will aim to spur projects in transport, health,
housing and education, the Treasury said. Export loans aim to
support aerospace, oil and gas extraction equipment, transport
and telecommunications infrastructure services, hospital
construction and management services and sports infrastructure.  Business leaders welcomed the announcement, while
criticizing the government for failing to take action sooner.  ‘Speedy Action’  “Business expects speedy action, rather than yet more
unfulfilled promises,” the director of policy at the British
Chambers of Commerce, Adam Marshall, said in a statement. “Only
visible results on the ground will make this announcement, and
the government’s National Infrastructure Plan, worth the paper
they’re written on.”  Today’s announcement “will not be a game-changer in
driving forward infrastructure investment,” Michael Conroy
Harris, a construction specialist at international law firm
Eversheds LLP in  London , said in an e-mailed statement. “The
criteria for the guarantees will need close consideration and
the key issue will be finding projects which are otherwise ready
and funded to proceed given the economic environment and general
lack of available private debt funding.”  Budget cuts, a squeeze on households as inflation outpaces
wages and turmoil in the euro region -- the biggest market for
British goods -- are weighing on an economy that has recovered
barely half of the output lost in the recession of 2008-2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  