-- Toughen, or End, the UN’s Syria Mission
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-17T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/toughen-or-end-the-un-s-syria-mission.html
Russia has accused the U.S. and its
allies of “blackmail” ahead of Wednesday’s United Nations
Security Council vote on  Syria , because they threatened not to
renew  Kofi Annan ’s observer mission unless Russia agrees to give
it teeth. If so, they and Annan failed to use blackmail soon
enough or hard enough.  Russia has backed itself into a corner over Syria by
refusing to allow a UN mission that would have the power and
means to defend itself; to investigate what it wants, when it
wants; and to wield the threat of military intervention should
the Syrian regime refuse to abide by the  UN’s cease-fire plan .  Russia and  China  will probably block proposals to renew
Annan’s mission under  Chapter VII  of the UN Charter if the vote
goes ahead as planned. Syria is Russia’s only remaining ally in
the region and hosts a Russian naval base. But the decision to
veto is one that Russia’s new-old President  Vladimir Putin  may
come to regret. Russia’s attempts to gloss over regime
atrocities and claim neutrality, even as it continues to arm
President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces, will make it a
pariah to any new administration that eventually takes over in
Damascus.  The U.S. and its allies on the Security Council would be
wise to carry through their threat to block renewal of Annan’s
mission under its existing terms, even though the resulting
deadlock would probably end efforts to create an international
consensus to force Assad into exile -- an effort that Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  has now written off as
unrealistic.  With fighting in central Damascus, higher level defections
from the regime and a rising daily death toll, the  Barack Obama 
administration should join the Gulf states and  Turkey  in taking
actions it has until now resisted. That doesn’t mean sending in
the Marines, but it does require further steps that should be
taken immediately (and not after November’s U.S. presidential
elections). As Annan said last week of the UN  Security Council 
deadlock: “Inaction becomes a license for further massacres.”  First, look for ways the  International Criminal Court  could
issue  war crimes  indictments against Assad and members of his
regime responsible for the pattern of torture, summary
executions and use of live rounds to kill unarmed protesters
since March 2011. There was an argument for holding off with
indictments so long as it made sense to keep the door open for
Assad to go into voluntary exile, as happened in Yemen. That
argument no longer holds.  Indicting Assad -- or opposition fighters suspected of war
crimes --  will be difficult , due to issues of jurisdiction. But
it would be valuable to take a public stand on Assad’s
culpability.  Second, as the price for greater international support, the
U.S. could greatly increase pressure on Syria’s opposition
groups to reach out to Kurdish, Christian, Druze and Alawite
minorities and to spell out a common vision for a post-Assad
Syria.  Russia  is right that Syria’s main opposition groups are
too unrepresentative of the country to give any assurance of a
peaceful transition -- as opposed to continued sectarian
conflict -- should Assad be removed.  The political platform that results must include clear
commitments that allay justifiable fears of retribution among
Syria’s large ethnic and religious minorities, should the
country’s Sunni majority take power. As enticement, the U.S. and
its allies can hold out the carrot of formal recognition to the
unified opposition leadership that emerges. Already, new and
more diverse groups than the Turkey-based  Syrian National
Council , such as the National Bloc, are beginning to play a
role.  With those commitments in place, the U.S., the U.K. and
 France  in particular should become more involved in the supply
of weapons to opposition forces that’s already under way, funded
mainly by  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar. Previously, one could argue
against arming the rebels on grounds that doing so would
encourage an escalation of the conflict to the much higher
levels of casualties and destruction seen in Bosnia and
elsewhere, as well as the formation of armed militias that may
well commit atrocities of their own.  By now the weapons pipeline is open. Putting control of
distribution and training in the hands of U.S. and European
special forces -- rather than Sunni regional players such as
Saudi Arabia or no one at all -- is the best way to reduce
risks. This is especially true of shoulder-held anti-aircraft
and anti-tank weapons, which need to be closely watched.  U.S. involvement on the ground, albeit covert, is made all
the more necessary by the recent leaks of U.S. intelligence that
Assad has begun moving some of his chemical weapons stocks.
Those leaks are best seen in light of Wednesday’s UN Security
Council debate and were doubtless part of the blackmail that
Lavrov complained about. Whatever was being moved and for
whatever reason, the large scale of Assad’s chemical weapons
arsenal and the proliferation threat it poses are beyond
dispute. The U.S. has a clear interest in its security.  Military intervention in Syria remains a bad idea. But with
Russia blocking the road to a political solution and violence
escalating, just trading blame for the deadlock at the UN will
not do. A new policy that catches up with events in Syria is
needed, and quickly.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  amorality of banks and
ineffectual regulators  and on Republicans’  campaign-finance
betrayal ;  Margaret Carlson  on politics as  class warfare ; Clive
Crook on destructive  capitalism-bashing ;  Peter Orszag  on keeping
children from getting  fatter and dumber  during the summer;  Nell
Minow  on why letting CEOs lead their own boards is like letting
students  grade their own exams .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 