-- OCBC Gets Offers for $2.1 Billion Beverage, Brewery Stakes
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-07-17T04:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/oversea-chinese-banking-gets-offer-for-beverage-brewery-stakes.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,
Singapore’s second-biggest bank, and its insurance unit received
an offer for their S$2.7 billion ($2.1 billion) stakes in a
drinks maker and a brewery partly owned by  Heineken NV. (HEIA)   OCBC and its Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. unit are in talks
with the bidder, whose name wasn’t disclosed in the exchange
filing yesterday. The stake in  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) , Singapore’s
biggest beverage maker was worth S$2.04 billion as of yesterday,
and their share of  Asia  Pacific Breweries was valued at S$709
million.  Fraser & Neave shares jumped 4.6 percent to reach a record
today, adding to a 6.8 percent surge over the last two days,
while Asia Pacific Breweries also climbed to an all-time high.
Beer makers globally are consolidating to bolster sales and the
world’s largest brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev NV in June agreed to
buy the remainder of  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo SAB for $20.1 billion
to expand in  emerging markets .  “On the face of it, it looks like an offer intriguing
enough for the bank to think about,” said  Sam Hilton , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. “If the
deal goes through, there are going to be capital issues on what
they do with the proceeds: Do they invest in something else or
distribute it as special dividends.”  OCBC and Great Eastern hold 18.2 percent of Fraser & Neave
and 7.92 percent of Asia Pacific Breweries, according to their
statement to the Singapore stock exchange yesterday. The two
companies “will make appropriate announcements at the relevant
time should circumstances merit such announcements,” they said.  Stock Performance  Shares of OCBC, which owns about 85 percent of Great
Eastern, increased 1.2 percent to S$9.29 as of 11:46 a.m. local
time.  Great Eastern (GE) , Singapore’s biggest life insurer, climbed
4.5 percent to S$13.60, the largest gain in more than two years.  Asia Pacific Breweries rose 3.5 percent to S$35.90,
advancing 26 percent this year. Fraser & Neave jumped to S$8.26,
bringing its gain for the year to 33 percent. The Singapore
benchmark Straits Times Index added 14 percent in 2012.  Fraser & Neave trades at  15.7 times earnings , while Asia
Pacific Breweries is valued at a multiple of 24, exceeding the
10 times price-earnings ratio for the Straits Times Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The beverage maker said in May its second-quarter  profit
dropped  21 percent to S$103.5 million from a year earlier,
following a charge for terminating a proposed divestment in
 China . Demand in Asia and policy easing are expected to push
growth in the region, which may offer opportunities to expand,
Fraser & Neave said at that time.  Kirin’s Purchase  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest brewer by market value,
bought 14.7 percent of the company two years ago for S$1.34
billion, paying S$6.50 each per share.  Goh Han Peng, an analyst at DMG & Partners Securities Pte
in Singapore, said Kirin is a “logical buyer” because of its
earlier investment in Fraser & Neave. “Assuming the buyer is
indeed Kirin, it would have to contend with possible counter-
offers from the more deep-pocketed Heineken Group, as well as to
line up financing for a mandatory takeover of F&N once its stake
crossed 30 percent,” he said, adding that yesterday’s
announcement was unexpected.  Kirin spokesman Kan Yamamoto declined to comment. Heineken
NV’s international press office in Amsterdam couldn’t be reached
outside of regular hours.  Jennifer Yu, a spokeswoman for Fraser & Neave, couldn’t be
immediately reached for a comment. Shirley Poo, a spokeswoman
for Asia Pacific Breweries, couldn’t immediately comment. Both
companies separately issued OCBC and Great Eastern’s statement
to the  Singapore  exchange late yesterday.  SABMiller, Foster  SABMiller Plc, the world’s second-biggest beermaker by
volume, agreed to buy Foster’s Group Ltd. in  Australia  last year
for about A$10.5 billion.  In China’s fragmented beer market, overseas companies are
acquiring or setting up new breweries across the country to
widen the reach for their premium brands. Kingway Brewery
Holdings Ltd., controlled by the Guangdong provincial government,
put its assets up for sale in January. Kingway in June said the
acquisition talks are continuing, without specifying potential
buyers.  “If you look at beer makers’ profitability, the more share
they have, the more margin they get,” said Masashi Mori, an
analyst at Deutche Bank AG in  Tokyo . “So both internally and
externally, the size expansion is the tried and true tactics for
beer makers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  