-- P&G Seen Mulling Brand Sales for Better Return: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-07-17T20:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/p-g-seen-mulling-brand-sales-for-better-return-real-m-a.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  would stand to
boost the lowest valuations in a decade versus competitors by
parting with businesses from batteries to dog food.  The largest consumer-goods company cut its profit  forecasts 
three times in 2012 as sales growth slowed in Europe and  North
America , limiting the stock’s gain in the last  five years  to
just 2.6 percent, the worst performance among its household
products rivals. Compared with Colgate-Palmolive Co., investors
this month were willing to pay the least per dollar of profit to
own P&G shares in 10 years, and the Cincinnati-based company’s
price-earnings ratio fell below  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) ’s for the
first time since 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After  William Ackman  disclosed a stake in P&G that’s his
largest initial investment ever, the $178 billion company is
seeking to hire advisers amid calls to jettison executives or
assets, people familiar with the matter said. Divesting brands
such as Iams, Braun,  Duracell  and Crest could help P&G increase
the combined per-share value of its divisions by at least 30
percent to the mid-$80’s, said Huntington Asset Advisors.
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. says that while sales of units from
pet care to consumer tissue should be weighed, a full breakup
could value P&G’s pieces at as much as $200 billion.  “P&G’s stock has been stuck here forever,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior fund manager at Huntington in Cincinnati,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s just no real genesis of
growth. There’s an awful lot of potential in there that could be
unlocked with the right kind of restructuring.”  Huntington oversees $14.7 billion, and P&G is one of its
largest holdings, Sorrentino said.  Ackman’s Investment  “We do not comment on future plans in respect of
acquisitions or divestitures,” Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G,
said in an e-mail. “We are focused on growth through our top 40
businesses, top 20 innovations, top 10 developing markets and
our $10 billion productivity program.”  P&G, which counts  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
as its third-largest  shareholder , markets its products in more
than 180 countries and has more than 75 brands including Tide,
Gillette and Pampers.  The company was forced to trim its profit forecasts this
year because of slowing sales growth in Europe and the U.S.,
rising commodity costs, unfavorable foreign-exchange rates and
price reductions to better compete. Analysts now project net
income of $10.8 billion for the year that ended in June, which
would be the  third-straight  decline in annual profit, according
to data and  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shake Up  Since activist investor Ackman disclosed on July 12 that
his Pershing Square Capital Management LP had taken a stake in
P&G, the stock had risen 5.6 percent through yesterday. Ackman,
46, plans to press for management changes and is seeking more
investors to join his push, people familiar with the situation
said last week.  P&G needs “an activist to shake things up and effect
change, so this could be just what the doctor ordered,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based fund manager at Highmark Capital
Management Inc., which oversees about $17 billion, wrote in an
e-mail.  Ackman didn’t respond to a request for comment left with a
spokeswoman for his New York-based firm.  Even with the recent increase,  shares  of P&G have fallen
2.9 percent this year and have only added 2.6 percent since July
2007. P&G’s five-year performance has trailed each of its main
competitors --  Unilever (UNA) ,  Clorox Co. (CLX) ,  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc (RB/) , Kimberly-Clark, Henkel AG,  Colgate (CL)  and  Church & Dwight (CHD)  Co.,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Colgate Premium  Rivals’ gains have ranged from  12 percent  at Unilever,
based on the Amsterdam-listed shares for the London- and
Rotterdam-based seller of Dove soaps, to 133 percent at
Princeton, New Jersey-based Church & Dwight, which makes Arm &
Hammer baking soda.  “It’s obvious they have underperformed and business has
been a little softer in terms of what you’d expect,” John San Marco, an analyst at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, said in a phone interview. “For the better part of the
decade, the better performers in this industry have been those
portfolios with more focus like Colgate and Church & Dwight.”  New York-based Colgate, the world’s largest toothpaste
maker, has climbed 53 percent in five years, giving the company
a price-earnings ratio of almost 21. P&G traded yesterday at
17.3 times profit. This month, Colgate’s multiple was as much as
26 percent higher than P&G’s, the widest gap since December
2001, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the last month,
investors have also been willing to pay the biggest premium for
Unilever’s earnings relative to P&G since June 2010.  Leadership Change  Last month, P&G’s earnings multiple fell to less than that
of Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Huggies diapers and Kleenex
tissues, for the first time since April 2001, the data show.
After the news of Ackman’s investment, P&G surpassed Dallas-
based Kimberly-Clark, which is valued at 17.2 times profit.  Today, P&G shares rose 0.8 percent to $65.35, the highest
closing price since April 26.  Some P&G  directors  are dissatisfied with Chief Executive
Officer  Robert McDonald , 59, and are discussing a possible
leadership change, people familiar with the matter said last
week. The company may also hire an external public-relations
firm and banks in coming days to help manage Ackman, another
person said this week.  “Ackman’s not doing this for his health,”  Matt McCormick ,
a fund manager who helps oversee $6.2 billion including P&G
shares at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said in a phone
interview. “He recognizes that the parts are worth more than
the whole, and he has an expertise at recognizing brands with a
lot of worth that in the short term are underperforming and just
need a catalyst.”  Iams Split  The Duracell battery and  Iams  pet-food units are seen
inside P&G as businesses where innovation is needed to justify
keeping them, people familiar with the matter said this week.
Even before Ackman’s purchase, P&G had spoken with advisers to
assess interest in those assets, other people familiar with the
situation said. Duracell may fetch as much as $4 billion and
Iams would probably sell for about $3 billion, one person said.  P&G should sell or spin off Iams, which it acquired in 1999
for $2.3 billion, as well as  Braun  electric shavers, Duracell
and the Crest line of toothbrushes and toothpaste, according to
Huntington’s Sorrentino.  That would allow P&G to focus on expanding and reacting to
new opportunities in its three main businesses -- beauty
products, razors, and detergents and surface cleaners,
Sorrentino said. Items in those units benefit from being
produced and marketed together, while other brands are too
different to create manufacturing efficiencies, he said.  Olay Lotion  “If you’re in the shampoo business, all you do is put
different bottles in the machines, and so those brands all need
to stay together,” Sorrentino said. “The toothpaste
manufacturing line, you don’t use that for other things. They
could cut the rest of the noise out.”  P&G’s  beauty  unit, which makes everything from Head &
Shoulders shampoo to Olay body lotion and Pantene hairspray,
accounted for about 24 percent of profit in fiscal 2011,
according to the company’s annual filing. Pet care and snacks,
which are reported together and include Iams and the Pringles
potato chip business that was sold to Kellogg Co. in May,
represented just 2 percent of earnings, the filing showed.  Sorrentino estimates P&G’s stock is worth “in the mid
$80’s” when he values each of its businesses separately using
comparable publicly traded companies. That’s about 30 percent
higher than yesterday’s closing price of $64.81.  Breakup Tradeoffs  The divestiture of units including pet care, Duracell,
Braun and consumer tissue should be “immediately considered,”
 Ali Dibadj , a New York-based analyst at Bernstein, wrote in a
July 13 report. If P&G can’t unlock its potential, “a more
profound break-up of the company may be one viable option by
which to facilitate positive change,” said Dibadj.  He estimates the sum of the company’s parts is worth
between $180 billion and $200 billion. While that’s at most only
13 percent higher than the company’s market value yesterday, it
would create “significant operational and even cost synergies”
with “very limited disynergies,” he wrote.  Still, P&G benefits from being a conglomerate because its
array of products on retailers’ shelves around the world gives
the company more negotiating power, Richard Cook, co-founder of
Cook & Bynum Capital Management LLC in Birmingham, Alabama, said
in a phone interview.  “We don’t have any sort of anti-conglomerate bias,” said
Cook, who oversees $220 million including P&G shares. While
there are some benefits to a breakup, “there are disadvantages
to being split up also. There’s certainly a tradeoff.”  Stock Repurchases  In February, P&G pledged to cut $10 billion in expenses by
2016. That’s a step in the right direction, said  David Katz , who
oversees $900 million as chief investment officer at New York-
based Matrix Asset Advisors Inc., a P&G shareholder. Instead of
breaking itself up, P&G should buy back shares to take advantage
of its undervalued stock, Katz said.  Ackman has spurred some breakups and spinoffs that have
proven lucrative for shareholders. Fortune Brands Inc. separated
in October after Ackman became the largest holder and sought to
dismantle it. Of the businesses that remain publicly traded,
 Fortune Brands Home & Security Inc. (FBHS)  has surged  75 percent  since
then, and  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  has climbed 47 percent.  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , in which Ackman held shares, has risen 15
percent since August when it announced plans to separate the
North American grocery unit from its larger snack-foods
business.  “P&G used to be one of the great stocks to own,” Laurence Balter, a money manager at Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle
Investment Research, said in a phone interview. Asset sales or
spinoffs “would possibly be a good way to unlock shareholder
value. You can’t turn a $170 billion ship on a dime. P&G needs a
kick in the rear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 