-- Paternoville Changed to Nittanyville Outside Penn State Stadium
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-17T04:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/paternoville-changed-to-nittanyville-outside-penn-state-stadium.html
Paternoville no longer exists
outside Penn State University’s football stadium.  The group that manages the encampment of students at Beaver
Stadium for home games officially changed the location’s name to
“Nittanyville” to return the focus to the team. Penn State
students have camped out at the stadium in  University Park ,
Pennsylvania, before each game since 1993 in order to get field-
level seats. The area was termed “Paternoville” in 2005.  The switch comes less than a week after a probe by ex-
Federal Bureau of Investigation director  Louis Freeh  found that
late Nittany Lions football coach  Joe Paterno  and other school
officials failed to protect children from sexual abuse by former
assistant coach Jerry Sandusky. Paterno, who guided Penn State
to 409 wins and two national championships, was fired by the
school in November and died in January.  “It’s a new era of Nittany Lion football,” Nittanyville
president Troy Weller said in a  statement  on the website for the
officially recognized student group. “And by changing the name
to Nittanyville we want to return the focus to the overall team
and the thousands of students who support it.”  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 years as a defensive assistant
under Paterno, was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts
tied to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period.  Paterno, former Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and
university officials Timothy Curley and  Gary Schultz  repeatedly
concealed critical facts surrounding Sandusky’s abuse in an
attempt to avoid “bad publicity,” according to Freeh’s report.
The abuse could have been stopped in 1998, Freeh said after the
report’s release.  The Nittanyville Coordination Committee said students at
the Beaver Stadium encampment will donate a portion of the
proceeds from their fundraising efforts throughout the 2012
season to the newly established Center for the Protection of
Children, based at Penn State Hershey Children’s Hospital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  