-- Penn State May Face Penalties From NCAA After Coverup Report
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-17T19:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/penn-state-may-face-harshest-penalty-ncaa-president-tells-pbs.html
Severe penalties may be leveled
against Penn State University’s athletic program after a report
showed school officials covered up a child sex-abuse scandal
involving a former assistant football coach, the president of
college sports’ governing body said.  Mark Emmert , president of the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , said in an interview with the Public Broadcasting
Service yesterday that he is awaiting Penn State’s response to
the investigation conducted by former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh .  The report released last week said the school’s top
executives, including former university President  Graham Spanier 
and football coach  Joe Paterno , concealed Jerry Sandusky’s
sexual abuse of children to protect the school from “bad
publicity.”  “I have never seen anything as egregious as this in terms
of just overall conduct and behavior inside a university and
hope to never see it again,” Emmert said in an interview on
PBS’s “Tavis Smiley” program.  He said a decision on penalties would wait until “actual
charges” against  Penn State  are determined.  “And I don’t want to take anything off the table,” Emmert
said.  ‘Death Penalty’  The stiffest punishment in college sports is the NCAA’s
“death penalty,” which can shut down an athletic program found
to have violated the rules.  NCAA spokesman Bob Williams said in an e-mail that Emmert
was unavailable to discuss the PBS interview.  David LaTorre of LaTorre Communications, an independent
public relations firm working with the school, said in an e-mail
that Penn State has maintained an “open dialogue” with the
NCAA, and will answer all of the association’s questions
following a thorough review of Freeh’s report.  Sandusky, 68, spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
under Paterno. He was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts
tied to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period and is
awaiting sentencing.  “Our most saddening and sobering finding is the total
disregard for the safety and welfare of Sandusky’s child victims
by the most senior leaders at Penn State,” Freeh said at a
press conference in Philadelphia on July 12. “The most powerful
men at Penn State failed to take any steps for 14 years to
protect the children who Sandusky victimized.”  Report Disputed  Attorneys for Spanier say the Freeh report “contained
numerous inaccuracies and reached conclusions that are not
supported by the data,” without providing details. Paterno’s
family said yesterday in a statement that it also disputed some
of Freeh’s findings and was conducting its own review of the
proceedings.  Mike McCann, director of the Sports Law Institute at
 Vermont Law School  in South Royalton,  Vermont , said the NCAA
likely will give more weight to the behavior of the athletic
director and university executives than focus on Sandusky and
Paterno.  “It was a departmental issue,” McCann said in a phone
interview. “If they were to stop all sports for a year or two,
they would likely say that this wasn’t just a football team
situation, it was an institutional problem.”  If the NCAA levies the death penalty against Penn State,
the financial losses would likely be debilitating, leaving non-
revenue teams without funding and saddling the program with debt
for years.  Profit Center  In the fiscal year ending in 2010, the football program
generated $63.3 million of the department’s $106.6 million
operating revenue and turned an operating profit of $49.2
million, according to the school’s revenue and expenses report
for that year.  Scott Rosner, a sports business professor at the  University
of Pennsylvania ’s  Wharton School , said Penn State would have a
difficult case to make if it filed a lawsuit against the NCAA to
recoup financial losses.  “They’d have to argue that what the NCAA was doing was
beyond its purview as a governing body of intercollegiate
athletics,” Rosner said in a telephone interview. “And that to
do so would be an entirely and utterly implausible
interpretation of their rule book.”  Emmert didn’t imply whether penalties would be targeted at
the football program, or the entire athletic department since
Tim Curley, then the athletic director, and other university
officials allegedly were involved.  Paterno was fired in November after charges were filed
against Sandusky. The Nittany Lions’ coach for 46 years and the
winner of a Division I-record 409 games, Paterno died of  lung
cancer  in January.  Now ‘Nittanyville’  On campus, the group that manages the encampment of
students at Beaver Stadium known at “Paternoville” in honor of
the former football coach, changed the location’s name to
“Nittanyville” yesterday, calling it a “new era in Nittany
Lion football.”  Southern Methodist University  received the  death penalty  in
1987 when it was revealed that 13 players had received a total
of $61,000 from a slush fund provided by a booster. The NCAA
canceled SMU’s 1987 season and allowed it to play just seven
games -- all on the road -- in 1988.  “This is completely different than an impermissible
benefits scandal like (what) happened at SMU, or anything else
we’ve dealt with,” Emmert said. “There have been people that
said this wasn’t a football scandal. It was that, but much more.
And we’ll have to figure out exactly what the right penalties
are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  