-- Peregrine’s Fraud Went Undetected in Two U.S. Agency Reviews
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-17T16:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/peregrine-s-fraud-went-undetected-in-two-u-s-government-reviews.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission reviewed operations at Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
at least twice since 2006 without detecting the fraud that led
to the collapse of the futures broker and a $200 million
shortfall in client funds.  The Washington-based agency conducted examinations at
Peregrine in 2007 and 2008, according to a list of CFTC reviews
obtained through a public records request. The list, which
includes reviews between 2006 and Nov. 9, 2011, does not detail
what records or procedures examiners evaluated.  A third review was listed in 2011. A CFTC official said the
2011 exam was scheduled to oversee compliance with foreign
exchange regulations but didn’t take place because of limited
resources. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because
the agency was still reviewing the matter.  Peregrine is under investigation after Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. attempted suicide.
Wasendorf had written a signed statement that he committed fraud
for two decades at his  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based company,
according to a criminal complaint.  ‘System Failed’  “Although we do not yet know the full facts of what
happened in this matter, the system failed to protect the
customers of Peregrine,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in
testimony at a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing today.
“Just like the local police cannot prevent all bank robberies,
however, market regulators cannot prevent all financial fraud.
But nonetheless, we all must do better.”  Gensler told reporters after the hearing that the agency
will review the CFTC’s documents from 2007 and 2008, and “pull
those files to see how we can do this better.”  The CFTC sued Peregrine over the shortfall on July 10, less
than a year after being scolded for poor oversight following the
collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which left an estimated
$1.6 billion gap in customer funds.  Lapses in federal oversight have triggered a political
backlash from U.S lawmakers and others. The Securities and
Exchange Commission is still working to restore its reputation
after failing to detect  Bernard Madoff ’s multi-billion-dollar
Ponzi scheme, which came to light in 2008.  Gensler has said that the CFTC relies on industry-funded
self-regulators -- including the  National Futures Association 
and  CME Group Inc. (CME)  -- to conduct routine oversight of futures
firms, in part because its $205 million budget is inadequate.  ’Examine the Examiners’  “They’re the front-line regulators and we oversee them,”
Gensler said at the hearing today. “I do think we need to do
more and review that relationship to make sure we’re doing the
right things at the CFTC when we examine the examiners, so to
speak, to ensure their audits are full.”  The CFTC will review NFA’s self-regulatory
responsibilities, Gensler said at the agriculture hearing.
Gensler said the “investors here at Peregrine got let down.”  The futures association said last week that Peregrine’s
chairman may have falsified bank records after only $5 million
was found in an account that was reported to have $225 million
in June.  Although day-to-day oversight is handled by the NFA, the
CFTC retains the legal power to conduct direct oversight when it
chooses. The agency used that power to conduct 146 reviews of
futures brokers during the nearly six years included in the
public records request.  “I’m losing faith in self-regulation unless there is
adequate, tight oversight by the agencies we fund,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said at the agriculture hearing.  Industry Review  Futures regulators, including NFA and CME, are conducting a
new industrywide review of brokers’ bank accounts to ensure the
integrity of customer funds, a person briefed on the matter said
yesterday. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because
the review hasn’t been publicly announced.  Christopher K.
Hehmeyer , NFA’s chairman, has requested that the Jenner & Block
law firm be retained to conduct an internal review of auditing
procedures and how they were used to oversee Peregrine, the
regulator said in an e-mail statement yesterday.  Public records indicate Peregrine had at least one previous
violation related to treatment of customer funds. In 1996,
Peregrine paid $75,000 to resolve NFA claims that the company
engaged in false and deceptive promotion and failed to
accurately calculate segregated funds, according to records
posted on NFA’s website.  The CFTC gave itself a grade of 100 percent for its direct
examinations of futures brokers in 2011, according to a
performance analysis by the agency issued on Feb. 13.  Proper Segregation  After the MF Global collapse, CFTC led a review with NFA
and CME of the 70 futures brokers that hold customer funds,
including Peregrine.  On Jan. 25, the CFTC announced that customer funds at the
brokers were properly segregated. The agency said the review was
a “snapshot” of the industry’s compliance with regulations and
didn’t involve a “lengthy examination” of the brokers,
according to a statement from the CFTC. The review relied on
brokers’ records and didn’t involve regulatory officials
independently confirming balances of customer funds at other
entities.  “We are appalled by the recent violations of customer
segregated funds that have shaken the very core of our
industry,” CME Group said in a July 13 statement. “Without
question, the current system in which customer funds are held at
the firm level must be reevaluated.”  The CFTC’s five commissioners are considering a draft of
new regulations to increase customer protection in the futures
industry, Gensler told reporters after the hearing. The draft
includes allowing regulators to have electronic access to bank
accounts and custodial accounts for futures commission
merchants, he said. There isn’t a date set to vote on the
proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  