-- Philippine Peso Gains 3rd Day on Fed Easing Chance; Bonds Drop
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-17T08:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/philippine-peso-gains-3rd-day-on-fed-easing-chance-bonds-steady.html
The  Philippine peso  gained for a
third day on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will ease U.S.
monetary policy, spurring foreign funds to seek higher-yielding
assets in  emerging markets . Bonds were little changed.  Retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly fell for a third
month in June, dropping 0.5 percent following a 0.2 percent
decrease in May, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will address the outlook for the
economy when he delivers his semi-annual monetary policy report
to Congress later today and may signal steps to revive growth,
such as a third round of quantitative easing.  “Markets are getting a bit ahead of themselves and are
pushing into a higher chance of QE3 sooner rather than later,”
said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. Investors “are looking for real returns
elsewhere. All Asian currencies against the dollar are
stronger,” he said.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 41.722 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It has gained
5 percent this year, the best performer among Asia’s 11 most-
traded currencies. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 20 basis points
to 6.2 percent.  The Philippine central bank cut the rate it pays lenders
for overnight deposits twice earlier this year, by a combined
0.5 percentage point to 4 percent, before leaving it unchanged
in April and June.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.68
percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  The Bureau of the Treasury sold 9 billion pesos ($216
million) of 4.75 percent bonds due July 2019 today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 