-- Philippines Targets $10 Billion of Annual Foreign Investments
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-07-17T01:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/philippines-targets-10-billion-of-annual-foreign-investments.html
The  Philippines  said it aims to
boost foreign direct investments in  call centers , factories and
shipyards to more than $10 billion a year, as President  Benigno Aquino  strives to create jobs and bolster growth.  The Philippines received 24 business teams in the first
half of the year from countries including Russia, Turkey and
Japan, Trade Secretary Gregory Domingo said. Investors are keen
on shipbuilding, agriculture, energy, steel, garments, and
business process outsourcing, he said.  “The biggest thing that has improved our standing in the
investment community globally has been President Aquino’s
governance,” Domingo said in an interview in his office in
Manila yesterday.  Aquino is winning confidence from investors and rating
companies as he fights corruption and boosts infrastructure
spending to transform the nation into a manufacturing hub in the
region. Moody’s Investors Service boosted its outlook on the
Philippines to positive in May, when the country’s top judge was
impeached for illegally concealing his wealth, while Standard &
Poor’s this month raised the long-term foreign currency-
denominated debt rating to the highest level since 2003.  The $225 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 2010, and the peso is the best
performer against the  U.S. dollar  among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies this year, having gained about 5 percent. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  surged to a record this month.  The peso rose a third day today to 41.732 per dollar as of
9:27 a.m. in Manila. Benchmark bonds due March 2021 gained, with
the yield falling to the lowest level since February, according
to Tradition Financial Services.  ’Tremendous Interest’  “When he first assumed office, there were still a lot of
people who doubted he will really pursue” good governance,
Domingo said. “But now, he has convinced everybody that he is
sincere. We’ve seen tremendous interest in investment.”  From 1970 to 2010, the Philippines drew $33.98 billion in
foreign direct investment compared to $322.13 billion for
 Singapore  and $108.87 billion for  Thailand , according to the
 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development .  The Philippines lured about $6 billion in pledged foreign
investments last year, and has drawn commitments from companies
including Glencore International Plc and Gazasia Ltd. this year.
Business groups from Mexico and Argentina are due to visit the
country, Domingo said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  