-- Philippine Remittances Curtail Policy Impact, BSP Study Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-07-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/philippine-remittances-curtail-policy-impact-bsp-study-says.html
Remittances sent home by Philippine
citizens abroad dilute the effectiveness of the benchmark
 interest rate , even as they bolster consumption and growth, a
study by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas said.  The policy pass-through “tends to moderate” when the impact
of large remittance flows is taken into account, Deputy Director
Veronica Bayangos said in a paper published on the central
bank’s  website  July 16. It used simulation results from a macro
econometric model from March 2001 to March 2011 to show the
impact on growth, inflation and the exchange rate.  Bangko Sentral has expanded its policy toolkit in recent
years to include banks’ reserve requirement, special deposit
accounts, foreign exchange and lending rules. Remittances, which
account for the equivalent of about a tenth of the  economy , are
the largest source of foreign exchange after exports, and are
forecast by the central bank to increase 5 percent this year.  “The preliminary simulation shows that a significant rise
in remittances leads to appreciation of the peso-dollar rate,”
the study said, which may make the central bank reluctant to
raise borrowing costs. “At present, the BSP monitors the
 exchange rate  movements when setting the policy rate, but it
only moves to dampen the impact of significant exchange rate
shocks and not to target the exchange rate,” it said.  Bangko Sentral, which held its overnight  borrowing rate  at
4 percent for a second meeting last month, tightened rules on
capital inflows after the peso climbed to 41.6 per dollar on
July 4, the highest level since April 2008. The monetary
authority has banned foreign funds from special deposit accounts,
and said it is monitoring inflows via non-deliverable forwards.  Less Volatile  Money sent home by the more than 9.4 million Filipinos
living in countries from the U.S. to  Saudi Arabia  climbed to a
record  $20 billion  in 2011. Remittances rose 5.3 percent from a
year earlier in the January-May period, data showed yesterday.  The peso is the best performer against the  U.S. dollar 
among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies this year, having gained
about 5 percent. Greater remittances flows also lead to higher
 consumer spending , and thus a fall in the output gap, and an
increase in inflation, the study said.  “A central bank trying to stabilize the output gap,
inflation and the exchange rate will find it difficult to
achieve all the objectives when remittances are substantial,”
the study said, adding that “calibration of policy rate” may not
be sufficient as an instrument of monetary policy.  The $225 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 2010, as President  Benigno Aquino  steps up spending on infrastructure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  