-- Poland Must Hold Rates to Shield Zloty, Kazmierczak Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-17T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/poland-must-hold-rates-to-shield-banks-kazmierczak-says.html
Poland ’s central bank should refrain
from reducing borrowing costs at least until the end of the year
to shield the zloty and banks from capital outflows, policy
maker Andrzej Kazmierczak said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski, the only central bank in the
European Union to raise  interest rates  this year, shouldn’t
“rush” to lower them with inflation unlikely to return to the
bank’s 2.5 percent target this year even as Poland’s slowing
economy risks worsening, Kazmierczak said in an interview in
Warsaw yesterday.  “The process of draining capital deposited in the Polish
banking system has begun,” Kazmierczak said, adding that 6
billion euros ($7.4 billion) had flowed out in the three
quarters through March. “Given the dire situation of euro-area
lenders, this process will not only continue, but will have an
increasingly negative impact on Poland’s banks.”  Kazmierczak’s remarks put him at odds with fellow policy
makers Elzbieta Chojna-Duch and Andrzej Bratkowski, who both
signaled that borrowing costs may need to be cut after the
central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.75
percent this month and in June following May’s quarter-point
increase.  Polish consumer prices are rising at the second-fastest
pace in the 27-nation EU even as the European Commission
forecasts  economic growth  will slow to 2.7 percent this year
from 4.3 percent in 2011. Poland relies on the euro area to buy
more than half its exports, while the parent banks of five of
its seven largest lenders are based in the 17-nation currency
bloc.  Currency Defense  “ Monetary policy  has to assume that the euro area’s
banking crisis will deepen and spread, and that Polish banks
will feel the pinch,” said Kazmierczak, a member of the rate-
setting Monetary Policy Council. “Positive real interest rates
are essential to defend the zloty” and “are also required for
Polish banks in case they need to attract deposits on the local
market to offset capital outflows.”  Poland had the EU’s worst-performing currency in May, when
the zloty lost almost 5 percent. The zloty has since pared
losses, trading at 4.17 per euro at 5 p.m. in Warsaw, up 0.5
percent from yesterday and more than 5 percent since the
beginning of June. Yields on 10-year zloty bonds rose 2 basis
points from 4.89 percent yesterday, the lowest since March 2006.  Higher Returns  Investors are turning to emerging-market debt for higher
returns after government yields sank to record lows from the
U.S. and  Canada  to the AAA-rated euro members, with German and
Dutch Treasury bills trading at negative yields. Polish five-
year credit-default swaps, which drop as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, declined seven basis points to 183,
extending this year’s decline to 97 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “One can’t be certain that portfolio investors will remain
eager to buy Polish bonds and that the speculative inflows we’re
now observing will continue,” Kazmierczak said. “We have to
mind the stability of the financial system and reinforce
investor confidence. We also need to make sure that Polish
households retain confidence in domestic banks and address
foreign investors’ concerns about a possible depreciation of the
zloty.”  Foreign investors’ net purchases of local-currency bonds
exceeded 6 billion zloty ($1.8 billion) in May, the most in
about 12 months, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said
June 15. Non-resident holdings amounted to 30.7 percent of
Poland’s 523 billion zloty of outstanding debt at the end of
April, up from 25 percent at end-2010, the latest data show.  New Forecast  Poland’s central bank on July 4 cut its forecast for
inflation, saying it will slow to near its target next year from
4.3 percent in June. The bank forecasts the economy will slow to
2.1 percent next year from 2.9 percent this year.  Speaking in Beijing on July 12, Governor  Marek Belka  said
that because the Polish central bank doesn’t expect a pickup in
 price growth , it is free to use interest-rate cuts to stimulate
the economy if needed.  Poland’s economy is slowing faster than the central bank’s
latest July projections and growth will “certainly” be below
the 2.9 percent forecast for 2012, policy maker Bratkowski said
in an interview today on  Obserwatorfinansowy.pl , a website
operated by the central bank.  Applying Brakes  “Not everybody understands that we’re no longer talking
about whether to stimulate or restrain economic growth; we’re
debating how hard to apply the brakes on the economy to stop
price growth that is mainly being imported,” Bratkowski said.
“I don’t agree that our job is to focus purely on inflation and
ignore economic growth.”  Investors in interest-rate derivatives expect the central
bank’s reference rate to decline by almost half a percentage
point by January from 4.75 percent now, based on the price of
six-month forward-rate agreements. The contracts dropped to 42
basis points below the Warsaw interbank offered rate today, the
widest gap since 2009 and compared with a nine basis-point
spread a month ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “One of the main driving factors behind zloty appreciation
these days is demand for high yields,”  Piotr Matys , a London-
based economist at 4Cast Ltd., said in a report today. “But
using the same argument, one could argue that fairly high
interest rates will not offer the zloty enough insulation if the
global crisis escalates.”  While Kazmierczak acknowledged policy makers had
“moderated” their rhetoric since the May increase, he said the
bank’s new inflation forecast doesn’t warrant a rate cut. If
price growth remains at 4 percent or higher after the third
quarter, the bank should increase borrowing costs, he said.  “If the inflation rate actually begins a sustained decline
and the euro area doesn’t tip into an even deeper crisis, then a
rate decrease could be considered, but no earlier than the
beginning of next year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  