-- Poland Shouldn’t Rush to Lower Interest Rates, Kazmierczak Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-07-17T10:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/poland-shouldn-t-rush-to-lower-interest-rates-kazmierczak-says.html
Poland shouldn’t rush to lower
borrowing costs as the country needs to maintain positive real
interest rates to boost banking deposits and protect the zloty
from slippage,  Andrzej Kazmierczak , a member of the Monetary
Policy Council, said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.  On why Poland needs positive real interest rates:  “Monetary policy has to assume that the euro area’s
banking crisis will deepen and spread, and that Polish banks
will feel the pinch. Lenders will have to attract deposits on
the domestic market, which requires maintaining positive real
interest rates. Poland’s banking industry is very exposed to
external capital flows and the country is relatively under-
banked.  ‘‘That’s why the stability of the banking system and the
 exchange rate  have to concern us more than would be the case at
the major global central banks. One can’t be certain that
portfolio investors will remain eager to buy Polish bonds and
that the speculative inflows we’re now observing will continue.  ‘‘Therefore, we have to mind the stability of the financial
system and reinforce investor confidence. We also need to make
sure that Polish households retain confidence in domestic banks.  ‘‘Foreign investors worry about zloty depreciation.
Positive real  interest rates  are essential to defend the zloty.  ‘‘These are all heavyweight arguments. We need to stay calm
and realistic when considering rate cuts. We can’t start easing
just because have a lower inflation forecast on paper. The
slowdown in price growth has to happen.  ‘‘Another rate increase will be essential if inflation
stays at 4 percent or higher after the third quarter. If the
inflation rate actually begins a sustained decline and the euro
area doesn’t tip into an even deeper crisis, then a rate
decrease could be considered, but no earlier than the beginning
of next year.  ‘‘My preference is for a cautious approach that would allow
for a wait-and-see phase to check whether inflation slows to
less than 4 percent after the third quarter, see how much the
economy slows and assess the impact of the euro area’s debt
crisis on our condition.’’  On the main risks:  ‘‘A particular concern is the forecast acceleration of
price growth in the third quarter. We can’t predict the impact
of such elevated readings on the inflation trajectory farther
out. Right now we’re prepared for 4 percent inflation in
September, and one of our forecasts predicts this level could
persist until October. While falling energy prices have helped
curb inflation, we have to take the recent rise in global food
prices into account.  ‘‘Since we don’t know the consequences of elevated
inflation persisting in coming months, the  Monetary Policy 
Council should refrain from reducing interest rates. A rate cut
at this stage would be rash.  ‘‘While the economic slowdown in Poland and a possible
weakening of price growth would support a rate cut, we have to
keep in mind the main risk factor. Monetary policy can’t be
conducted in isolation from the financial system. In just three
quarters, from the third quarter of 2011 through the first
quarter of this year, more than 6 billion euros flowed out of
Polish banks to foreign parents. This means the process of
draining capital deposited in the Polish banking system has
begun. Given the dire situation of euro area lenders, this
process will not only continue but will have an increasingly
negative impact on  Poland ’s banks.’’  On interpreting the May rate increase:  ‘‘The May rate increase was intended to signal the MPC’s
determination to fight inflation. We realized that a one-off
rate increase would send this message while having a neutral
effect on the economy. Any real impact would require a series of
rate increases. Even with elevated inflation, we decided to stop
at one increase because we could observe the symptoms of an
economic slowdown. We also moderated our rhetoric, even though a
persistent inflation rate of 4 percent means that we’re keeping
a restrictive policy stance.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
David McQuaid  at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  