-- Poll Finds 4 in 10 Favor Ending U.S. Tax Cuts for Wealthy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-17T19:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/poll-finds-americans-see-ending-tax-cuts-for-wealthy-beneficial.html
Four in 10 Americans in a national
poll say ending the Bush-era tax cuts on annual earnings of
$250,000 or more would help the economy, supporting the position
President  Barack Obama  has stressed in his re-election campaign.  The  survey  by the Pew Research Center released yesterday
shows that 44 percent said the higher taxes would be beneficial,
while 22 percent said such a move would harm the economy and 24
percent said there would be no effect.  In an almost identical finding, 44 percent said the higher
taxes for top earners would make the tax system fairer; 21
percent said the result would be a less fair structure and 25
percent said it would make no difference.  While most Democratic and Republican lawmakers favor
letting the tax cuts initially enacted under President  George W. Bush  continue for those below the $250,000 threshold, setting
the rates for those above it has been a major divide between the
parties and between Obama and presumptive Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney . All of the tax cuts, passed in
2001 and 2003 and extended in 2010, are set to expire Dec. 31.  Obama emphasized his support for ending tax cuts for top
earners while continuing them for others in July 9 remarks at
the White House, urging Congress to pass such legislation. He
made an announcement about pushing for elimination of the tax
cuts before campaign stops in Iowa and  Virginia , two of the
hardest-fought states in the presidential race.  Tax Differences  Romney and congressional Republican leaders want to extend
the tax breaks for all income levels. Romney has proposed
reducing rates for all income brackets and broadening the tax
base through unspecified measures.  The top-earning 1 percent of U.S. households earned 19.4
percent of all income and paid 28 percent of all federal taxes
in 2007, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Republicans say higher taxes for top earners would hurt the
economy because it would discourage  job creation . Obama couches
the issue as a matter of fairness and deficit reduction and says
Republicans are holding middle-class tax cuts “hostage” to
reductions for higher-income taxpayers.  In the Pew poll, 58 percent identified Obama as the
candidate wanting the tax cuts to expire for wealthier
Americans, while 7 percent identified Romney, 7 percent said
both took that position, 8 percent said neither and 20 percent
said they didn’t know.  The survey of 1,015 adults was taken July 12-15 and has a
margin of error for its full sample of plus or minus 3.6
percentage points.  Next Week  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said today the Senate probably will vote next
week on Democrats’ proposal to keep the Bush-era tax cuts for 98
percent of households while letting them expire for top earners.  Senator  Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat, said yesterday
in a speech at the  Brookings Institution  that her party will be
in a stronger negotiating position in January if the Bush tax
cuts expire. “Every proposal will be a  tax cut  proposal” at
that point, she said.  Senator  John Thune  of South Dakota, a member of the
Republican leadership, said in an interview today, “I suppose
they could argue if tax rates went up, that if the tax rates
were lowered that somehow is a tax cut, but I don’t think the
American people get fooled by that.”  “We think playing Russian roulette with our economy is a
really bad idea,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican, told reporters today. “Playing games with
our economy is the single worst thing we can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  