-- Portugal Plans to Issue Medium-Term Notes, Bills, IMF Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-07-17T15:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/portugal-plans-to-issue-medium-term-notes-bills-imf-says.html
Portugal  plans to issue medium-term
notes with maturities of one to five years that are designed for
specific creditors as it seeks to regain access to bond markets,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The government is also expected to sell more treasury bills
with maturities of more than one year in the coming months, the
IMF said in a staff report on the fourth review of the aid
program for Portugal. The government debt agency sold 1 billion
euros ($1.2 billion) of 18-month bills on April 4, the longest
debt maturity auctioned since the country requested the bailout,
at an average yield of 4.537 percent.  “Market access next year will depend on sustained program
implementation and the attenuation of the financial tensions in
the euro area,” the Washington-based lender said. “The broader
euro-area crisis generates persistent risks of contagion and
uncertainty about regional policies that could hinder
restoration of investor confidence.”  Portugal is cutting spending and raising taxes as it tries
to comply with the terms of its 78 billion-euro rescue from the
European Union and the IMF. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
said on March 5 that if the country can’t tap bond markets by
September 2013 due to “external reasons,” it would be able to
count on continued support from the IMF and the EU.  Market Access  “Staff considers that market access can be regained within
the period that fund resources are outstanding, but risk remains
of delay in market access,” the IMF report said. “It was
agreed that the commitment of European leaders to provide
adequate financial support until market access is regained, as
long as performance under the program remains satisfactory, is
an important safety net.”  An official at the Finance Ministry in Lisbon declined to
comment on plans to issue medium-term notes.  “The fact that it is being done in a medium-term note
suggests that they might have a specific client or investor
lined up,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “Portuguese yields will
continue to be driven by wider euro-zone issues.”  Portugal’s  10-year bond yield  is now at about 10.4 percent,
while two-year debt yields 7.6 percent. The difference in yield
that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead
of German bunds has narrowed to 9.2 percentage points from 16
percentage points on Jan. 31.  ‘Elevated’ Spreads  “Secondary market spreads on Portuguese long-term bonds,
while markedly lower than the levels observed earlier this year,
are still elevated, reflecting concerns about the high level of
indebtedness of both the public and private sectors as well as
scepticism about the effectiveness of policies at the euro-area
level,” the IMF said.  A significant worsening of the situation in Spain or  Greece 
and in the euro area could have “important repercussions” on
the financial sector, the report said. “The importance of
showing that the increase in public debt has been arrested
cannot be overstated as Portugal looks to return to the market
next year.”  The IMF projects Portugal’s  debt  will peak at about 118.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2013 and decline to less
than 80 percent of GDP by 2030. The projection assumes annual
economic growth of 2 percent and medium and long-term borrowing
costs of 7 percent in 2013, declining gradually to 5 percent
over the next four years.  Adjustment Possible  The IMF said the 2012 budget deficit goal of 4.5 percent of
GDP remains within reach, “although risks to its attainment
have clearly increased in recent months.” It said the target
could be adjusted.  “Should the target become difficult to reach as a result
of weaker revenue performance than currently assumed, there
would be a good case to allow automatic stabilizers to operate
and adjust the target,” the IMF said.  The  Finance Ministry  said June 22 the government  deficit 
widened in the first five months of the year after  tax revenue 
was lower than forecast. The government estimates GDP will
contract 3 percent this year.  Economic growth  has averaged less
than 1 percent a year for the past decade, placing Portugal
among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  The next review of the country’s aid program, which is
scheduled to start on Aug. 28, will focus on the planned return
to bond markets in 2013, Coelho said on June 29. The IMF
yesterday said it approved a disbursement to Portugal of about
1.5 billion euros.  The  Portuguese government  will consider the possibility of
cutting employers’ social-security contribution rates as it
prepares the 2013 budget, the IMF said today. A new round of
stress tests on banks will also be completed before the next
review, it said.  The Finance Ministry said in June that the state will
inject more than 6.6 billion euros into  Banco Comercial
Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  and Caixa Geral de Depositos SA to
help the lenders meet  capital requirements . Portuguese banks can
use a 12 billion-euro recapitalization facility that’s part of
the financial aid program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  