-- Pound Falls Against Dollar as U.K. Inflation Unexpectedly Slows
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-07-17T16:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/pound-weakens-versus-euro-as-u-k-inflation-unexpectedly-slows.html
The pound fell from a two-week high
against the dollar after a report showed U.K. inflation
unexpectedly slowed, stoking speculation the  Bank of England 
will take further measures to stimulate the economy.  Sterling weakened versus most of its major counterparts
after the  Office for National Statistics  said annual consumer-
price inflation cooled to 2.4 percent in June, from 2.8 percent
the previous month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast no change. The pound extended declines against the U.S.
currency after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
refrained from announcing specific steps to spur U.S. growth.
U.K. gilts were little changed.  The inflation data shows “there is scope for the Bank of
England to maintain its dovishness,” said  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London . This
will probably “keep sterling under pressure, particularly in an
environment where the global growth picture is starting to
deteriorate once again,” he said.  The pound declined 0.2 percent to $1.5613 at 5:12 p.m. in
London after rising to $1.5678, the highest level since July 4.
Sterling gained 0.2 percent to 78.35 pence per euro. It earlier
reached 78.31 pence, the strongest since October 2008.  Asset Purchases  The Bank of England added 50 billion pounds to its asset-
purchase program this month as slowing inflation gave policy
makers scope to spur an economy struggling to emerge from its
first double dip recession since 1975. The central bank bought 1
billion pounds of gilts due in more than 15 years today as part
of the  plan .  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its growth forecast
for the U.K. economy yesterday. Britain’s gross domestic product
will expand 0.2 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2013, the
Washington-based IMF said. That compares with forecasts of 0.8
percent and 2 percent published in April.  The “IMF’s economic forecast, with the U.K. seeing one of
the biggest downward adjustments, will likely see sterling quite
vulnerable,” Morgan Stanley’s Stannard said.  Bernanke said progress in reducing unemployment was likely
to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated the Fed is ready to
take further action to boost the recovery, while refraining from
discussing specific steps.  Pound’s Gain  The pound has appreciated 3.3 percent in the past six
months, the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
dropped 3.1 percent, while the dollar gained 1.3 percent.  Sterling may decline to its June 1 low of $1.5269, the
weakest since January, should it fail to break above so-called
resistance at $1.5647, the 50-day moving average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Resistance refers to an area where
sell orders may be clustered.  The 10-year gilt yield was at 1.5 percent, after falling to
1.47 percent yesterday, the  lowest  level since June 1. The 4
percent security due in March 2022 was at 122.32. The  five-year 
note yielded 0.55 percent after declining yesterday to a record
0.531 percent.  The 10-year  break-even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, fell as much as five basis points to
2.32 percentage points, the lowest level since September 2009.  “Inflation was lower than anybody was forecasting,” said
Anthony O’Brien, a fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in
London. “Expectations are that break evens will go lower. We
are recommending people to take short positions in break
evens.” A short position is a bet an asset will fall.  Gilts have returned 4.1 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds earned 4.2 percent,
and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 2.8 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  