-- PPR Said to Plan Piecemeal Redcats Sale Due to Financing
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-07-17T13:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/ppr-said-to-plan-piecemeal-redcats-sale-due-to-financing.html
PPR SA (PP)  plans to sell Redcats in
pieces after failing to secure a buyer for all of the online
retailer, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  A challenging  debt market  has made Redcats too expensive
for bidders to buy in one block, said the people, who asked not
to be named as the plans aren’t public. PPR will divide the
apparel and home-furnishing retailer along geographic lines,
trying to sell separately the U.S., Scandinavian and European
businesses as well as the Vertbaudet and Cyrillus brands,
another person said. At least one part may be sold by the end of
this year, the person said.  “The disposal process for Redcats is going on” said Paul Michon, a spokesman for PPR. “As for any other disposal by PPR,
we will choose the option that is in the best interest of all
stakeholders, of Redcats and of PPR.”  In 2010, Paris-based PPR announced plans to sell Redcats
and other retail assets to focus on luxury, sports and lifestyle
brands, which it has since said may help double sales to 24
billion euros ($29.2 billion) by 2020. After selling the
Conforama furniture chain last year, PPR postponed an auction of
Redcats in September, saying the sovereign debt crisis had made
it harder for buyout firms to borrow.  Raising Expectations  PPR, also owner of the Gucci brand, raised expectations
that a deal would come this year after deconsolidating Redcats
from its 2011 accounts in January. While the company has been
able to dispose of other businesses for a premium, the delay in
the sale process is penalizing its shares, according to HSBC
analyst  Antoine Belge . The situation doesn’t limit PPR’s ability
to make acquisitions, provided it maintains its guidance on
dealmaking, he said.  PPR’s purchase last year of surf-and-skatewear brand Volcom
Inc. for $607.5 million is indicative of the size of deals the
company is interested in, Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault has said. PPR confirmed last week that it is in
discussions to buy a Chinese luxury company.  The delay in selling Redcats means PPR may get less than it
hoped for the business as a whole. Belge estimates the
division’s total value at 949 million euros. Before the auction
was suspended last year, PPR valued it at as much as 2 billion
euros, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  ‘Best Interest’  After Pinault ruled out a break-up of Redcats in February,
Deputy CEO Jean-Francois Palus said in April that the company
would find a solution that was in the “best interest” of PPR
and its shareholders. “We are talking with potential acquirers
and things are progressing quite well,” Palus said April 25.  The interested parties are mainly private equity funds,
Pinault said in February.  PPR trades at a discount to luxury rivals such as  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) 
because Redcats and the Fnac media and electronics chain that it
also plans to sell are less profitable and have weaker growth
prospects. PPR’s estimated price-to-earnings ratio for this year
is 11.6 times. The ratio of the Bloomberg European Fashion Index
is 18 times.  PPR’s shares have fallen 1.4 percent this year. LVMH, the
world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , has advanced 8.8 percent.  ‘Piece by Piece’  PPR has already started breaking up Redcats. An affiliate
of Philadelphia-based Versa Capital Management LLC acquired the
Avenue plus-sized women’s clothing stores in the U.S. in April.
Redcats also completed the sale of the Somewhere apparel brand
to management the same month.  La Redoute is Redcats’s largest business, accounting for
about a third of its 3.05 billion euros of sales last year. The
unit, which sold its first mail-order catalog in 1928 in  France ,
offers items ranging from 13.79-euro leggings to 399.99-euro
microwaves in more than 20 countries.  “It’s easier to split it,” said Leopold Authie, an
analyst at Oddo & Cie. in Paris, referring to Redcats. “The
most probable scenario is that PPR will sell it piece by
piece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  