-- Qatar World Cup May Face Probe After FIFA Investigators Named
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-17T14:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/qatar-world-cup-may-face-probe-after-fifa-investigators-named.html
FIFA’s newly named independent
ethics investigators will have powers to look at previous
allegations of wrongdoing including the selection of  World Cup 
hosts.  Soccer’s governing body today named former U.S. attorney
Michael J. Garciaas head investigator for its ethics committee
and German judge Hans-Joachim Eckert to lead the adjudicatory
branch. The moves are part of a reform program that started with
corruption claims linked to the selection of Russia and Qatar as
hosts of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups and President Sepp Blatter’s re-election last year.  “We have to follow what they are going to find out
whenever they are going to open the cases,” Blatter said at a
press conference in Zurich. He was responding to a question
about whether the new men will probe the 2010 decision to award
the World Cup to Russia and Qatar, which came ahead of a field
that included the U.S. and  Australia .  FIFA’s 24-member executive branch chose Garcia and Eckert
from a list provided to them by a body led by Swiss law
professor  Mark Pieth . Pieth said in a July 12 interview any new
investigators should look at how the World Cup hosts were
selected. Only 22 out of the eligible members voted after two
were suspended for offering to sell their votes to undercover
reporters posing as businessmen.  A Swiss court last week ordered the publication of a
settlement that named former FIFA president  Joao Havelange  and
his former son-in-law,  Ricardo Teixeira , as the recipients of as
much as $22 million from the soccer body’s collapsed marketing
partner ISL. Blatter today said there wouldn’t be any
limitations over how far back the investigators could look for
corruption.  Broadcaster Payments  The payments to Teixeira and Havelange made between 1992
and 1997 were not illegal, Blatter said. Swiss law didn’t
prosecute individuals who received bribes from companies, as the
law at the time only made it illegal for public officials to
receive kickbacks.  FIFA paid 2.5 million Swiss francs ($2.6 million) in
compensation on the condition a criminal investigation into
Teixeira and Havelange was stopped. Prosecutors accused the pair
of “embezzlement, or alternatively disloyal management.”
Neither has commented.  Blatter has faced calls to stand down from the presidency
he’s held since 1998. He said his future was in the hands of
soccer’s 209 member associations.  “If they don’t want me in FIFA any longer, the
associations will say, ‘‘Blatter we don’t want you any
longer,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  