-- Mr. Bagel Olympic Suit Shows Small Firms Losing at Games
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-18T09:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/mr-bagel-olympic-suit-shows-small-firms-losing-at-games.html
Younes Semlali, sales manager at  Mr.
Bagel Ltd.  in  London , is looking forward to the city hosting the
Olympic Games. He’s also worried his business may suffer.  The company, based in Hackney, relies on the A12 highway
linking east London with other parts of the city to deliver its
baked goods. Access to that road will be restricted between 6
a.m. and midnight during the games to make way for Olympic
traffic.  “It is a good thing to have such an event, to regenerate
London,” he said in a phone interview. “But the small
businesses here will suffer.”  Mr. Bagel is one of 35 firms in Hackney, one of the London
boroughs where the games will be held, that tried to sue Olympic
organizers to prevent the route being partially shut. Their
case, which collapsed last week when the plaintiffs ran out of
money, shows that not all companies will get a windfall from the
Olympics. The British government estimates the games, starting
on July 27, will bring in 13 billion pounds ($20.3 billion) in
extra revenue for the U.K., while  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said
in a report the event may boost the U.K. economy by as much as
0.4 percent in the third quarter.  By contrast, only 7 percent of small firms believe the
games will benefit them overall, according to a December survey
carried out by the British Federation of Small Businesses. A
quarter expected a negative impact.  Monitor Arrangements  Simon Larson, a spokesman for the government’s Olympic
communications team, said residents were consulted about the
road closures in 2011.  “We will constantly review and monitor our arrangements to
ensure that everyone can get to their destinations safely and on
time,” he said in an e-mail.  Sam Dennis, a spokesman for the London Organizing Committee
of the Olympic and  Paralympic Games , declined to comment.  The first travel disruption from the Olympics came this
week, as athletes arriving at  Heathrow Airport  hit traffic and
special “Games Lanes” proved insufficient to compensate for
London’s overcrowded roads. American hurdler  Kerron Clement  said
in a post on his Twitter account that the journey across the
city took four hours.  The games will also have a crowding-out effect on small and
medium-sized enterprises as the redevelopment of one of the
city’s least-affluent areas raises rents and local taxes,
according to Dr. Richard Wellings from London-based think tank
the Institute of Economic Affairs.  Whole Country  “Overall it almost certainly will be a loss-making
enterprise,” he said. “Not just for London, but for the whole
country.” Wellings said the main winners will be large
corporations who can afford a presence at the games venues.  His views were echoed in a May  report  by ratings firm
Moody’s Corp., which said that corporate sponsors, including
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , will
benefit most. The 2012 games will have some of the strictest-
ever rules against unauthorized advertising, meaning businesses
that didn’t pay for official status can’t even mention the
event.  Organizers have all but ignored the interests of local
businesses, according to John Halford, an attorney who
represented the firms in the road-closure lawsuit.  ‘Utterly Devalued’  “For these businesses, the principles the Olympics are
supposed to represent -- shared endeavor and fair competition --
have been utterly devalued,” he said in an e-mail last week.  Another plaintiff in the lawsuit, Graham Phelps, who runs a
hauling business near the site of the road closures, said he
still doesn’t know exactly which routes are affected. He said
congestion caused by tens of thousands of extra vehicles will
stop his trucks getting through and estimates losing as much as
half his typical revenue during the games.  “I’ve always loved the Olympics,” he said in a phone
interview. “You can’t get any enthusiasm for it if all you are
worried about is whether your company is going to be there come
September.”  Not all small firms agree with Mr. Bagel and Phelps,
according to Stephen Nelson, principle director of the South
East London Chamber of Commerce. An increase in people visiting
the area will help more companies than it hinders, he said in a
phone interview. “I’m not a big fan of negativity.”  Wellings, from the Institute of Economic Affairs, isn’t
excited for the first  Olympic Games  to take place in the U.K.
for more than 50 years.  “I actually live near the Olympic Park, so I know
Stratford quite well,” he said. “I’ll be going on holiday.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  