-- Rajaratnam Silent in Tax-Shelter Deposition, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-18T02:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/rajaratnam-silent-in-tax-shelter-deposition-lawyer-says.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam declined to answer any questions during a deposition
at the federal prison where he’s serving an 11-year sentence for
securities fraud and conspiracy, a lawyer said.  Rajaratnam, convicted last year of directing the largest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history, was
interviewed yesterday for about an hour and 45 minutes at the
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,  Massachusetts . The
deposition stems from a case involving a  tax shelter  Rajaratnam
had invested in. He isn’t a defendant in the lawsuit.  He refused to answer any of the more than 100 questions he
was asked, invoking his right against self-incrimination under
the U.S. Constitution’s Fifth Amendment, said Howard Kleinhendler, an attorney representing the plaintiffs.  “He looked good,” Kleinhendler, of Wachtel Masyr & Missry
LLP in New York, said today in a phone interview, adding that
Rajaratnam appeared to have lost weight since the last time he
saw him, in 2007. Rajaratnam, 55, has said in court papers that
he has health problems including diabetes and will probably need
dialysis and a kidney transplant.  “He was in good spirits,” Kleinhendler said.  Court Order  New York  state Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in
March ordered Rajaratnam to answer questions from Diversified
Group, a tax-shelter promoter, as part of the 2010 lawsuit.
Samidh Guha, a lawyer representing Rajaratnam, had opposed the
request, saying his client would invoke his right against self-
incrimination.  Guha, of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in New York,
declined to comment on the deposition.  Rajaratnam and his wife, Asha, along with Galleon Group co-
founder Gary Rosenbach and his wife, Susan, sued Diversified in
2005, saying they were tricked into investing in an illegal tax
shelter. They sought to recover at least $15 million in
interest, penalties and fees that Rajaratnam and Rosenbach paid
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. They didn’t seek to
recover the taxes.  Rajaratnam and Rosenbach won a 2009 arbitrator’s decision
against Diversified and its president for $5.8 million,
according to court records. Diversified and its founder were
found to have committed fraud in the marketing, promotion and
implementation of the tax shelter.  In 2010, Diversified sued a tax attorney and three
consulting firms over the structuring of the shelter, the case
for which Rajaratnam was deposed.  Bransten also granted an unopposed request from
Diversified’s lawyers to question Rosenbach, who lives in Vail,
 Colorado . Rosenbach will be deposed next month in New York,
Kleinhendler said.  The case is Diversified Group Inc. v. Marcum & Kleigman
LLP, 450286/2010, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  