-- Traxis to Liquidate Biggs’s Hedge Fund Into Another Pool
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-07-17T19:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/traxis-to-liquidate-biggs-s-hedge-fund-transfer-assets.html
Traxis Partners LP, the $1.2 billion
hedge fund started by  Barton Biggs , told clients it will
liquidate a vehicle he managed and transfer the assets to
another pool following his death over the weekend.  The Traxis Global Equity Macro Fund will be cashed out and
the assets will be invested on Aug. 1 in the Traxis Fund,
managed by partners Amer Bisat, Andy Skov and Krishen Sud, the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm told clients today in a
letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Investors will have the option of withdrawing their money at the
end of this month.  “We don’t have indications of deep demand for redemptions
at all,” Bisat, who is the firm’s managing partner, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re doing this as a sign of confidence
since we recognize this is an important event for investors and
the firm.”  Biggs, a former global investment strategist at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , died on July 14 at age 79. The cause of death was
complications from a bacterial infection, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  Traxis Fund  The Traxis Fund focuses on a global macro strategy, with
investments in fixed income, currencies, emerging-market stocks
and equities with a health-care focus, Bisat said.  Biggs’s stock fund, one of five  hedge funds  managed by the
firm, has about $300 million in assets and lost about 1.5
percent this year through June, the person said. Hedge funds
returned 0.9 percent in the same period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors were previously able to pull their money on a
quarterly basis after giving a month’s notice, the person said.  Bisat, 48, joined Traxis in 2007 after working at Rubicon
Fund Management LLP, a London-based hedge fund, where he oversaw
emerging-markets investments. He had previously worked at Morgan
Stanley and UBS AG.  Skov, 46, another Morgan Stanley alumnus, joined Traxis
four years ago and earlier founded Point Reyes Capital LLC,
which invested in startup companies.  Sud, 51, a co-founder of the defunct hedge fund Galleon
Group LLC, joined Traxis last year when it merged with his hedge
fund, Sivik Global Healthcare Partners.  Biggs started Traxis after retiring from Morgan Stanley in
2003 after three decades at the bank, which owns a minority
stake in his fund. He began the hedge fund with two other Morgan
Stanley alumni, Cyril Moulle-Berteaux and Madhav Dhar, who have
since left.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  