-- RBA Saw Growth Momentum in July 3 Rate Pause: Minutes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-17T02:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/rba-saw-growth-momentum-in-july-3-rate-pause-minutes.html
Australia ’s central bank kept
 borrowing costs  unchanged this month as domestic job growth and
previous  interest-rate  reductions help the local economy weather
global disruptions, minutes of its July 3 policy meeting showed.  “Consumption was being supported by a favorable labor
market and recent liaison had a firmer tone,” according to
minutes released today in Sydney explaining why the overnight
cash-rate target was left at  3.5 percent . “With recent signs
that the domestic economy had a little more momentum than had
earlier been indicated, members saw no need for any further
adjustment to the cash rate at this meeting.”  Traders pared bets on a rate cut next month and the
currency gained as policy makers highlighted the economy’s
strength in the first quarter, when it grew at the fastest
annual pace in five years. Government reports since RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens ’s latest decision painted a mixed picture of the
economy: retail sales rose by more than twice the pace forecast
and consumer confidence strengthened, while the  unemployment
rate  increased in June and home-loan approvals sank.  Growth “probably slowed a little from that reported for
the first quarter to be around trend pace,” policy makers said
in the minutes. “Mining investment had been a little stronger
than had been expected, and members noted that growth in much of
the non-resource economy had remained modest.”  China Optimism  In their debate, the RBA officials indicated concern that
the recovery in the U.S. had slowed and European activity
declined, while data for May suggested  China’s economy  wasn’t
slowing as much as previously anticipated.  The minutes provided “just a few more indications that,
ever so subtly, they’re seeing things a little bit better,”
said  Michael Turner , an economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in
Sydney, citing the more optimistic comments on  China . “They
sound very comfortable without precluding any sort of action
from here -- things offshore are pretty fluid at the moment.”  The so-called Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, bought $1.0298 as of 12:51 p.m., up 0.5 percent from
yesterday in  New York . It touched $1.0304, the strongest since
July 5.  “Developments had been more positive for the Chinese
economy following some weaker data released the previous
month,” the minutes said. “Members noted that the situation in
 Europe  could deteriorate again and spill-over to other economies
remained a substantial risk.”  Rate-Cut Bets  Traders are pricing in a 62 percent chance that policy
makers will resume rate cuts next month, and lower borrowing
costs by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent, down from
76 percent yesterday, Bloomberg data based on swaps trading
shows.  Two days after Stevens paused, China’s central bank
announced the second rate cut in a month and has reduced banks’
reserve requirement ratio three times starting in November.
China’s gross domestic product increased 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more
than three years, the government reported July 13.  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since prospectors set off a gold rush in the 1850s. The
latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural gas -- is
bringing investment projects the government estimates to be
worth A$500 billion. The nation’s unemployment rate, at 5.2
percent last month, is lower than 8.2 percent in the U.S. and
11.1 percent in the euro area.  Business Credit  “Forward-looking indicators and liaison implied modest
employment growth over coming months,” RBA policy makers said
in the minutes. Business credit, after a long period of
weakness, “had picked up noticeably over the past four months”
and officials saw no dislocation in domestic financial markets,
the minutes said.  The resource expansion has fueled a 45 percent gain in the
local currency since the start of 2009 against the  U.S. dollar ,
which has hurt businesses and workers in the tourism, education
and manufacturing industries, while lowering import prices.  “The Australian dollar appreciated over the month,
bolstered by positive economic data and further buying of
Australian government debt by offshore investors,” the minutes
showed. Inflation pressures remained contained, in part
reflecting “the still high level of the  exchange rate  and a
softening in global prices, in particular for oil and other
commodities,” they said.  BHP, Rio  Mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto
Group are benefiting from surging demand for steel and
electricity in emerging economies including China and  India .  Australia’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in
the first quarter this year from a year earlier.  Consumer
confidence  rose to a five-month high as households responded to
1.25 percentage points of RBA rate cuts since November.  The RBA has reduced the overnight cash rate target four
times in the past eight months -- by 25 basis points at
successive meetings in November and December, by 50 points on
May 1 and by another 25 points on June 5.  Policy makers noted that after the June decision, most
lenders reduced their standard variable housing rate by about 20
basis points. “As a result, the average interest rate on
outstanding housing loans was about 60 basis points below the
post-1996 average,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  