-- Treasury’s Miller Juggles Volcker With Housing Overhaul
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/treasury-s-miller-juggles-volcker-with-housing-overhaul.html
Mary Miller  knows all about risk.  As an executive at  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  during the 2008
financial crisis, she reassured worried bond traders and
portfolio managers when a competitor, the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund, failed after investing in the debt of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Four years later, Miller is the U.S. Treasury official
coordinating five agencies that are writing the Volcker rule
intended to limit risk at banks. Regulators are now taking a
closer look following  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss of at
least $5.8 billion and analyzing whether the trade would have
been allowed if the rule had been in place.  “Mary Miller is critical to the Volcker rule getting
done,” said Kathryn Dick, former deputy comptroller at the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and now a managing
director at Promontory Financial Group LLC in Washington. “It’s
a very complicated task, but if anyone can orchestrate an
agreement, it’s Mary, because of her credibility within the
industry.”  In the aftermath of JPMorgan’s loss and two congressional
hearings in which lawmakers questioned Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , pressure has increased to finish crafting the
rule’s language. Regulators have said they are unlikely to
finish before the July 21 deadline. Miller said in June she
thinks the work will be finished this year.  Miller, 56, spent 26 years at T. Rowe Price, including as
director of fixed income, head of the municipal bond department
and portfolio manager. While she has kept a low profile in
Washington, no regulator has a wider-ranging role in U.S.
financial policy.  Mediating Volcker  In addition to mediating Volcker and coordinating writing
of other rules under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law,
Miller is leading the Treasury’s efforts to revamp mortgage
companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and supervising sales of
Treasuries under the $16.4 trillion federal  debt limit .  A single week in mid-May illustrates the eclectic nature of
her job as Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic finance.
Miller traveled to Qatar,  Abu Dhabi  and Saudi Arabia to discuss
U.S. debt sales; stopped in London to talk with  Bank of England 
policy makers; ran meetings with regulators in Washington on the
Volcker rule and went to the White House to discuss housing
issues with community activists and religious leaders.  In between, she met with officials, including National
Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling  and Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry . She also visited business leaders in
Baltimore, her adopted hometown, with Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who told the executives that Miller “has one of
the coolest, hardest, most consequential jobs in the world.”  S&P Downgrade  Miller was at the center of a dispute in August between the
Obama administration and  Standard & Poor’s  over the firm’s
first-ever downgrade of U.S. creditworthiness. Treasury
officials found what they called a $2 trillion “basic math
error” in S&P’s explanation.  She phoned S&P the evening of the announcement to complain
that the justification for the downgrade was inconsistent with
the firm’s own data. The ratings firm, citing the level of
government debt and the contentious political climate in
Washington, went ahead with the change even after Miller and
other Treasury officials objected.  Following the downgrade, yields on 10-year Treasuries  fell 
to as low as 1.45 percent in June from almost 3 percent last
August, indicating investors view the U.S. as more creditworthy,
not less.  ‘Incredible Portfolio’  Miller has an “incredible portfolio” that’s “expanded by
where we are in history right now,” said Kenneth Bentsen, an
executive vice president for the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, Wall Street’s largest lobbying
group.  The Volcker rule, named for its original proponent, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is intended to reduce the
chances that banks put depositors’ money at risk. Lenders and
their lobbyists complain that it’s so broad and poorly defined
that it will force them to leave business lines and could
actually increase risks. It attracted about 18,000 comment
letters.  Bankers want allowances for so-called market-makers who buy
and sell securities to establish prices, and clarity on whether
they can take positions on sovereign debt. Dimon said at a June
19 congressional hearing that he doesn’t know if the Volcker
rule would have allowed what JPMorgan’s trade had “morphed
into.”  ‘Final Rule’  Regulators are working on “how do we take a proposed rule
and get it to a final rule that is going to take into account
all these issues, and how do we land in a better place,” Miller
said in an April interview. “I don’t think it’s an impossible
task.”  Miller said she is “squarely in the camp of ‘let’s get it
right.’ Let’s not hurry up and do something that will weaken
reforms or create unintended consequences.”  Her experience at Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price boosts her
credibility with Wall Street executives, who say she understands
their business. “She has an enormous grasp of the issues, and a
lot of this is very detailed, very complex,” said lawyer H. Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, whose
clients include JPMorgan and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Advocates for tougher rules question whether regulators so
closely tied with the industry can be too sympathetic toward it.  Corporate Lobbyists  Since corporate lobbyists outnumber those representing so-
called public interest groups, the Treasury and other financial
regulators need to be more “proactive” in getting “a
diversity of views on the most important issue facing our
country outside of national security,” said Dennis Kelleher,
president of Better Markets, a non-profit group that advocates
tighter financial regulation.  Regulators “need to understand that they have a very
different role when they’re working on behalf of the public,”
he said, declining to comment specifically on Miller.  “You put on a different hat when you come here,” said
Miller, who served as assistant secretary for financial markets
from February 2010 until March 2012, when she was confirmed as
undersecretary by the Senate. “When I worked for a company I
worked for my clients. We worked for the people we were managing
money for and we took that very seriously. Now I’m managing the
assets of the U.S. government and I’m representing the
taxpayers.”  Lower Profile  Her public profile is lower than that of other Treasury
officials under Geithner. She prefers to “keep her head down”
and doesn’t seek the spotlight, said her younger brother, James
John, an official at the  International Monetary Fund .  Miller said she spends about one-third of her time on Dodd-
Frank issues, including Volcker and overseeing work by the staff
of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a crisis. Another third is
dedicated to the housing-finance overhaul. The rest is spent on
issues including debt management.  Fannie and Freddie were taken into U.S. conservatorship in
2008 after losses stemming from investments in risky loans
brought them to the brink of insolvency. They have been
sustained by almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid.  “It is not a small lift to say we are going to reform
housing finance credit going forward,” said Miller, calling it
a “fascinating exercise.”  Baltimore Weekends  Since she’s usually at the office by 7:30 a.m. and often
there until 9 p.m., Miller stays in Washington most days. She
returns to Baltimore for weekends, when she catches up on her
tennis game, reading and running. She’s been married since 1980
to James D. Miller, an attorney specializing in regulation of
drugs and clinical research who’s now a visiting scholar at the
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of  Public Health  in Baltimore.
They have two sons, Thomas, 26, and James, 22.  Miller grew up in a household focused on education. She was
born in Bonn, Germany, where her father, James John, was working
for the Princeton, New Jersey-based Institute of Advanced Study.
She grew up in Ithaca, New York, where James, who turns 84 this
month, was a history professor at Cornell University for almost
four decades.  After graduating from Cornell in 1977, Miller spent about a
year in the  House of Representatives  as a legislative aide. She
earned a master’s degree in city and regional planning from the
University of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill  before returning to
Washington to join the Urban Institute, where she wrote about
the fiscal and capital issues facing state and local
governments.  Credit Analyst  In 1983, when it was far less common for women to work in
the financial services industry, Miller answered an
advertisement for a job with T. Rowe Price as a credit analyst
in the municipal bond department. She rose to become head of the
fixed-income division, and a member of the management committee
starting in 2004.  A crucial moment for Miller at T. Rowe Price came during
the 2008 financial crisis, when Reserve Primary Fund became the
biggest money-market fund and the first in 14 years to “break
the buck,” meaning the value of a share fell below $1 and
investors faced losses.  “One of her views was that you don’t want to take extreme
risk in a money market fund because you’re not really going to
get paid for taking that risk,” said Chairman  Brian Rogers , who
started at T. Rowe Price a year before Miller. “She just has a
very organized mind about risk and return, and that was evident
in how we managed our money-market funds.”  Not Surprised  Rogers said he wasn’t surprised Miller left for the
government given her experience at the Urban Institute and on
 Capitol Hill . White House staffers recommended Miller after
talking with industry executives and others about possible
candidates for the assistant secretary job.  When Miller left the firm, she stood to make millions of
dollars from T. Rowe Price stock options earned during her
quarter-century there. She exercised $8.9 million in options in
2010, according to a federal financial disclosure form. She also
gave up options worth at least $1.8 million when she left.  Miller recognizes that the volume and variety of her work
reflect a critical moment for financial regulation as the Obama
administration tries to complete Dodd-Frank rules and a new
housing-finance structure.  “This time is just so consequential in terms of restoring
faith and confidence in our markets and getting it done right,”
she said. “I think every day I feel the weight of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  