-- Treasury Bonds Fall After Bernanke Keeps Stimulus Option Open
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-17T21:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/treasury-bonds-fall-after-bernanke-outlines-stimulus-options.html
Treasury bond yields rose from
almost record lows after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  kept alive speculation the central bank will provide
more monetary stimulus to sustain the U.S. economic recovery.  Yields had fluctuated after Bernanke initially said the
central bank is ready to take further action while refraining
from pledging any new policies. In response to questions during
testimony before Congress, Bernanke said possible measures
include further purchases of assets, such as mortgage-backed
securities, reducing the interest rate that the Fed pays on
reserves that banks keep with the Fed, and altering its
communications on the outlook for  interest rates .  “Bernanke’s testimony is enforcing the idea that the Fed
stands ready, which is somewhat comforting to the market,” said
 Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at BNP
Paribas SA, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“The last few times the Fed engaged in easing, yields rose as
investors flooded into stocks, and we could see that again.”  Thirty-year  bond yields  rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.60 percent at 5 p.m. New York time. They
touched a record low of 2.5089 percent on June 1. Benchmark 10-
year note yields gained four basis points to 1.51 percent. The
all-time low, 1.4387 percent, was also set on June 1.  Bernanke, who continues testimony tomorrow, and his
colleagues on the  Federal Open Market Committee  are considering
whether the economy will need additional stimulus to reduce a
jobless rate stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  Operation Twist  The Fed under Bernanke bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 to stimulate the
economy. The central bank decided in June to extend a policy
known as Operation Twist, in which it sells short-term
securities and uses the proceeds to buy longer-term debt, to
$667 billion from $400 billion. The Fed said it plans to keep
borrowing costs near record lows through at least late 2014.  U.S. government debt fell earlier after the cost of living
in the nation was little changed in June, a Labor Department
report showed in  Washington , a sign inflation may stay subdued
as Fed officials have predicted. That followed a 0.3 percent
drop in the consumer-price index in May. The measure matched the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The combination of safe-haven and Fed buying amid the
global slowdown and continued problems in  Europe  has kept the
Treasury market bid,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in
New York of government and agency debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “Investors should buy dips in
Treasuries until something changes. You don’t want to fight the
Fed.”  TIPS Record  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the break-even rate, was 2.08 percentage points. The 10-year
average is 2.15 percentage points.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to guide monetary
policy, was 2.4 percentage points as of July 12. The figure has
dropped from 2012’s high of 2.78 percentage points set in March.  Yields on 10-year TIPS fell to a record low of negative
0.68 percent yesterday. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $15
billion of the securities July 19.  While the two gauges show expectations for price increases
are waning, yields indicate there is still demand for the
inflation insurance that TIPS provide.  ‘Difficult Slog’  “The economy has failed to sustain the positive momentum
we had coming in to the second quarter,” said  Carl Lantz , head
of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse AG, a
primary dealer. “Markets are resigned to this very slow and
difficult slog that isn’t bringing unemployment down. And the
prospect of Fed tightening seems remote, which leaves 1.5
percent yields looking more and more attractive.”  Treasuries investors advanced bets the prices of the
securities will increase, becoming the most bullish since May,
according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of  net longs , or bets the securities will
rise, increased to 6 percentage points in the week ending
yesterday, JPMorgan said. The percentage of outright longs rose
to 19 percent from 17 percent, marking the highest level of
outright longs since May 21. Investors cut neutral bets to 68
percent from 70 percent and bearish bets were unchanged at 13
percent.  China, Japan  China , the largest foreign holder of Treasuries, increased
its holdings of the debt for a second month in May amid
gathering signs the U.S. economic recovery was losing momentum,
government data released today show.  China boosted its holdings 0.4 percent or $5.2 billion in
May. The data showed China held $1.1644 trillion of Treasuries
in April, an increase from the $1.1455 trillion reported for the
period on May 15. For the year, China’s holdings have risen 1.5
percent.  Japan ’s position in  U.S. government debt  rose by $15.4
billion, or 1.4 percent, to $1.1052 trillion, Treasury data
show. The country is the second largest foreign lender to the
U.S.  Total foreign holdings of Treasuries rose for a fifth
month, climbing $54.2 billion, or 1 percent to $5.264 trillion.
Overseas investors held 50.2 percent of the Treasury’s
outstanding public debt in May, the data show.  “Speculative investors have given up on trying to bet
against the trend in rates,” said Credit Suisse’s Lantz.
“People have to own Treasuries, and the yield can go even lower
if this atmosphere persists.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  