-- Treasury Yields Close to Lows as Bernanke Refrains From Stimulus
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-17T15:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/treasury-5-year-note-yield-approaches-record-low-before-bernanke.html
Treasury yields were close to record
lows after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  refrained
from discussing specific steps for further monetary stimulus,
sustaining the refuge appeal of the world’s safest assets.  Bernanke told told Congress that progress in reducing
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated
the Fed is ready to take further action to boost the recovery.
Yields on five-year notes fell to a record yesterday after the
U.S. reported an unexpected decline in retail sales for a third
straight month.  “The economy has failed to sustain the positive momentum
we had coming in to the second quarter,” said  Carl Lantz , head
of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse AG, one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Markets are
resigned to this very slow and difficult slog that isn’t
bringing unemployment down. And the prospect of Fed tightening
seems remote, which leaves 1.5 percent yields looking more and
more attractive.”  Five-year  note yields  were little changed at 0.60 percent
at 11:38 a.m. New York time, after dropping to a record 0.577
percent yesterday. The benchmark 10-year note yield gained two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.49 percent.  Highly rated  government bonds  such as Treasures have
rallied as reports showed global growth is slowing, raising the
prospect of more central-bank stimulus.  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said the economy is “approaching recession” in a Twitter post
yesterday.  Consumer Prices  Austrian  two-year government note yields  fell below zero
for the first time, while French yields dropped to the least on
record as investors sought the safest assets on concern economic
growth is slowing globally.  U.S. government debt fell earlier after the cost of living
in the U.S. was little changed in June, a Labor Department
report showed in  Washington , a sign inflation may stay subdued
as Fed officials have predicted. That followed a 0.3 percent
drop in the consumer-price index in May. The measure matched the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed under Bernanke bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 to stimulate the
economy. The central bank decided in June to extend a policy
known as Operation Twist, where it sells short-term securities
and uses the proceeds to buy longer-term debt, to $667 billion
from $400 billion. The Fed said it plans to keep borrowing costs
near record lows through at least late 2014.  ‘Minimal Amount’  “There’s a minimal amount the Fed can do right here, right
now,” Alan De Rose, head of Treasury trading at Oppenheimer &
Co. Inc. in  New York . “The problem lies in other areas, beyond
the Fed’s control. There’s really only so much they can do from
here. They have to use what little bullets they have in a very
selective basis.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the break-even rate, was 2.08 percentage points. The 10-year
average is 2.15 percentage points.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to guide monetary
policy, was 2.4 percentage points as of July 12. The figure has
dropped from 2012’s high of 2.78 percentage points set in March.  While the two gauges show expectations for price increases
are waning, yields indicate there is still demand for the
inflation insurance that TIPS provide.  ‘Fall Further’  Yields on 10-year TIPS fell to a record low of negative
0.68 percent yesterday. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $15
billion of the securities July 19.  Goldman Sachs analysts led by  Jan Hatzius  cut their
estimate for second-quarter gross domestic product growth to 1.1
percent from 1.3 percent yesterday. Fed Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George said yesterday the  U.S. economy  probably
won’t grow much faster than 2 percent in 2012.  The U.S. is “approaching recession when measured by
employment, retail sales, investment, and corporate profits,”
Gross, who runs Pimco’s Total Return Fund, the world’s largest
mutual  fund , wrote on Twitter yesterday.  China , the largest foreign holder of Treasuries, increased
its holdings of the debt for a second month in May amid
gathering signs the U.S. economic recovery was loosing momentum,
government data released today show.  China, Japan  China boosted its holdings 0.4 percent or $5.2 billion in
May. The data showed China held $1.1644 trillion of Treasuries
in April, an increase from the $1.1455 trillion reported for the
period on May 15. For the year, China’s holdings have risen 1.5
percent.  Japan ’s position in  U.S. government debt  rose by $15.4
billion, or 1.4 percent to $1.1052 trillion, Treasury data show.
The country is the second largest foreign lender to the U.S.  Total foreign holdings of Treasuries rose for a fifth
month, climbing $54.2 billion, or 1 percent to $5.264 trillion.
Overseas investors held 50.2 percent of the Treasury’s
outstanding public debt in May, the data show.  “Speculative investors have given up on trying to bet
against the trend in rates,” said Credit Suisse’s Lantz.
“People have to own Treasuries, and the yield can go even lower
if this atmosphere persists.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  