-- Treasuries Interrupt Rally on Speculation Output Grew
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-17T06:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/treasuries-interrupt-rally-before-industrial-production.html
Treasuries halted a rally that sent
five-year yields to a record low before a report that economists
said may indicate U.S.  industrial production  expanded, a sign of
growth after figures yesterday showed retail sales tumbled.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the  U.S. economy  is
“approaching recession” in a Twitter post yesterday. Demand
for the relative safety of U.S. securities pushed five-year
yields to 0.577 percent, the least ever.  “The market is already discounting a weak U.S. economy,”
said Kei Katayama, who buys  U.S. debt  in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $63 billion
and is a unit of Japan’s second-largest brokerage. “We need
even weaker data for people to buy more. This market is too
expensive.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yielded  1.48 percent as of 7:16
a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
1.75 percent security maturing in May 2022 was little changed at
102 1/2. Five-year notes yielded 0.59 percent.  Yields slid to all-time lows in the U.K.,  Canada ,  France ,
 Germany  and the Netherlands yesterday as investors sought the
safest assets on concern economic growth is slowing globally.  Japan ’s 10-year rate was unchanged at 0.77 percent today.
It slid to 0.755 percent on July 13, a level not seen since
2003.  Industrial Production  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 0.3
percent in June after a 0.1 percent drop the prior month, based
on a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Federal
Reserve report. Retail sales slid 0.5 percent last month, the
government reported yesterday.  The economy is approaching a recession when measured by
employment, retail sales, investment and corporate profits,
Gross wrote on Twitter. His $263 billion Total Return Fund had
52 percent of its assets in mortgage-related bonds and 35
percent in Treasuries as of June 30, according to the Pimco
 website .  The cost of living in the U.S. was probably unchanged in
June from May, Labor Department figures will show today, based
on Bloomberg surveys. Prices rose 1.6 percent from a year
earlier, according to economist estimates, which would be the
smallest increase in 17 months. The figure would still be higher
than the 10-year Treasury rate, resulting in a so-called real
yield of negative 12 basis points.  Inflation Expectations  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the breakeven rate, was 2.08 percentage points. The 10-year
average is 2.15 percentage points.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to guide monetary
policy, was 2.4 percentage points as of July 12. The figure has
dropped from 2012’s high of 2.78 percentage points set in March.  While the two gauges show expectations for price increases
are waning, yields indicate there is still demand for the
inflation insurance that TIPS provide.  Yields on 10-year TIPS fell to a record low of negative
0.68 percent yesterday. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $15
billion of the securities July 19. TIPS have returned 6.1
percent this year as of yesterday, versus 2.8 for conventional
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Bernanke Testimony  Net purchases  of long-term notes, bonds and equities by
investors outside the U.S. rose to $41.3 billion in May from
$25.6 billion in April, based on responses from economists
before the Treasury Department reports the figure today.  Separate data will show homebuilder sentiment climbed,
according to the Bloomberg surveys.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to testify to
lawmakers in  Washington  today amid speculation he will call for
more economic stimulus. The Fed under Bernanke bought $2.3
trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011
to stimulate the economy.  The central bank decided in June to extend a policy known
as Operation Twist, where it sells short-term securities and
uses the proceeds to buy longer-term debt, to $667 billion from
$400 billion.  The Fed plans to sell as much as $8 billion of Treasuries
maturing from February 2014 to August 2014 today as part of the
program, according to the Fed Bank of  New York   website .  Slowing Inflation  Inflation probably isn’t slowing enough to lead the Fed to
increase its so-called quantitative easing policy of bond
purchases, said Toby Nangle, head of multi-asset allocation at
 Threadneedle Investments  in London.  “You need to have breakeven inflation expectations in the
States to fall further,” Nangle said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “You typically
don’t get more QE without inflation expectations falling below 2
percent. We’re not quite there yet.” Threadneedle manages the
equivalent of $113.5 billion, according to its  website .  Ten-year yields will rise to 1.92 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists, with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  