-- Europe June Car-Sales Drop Slows on Volkswagen Price Cuts
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-17T09:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/renault-drop-drags-down-first-half-auto-sales-in-europe.html
European car sales fell at the
slowest rate in eight months as price cuts by  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
Renault SA helped counter the effects of the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis and unemployment.  Registrations in June declined 1.7 percent from a year
earlier to 1.25 million vehicles, the Brussels-based  European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said today.
First-half sales fell 6.3 percent to 6.9 million cars.  The European auto market has shrunk for nine consecutive
months, and the ACEA is forecasting a 17-year low for full-year
sales. The decline has prompted  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit to announce the first French and German
car-plant shutdowns in decades. The drop in June was moderated
by sales growth at Volkswagen and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
and slower declines at Peugeot and Renault.  “We see large rebates in the German market,” including
price cuts of about 24 percent on Volksagen’s Golf,  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research at
the  University of Duisburg-Essen , said by phone. VW is set to
unveil a new version of the model later this year.  The ACEA compiles sales figures from the 27 European Union
countries plus Switzerland,  Norway  and  Iceland . The market’s
decline in June was the slowest since October, when the extended
drop began. Among the five biggest markets, Italy’s
registrations plunged 24 percent in June, pushing the six-month
drop to 20 percent, while Spain’s contracted 12 percent, leading
to an 8.2 percent first-half drop.  German Growth  French car sales declined 0.6 percent in June, while
registrations rose 2.9 percent in  Germany , Europe’s biggest auto
market, and 3.5 percent in the U.K., the ACEA said.  Carmakers’ “large” rebates in Germany, which averaged
11.9 percent in June, are “a clear sign of market weakness,”
Dudenhoeffer wrote in a June report on auto pricing. “The
uncertainties about the debt crisis in southern Europe are
causing private car purchasing to stall.”  The ACEA forecast on June 6 that industry sales in Europe
will shrink 7 percent this year to the least since 1995 and 21
percent below the 2007 peak.  Renault (RNO) , France’s second-biggest automaker, said on June 11
that it doesn’t expect Europe’s car market to match peak 2007
figures until 2018. The company is still planning to increase
deliveries globally because of growth outside the region and the
introduction of new models. Renault’s European sales in June
declined 3.7 percent to 114,964 cars, leading to a 17 percent
six-month drop.  Fiat Capacity  Fiat SpA (F)  will shut a plant, its second such move after
closing a factory on the island of Sicily in 2011, unless the
Turin, Italy-based automaker can come up with an economically
viable plan to use excess capacity to build cars for  North
America , Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said July 3.
Fiat’s June sales fell to 79,927 cars in Europe, with the
monthly and first-half declines both at about 17 percent.  Peugeot’s reorganization includes reducing its  workforce  by
6.7 percent and stopping production by 2014 at its factory in
the Paris suburb of Aulnay. The Paris-based manufacturer’s
credit-default swaps reached a record high yesterday, signaling
a 51 percent probability of default within five years. Peugeot’s
European sales in June fell 8.3 percent to 151,686 vehicles,
slowing the first-half decline to 14 percent.  Opel’s Shutdown  Opel moved in June to close a factory in Bochum at the end
of 2016 in the first shutdown of a German car plant since World
War II. GM’s group European car sales, including Opel, its U.K.
sister brand Vauxhall and the Chevrolet marque, fell 8.7 percent
in June to 109,764 vehicles. First-half sales deliveries
declined 11 percent.  Unemployment in the 17 countries that share the euro was at
a record high in May amid government budget cutbacks in response
to the debt crisis. Europe’s carmakers, hamstrung by political
pressure not to cut jobs, have closed just two plants in the
region in the past four years: a GM facility in  Belgium  and
Fiat’s Sicilian factory.  French President  Francois Hollande  said on July 14 that
Peugeot’s plans are unacceptable and that the government may
lean on the company to review the reorganization.  The plant shutdowns announced so far in Europe would only
address a fraction of excess supply. Overcapacity in western
Europe may more than double to about 2 million vehicles in 2012
as sales fall for a fifth straight year, according to IHS
Automotive consulting company.  Audi Boost  European sales by Volkswagen, the region’s biggest
carmaker, rose 4.3 percent to 300,858 vehicles in June, with the
main VW brand posting a 4.8 percent gain and the luxury Audi
division boosting registrations 8.6 percent. Six-month group
sales fell 0.8 percent.  BMW, the world’s largest luxury-car maker, sold 82,519 cars
in Europe last month, a 0.3 percent gain, with the namesake
brand’s registrations unchanged and the lower-priced Mini unit’s
sales rising 1.1 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI) , whose Mercedes-Benz ranks
third in the luxury-vehicle industry after the BMW and Audi
brands, reported a 4.4 percent decline in June European sales to
64,466 vehicles.  Volkswagen rose as much as 1.9 percent to 139.40 euros and
was trading up 1.4 percent at 10:55 a.m. in  Frankfurt . Peugeot
fell 3 percent to 5.86 euros in Paris, while Renault gained 0.7
percent to 33.08 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  