-- Rio Tinto CEO Closely Watching Economic Turmoil as China Slows
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-07-17T07:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/rio-tinto-ceo-closely-watching-economic-turmoil-as-china-slows.html
Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, said it was closely watching the global
economy a day after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013
growth forecast.  “Global economic conditions and sentiment dropped markedly
in the second quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese
said today in a statement. “We are keeping a close eye on the
pace of the U.S. recovery, the continuing euro-zone crisis and
the impact of efforts to stimulate the Chinese economy on the
markets that we serve.”  Prolonged recession in Spain and slower expansions in
 emerging markets  from  China  to India prompted the IMF to
forecast growth of 3.9 percent from an April estimate of 4.1
percent.  China’s economy , the world’s biggest metals consumer,
decelerated for a sixth quarter because of weaker growth in the
trade and manufacturing sectors.  “The euro-zone situation and the stifling U.S. recovery
has been significant enough to now impact on some of that Asian
growth,”  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at Shaw Stockbroking Ltd.,
said by phone from Sydney. Earlier, mining CEOs may have hoped
Asian growth would offset a slowdown in the U.S. and Europe, he
said.  Rio Tinto  fell 0.1 percent to A$54.44 at the close in
Sydney trading, while BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
mining company, gained 0.1 percent. Rio, the second-largest
iron-ore shipper, today reported second quarter iron ore output
of 48.6 million metric tons, meeting analyst expectations.  Trimming Estimates  Analysts have trimmed 2012 profit estimates for Rio by an
average $997 million in the past four weeks on lower commodity
prices and slowing growth. Richard Knights at Liberum Capital
Ltd. yesterday reduced his estimate to $11 billion from $13.3
billion, citing higher costs and weaker sales in power-station
coal, lower  iron-ore  prices and rising costs in copper.  Rio is expected to post 2012 adjusted net income of $11.6
billion, according to the average of 14 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company’s “Achilles heel” is its exposure to falling
iron-ore prices, Credit Suisse analysts wrote in a July 12
report, cutting their 2012 profit forecast 24 percent. The price
of iron ore delivered to Tianjin port in China, the largest
consumer, has dropped 25 percent in 12 months to $130.10 a ton.  Chinese Slowdown  China’s slowdown, paired with concern about the future of
some European economies, has weighed on commodity prices which
have fallen 25 percent from a year high in July 2011. Jac Nasser, chairman of the world’s biggest mining company  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said in May he expects prices to ease further. Rio
said last month it would reduce its  capital spending .  The company withdrew from talks to take part in a A$9
billion ($9.2 billion) port expansion in Queensland where some
of its coal mines are located, Rio said in April, citing
economic volatility and higher costs.  Rio produced 133,500 tons of mined copper, up 5 percent
from a year earlier. It reaffirmed its estimate for 580,000 tons
this year. Output of refined copper fell 45 percent because of
lower grades at the Kennecott Utah Copper unit.  Aluminum output was 841,000 tons, down 12 percent because
of labor disputes at the Alma unit during the quarter. Hard
coking coal production gained 13 percent to 2 million tons as
output from the Kestrel mine in  Australia  gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  