-- Roll Call of Unscrupulous Bankers Is Unacceptably Long
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-17T22:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/roll-call-of-unscrupulous-bankers-is-unacceptably-long.html
If the past few weeks are any
indication, hubris, deception and amorality seem to permeate the
financial services industry.  The latest example came Tuesday when U.S. lawmakers
 detailed  a pattern of deceit and illicit activity at HSBC
Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank. For years, the bank looked
the other way as terrorists, drug cartels and other criminals
used its far-flung operations as a conduit into the U.S.
financial system, according to a Senate report. As Leopoldo
Barroso, a top HSBC anti-money-laundering official told the bank
upon his departure in 2008, the institution’s standard practice
was to pursue “profit and targets at all costs” and it was “only
a matter of time” before it faced criminal charges.  The roll call of alleged malfeasance at other banks is
long. Investigators in Europe,  Asia  and the U.S. are piecing
together a widespread conspiracy by as many as 16 banks to
conceal the extent of their problems during the financial crisis
-- and boost traders’ profits -- by manipulating the globally
important London interbank offered rate, known as  Libor . The
probe has already snared  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which paid about $450
million in fines and civil penalties.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  just  reported  losses of at least $5.8
billion from risky credit-derivatives trades that may have been
intentionally mismarked by employees in its London office. Last
week, the chairman of Peregrine Financial Group Inc. attempted
suicide, leaving a  note  detailing two decades of embezzlement.  Too Voluminous  Unscrupulous behavior during and after the financial
crisis, including the marketing of dubious mortgage-backed
securities to unsuspecting investors and  improper  home
foreclosures, is almost too voluminous to list. In each case,
bankers put profits ahead of probity while regulators either
ignored or failed to spot red flags. For the sake of the
financial industry -- not to mention the millions of people who
work in it and the extent to which robust economies depend on it
-- banks and regulators will need finally to take some
meaningful steps toward reform. If they don’t, what little
confidence remains in the system will evaporate.  The good news is that regulators don’t need new tools, they
simply need to make better use of those already at their
disposal, including new powers in the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
reform law. Prosecutors should dust off anti-fraud statutes.
Officials who may be tempted to point to the U.K.’s light-touch
method of regulation as superior to the U.S. system should take
note of the lawlessness that can result. And U.S. lawmakers
should stop trying to starve regulatory agencies of the money
they need to hire experts and acquire new technology to put
Dodd-Frank into practice faster.  Perhaps most important, regulators must stop treating the
companies they oversee like their buddies. A 335-page report by
the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations highlights a
decade of compliance failures by HSBC and accuses its primary
regulator, the  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , of
failing to sufficiently deal with repeated violations of the
bank’s money-laundering controls. Problems at the bank were no
secret: A 2005 Bloomberg Markets article documented HSBC’s ties
to  Iran ,  Libya ,  Sudan  and  Syria .  Last month, the OCC  acknowledged  it was unaware of the
disastrous JPMorgan trades, even though 65 of its examiners were
on-site at the bank. And the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission failed to spot problems at Peregrine, despite
reviewing its operations at least twice since 2006, according to
a Bloomberg News report. CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler   told 
lawmakers on Tuesday “the system failed.”  Public Trust  Banks should care about the public trust. Anger toward  Wall
Street  continues to build, leading to increasing calls to break
up the big banks. If for no other reason than self-preservation,
financial institutions should create zero-tolerance policies for
improper behavior and begin rewarding, rather than punishing,
whistle-blowers.  If history is a guide, banks won’t do this voluntarily.
It’s up to regulators to crack down. Criminal prosecutions would
also go a long way toward deterring people from breaking laws in
search of bigger profits and fatter bonuses. Shareholders, too,
should demand change; they ultimately pay the cost for risky
behavior that results in stiff penalties or a bank’s collapse.  No one can demand morality. But lawmakers and regulators
can stop enabling bad behavior. Putting in place (or not
blocking) the rules required by Dodd-Frank, including the
 Volcker rule , to prevent self-dealing and abuse of taxpayer
money will go a long way toward redirecting Wall Street’s moral
compass.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the need for a  tougher Syria
policy  and on Republicans’  campaign-finance betrayal ;  Margaret
Carlson  on politics as  class warfare ; Clive Crook on destructive
 capitalism-bashing ;  Peter Orszag  on keeping children from
getting  fatter and dumber  during the summer; Nell Minow on why
letting CEOs lead their own boards is like letting students
 grade their own exams .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 