-- Rothko, Private Sales Help Boost Christie’s Revenue 13%
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-07-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/rothko-private-sales-help-boost-christie-s-revenue-13-.html
Christie’s International’s first-
half sales surged 13 percent to a record, boosted by Rothko and
Renoir works in public auctions and private transactions.  The London-based company sold 2.2 billion pounds ($3.4
billion) of art and antiques, even as demand at Hong Kong
auctions declined by almost a quarter. The figures, based on
completed sales including fees, were boosted by an increase of
53 percent in private sales to 413.4 million pounds, its highest
half-year total in that category.  “Clients are driving this, the trend will continue,”
Steven P. Murphy, chief executive officer, said in an interview.
The 246-year-old company's was an art advisory business, rather 
than just an auction house, he said.  Christie’s auctions of postwar and contemporary works
increased 34 percent, it said in an e-mailed release today. It
competes with  Sotheby’s (BID)  as billionaires invest in art as an 
alternative to volatile financial markets.  Renoir’s painting “Baigneuse,” a last-minute withdrawal
from a June sale after being estimated at as much as 18 million
pounds, was among works sold privately for undisclosed sums. The
figures also include high-value works that were guaranteed by
third-parties and failed to attract external auction bids.  Rothko’s “Orange, Red, Yellow” was the most expensive
work it sold at auction in the first half. The price of $86.9
million in New York on May 8 was the highest for a contemporary
work at a public sale.  Rothko Price  The Rothko was one of 26 works to sell for more than $10
million, up from 18 in the same period last year. The 340 lots
selling for more than $1 million were 36 fewer than in the first
half of 2011.  “Great works that are new to the market have no ceiling,”
Murphy said. “Pieces that are less fresh need to be priced
well.”  Contemporary art kept its position as Christie’s top
category, generating 576.1 million pounds at auction. Sales in
 New York  in May and London in June achieved record totals.  Impressionist works, which dominated the market during the
1980s boom, contributed 422.9 million pounds. Asian art was the
third most-lucrative area, at 222.5 million pounds, a 32 percent
decline.  Christie's May auction of Impressionist and modern works 
tallied $117.1 million, its smallest sale in that category in 
the U.S. in 2½ years. High quality late 19th-century and early-
20th-century art that's fresh to the market is in short supply, 
and wealthy new collectors tend to prefer contemporary pieces.  Television Interview  “Our top customers are purchasing in seven different 
categories of art,” Murphy said in an interview with Bloomberg 
Television's City Central program. Furniture and decorative 
objects were most popular among the 19 percent of bidders new 
to the company.  Slowing growth in  China , and a contraction of the market
for Chinese ceramics and wines (down by 19 percent), saw
auctions in Hong Kong decline 22 percent to 231 million pounds.  Public sales in Dubai were just 3.1 million pounds, less 
than half the total for the first half of last year.  “There’s a gentle cooling in  Asia  that reflects what’s
happening in the financial markets,” Murphy said. “Collectors
in that region are also buying more internationally. There’s a
more rational approach in Asia than there was two years ago.”  There was a 31 percent increase in the number of Asian 
clients registering to bid in New York and  London .  A Chinese collector was the lone bidder on a Rembrandt work 
that fetched 8.4 million pounds on July 3. London was the top 
auction center with 735.8 million pounds of sales.   Moore Bronze  Results such as the record 19.1 million pounds paid on Feb. 
14 for a Henry Moore bronze by a dealer who represents Russian 
clients has encouraged collectors to sell in the U.K. capital.  New York raised 657.4 million pounds. The U.S. city, with 
its sales of Impressionist and contemporary works in November, 
tends to dominate the second-half figures.  Christie's is a private company owned by the billionaire 
 Francois Pinault . The auction house was bought by Pinault's 
holding company, Artemis SA, for $1.2 billion in May 1998.  Christie’s doesn’t report profit, though it gives sale
totals twice a year. Its policy, in line with U.K. accounting
standards, is to convert non-U.K. results using an average
 exchange rate  weighted daily by sales throughout the year.  This would make the first-half total come to $3.5 billion.
In 2011, its first-half sales were 2 billion pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 