-- Rubber Gains as China May Add Stimulus, Thailand Boosts Support
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-07-17T08:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/rubber-gains-as-china-may-add-stimulus-thailand-boosts-support.html
Rubber climbed to the highest close
in more than a week, advancing for a third day, on speculation
that  China  may take additional steps to boost its economy, while
 Thailand  expands a government price-support program.  The December-delivery contract climbed 1 percent to 250.4
yen ($3,169 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, the
highest settlement since July 6. There was no trade yesterday as
the exchange was closed for a holiday in Japan.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said while momentum for a recovery isn’t
yet in place, the government will step up policy fine-tuning in
the second half to support growth, Xinhua News Agency said July
15. Thailand, the world’s largest exporter, may double a budget
for purchases, Deputy Farm Minister  Nattawut Saikuar  said today.  “The market was supported by expectations for China’s
additional stimulus,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker
Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said by phone. Speculation also grew that
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may hint at further
monetary easing in testimony today, he said.  Bernanke will present the outlook for the world’s largest
economy in his semi-annual monetary-policy report to Congress
today and tomorrow. The International Monetary Fund yesterday
cut its 2013 global growth forecast on Europe’s debt crisis.  Thailand’s budget for purchases, aimed at supporting prices,
may increase to 30 billion baht ($950 million) to buy as much as
200,000 tons from farmers, Nattawut said. The prices for state
purchases from farmers will be increased, he said.  “The measures assure that the government is serious in
shoring up rubber prices,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at
Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  Rubber for September delivery dropped 1.4 percent to 24,270
 yuan  ($3,808) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  Thai rubber  free-on-board  gained 0.6 percent to 99.2 baht a
kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research Institute. The
price touched 98.6 baht a kilogram yesterday, the cheapest since
Jan. 5, 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  