-- Rupee Gains on Speculation Possible Fed Easing to Boost Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-07-17T11:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/rupee-gains-on-speculation-possible-fed-easing-to-boost-inflows.html
India ’s rupee gained on speculation
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will today hint at
further steps to boost U.S. growth, such as quantitative easing.  Bets for global stimulus mounted a day after the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 world economic growth
forecast to 3.9 percent from an April estimate of 4.1 percent.
U.S. retail sales fell for a third month in June.  State Bank of
India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender, raised  interest rates  on
certain rupee-deposits held by citizens living abroad.  “The rupee’s move is largely due to expectations that
further easing measures in the U.S. could cause dollar
weakness,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader at  Development
Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “The SBI interest-rate hike could
lead to huge inflows, especially if global sentiment settles.”  The rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 55.1175 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency,
which touched a record low of 57.3275 on June 22, has bottomed
out and will strengthen to 54 in the coming days, according to
Raghuvanshi. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 12 percent.  State Bank  of India raised interest rates on certain types
of deposits of below 1.5 million rupees ($27,305) for tenors of
three years to five years, by 25 basis points to 9 percent,
according to an exchange filing yesterday.  Inflation Threshold  The rupee’s gains will be limited by inflation, Alpari
Financial Services India Ltd. said in an e-mailed note today.
Wholesale prices unexpectedly eased to 7.25 percent in June from
a year earlier, compared with 7.55 percent the previous month,
official data show. That is still “way above the threshold” of
around 5 percent, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in
Mumbai yesterday, referring to the monetary authority’s so-
called comfort level. The  Reserve Bank  of India will next review
borrowing costs on July 31.  “I’m not implying anything by way of what decision we
might take at the policy review at the end of July,” Subbarao
said. “I’m only saying that inflation is above the threshold.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.10 per
dollar, compared with 56.24 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 55.97 from 56.07. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  