-- Russian Retail Probably Kept Pace in June in Sign of Resilience
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-07-17T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/russian-retail-probably-kept-pace-in-june-in-sign-of-resilience.html
Russia ’s retail sales probably
matched May’s increase last month while unemployment remained at
the lowest in at least 13 years, tempering concerns that
economic growth is faltering, a survey of economists showed.  The jobless  rate  was unchanged at 5.4 percent, a level last
seen four years ago and the lowest since at least 1999,
according to the median  estimate  of eight economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Sales grew 6.8 percent from a year earlier, a
separate poll of 12 analysts showed. The Moscow-based Federal
Statistics Service may report the data today or tomorrow.  Consumer spending , which accounts for half of Russia’s
economy, is encouraging companies to maintain headcounts,
helping balance slowing industrial-output growth as the economic
outlook dims in the country’s biggest trading partners, the
European Union and  China .  Industrial production  slowed to 1.9
percent in June, easing more than economists predicted.  “Even if the deceleration in the June growth rate may
suggest weaker global demand, we still believe that local
consumption has a good chance to remain supportive,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said
in a research note. “We expect the June consumption statistic
will be key in confirming or rejecting the hypothesis regarding
the deterioration of the trend” in Russia’s economic growth.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, left its
refinancing rate unchanged at 8 percent for a seventh month on
July 13 after the central bank  cited  a strong labor market and
lending to households as “creating grounds for maintaining the
stability of domestic demand in the future.”  Confident Consumers  Russian consumers were more optimistic in the second
quarter than at any time in almost four years as people reported
improvements in the country’s economy and their own finances.
The  consumer confidence   index  rose 1 point to minus 4, the
highest since the third quarter of 2008, when the measure peaked
at plus 1, the statistics service said July 5.  Real wages  probably grew 10.5 percent in June, compared
with an 11.1 percent increase the previous month, according to
the median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  Rising salaries are helping companies such as  OAO Magnit (MGNT) ,
Russia’s biggest food retailer by market value, which said sales
increased 34 percent in June as it opened 109 new stores.  Fixed-capital  investment  probably grew 7 percent last
month, slowing from a 7.7 percent rate in May,  estimates  showed.
The government reduced its projection for economic growth this
year to 3.4 percent from 3.7 percent, saying investment will be
weaker than initially estimated.  “We believe healthy expansion of Russia’s domestic demand,
particularly its consumer sector, will continue to support
industrial-production growth,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief
economist at  Barclays Capital  in Moscow, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  