-- Russia Urges UN Compromise on Syria After Annan Talks
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-17T16:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/russia-urges-un-compromise-on-syria-after-annan-talks-1-.html
Russia  urged the U.S. and its allies
to strike a compromise over their efforts to impose United
Nations sanctions and the threat of military action against
 Syria  after talks today with UN envoy  Kofi Annan .  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said world powers should
reach an agreement like they did last month in Geneva, when
Russian objections succeeded in removing a proposed ban on
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad or his inner circle from
serving in a future power-sharing government.  “We reached a difficult compromise in Geneva,” Lavrov
told reporters in Moscow after Annan met President  Vladimir Putin  in the Kremlin. “I don’t see any reason we can’t reach an
agreement based on similar principles in the Security Council.”  Russia, an ally of Syria since Soviet times, has vowed to
use its veto as a permanent Security Council member to block the
Western-drafted resolution that targets Assad. Putin has
shielded Syria from international action over its crackdown on
the 16-month uprising after Russian acquiescence to NATO-led
military action against  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi ended in his
ouster and killing last year.  No Sign  “I don’t see any sign of possible compromise,” said
 Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst with the Moscow-based Council on
Foreign and Defense Policy. “Western and Arab countries are
insisting on a resolution that contains the harshest possible
measures and Russia has made it clear that it won’t support
this.”  Annan, a former UN secretary-general whose five-month
efforts to end the conflict in Syria have floundered as violence
spreads in the Middle Eastern state, also called for unity at
the organization’s decision-making body.  “I hope the council will continue discussions and
hopefully find the language that will pull everybody together,”
Annan said, warning that the Syrian crisis has reached a
“critical” point.  Lavrov yesterday said his country could not support the
proposed resolution under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, which
empowers the  Security Council  to impose sanctions and authorizes
military means to enforce its will. A vote is scheduled for
tomorrow. He accused the U.S. and its partners of blackmailing
Russia to back the measure or face an end to the UN monitoring
mission in Syria.  UN Mandate  The three-month mandate for the UN’s Syrian mission expires
July 20 and the U.S. has signaled repeatedly that without
adopting measures with bite against Syria, it’s prepared to send
home the 300 UN observers.  Russia charges that Western powers have reneged on pledges
at a conference in Geneva last month to put pressure on both
sides in Syria to halt violence and begin negotiations on a
power-sharing government. Russian officials have criticized
 Qatar  and  Saudi Arabia  for arming the rebels.  If the observer mission is terminated, that would remove
the only independent means of monitoring the conflict, Lavrov
said yesterday before meeting Annan. The fighting has killed at
least 10,000 people, according to the UN.  The rebel Free Syrian Army today battled government
soldiers in central Damascus, the heart of Assad’s power base,
pressing on with three days of fighting in areas of the capital,
according to opposition groups.  Russia will probably go ahead with its threat to veto the
resolution, which will result in Western and Arab condemnation
and “massively increased financial and military assistance to
the Syrian rebels to try and overthrow Assad,” Lukyanov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  