-- Russia’s Government Sees 3.4% of Grain Crop Damaged by Drought
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-07-17T08:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/russia-s-government-sees-3-4-of-grain-crop-damaged-by-drought.html
Drought in parts of  Russia  damaged
grains on 1.5 million hectares (3.7 million acres) this year,
the  Agriculture Ministry  said.  That’s 3.4 percent of the total sown area, including 28.3
million hectares of spring sowing and 16.1 million hectares of
winter crops, according to a preliminary estimate on the
ministry’s website today.  Drought, which is still affecting nine regions, hit 16 of
Russia’s 83 regional areas this year, the ministry said.  Wheat for September delivery rose 0.9 percent to $8.925 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:31 p.m. Moscow time.  Reaping is nearly finished in Russia’s top two grain
growing areas in the south, according to regional agriculture
ministries.  Krasnodar, Russia’s biggest grain grower last year, reaped
crops from 79 percent of the planted fields and collected 4.4
million metric tons, the regional  agriculture ministry  said in a
statement yesterday. Yields were about 4.1 tons a hectare, and
90 percent of grains and legumes were of exportable quality, the
ministry said. Reaping may be completed in the next seven to 10
days on favorable weather, it said. Last year, the area
harvested 11.4 million tons of grains and legumes, or 12.2
percent of the national crop.  Stavropol, the second biggest crop grower last year,
harvested grains and legumes from more than 71 percent of the
planted area and got more than 3 million tons of grains, the
region’s agriculture ministry said yesterday. That compares with
8.2 million tons of grains and legumes from all of the sown area
last year, or 8.7 percent of the national crop, according to the
state statistics data.  The regions still in drought are Rostov, Volgograd,
Stavropol and Kalmykia Republic in the country’s south, Saratov,
Orenburg in the Volga federal district, Kurgan, Chelyabinsk in
the Ural area, and Kemerovo in the Siberian federal district,
the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  