-- Ryanair Submits EU694 Million Bid for Irish Rival Aer Lingus
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-07-17T11:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/ryanair-submits-eu694-million-offer-for-irish-rival-aer-lingus.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  submitted a 694
million-euro ($854 million) bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  after
saying last month it would resume a pursuit of its Irish rival.  Europe ’s biggest discount airline, which owns  29.8 percent 
of Aer Lingus, offered to buy the remaining stock for 1.30 euros
a share, it said today in a statement. That’s a 38 percent
premium to the close on June 19, the day before Ryanair stated
that it would renew a pursuit blocked by regulators in the past.  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  reckons the
chances of clearing antitrust hurdles have been boosted by
mergers among other European carriers, falling traffic in Dublin
that leaves room for new entrants and Irish government plans to
auction its own 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus.  “O’Leary seems to really have the bit between his teeth on
this,” said  John Strickland , director of JLS Consulting in
 London . “It would be a big strategic step and one of those
things he’d like to do before he leaves. But it will still be
extremely challenging to make any headway with the regulators.”  Aer Lingus traded 1.2 percent higher at 1.07 euros as of
12:05 p.m. in Dublin, where both carriers are based, taking the
gain this year to 68 percent. That’s still 23 cents below the
offer price and values the carrier at 567 million euros.  Passenger Growth  Ryanair, which built its stake in 2006 and 2007 and is
making the new bid via wholly-owned subsidiary Coinside Ltd.,
was little changed at 4.13 euros. The company has a market value
of 5.94 billion euros and has advanced 14 percent this year.  O’Leary has pledged to lift Aer Lingus’s annual passenger
total to 14 million over five years from 9.5 million today and
says  Ryanair (RYA)  would invest in expanding trans-Atlantic flights.  “In six years as a public company, Aer Lingus has failed
to deliver value,” the CEO said in a letter accompanying the
bid document, adding that the bid represents “excellent value”
given the smaller airline’s cumulative loss of 91 million euros
during that period.  Ryanair is seeking acceptances for the bid by Sept. 13. In
addition to the offer price, investors would also get a dividend
of 3 cents a share announced by Aer Lingus on May 4 that they’re
due to receive on July 31.  European Union regulators blocked Ryanair’s bid for Aer
Lingus in 2007, saying a takeover would allow the discount
airline to dominate 35 routes and control 80 percent of the
market in Dublin. Ryanair lost a 2010 appeal of the merger ban.  Ryanair is also facing a full investigation by the U.K.’s
 Competition Commission  of its holding in the smaller carrier
after the national regulator said it may lead to higher prices.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Davy Corporate Finance are advising
Ryanair and Coinside. Aer Lingus is being advised by  Goodbody
Stockbrokers , Rothschild and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 jasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  