-- Samsung Agrees to Buy CSR’s Handset Unit and Minority Stake
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-17T13:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/samsung-to-buy-csr-s-mobile-unit-for-310-million-take-stake.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker, agreed to buy  CSR Plc (CSR) ’s wireless
unit for $310 million in cash, sending shares of the British
chip designer to their steepest gain on record.  Samsung will pay an additional $34.4 million for new stock
that would give it a 4.9 percent stake in CSR, the Cambridge,
England-based company said in a statement today. The deal
includes access to CSR technology and a development team of 310
people. The purchase doesn’t include CSR’s camera unit, and CSR
will retain current handset products.  CSR, a  supplier  of location-tracking chips for Samsung’s
Galaxy phones and tablets, gets 25 percent of its revenue from
the handset unit which had sales of $57.8 million in the first
quarter, according to Bloomberg data. Acquiring the division
will help Samsung beef up its technology as it looks to replace
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  chips with its own Exynos processor.  CSR’s handset business was “too small to compete with
giants of the semiconductor industry,” Chief Executive Officer
Joep Van Beurden said in an interview. The unit is “much more
valuable to Samsung than it was to us, so it made sense to
leverage that to create value for our shareholders.”  The companies’ cooperation will focus on enabling devices
to better determine location deeply within buildings, van
Beurden said. The deal doesn’t mean CSR plans to enter other
partnerships as well, he said today, adding that he doesn’t
currently expect Samsung to further increase its stake.  Record Gain  CSR shares climbed as much as 96.1 pence, or 44 percent, to
314.40 pence and were up 34 percent as of 2:34 p.m. in  London .
That’s the biggest increase since the company’s 2004 initial
public offering. The stock had climbed 19 percent this year
through yesterday, giving the chip designer a market value of
438 million pounds ($685 million). Samsung added 1.4 percent to
close at 1,168,000 won in  Seoul .  Acquirers of semiconductor makers paid on average 1.98
times revenue, according to Bloomberg data tracking 27
transactions valued at more than $250 million over the past
three years. Samsung’s purchase price equals about 2 times the
handset division’s sales of $151 million for last year.  Reducing Costs  CSR is “divesting a business which for them has been in
decline because they lack the necessary kind of platform to
really get into handsets,” said Pia Tapley, an analyst at
Singer Capital Markets in London. “We see revenue declining to
negligible levels but they still have been investing in it.
Today’s deal means they don’t have to do that anymore, so they
get rid of a lot of cost.”  Samsung, the largest maker of memory chips, display panels
and mobile phones, also manufactures the A-series of processors
used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads, devices that compete
against its own Galaxy series of mobile devices.  Exynos, its internally developed mobile processor, is used
in some versions of Samsung’s newest Galaxy III smartphone while
Qualcomm’s Snapdragon is used in others.  “Samsung will strengthen its application processor
platform and solidify its position as a leading semiconductor
solutions provider,” it said in a separate statement.  CSR plans to return as much as $285 million to shareholders
after the deal closes, which is expected at the end of this
year, it said. The company posted a loss of $14 million in the
first quarter, and is expected to post a $3.3 million deficit
for the second quarter when it reports July 24, according to the
average of six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung is being advised by Evercore Partners International
LLP, while JPMorgan Cazenove is advising CSR.  Intel Corp . last week agreed to invest as much as $4.1
billion in ASML Holding NV to gain a stake and accelerate
development of new chip-manufacturing technology. ASML said it’s
also in talks with Samsung and Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. to enter a similar agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  