-- San Bernardino Postpones Emergency Vote on Bankruptcy
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/san-bernardino-postpones-emergency-vote-on-bankruptcy.html
San Bernardino, the California
community whose government is the subject of a criminal probe,
postponed declaring a fiscal emergency, a step needed to seek
bankruptcy court protection without a mediation period.  The City Council in the community of about 209,000
residents east of  Los Angeles  put off the declaration yesterday
while agreeing to start formal contract negotiations with its
public-employee unions. Confronted by a $45 million budget gap
and depleted coffers, the council decided on bankruptcy July 10.  “The pond is incredibly shallow,” Mayor Patrick Morris
told the council in urging them to act quickly on seeking court
protection. He said the city risks running out of money to pay
employees as soon as Aug. 15.  Without an emergency, a new labor-backed state law requires
a 60- to 90-day mediation with creditors including unions before
a court filing. San Bernardino would become the third California
city to enter bankruptcy this year, after Stockton and Mammoth
Lakes, should it take that step. Neither of those communities
succeeded in staving off a Chapter 9 filing through negotiation.  Councilwoman Wendy McCammack urged colleagues to postpone
the emergency vote, saying it wasn’t clear how municipal cash
had been shifted from restricted accounts to the general fund
that pays for police, fire and other basic services.  “It’s not transparent and it’s not representative of what
the public expects,” McCammack said.  Criminal Probe  An investigation into possible criminal activity within the
city government was begun “several months ago” at the request
of local officials, according to the San Bernardino County
sheriff in a statement last week. No further details have been
disclosed in the probe, which also involves the county district
attorney and city police.  In a bankruptcy, about $152 million of San Bernardino’s
$223 million in long-term bonds “should be unimpaired,”
Municipal Market Advisors said yesterday in a note to investors,
citing revenue backing the debt from dedicated sources such as
water and sewer services.  About $48 million in pension-obligation securities, $12.4
million in lease-revenue bonds and $11.5 million in certificates
of participation may be “at greater risk of adjustment” during
the legal process, according to the note from the Concord,
Massachusetts-based research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in San Bernardino,  California  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 