-- HSBC’s U.S. Bank Regulator Was ‘Lapdog,’ Senator Coburn Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-17T19:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/hsbc-s-u-s-bank-regulator-was-lapdog-senator-coburn-says.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s regulator was a
“lapdog” that failed to stop bank affiliates from giving
terrorists, drug cartels and criminals a portal into the U.S.
financial system, a U.S. senator said at a hearing today.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency knew of
weaknesses in the bank’s anti-money laundering program, yet was
“often at a loss, however, to prescribe how HSBC could
eliminate” problems, Senator  Tom Coburn  said at a hearing of
the  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations.  “Its record of enforcement at HSBC resembles a lapdog
rather than a watchdog that we sorely need,” Coburn, an
Oklahoma Republican, said at a hearing about the subcommittee’s
335-page report on the bank.  Coburn joined Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who
heads the committee, in criticizing the OCC for not stopping a
decade of compliance failures by  Europe ’s biggest bank. London-
based HSBC enabled drug lords to launder money in  Mexico , did
business with firms linked to terrorism and concealed
transactions that bypassed U.S. sanctions against  Iran ,
according to the report.  Levin criticized the OCC for for failing to act until an
Oct. 2010 cease-and-desist order in October 2010 against  HSBC
Bank USA . The regulator said then that the bank had “critical
deficiencies” in reporting suspicious activities, monitoring
bulk cash purchases and international funds transfers, and
examining the background of customers.  Thomas J. Curry, comptroller of the currency, who appeared
before the panel, agreed with Levin that the OCC issued its
cease-and-desist order too late.  Faster Action  “The OCC could have, and should have taken this action
sooner,” Curry said.  He said the OCC will make changes recommended by the
subcommittee to ensure that banks comply with anti- money
laundering  requirements. One of the changes will be that
deficiencies will threaten the safety-and-soundness ratings of
banks, rather than their consumer compliance.  That cease-and-desist order followed a 31-page supervisory
letter citing HSBC’s failure to monitor $60 trillion in wire
transfers and account activity, conduct checks on $15 billion in
bulk-cash transactions, and review a “massive backlog” of
alerts about suspicious activity, according to the report.  One year earlier, the case against HSBC appeared strong,
Daniel Stipano, the OCC’s deputy chief counsel, wrote in an e-
mail included in the report.  ‘Major’ Case  “From what I can tell, this has the makings of potentially
being a major criminal case -- we need to be all over it,”
Stipano wrote on July 29, 2009.  In another e-mail on that day, Stipano said he spoke to a
prosecutor in the Eastern District of  New York  who said the
office is “in the early stages of investigating possible money
laundering through the repatriation of U.S. currency through
accounts at the banknotes division of HSBC-N.Y.”  HSBC has said it is cooperating with a Justice Department
criminal investigation into whether it violated the Bank Secrecy
Act, which is designed to curb money laundering. HSBC also faces
separate criminal probes of whether it violated U.S. sanctions
on Iran and whether it helped Americans evade taxes.  The Senate panel heard from HSBC executives today, who
expressed contrition about their failure to prevent money
laundering or strengthen compliance programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Washington at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  