-- Senate to Consider Tax Credit for Bringing Jobs to U.S.
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-18T19:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/senate-to-consider-tax-credit-for-bringing-jobs-to-u-s-.html
As President  Barack Obama  escalates
his contention that Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  supports policies that send jobs overseas,  Senate
Democrats  want to advance a measure creating an incentive to
bring jobs to the U.S.  The bill, sponsored by Michigan Democrat Debbie Stabenow,
would give U.S. companies a 20 percent tax credit for the cost
of moving jobs and investment to this country from overseas. It
would deny companies a deduction for the expense of moving
investment out of the U.S.  “We are now paying the cost of people who move jobs
overseas as taxpayers, and people are appalled when they hear
that,” Stabenow told reporters yesterday. A procedural vote on
the measure is scheduled for tomorrow.  The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that
ending the deduction for moving operations overseas would raise
$168 million over a decade, while the 10-year cost of the tax
credit would be $255 million, meaning the measure would carry a
net cost of $87 million over 10 years, said Stabenow spokesman
Cullen Schwarz. Companies could continue to deduct moving
expenses for jobs transferred to the U.S.  By comparison, the tax credit for rehabilitating historic
structures -- one of the less expensive federal tax breaks --
costs the Treasury $2.9 billion over five years.  Sole Reason  Stabenow and other Senate Democrats said today that they
don’t think the ability to deduct moving costs is the sole
reason companies move operations outside the country.  “It may not be the only thing,” she said, emphasizing the
symbolic importance of the tax deduction. “It’s part of the
equation overall about how serious we are” about generating
domestic jobs.  Douglas A. Shackelford, a professor at the University of
 North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill ’s Kenan-Flagler Business School,
said in an interview that “like all tax legislation”
Stabenow’s proposal “probably is dead on arrival before the
election.”  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican and Romney’s chief
Senate supporter, said he wasn’t sure if he would support the
measure.  “I don’t believe it will produce much in the way of
results,” Blunt said. “You might wind up creating a lot of
obstacles for businesses of all sizes to do business for no real
gain.”  Acceptable Practice  If the bill doesn’t advance, the vote would still have the
effect of requiring Republicans “to answer the question as to
whether outsourcing is an acceptable business practice,”
Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat, said in an interview.  In a Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20, 78
percent of respondents cited U.S. companies investing in jobs
overseas as a major reason why the  unemployment rate  hasn’t
declined significantly in the past two or three years.  “It sells politically in certain places so I can certainly
understand the political game,” Shackelford said, adding that
decisions about whether to employ workers overseas were more
complex than the outsourcing debate takes into account.  “It would be good if our political debate went beyond that
level of crude assessment into more fundamental issues about how
we can grow and expand our economy,” Shackelford said.  ‘Make a Profit’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today that companies’ “goal should be to make a profit.”  “If your company boosts profits by sending jobs overseas,
that’s your right as a business owner,” Reid said. “American
taxpayers shouldn’t subsidize your business decisions with
outsourced jobs.”  Republicans on July 12 blocked a Democratic plan to provide
tax breaks for hiring and capital investment in part because
they were denied the chance to offer certain amendments.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce opposes Stabenow’s bill on
grounds it would harm economic growth and U.S. companies’
competitiveness, and make the  tax code  more complex.  The outsourcing proposal is the latest example of the
Senate’s majority Democrats coordinating their legislative
calendar with Obama’s campaign themes.  Bain Capital  Obama’s campaign released a television  ad  July 14 accusing
Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and head of the private
equity firm  Bain Capital  LLC, of “outsourcing” jobs and
stashing his money in offshore accounts. The ad, set to Romney
singing the song “America the Beautiful,” is scheduled to air
in nine battleground states.  Campaigning in southwestern Ohio July 16, Obama told
supporters that the U.S. doesn’t “need a president who wants to
ship more jobs overseas.”  Romney shot back at Obama, accusing the president of
ignoring the plight of middle-income Americans while rewarding
campaign donors with federal dollars that led to the outsourcing
of U.S. jobs.  “This is a time when it’s good to be a friend of the Obama
campaign, because you might be able to get some money for your
business,” Romney said in Jackson,  Mississippi , at a July 16
event that raised $1.7 million for his campaign. “But it’s not
so good to be middle class in America.”  Long before Obama and Romney began sparring over the
outsourcing issue, congressional Democrats have sought tax
incentives for companies to create jobs in the U.S. instead of
overseas. In September 2010, a similar Democratic proposal had
no support from Republicans and fell short of the 60 votes
needed to advance in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  