-- Serbia’s Corn Harvest May Be Halved as Drought Takes Toll
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-17T15:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/serbia-s-corn-harvest-may-be-halved-as-drought-takes-toll.html
Serbia ’s corn harvest may be halved
this year because of drought and the damage could be even worse
unless the crop gets sufficient rain in the coming weeks, the
national association of grain exporters and producers said.  Corn was sown to around 1.25 million hectares (3.1 million
acres), according to official statistics and “only a month ago
it was in great condition and our estimates were for a harvest
of around 7 million tons,” Vukosav Sakovic, the head of  Zita
Srbije , told Bloomberg news in a phone interview today.  “Following 40 days of high temperatures and drought, the
output will probably be between 3.5 million and 4.0 million
tons” as bad weather “came too early for corn, during the
pollination stage,” he said, adding that a week ago, the
“damage would have been estimated at 30 percent.”  Corn, along with wheat and other grains, is among Serbia’s
top export earners, which generated 293.8 million euros ($360.8
million) worth of revenue in the first five months of 2012, or
37.6 percent more than last year. Grains accounted for about 8
percent of Serbia’s total five-month exports this year.  Rainfall could stop further declines in expected output
while a new period of high temperatures and drought can only
make things worse, Sakovic added. “Unfortunately, no weather
forecast indicates significant rains.”  The drought has not affected wheat, as this year’s harvest
is expected at 1.9 million tons, in line with the Statistics
Office’s estimates, and combined with 100,000 tons in rollover
stock, Serbia could have about 400,000 tons of wheat for
exports, he said. Serbia requires 3.5 million tons of corn and
1.6 million tons of wheat for its own needs.  Following last week’s increase, grain prices in Serbia
retreated this week “mainly on speculation that an export ban
could be imposed,” Sakovic said, adding that “it is difficult
to track where the speculation came from, but it worked.”  Corn, which traded at 25 dinars ($0.26) per kilo at the
Novi Sad Commodity Exchange last Thursday and Friday, now trades
at no more than 23.5 dinars and the “trend we see is completely
different to that in neighbouring countries, or the rest of the
world, where prices are on the rise,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  