-- Sierra Pacific Reaches $114.5 Million Wildfire Settlement
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-17T22:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/sierra-pacific-reaches-114-5-million-wildfire-settlement.html
Sierra Pacific Industries Inc., a
 California  lumber company, agreed to pay $47 million and convey
22,500 acres of land worth $67.5 million to the U.S. to resolve
a lawsuit claiming it was responsible for a 2007 wildfire.  The fire in Plumas County in northern California damaged
46,000 acres of national forest. It started when a bulldozer
working on a Sierra Pacific timber project caused a spark, the
U.S. government said in a 2009 complaint filed in federal court
in  Sacramento , California.  The blaze was among the most devastating forest fires in
California history, U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner said in an e-
mailed statement. About 15 million trees, some of them more than
400 years old, were killed and thousands of acres of wildlife
habitat was destroyed.  The U.S. sought as much as $791 million in damages, said
William Warne, Sierra Pacific’s attorney. The government’s
investigation of the fire “was seriously off the rails” and
sought to hold the company liable for the conduct of the
independent contractor running the bulldozer, he said in a
conference call.  Sierra Pacific wasn’t at the site of the fire the day it
started and didn’t own the forest land where the fire occurred,
Warne said. No one knows what caused the blaze, he said.  ‘Settlement Number’  “A defendant needed to be found to pay for this fire,”
Warne said. “What we uncovered drove the settlement number
down.”  Sierra Pacific and other parties failed to take preventive
measures against fires and were responsible for firefighting and
mitigation costs, according to the complaint. The company, based
in Anderson, California, didn’t admit wrongdoing as part of the
settlement filed today.  Wagner said the land to be conveyed to the U.S. had an
estimated private economic value of at least $3,000 an acre, or
a total of $67.5 million.  The case is U.S. v. Sierra Pacific Industries, 09-2445,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of California
(Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  