-- Singapore Export Growth Unexpectedly Quickens on Pharmaceuticals
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-07-17T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/singapore-export-growth-unexpectedly-quickens-on-pharmaceuticals.html
Singapore’s export growth
unexpectedly quickened in June as pharmaceutical shipments
rebounded, countering a smaller increase in electronics sales.  Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 6.8 percent from a year
earlier, after a 3.2 percent gain in May, the trade promotion
agency said in a statement today. The median of 13 estimates in
a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 2 percent increase.  The improvement is threatened by a deepening global
slowdown, with the  International Monetary Fund  yesterday
lowering its forecast for global growth this year and next.
Asian policy makers have cut  interest rates  or signaled they
have scope to add monetary and fiscal stimulus to bolster their
economies as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs demand for goods.  “Given the current global economic situation, it remains
to be seen whether this signals a more sustained improvement,”
Vincent Conti, a Singapore-based analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the report. “To be
confident in a trend shift, we need to see  China ’s growth begin
to pick up and the U.S. recovery regain steam.”  Gross domestic product fell an annualized 1.1 percent in
the three months through June from the previous quarter, when it
climbed 9.4 percent, the Trade Ministry said July 13.  Singapore ’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
Venture Corp. rose 1.6 percent in June from a year earlier,
after climbing 3.9 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, climbed 9.4 percent. Petrochemicals exports
decreased 7.8 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments jumped 24
percent after rising 0.3 percent in May.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  gained a seasonally adjusted
6.7 percent last month from May, when they slid a revised 2
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  