-- Slovenia Set to Approve Fund to Clean Banks’ Balance Sheets
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-07-17T14:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/slovenia-set-to-approve-sovereign-fund-to-clean-banks-balances.html
Slovenian lawmakers are set to
approve the creation of a sovereign wealth fund that will take
bad loans from the country’s banks to shore up the financial
industry during the credit crisis and spur economic growth.  The fund will streamline the management of state assets by
merging bodies that have so far managed more than 10 billion
euros ($12.3 billion). Lawmakers will vote on it this week,
parliament’s spokeswoman Karmen Uglesic said.  “The situation in the Slovenian banking system is very
serious,” Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  told lawmakers in the
capital Ljubljana today. “The creation of the sovereign holding
should be able to help clean banks’ balances and boost economic
growth as companies will be able to borrow more easily. This is
just a first step to end the credit crunch.”  Slovenia is working to avoid being the sixth country in the
euro region after Cyprus,  Spain ,  Portugal , Ireland and  Greece  to
seek international assistance from its European peers. The
former Yugoslav nation, which adopted the euro in 2007, isn’t
expected to require European aid, European Commission spokesman
Simon O’Connor said yesterday in Brussels.  Bad Loans  Slovenian banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d and
 Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , are struggling with a surge in
bad loans as more and more companies file for bankruptcy. The
country is teetering on the brink of a second recession in three
years. Nova Ljubljanska has about 1.5 billion euros of loans
that will probably never be repaid, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said on July 12.  Lenders in Slovenia are stable and solvent even though the
situation is worsening, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec told
lawmakers today, according to public broadcaster  Radio
Slovenija . Lending to the export-driven  economy  continued to
shrink in May mainly because the biggest banks gave out less
loans, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Bad loans at Slovenian banks advanced to more than 6
billion euros in April, the government’s economic institute said
July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  