-- Son of Fraudster Marc Dreier Drops Dorm-Room Spat Suit
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-17T16:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/son-of-fraudster-marc-dreier-drops-dorm-room-spat-suit.html
Spencer Dreier, whose father,  Marc Dreier , is serving a 20-year sentence for cheating  hedge funds 
out of $400 million, agreed with an ex-roommate to drop mutual
claims of assault and defamation tied to a dorm-room fight.  Dreier sued Ben Clorite, his former roommate, in May 2009
for defamation, battery and emotional distress. After a fight in
their room, Clorite posted a libelous online allegation that
Dreier was obstructing the investigation into his father’s
crimes and trying to destroy evidence, Spencer Dreier claimed.  After jury selection and a week of a trial in federal court
in  Manhattan  that included testimony by both men, they agreed to
drop the case yesterday, Clorite’s lawyer,  Jerome Coleman , said
today in a phone interview.  “The parties have amicably reached a confidential
settlement agreement that they find has resolved the claims
underlying this lawsuit favorably,” Coleman read from a joint
statement by the two men. He declined to comment further.
Dreier, who represented himself, declined to comment.  The elder Dreier pleaded guilty in May 2009 in Manhattan
federal court to  money laundering , conspiracy,  securities fraud 
and  wire fraud . He defrauded hedge funds in an effort to prop up
his now-defunct 250-lawyer New York firm, Dreier LLP.  Spencer Dreier sought more than $4 million from Clorite in
the suit. Clorite countersued for assault and defamation,
alleging Dreier lied to officials of their school, Union College
in Schenectady, New York, in an effort to get him expelled. Both
men left the college in the spring of 2009, in their freshman
year.  The case is Dreier v. Clorite, 09-07553, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at   egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 