-- South Africa Yields Fall to Record on Rate Bets; Rand Weakens
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-17T14:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/south-africa-yields-fall-to-record-on-rate-bets-rand-weakens.html
South African bond yields plunged to
records and the rand weakened on bets the central bank will
signal interest rate cuts this week as the global economy slows.  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 fell 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 6.79 percent, the
lowest on record according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South
Africa ’s currency declined 0.1 percent to 8.2015 per dollar as
of 3:35 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The central bank will leave its benchmark repurchase rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent on July 19, according to 16 out of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The bank may signal its
willingness to cut rates in future if the global economy
deteriorates, said Bruce Donald, a strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg. Investors are betting on an
interest-rate cut within six months, forward-rate agreements
show.  “We expect the  Reserve Bank  to stay on hold at this week’s
MPC meeting, although we believe that the chances of a cut by
September or November are close to 50/50,” Donald wrote in an
e-mailed note. “Interest differentials do matter for the
currency, and especially so in a global financial market
environment where there is little growth to be had, and which is
thus characterised by a reach for yield, risk-on risk-off
dynamic.”  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on  interest
rates , have dropped 10 basis points in the past month to 5.18
percent. The rate is 40 basis points lower than the Johannesburg
Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating that traders are pricing in an
80 percent probability of a 50 basis-points rate cut within the
next six months.  Monetary Easing  Bonds also gained on speculation Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will indicate further stimulus today, boosting
demand for riskier assets. Bernanke will deliver his semi-annual
report on the economy and monetary policy before Congress today,
after data yesterday showing a contraction in June retail sales
kindled speculation the Fed will introduce more measures to
support the world’s largest economy. Emerging-market stocks
advanced, driving the benchmark  index  to a third day of gains.
The dollar dropped against most of its 16 most-traded peers.  “A poor U.S. retail sales figure has been enough to
generate dollar weakness, but not enough to create  risk
aversion ,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-
mailed comments. “This is a perfect scenario for the rand. The
markets are positive in the hope that this brings us closer to”
monetary stimulus, the strategists said.  Additional steps to support the  U.S. economy  may boost
demand for riskier assets including emerging-market bonds and
commodities. Foreign investors bought a net 830 million rand
($101 million) of South African bonds yesterday, bringing
purchases this year to 58.5 billion rand, compared with 47.4
billion rand for the whole of 2011, according to JSE Ltd.  data .  Commodities Rally  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials gained
for a fifth day as the prices of metals including copper
advanced. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  rose. The nation
derives 45 percent of its export earnings from metals and other
commodities, according to government data for 2011.  “There’s a lot of expectation that they’ll hint at
monetary easing or an increase in liquidity,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said by phone, referring to the Fed. “This
may be one of those occasions where you should buy the rumor,
sell the news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  