-- Soybean Area in India to Climb as Record Prices Boost Sowing
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-07-17T09:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/soybean-area-in-india-to-climb-as-record-prices-boost-sowing.html
Soybean acreage in  India ,  Asia ’s
largest exporter of the  animal feed  made from the oilseed, is
set to increase as much as 10 percent this year as record prices
spur farmers to boost sowing. Futures in India slumped.  The area under the crop that will be harvested from Oct. 1
may climb as planting gains in Maharashtra, Karnataka and
Rajasthan states, Atul Chaturvedi, chief executive officer of
Adani Wilmar Ltd., said in a phone interview today. The acreage
was 10.3 million hectares (25.5 million acres) last year,
according to the Soybean Processors Association of India.  Soybean prices more than doubled in the past year in India
as dry weather parched crops in the U.S., stoking speculation
that global oilseed production may decline and boost demand for
soybean meal supplies from the South Asian nation. Prices in
 Chicago  have surged 21 percent since June 15 to the highest
since July 2008, while futures in Mumbai reached a record today.  “It’s a blasting commodity right now and the record prices
are good for the farmers,” Vandana Bharti, vice president of
research at SMC Comtrade Ltd., said by phone. “Monsoon is the
biggest trigger and if we see normal monsoon by end of July,
then we can see a correction in prices.”  Soybeans for August delivery on the National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. declined as much as 1.6 percent today
after jumping to a record 4,720 rupees ($86) per 100 kilograms.
The November-delivery contract rose as much as 1 percent to
$16.07 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today, the
costliest for the most-active contract since July 2008, before
trading at $15.97.  Weak Monsoon  A slow start to the monsoon in India has delayed planting,
with the area down 19 percent at 5.45 million hectares as of
July 13, according to the farm ministry.  “The main growing-regions have received reasonable rains
and I don’t see too much of a panic,” Chaturvedi said.  Monsoon rains, which account for more than 70 percent of
India’s annual rainfall, were 21 percent below a 50-year average
since June 1, according to the  India Meteorological Department .  “The planting is usually completed latest by the end of
July,” Rajesh Agrawal, spokesman for the Soybean Processors
Association, said yesterday. “From that point of view, that is
no major delay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  