-- StanCorp Plunges as Insurer Misses Estimates
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-17T20:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/stancorp-plunges-as-insurer-misses-estimates.html
StanCorp Financial Group Inc. (SFG) , the
seller of disability insurance, tumbled the most in 11 months as
second-quarter profit missed estimates and the company said it
expects to fall short of its full-year earnings forecast.  The insurer  dropped  11 percent to $33 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading, the biggest decline since Aug. 8. The Portland, Oregon-
based firm has slumped 10 percent this year.  Net income  for 2012, excluding some investment results,
will probably fail to meet the insurer’s previous forecast of as
much as $3.90 per share as the group long-term disability
business deteriorated, the company said in a statement late
yesterday. Second-quarter operating income was probably about 51
cents a share, missing by 30 cents the estimate of  Randy Binner ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets.  “Less favorable claims experience in group long-term
disability was once again the culprit,” Binner wrote in a note
today. “Earnings visibility at StanCorp continues to remain
poor due to the elevated group-disability loss ratio.”  Standard & Poor’s said it may reduce the insurer’s  credit
rating  by one level from BBB+ “if the company continues to post
poor results.” The insurer is scheduled to report complete
second-quarter results on July 23.  Insurers including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  have struggled with disability
results. Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer,
appointed Andrew Sullivan to lead its disability unit last month
and replaced the head of its group insurance unit in April.
Hartford said in May that it’s raising rates and changing
managers at its group disability business.  William Wheeler, president of the Americas at  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,
the largest U.S. life insurer, said in May that rivals didn’t
charge enough for group disability coverage as they sought to
increase sales after the financial crisis.  Unum Group (UNM) , the largest U.S. disability insurer, fell 1.3
percent to $18.93 in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  