-- State Street Buys Goldman Sachs Unit as Revenue Falls
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-07-17T20:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/state-street-profit-rises-2-3-on-gain-from-sale.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, agreed to buy the hedge-fund
administration unit of  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. to boost growth
as second-quarter revenue fell amid declining global markets and
record-low interest rates.  State Street agreed to pay $550 million in cash for the
Goldman Sachs unit to become the world’s largest servicer of
alternative assets such as hedge funds, the Boston-based company
said today. State Street fell 6.4 percent in New York, the most
in seven months, as declining assets and fees spurred a 1.9
percent drop in revenue to $2.43 billion.  “Fee income was relatively stagnant due to the market
correction, and while there were definitely expense savings in
the quarter, they weren’t quite as much as we anticipated,”
 Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst at Guggenheim
Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Custody banks have struggled to increase profits as the
 Federal Reserve  has held interest rates near zero since December
2008 and falling stock markets worldwide have cut the assets
that the firms oversee for clients. State Street Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Hooley has cut more than 2,200 jobs in the past
two years to contain expenses, raised the company’s dividend in
April to boost shareholder returns and searched for acquisitions
such as the Goldman Sachs unit to increase assets.  ‘Difficult Environment’  “We’re all grinding through this difficult environment,”
Hooley said today in a telephone interview. “We’ve positioned
ourselves in this cycle so that a combination of a less risky
business model and higher capacity give us the opportunity to
pounce on acquisitions when they make sense.”  State Street has reduced risk in its investment portfolio
since 2009, when the firm was forced to write down the value of
investments by $3.7 billion.  While he continues to approach the second half of 2012 with
caution, Hooley said the increased global savings rate and
“huge piles of cash sitting on the sidelines” made him
optimistic.  State Street fell to $41.33 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York . State
Street’s shares have increased 2.5 percent this year, compared
with the 9 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 20-company
index of asset managers and custody banks.  Assets Fell  State Street’s assets under custody fell 2.4 percent to
$16.4 trillion and the money the firm invests for clients fell 9
percent to $1.9 trillion.  The acquisition of the Goldman Sachs’ hedge-fund servicing
unit adds $200 billion in assets under custody, and gives State
Street $877 billion in alternative funds under administration.  The company added $133 billion in custody assets through
new client deals in the quarter. That’s down from an average of
$327 billion in the previous five quarters.  Second-quarter profit rose 2.3 percent after the firm sold
investment securities for an operating-basis gain of $19
million. Net income on an operating basis increased to $494
million, or $1.01 a share, from $483 million, or 96 cents, a
year earlier.  State Street’s operating profit excludes money earned from
the sale or maturing of bonds whose value was written down in
May 2009, which the company records as “discount accretion”
within net interest income. Discount accretion added $74 million
to net income in the second quarter.  Using generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP,
State Street’s net income fell to $480 million, or 98 cents a
share, from $502 million, or $1 a share, a year earlier.  Greece Losses  State Street lost $46 million in the quarter when it sold
its remaining Greek holdings. The company recorded that as a
one-time item, excluding it from operating results.  “ Greece  seemed extraordinary to us,” Hooley said in the
interview.  The  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global stocks declined 8.7 percent
in the year ended June 30. State Street’s custody fees in the
second quarter fell 3.4 percent from a year earlier to $1.09
billion and investment-management fees dropped 1.6 percent to
$246 million.  Operating basis expenses decreased 1.7 percent to $1.73
billion as employee compensation costs fell 6.6 percent.  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by trimming the
return on their investments and lending. State Street has also
waived some fees on money-market funds to keep client returns
above zero. The Federal Reserve has held its benchmark  interest
rate  at zero to 0.25 percent for more than three years in an
attempt to stimulate lending and economic growth.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  