-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Slovakia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-17T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-slovakia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Slovakia:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with the
 Slovak Republic 
On July 11, 2012 the Executive Board of the IMF concluded the
Article IV consultation with the Slovak Republic, and considered
and endorsed the staff appraisal.
Background
Strong exports supported a healthy economic expansion with real
GDP growing 3.3 percent in 2011. The robust performance of net
exports offset the contraction in domestic demand amid fiscal
consolidation and volatile  consumer confidence .  The strong economic performance continued into the first quarter of
2012 on the back of expanding auto production. All in all, Slovakia’s
post-crisis economic performance has been among the strongest in the
euro area, with real GDP surpassing its pre-crisis peak in the last
quarter of 2011.  However, the strong growth has yet to put a dent in unemployment.
The unemployment rate--which surged during the crisis by 5 percentage
points to over 14 percent--declined only slightly to 13¾ percent in
April 2012. Unemployment is particularly high in less developed regions,
contributing to an already large regional income disparity.  Despite the still-negative output gap, inflation surged to 4.7 percent
in 2011 on the back of an increase in tax and administered price and a
global rise in energy prices. As these one-off factors ebbed, inflation
eased to 3.4 percent in May 2012, but remains among the highest in the
EU.  1 Under Article IV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds
bilateral discussions with members, usually every year. A staff team
visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and
discusses with officials the country’s economic developments and
policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which
forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board.
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman
of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this
summary is transmitted to the country’s authorities.  Financial sector conditions continued to strengthen. Banks’ profitability
increased, and capital adequacy ratios rose to 15 percent of
risk-weighted assets throughout 2011. Banks’ reliance on
domestic deposits as a source of funding shielded them from the developments
in the euro area, including a region-wide deleveraging, and supported
a modest expansion in credit.  A frontloaded fiscal consolidation reduced the 2011 headline deficit
by 3 percentage points to 4¾ percent of GDP. The underlying fiscal
deficit, excluding one-off payments, declined to 4.4 percent of GDP.
Despite the sizable  deficit reduction , public sector debt climbed up
Another 3 percentage points, reaching 44 percent of GDP at the end of
2011. A fiscal responsibility law, which sets limits on public debt--60
percent of GDP until 2017 and gradually declining to 50 percent of GDP
by 2027--was adopted in December 2011 with broad political support.  The growth outlook is for a modest slowdown in 2012 and a moderate
expansion over the medium term. Reflecting a worsened external
environment, Slovakia’s real GDP growth is expected to slow to 2.6
percent in 2012, before picking up to 3¼ percent next year as external
environment strengthens. As the base effects fade and in the absence
of further supply shocks, inflation would ease to below 3 percent by
the end of the year. However, the euro zone stress remains a key external
risk. Renewed severe strains in  Europe  could precipitate a global
downturn and reduce demand for Slovak exports with significant adverse
implications for growth.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors commended the prudent macroeconomic policies and
sound fundamentals that have underpinned a strong recovery for the
Slovak economy. However, Directors considered that external risks, high
fiscal deficits, and the double-digit  unemployment rate  pose significant
policy challenges for the period ahead. They concurred that further fiscal
adjustment, heightened oversight of the financial sector, and stepped
up structural reforms remain essential to mitigate downside risks and
bolster growth prospects.  Directors supported the authorities’ consolidation strategy to achieve
fiscal sustainability. They considered that the planned measures appear
to strike the appropriate balance between safeguarding fiscal solvency
and supporting economic activity. More broadly, Directors encouraged
the authorities to develop a robust medium-term fiscal framework, building
on the recently adopted Fiscal Responsibility Law.
In this regard, Directors welcomed the government’s plans to reform the
public administration, strengthen tax administration, and increase the
efficiency of public spending, including on healthcare.
They also stressed the importance of safeguarding the solvency of the
pension system by grounding prospective changes on actuarial analysis.
Directors noted that the banking system appears sound, but emphasized the
need for continued supervisory vigilance. They welcomed recent steps to
strengthen banks’ capital and liquidity buffers, but stressed that
enhanced cooperation with home supervisors is essential to curb
cross-border risks. Directors also recommended subjecting all types
of housing loans to the same prudential norms to help prevent excessive
risk-taking, while removing tax obstacles that could delay the resolution
of non-performing loans.  Directors underscored the importance of deeper structural reforms, in
particular to boost employment and address regional disparities.
They noted that an effective implementation of the reformed labor code
could help reduce unemployment, and welcomed plans to foster the
development of disadvantaged regions. Improving vocational education
and the incentives to work would help address labor markets rigidities.
Directors also welcomed the authorities’ intention to further strengthen
the business climate to attract investment.  Public Information Notices (PINs) form part of the IMF’s efforts to
promote transparency of the IMF’s views and analysis of economic
developments and policies. With the consent of the country (or countries)
concerned, PINs are issued after Executive Board discussions of Article IV
consultations with member countries, of its surveillance of developments
at the regional level, of post-program monitoring, and of ex post
assessments of member countries with longer-term program engagements.  PINs are also issued after Executive Board discussions of general policy
matters, unless otherwise decided by the Executive Board in a particular
case. The staff report (use the free Adobe Acrobat Reader to view this
pdf file) for the 2012 Article IV Consultation with the Slovak republic
is also available.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  