-- U.S. Futures Gain, Dollar Drops on Bernanke; French Bonds Rise
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-07-17T10:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/stocks-advance-dollar-weakens-on-fed-outlook-corn-nears-record.html
U.S. equity futures gained, the
dollar weakened and French 10-year bond yields fell to a record
as deteriorating economic signs stoked speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will hint at further stimulus.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.3 percent at
11:20 a.m. in London and the Dollar Index slipped 0.1 percent.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.1 percent after earlier rising
as much as 0.3 percent. France’s 10-year  yield  tumbled as much
as eight basis points to 2.07 percent and Austria’s two-year
 rate  dropped below zero for the first time.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will deliver his semi-annual
report on the economy and monetary policy before Congress today,
after data yesterday showing a contraction in June retail sales.
German investor confidence declined for a third month, the ZEW
Center for European Economic Research said. The U.S. probably
will report industrial output strengthened in June, according to
the median of 81 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “There will be some more action from the Federal
Reserve,” said Ewen Cameron-Watt, chief investment strategist
in London at the BlackRock Investment Institute, part of
BlackRock Inc., which manages about $3.7 trillion of assets.
“The  U.S. economy  remains in a slow-growth environment.”  IMF Forecast  A third monthly drop in U.S. retail sales showed limited
employment gains are taking a toll on the biggest part of the
economy. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 forecast
for global economic growth yesterday to 3.9 percent from 4.1
percent as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s recession and
slows expansions in  emerging markets  from  China  to  India .  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which
measures how much data from the past three months is beating or
missing the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys, was at minus
64 yesterday, near the almost 11-month low of minus 64.9 reached
last week. The ZEW index of investor and analyst expectations,
which seeks to predict economic developments six months in
advance, fell to minus 19.6 from minus 16.9 in June.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA, the world’s third-largest
surveyor of oil and gas fields, surged 7.2 percent in Oslo after
raising its full-year forecast. Rivals TGS Nopec Geophysical ASA
and CGGVeritas climbed more than 3 percent.  Alcatel-Lucent SA plunged 15 percent to a three-year low
after France’s largest telecommunications-equipment supplier
said it expects to miss a 2012 profitability target and posted a
second-quarter loss.  Coca-Cola  The gain in S&P 500 futures indicated the U.S. equity gauge
will rebound from yesterday’s 0.2 percent drop. Companies
including  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.,  Intel Corp ., and The Coca-
Cola Co. are scheduled to report second-quarter earnings today.  Reports today may show the U.S. consumer-price index was
unchanged in June from a month earlier and industrial production
rose 0.3 percent after a 0.1 percent decline in May, according
to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  German two-year note  yields  fell to a record low of minus
0.061 percent, while Spain’s two-year notes slipped, pushing the
yield three basis points higher to 4.67 percent after the nation
auctioned 3.56 billion euros ($4.38 billion) of bills. The rate
on  five-year   U.S. debt  was little changed at 0.6 percent, after
reaching a record-low 0.577 percent yesterday.  Belgian notes stayed higher after the nation sold three-
month bills at a negative yield for the first time. The two-year
yield fell four basis points to 0.23 percent.  The euro appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.2292 and climbed 0.3
percent to 97.13 yen.  Japan ’s currency weakened for the first
time in four days, slipping 0.2 percent to 79.01 per dollar.  Corporate Debt  Corn fell 1 percent after earlier advancing as much as 2.1
percent to the highest since June 2011 amid the worst U.S.
drought in a generation. About 31 percent of the crop was in
good-or-excellent condition as of July 15, down from 40 percent
a week earlier, the U.S. government said yesterday. That’s the
worst rating for this time of year since a drought in 1988.  The cost of insuring European corporate debt declined, with
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
mostly junk-rated borrowers falling 6.5 basis points to 666.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.7 percent, heading
for its highest close since July 10 and a third day of gains.
The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6 percent from its lowest
close since March 2009 after the government said it will boost
railway infrastructure investment and forecast economic growth
will pick up in the second half.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 1.7 percent. Benchmark indexes gained
in  South Korea ,  Russia  and  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@abloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  