-- U.K. Rules Out 25% Cut for Onshore Wind Power Subsidy
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-17T15:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-k-energy-department-delays-decision-on-renewables-subsidy.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  ruled
out a 25 percent cut in subsidies for onshore wind projects,
saying the coalition government is working on the details of a
smaller reduction that he hopes will underpin investment in
renewables.  Davey, who said he had planned to announce details of the
program today before Parliament adjourns for its summer recess,
said a delay was due to a “logjam” in preparing the final
details of the package. He brushed aside suggestions the
Treasury is seeking a much deeper decrease in the subsidy and
noted his administration had proposed a 10 percent decline.  “There’s no one arguing for the sorts of cuts you’ve seen
in the newspapers, like 25 percent,” he said at a meeting of
the energy and climate committee in Parliament in London. “The
Treasury has been working very well with the department. The
critical thing is that when we announce it the decisions are
evidence based.”  The comments allayed concerns within the industry that
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , a Conservative,
would force the Liberal Democrat minister to gut support for
renewables as a way of keeping a lid on electricity prices.
Davey declined to give specifics, saying an announcement would
be made soon.  “We welcome the secretary of state’s comments, but
confirmation of this would be appreciated,” said Robert Norris,
a spokesman at industry group RenewableUK. “There is a very
hard-fought battle going on at the moment between DECC and the
Treasury.” The delay “reflects the intensity of that debate at
the highest levels,” he said.  Autumn Agreement  The Department of Energy and Climate Change said ministers
were still debating details of the measures, which included a
proposal to cut onshore wind support by 10 percent.  The government is “discussing and finalizing details” of
the proposal and will make an announcement in “due course,”
DECC said. Announcements can still be made during the recess,
according to DECC, which did not comment on a report in the
 Daily Telegraph  that a compromise deal could follow in the
autumn.  The newspaper said Davey agreed in principle with a deeper
reduction of 25 percent for onshore wind farms. DECC published
proposals including the 10 percent decrease in October, which
would apply from April 2013 through 2017.  The delay is entirely due to a battle between the energy
department and the Treasury over support for onshore wind, said
Labour Party lawmaker Barry Gardiner, a member of Parliament’s
Energy and Climate Change Committee.  Gardiner’s View  Osborne is seeking a 25-percent decline in support levels,
more than twice the level previously recommended, Gardiner said,
adding that he expects an announcement during the summer recess.  “The areas you can maximize onshore wind potential are
areas that are predominantly held by Conservative members of
Parliament, and where local people dislike having an array,”
Gardiner said in a telephone interview.  “They want to release it over the summer when it can’t be
scrutinized in Parliament, when the effect of it cannot be
called out in the chamber and it can’t become a political cause
celebre,” he said. “At the same time, they’ll all be back in
their local constituencies, able to go back to their local
residents’ associations and say, ‘Hey look, see what a victory
I’ve brought for you.’”  Industry View  Gaynor Hartnell, chief executive officer of the Renewable
Energy Association, said she also expects an announcement during
the recess, which ends Sept. 3.  “It’s beyond DECC’s control,” she said. “The sooner it
comes out the better. We need certainty.”  Britain is seeking to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020, up from 3.8 percent now. A decision
to change the subsidy proposal now would be a blow to investor
confidence and deter industry from investing in the U.K., said
Gordon MacDougall, chief operating officer at the developer
Renewable Energy Systems Ltd.  “That’ll be the true tragedy of all of this,” MacDougall
said. “Were the government to withdraw and do an about-turn on
one of the cornerstones of its policy objectives to be the
‘greenest government ever,’” the impacts extend beyond onshore
wind to “anybody investing in anything in the U.K.”, he said.  Conservatives have criticized DECC’s subsidy levels. In
January, 101 lawmakers wrote to Cameron calling for a bigger cut
in onshore wind support, saying it was an “inefficient and
intermittent” source of power.  ‘Drastic Cut’  Chris Heaton-Harris, the Conservative lawmaker who led the
campaign, said DECC and the Treasury should “be very wary” of
the huge amount of political support on the government benches
for a “drastic cut” in the subsidy.  “With subsidy levels hitting 1 billion pounds ($1.55
billion) for  wind energy  this year, we are paying land-owners
and energy companies a massive premium to produce expensive
energy that reduces the U.K.’s competitiveness and puts tens of
thousands into fuel poverty each year,” he said by e-mail.  Onshore Wind  Onshore producers from April 2010 to March 2011 received
394 million pounds of support under the subsidy program,
according to U.K. energy regulator Ofgem.  Davey has said that arguments against renewables were
“dangerous” given the industry is worth 122 billion pounds to
the U.K., contributing 5 billion pounds to exports and perhaps
enough to cut in half the trade deficit before the deadline for
the next election in 2015.  “When we are trying to attract investment to the country,
investors can rely on the government not to act capriciously,”
Davey said on July 11. “That is what we are going to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  