-- U.K. Real Estate Rally ‘Unsustainable,’ Societe Generale Says
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-17T08:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-k-real-estate-rally-unsustainable-societe-generale-says.html
This year’s gains by U.K. real
estate companies are “unsustainable” because of a
deteriorating retail industry,  Societe Generale  said.  The shares are 13 percent more expensive than the level
indicated by Societe Generale’s valuation models, analysts at
the firm including Marc Mozzi said in a report today.  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , Britain’s third-largest real-estate company
by market value, and  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG)  are the
most vulnerable because more than 10 percent of their store
leases are due to expire this year, the analysts said.  “The rapid rise in tenant failures will test the claims
all U.K. major REITs make to have ‘prime portfolios’ and the
question now is how viable are their leaseholders,” the
analysts said. “Short of a genuine economic recovery, the U.K.
real estate sector’s strong performance looks unsustainable.”  The FTSE 350 Real Estate Investment Trust Index of 11
stocks has gained 18 percent this year, while the benchmark FTSE
100 Index has risen less than 2 percent.  Consumer spending  will
grow 0.1 percent this year and 1.3 percent next year,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said July 12. That may not help
traditional retailers because of “relentless internet
competition and a retrenchment among U.K. shoppers,” the
Societe Generale analysts said.  “We have consistently pointed out that our operating
performance outperformed the retail averages,” Morgan Bone, a
spokesman for Hammerson, said by telephone. Hammerson will
report first-half results on July 23.  Michael Sandler, a spokesman for  Capital Shopping Centres ,
declined to comment. The company is scheduled to report its
earnings on July 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 