-- U.K. Inflation Unexpectedly Slows; Clothing Drops
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-17T10:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-k-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-clothing-drops.html
U.K. inflation  unexpectedly fell to
its lowest rate in 2 1/2 years in June as clothing prices
plunged, helping to vindicate the central bank’s increase in
emergency stimulus.  Consumer prices rose 2.4 percent from a year earlier, the
least since November 2009 and down from a 2.8 percent gain in
May, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London. No
change in the rate was forecast, according to the median
estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey . From May, prices fell 0.4
percent, the biggest June decline since records began in 1996.  The Bank of England added 50 billion pounds ($78 billion)
to its  asset-purchase program  this month as falling inflation
gave policy makers scope to spur an economy struggling to emerge
from its second recession since 2009. The inflation figures
offer some respite for consumers who have seen their wages
eroded by soaring energy prices.  “The recent rise in oil and food commodity prices
indicates that the pace of declines will slow, but the weak
corporate pricing power environment still suggests we should be
expecting sub-2 percent inflation readings well before the end
of the year,” said  James Knightley , senior economist at ING
Groep NV in London. “This gives the Bank of England plenty
of room to respond aggressively to the downturn in activity and
we suggest that the BoE’s Asset Purchase Facility will be
expanded to 450 billion pounds by the end of 2012.”  Pound Falls  The pound extended its decline against the dollar
immediately after the data before rebounding. It traded at
$1.5646 as of 10:50 a.m. in London, little changed from
yesterday.  Government bonds  pared their decline, leaving the
yield on the 10-year gilt up 1 basis point at 1.502 percent.  Inflation eased last month as clothing and footwear prices
fell 4.2 percent, the biggest June decline on record. The
wettest June since records began in 1910 -- and the coolest
since 1991 -- forced retailers to discount prices, the
statistics office said.  There were also downward pressures on inflation from
cheaper diesel, gasoline and air fares, as well as food and non-
alcoholic drinks, particularly meat prices.  Core inflation , which excludes alcohol, food, tobacco and
energy prices, slowed to 2.1 percent from 2.2 percent in May.  Retail-price inflation, a measure used in wage
negotiations, moderated to 2.8 percent from 3.1 percent.
Inflation based on retail prices excluding mortgage-interest
payments also cooled to 2.8 percent from 3.1 percent.  BOE Stimulus  Bank of England  policy makers increased their bond-purchase
target to 375 billion pounds this month as data suggests the
recession continued in the second quarter.  The central bank said on July 5 that it expects inflation
will continue to ease and that without more stimulus, it was
“more likely than not” to undershoot its 2 percent target in
the medium term. In addition, the bank’s new funding for lending
plan could boost credit to companies and households by at least
80 billion pounds.  Consumer-price inflation fell below the 3 percent upper
limit for the first time since 2009 in May, helped by drop in
 oil prices  and food costs. The rate has fallen for three months
in a row and is down from a peak of 5.2 percent in September
last year.  The decline underlines the weakness of an economy being hit
by government spending cuts,  Europe ’s debt crisis and the
squeeze on household incomes. The International Monetary Fund
yesterday cut its growth forecasts and said the U.K. will barely
expand this year.  “Inflation has more than halved since September, meaning a
little less pressure on family budgets,” economic secretary to
the Treasury, Chloe Smith, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
lower inflation should support high-street spending and growth
in the economy in the months to come.”  In a separate report today, the ONS said U.K. house prices
were unchanged in May from April, while the annual increase was
2.3 percent, the most since December 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  