-- U.S. Stocks Gain as Bernanke Says Fed Prepared to Act
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-17T20:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-s-stocks-erase-losses-as-bernanke-says-fed-is-prepared-to-act.html
U.S. stocks rose,  erasing  earlier
losses, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
senators the central bank is prepared to act to boost growth if
the labor market doesn’t improve.  All 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose.  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  rallied 3.1 percent to a record after Bank of America
Corp. analysts raised the world’s largest entertainment company
to a buy.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  advanced 1.6 percent after earnings beat
projections. Mattel Inc. jumped 9.7 percent after second-quarter
profit exceeded the average analyst estimate.  The  S&P 500  added 0.7 percent to 1,363.67 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  after losing as much as 0.6 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 78.33 points, 0.6 percent, to
12,805.54. Trading of S&P 500 stocks was 4.6 percent below the
average level at this time of day over the past three months.  “The stock market has faith in the Fed,” said  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer at BMO Harris Private Bank in  Chicago ,
which oversees about $60 billion of assets. “With all of the
headlines, and all of the slowing, investors still believe the
Fed will do anything in its power to keep the ship afloat.”  Stocks headed lower in the first hour of trading as
Bernanke’s prepared testimony to Congress cited no specific
details on the central bank’s plans, disappointing investors
anticipating a more aggressive approach to helping the economy.
Equities recovered as Bernanke’s responses to senators boosted
confidence that he’s prepared to take action.  Economy Watch  The S&P 500 slipped in seven of the previous eight sessions
and is down 3.9 percent from a four-year high in April as
economic data trailed estimates and investors braced for the
first decline in quarterly profits since 2009.  The Fed Chairman’s testimony follows data yesterday showing
a contraction in June retail sales and a report today that the
cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in June, a sign
inflation may stay subdued.  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which
measures how much data from the past three months is beating or
missing the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys, is at minus
62.30, near the almost 11-month low of minus 64.9 reached last
week. The gauge peaked at 91.9 in January.  Bernanke told lawmakers that progress in reducing
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated
that the central bank is ready to take further action to boost
the recovery, while refraining from pledging any new policies.  Earnings Season  “If after earnings season we see companies decide to make
wholesale staff reductions because of lower top line sales
growth, that could put the job market at risk, and then the Fed
would act very promptly,”  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at
RidgeWorth Capital Management in Atlanta which oversees about
$47 billion, said by phone.  Profits beat estimates at 35 of the 49 companies in the S&P
500 that have reported quarterly results so far,  data compiled 
by Bloomberg showed. Earnings are down 3 percent for the group
and analysts forecast profits for the entire S&P 500 to decrease
2.1 percent.  Health-care, raw-material, telephone stocks and energy led
gains among the 10 main S&P 500 industries by rising at least
1.1 percent.  Walt Disney  rallied 3.1 percent to $49.35, its highest
price ever, helping lead consumer discretionary stocks higher.
The company was raised to buy from neutral by Bank of America,
which cited a boost to 2012 earnings from the film “Marvel’s
The Avengers” and a contribution to profit next year from the
opening of Cars Land.  Coca-Cola Profits  Coca-Cola advanced 1.6 percent to $77.69. The world’s
largest soft-drink maker reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, helped by pricing increases in  North
America  late last year.  Mattel (MAT)  jumped 9.7 percent to $34.05 for the biggest gain in
the S&P 500. The world’s largest toymaker surged the most in
more than three years as price increases helped second-quarter
profit and revenue top analyst estimates.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, rose to the highest level since September after Credit
Suisse Group AG boosted its  price target  for the stock, citing
its network upgrade and cost management. Sprint advanced 5.5
percent to $3.65.  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  climbed 5.1 percent to $58.21. The fertilizer
producer doubled its  dividend  and posted fourth-quarter earnings
and revenue that beat analysts’ estimates after an extended
spring season.  State Street Corp. (STT)  slipped 6.4 percent, the most in the  S&P
500 (SPX) , to $41.33. The third-largest custody bank agreed to buy the
hedge-fund administration unit of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
boost growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  