-- U.S. House Committee Urges Fresh Probe of UN Agency WIPO
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-17T09:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-s-house-committee-urges-fresh-probe-of-un-agency-wipo.html
The U.S. is pressing the  World
Intellectual Property Organization  to allow an external probe of
shipments it made to  Iran  and  North Korea  because the computer
technology could have been used for military applications.  The United Nations agency known as WIPO should provide
“unfettered access to all documents and witnesses relating to
these transfers to Iran and North Korea,” Ileana Ros-Lehtinen
and Howard Berman, members of the U.S. House Committee on
Foreign Affairs, wrote in a letter dated today to WIPO Director
General Francis Gurry.  WIPO promotes the use and classification of intellectual
property and is mandated by its 185 member nations to provide
materials to help  developing countries  modernize their patent
offices. Iran and North Korea were beneficiaries of “standard
information-technology equipment” after meeting WIPO’s needs-
assessment and validation procedures, Edward Kwakwa, legal
counsel at the Geneva-based organization, said July 4, adding
that the programs didn’t contain the type of technology or
training prohibited by UN Security Council resolutions.  Iran has been the subject of four rounds of UN sanctions
aimed at curbing the development of nuclear weapons and
including the  supply or sale of equipment and technology  that
would aid the Persian Gulf nation’s atomic work. The WIPO
shipments may violate UN and U.S. sanctions, said Berman.  Program Misuse  “It is about your organization’s misuse of those programs
to send dual-use technology to two specific countries that are
subject to Security Council sanctions,” the two U.S.
representatives said. “We are also disturbed by your ongoing
attempts to keep these technology transfers a secret within your
organization.”  WIPO also had a technology-supply project with North Korea
to support intellectual-property databases for inventors’
certificates, patents and non-patent literature, according to
internal documents. Technical assistance included desktop
computers, servers, printers and firewalls, the documents show.  The U.S. State Department said this month it was
investigating WIPO’s activities in Iran and called for greater
transparency and accountability at the institution.  The House Committee on  Foreign Affairs  wants to ensure that
WIPO’s member states are “fully consulted prior to the
establishment of any future technical assistance programs,”
according to Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican, and Berman, a
California Democrat.  WIPO has blocked the external investigation requested by
the U.S. and sought to punish whistle-blowers in the
organization, Ros-Lehtinen, who chairs the committee, and
Berman, the panel’s top Democrat, wrote today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  