-- U.S., Allies to Stage Persian Gulf Region Minesweeping Drill
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-17T15:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-s-allies-to-stage-persian-gulf-region-minesweeping-drill.html
The U.S. and 20 allies will stage a
minesweeping exercise in September in the  Middle East  as
tensions build in the region over  Iran’s nuclear program .  Planning was completed last week for the exercise that will
focus “on a hypothetical threat to mine the international
strategic waterways of the Middle East, including the Red Sea,
the  Gulf of Aden , the  Gulf of Oman , and the Persian Gulf,” the
U.S. Central Command said in a statement to be released today.  The maritime exercise won’t extend into the  Strait of
Hormuz  at the mouth of the Persian Gulf. Some Iranian officials
threatened earlier this year to close the Strait, the transit
point for one-fifth of the oil traded worldwide, in response to
international economic sanctions over its nuclear program.  The U.S. and allies continue to press  Iran  in stalemated
negotiations, and  Israel  has threatened a military strike.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in  Jerusalem 
that while the U.S. prefers a diplomatic solution, “we will use
all elements of American power to prevent Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon.” Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian
use.  The military moves, intended in part to deter a military
confrontation between Israel and Iran, come as the Obama
administration and  Mitt Romney , the presumed Republican nominee
for president, jockey for position as supporters of America’s
longtime Mideast ally. Romney is scheduled to visit Jerusalem on
July 29.  Carriers Deployed  The tensions in the region were underscored yesterday when
security personnel on a U.S. Navy oiler vessel opened fire on a
fishing boat off the coast of Dubai after it ignored warnings
not to approach, U.S. officials said. The shooting killed one
Indian fisherman and wounded three others, according to  India ’s
foreign ministry.  The Pentagon also announced deployment schedules yesterday
that will keep two aircraft carrier strike groups in the region
until at least late-March. The Pentagon previously had said the
two-carrier presence would end Sept. 30.  The planning and execution of the International Mine
Countermeasures Exercise 2012 “demonstrates the international
community’s ability to work together to ensure free and secure
trade,” Marine Corps General James Mattis, commandant of the
Central Command based in Tampa, Florida, said in the statement.  ‘Extensive Cooperation’  “Of the approximately 40 bilateral and multilateral
exercises we’ll conduct this year, this exercise also represents
the extensive cooperation we enjoy with our international
partners -- both in and outside the region -- with mutual
economic and security interests,” Mattis said. “We’ll finish
this exercise with even stronger relationships with our
partners.”  The laying of mines in the Strait of Hormuz would disrupt
tanker traffic until the explosive devices were cleared and also
could prompt insurance companies to raise rates on tankers using
the waterway, leading at least temporarily to higher  oil prices .  Oil prices declined today after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  said progress in reducing unemployment is likely to
be slow. Crude for August delivery fell 69 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $87.74 a barrel at 10:38 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange after rising to $89.28. Prices have declined
11 percent this year.  U.S. officials who follow Iran for the Central Command
estimated in 2008 that Iran had as many as 5,000 mines. That
compares with 1,000 in the 1980s during its conflict with  Iraq 
and the “tanker war” with the West, when it attempted to block
vessels.  Underwater Drones  The U.S. 5th Fleet based in Bahrain took delivery on June
23 of four minesweeping vessels, doubling the number in the
 Persian Gulf .  The Fifth Fleet is also starting to deploy Seafox
underwater drones designed to detect and neutralize mines,
Commander Jason Salata, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. Avenger-class ships and MH-53E helicopters in the
Gulf are capable of employing the SeaFox, he said.  Mattis asked for the drones in a request to Congress this
year that included permission to shift money to cover their
purchase.  Mattis also plans to bolster military capabilities against
Iran by fielding new laser target-trackers for machine guns,
enhanced sensors for underwater vehicles, improved protection
against drone attacks and upgrades of U-2 spy planes, according
to budget documents.  Patrol Craft  Congress approved plans to accelerate installation on
coastal patrol craft of the “MK 38 Mod 2” system, which
includes the laser-tracker for precision aiming of machine guns.
Lawmakers rejected the planned source of $4 million in funds so
the Pentagon’s comptroller is looking to other sources,
according to one of the documents.  The congressional defense committees also are reviewing a
shift of $8 billion that includes additional Persian Gulf
upgrades such as $9.6 million to buy missile launchers from
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  for five patrol craft. That would allow
installation of Griffin missiles “to protect vessels and
personnel from the increased threat of hostile fast-attack
craft” used by Iran, according to the document.  The request also includes $6.4 million to buy 40 additional
Griffin missiles for installation on Navy patrol vessels in the
Gulf.  The Pentagon plans to spend $30.2 million on the Raytheon
system through 2017 because it was urgently requested by the
U.S. Central Command, according to the document.  The Defense Department also is building a missile-defense
radar station at a secret site in  Qatar , the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday, citing U.S. officials it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  