-- U.S. to Lose 710,000 Jobs From Tax Rise, Chamber Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-17T21:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-s-to-lose-710-000-jobs-from-tax-rise-chamber-says.html
The U.S. would lose 710,000 jobs and
economic output would decline by 1.3 percent, or $200 billion,
if tax cuts for high earners are allowed to lapse, said a report
prepared for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other supporters
of the tax breaks.  The study by Ernst & Young LLP supports Republican efforts
to extend all of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts set to expire
at the end of the year. President  Barack Obama  called on
Congress last week to pass a one-year extension of tax cuts for
married couples making less than $250,000 a year while letting
rates rise for higher earners.  “The higher tax rates will have significant adverse
economic effects in the long run: lowering output, employment,
investment, the capital stock and real after-tax wages when the
resulting revenue is used to finance additional  government
spending ,” wrote the report’s authors,  Robert Carroll  and
Gerald Prante.  In addition to the Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S.
business lobby, the report was issued on behalf of the
Independent Community Bankers of America, the  National
Federation of Independent Business  and the  S Corporation (SCI) 
Association.  ‘Long Run’  The report’s authors said they used an Ernst & Young
economic model to examine the “long run” effects of an
increase in the top tax rates. The report didn’t give details on
when the job and economic losses would occur, although an end
note said two-thirds to three-fourths of the long-run effect
would occur within a decade.  If Congress doesn’t act, all individual income tax rates
will increase in 2013, as would rates on  capital gains ,
dividends and estates. Republicans want to extend the current
rates for a year and overhaul the U.S. tax code.  A Senate Democratic proposal would extend the tax cuts for
income of individuals under $200,000 and married couples under
$250,000. The top rates on dividends and capital gains would
increase to 23.8 percent from 15 percent and the top rate on
estates would go up to 45 percent from 35 percent.  Democrats maintain that high-income taxpayers can afford to
pay more to help reduce the  budget deficit . The Obama
administration disputed the study, saying it gets “the
president’s tax cuts wrong” and employs “flawed assumptions.”  ‘Ignoring the Benefits’  In a post on the White House website,  Amy Brundage , a
spokeswoman, said the study “fallaciously assumes that the tax
cuts are used to finance additional spending, ignoring the
benefits of what the president actually proposed, which was to
use the revenue as part of a balanced plan to reduce the deficit
and stabilize the debt.”  Republicans say raising anyone’s taxes isn’t worth the
economic harm they say would result.  “Our economy is still struggling under President Obama’s
policies, and his massive tax hike will only make things
tougher,” U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
said in a statement. “It’s one of the worst possible ideas at
one of the worst possible times for families and small
businesses.”  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, called for
“comprehensive  tax reform  that will provide the certainty these
entrepreneurs need.”  ‘Double Down’  “Rather than double down on tax hikes that will make it
harder to get America back to work, it is time to stop the tax
hike -- for all taxpayers,” Camp said in a statement.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means panel, said the report is flawed because
it makes alternative assumptions that revenue from higher tax
rates could be used to finance a higher level of government.  “The president has made clear this revenue should be used
for deficit reduction,” Levin said in a statement.  Asked about the report, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer
of Maryland said few, if any, Democrats with whom he has spoken
have qualms about letting the tax rates for high earners lapse
at year’s end.  The House plans to vote on extending the Bush-era tax cuts
the week of July 30. Second-ranking Senate Democrat  Dick Durbin 
of Illinois said that chamber is likely to vote on its plan the
week of July 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  