-- U.S. Stocks Advance Ahead of Bernanke’s Testimony
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-07-17T13:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/u-s-stock-futures-rise-before-bernanke-s-testimony.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
yesterday’s drop, amid bets Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hint at more stimulus during testimony to
Congress.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.4 percent to
1,358.84 as of 9:30 a.m. in  New York . The U.S. equity benchmark
lost 0.2 percent yesterday. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 30.35 points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,757.56 today.  “The market is looking for the Fed chairman to be fairly
definitive,” Jim Russell, the Cincinnati-based chief equity
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees about
$103 billion, said in a phone interview. “Certainly the CPI
numbers give the Fed ample room to be even more accommodative
than what they’ve done before. They have room to be
aggressive.”  Bernanke will deliver his semi-annual report on the economy
and monetary policy before Congress today and tomorrow.
Data yesterday showing a contraction in June  retail sales 
kindled speculation the Fed will introduce more measures to
support the world’s largest economy. The cost of living in the
U.S. was little changed in June, a sign inflation may stay
subdued.  No change in the consumer-price index followed a 0.3
percent drop in May, a Labor Department report showed today in
 Washington . The measure matched the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core
measure that excludes volatile food and fuel costs rose 0.2
percent for a fourth month.  Bernanke Testimony  “Stocks are being helped by expectations about Bernanke’s
testimony to Congress later today,” said Jakup Petur Baerentsen, a chief equity adviser at Nordea Private Bank in
Copenhagen. “Investors are speculating if he’ll hint a third
round of quantitative easing”  Minutes from the Fed’s June meeting, released on July 11,
showed that two participants supported additional bond
purchases, while two others said only a further deterioration in
the economy would warrant them.  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which
measures how much data from the past three months is beating or
missing the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys, is at minus
64, near the almost 11-month low of minus 64.9 reached last
week. The gauge peaked at 91.9 in January.  Earnings beat estimates at 31 of the 44 companies in the
 S&P 500  that have reported quarterly results so far, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The earnings progression in the second quarter looks
pretty good,” Russell said. “We heard from the financial
companies and Goldman Sachs was notable.”  Goldman Sachs climbed 1.7 percent to $99.36. The fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets reported an 11 percent drop in
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates on trading even as first-
half revenue fell to the lowest since 2005. State Street Corp.,
the third-largest custody bank, bought Goldman’s hedge-fund
administration unit for $550 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  