-- Hubbard Prefers Cutting Uncertainty to More Stimulus: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-17T17:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/hubbard-prefers-cutting-uncertainty-to-more-stimulus-tom-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  is on an
unsustainable fiscal path and would be better served by removing
policy uncertainty, according  Glenn Hubbard , adviser to
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  “I don’t accept as an article of faith that lots of short-
term stimulus boosts the economy and gets us back on the long-
term trajectory,” Hubbard, dean of Columbia University’s
business school and former economic adviser to President  George
W. Bush , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “If we could get our long-term
situation better, you’ll clear things up for business people.”  Hubbard said policy uncertainty is “probably killing close
to 2 million jobs,” citing  research  by Stanford University
Professor Nicholas Bloom and University of Chicago Professor
Steven J. Davis. The economists developed the Economic Policy
Uncertainty  Index , which set a record last August as Congress
pushed to the deadline an agreement to raise the debt limit and
Standard & Poor’s stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating.  Romney would seek tax, entitlement, regulatory and
financial changes, Hubbard said. Economic growth would be
improved by reducing marginal tax rates and broadening the base
while paying “for that by cleaning up the tax code,” he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today in
testimony before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
Committee that progress in reducing unemployment is likely to be
“frustratingly slow.”  Congressional Conflict  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer  pressed Bernanke to
consider more stimulus that could help promote economic growth
and reduce the jobless rate in the face of congressional
gridlock. Unemployment has held above 8 percent since February
2009.  Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, has blamed
Republicans for blocking proposals that Democrats contend will
bolster small businesses and create jobs, most recently on July
12 when a Democratic plan to offer tax breaks for hiring and
capital investment failed to get the 60 votes needed to advance.
That same day, the chamber rejected a Republican proposal to
give businesses a 20 percent tax cut.  Romney’s policies would reduce unemployment to about 6
percent or less in his first term if elected president, Hubbard
said. The rate is forecast to decline to 7.3 percent by 2014,
according the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The  International Monetary Fund  expressed “significant
concern” yesterday about the U.S. fiscal outlook as the
deadline for automatic budget cuts and tax increases approaches
at the end of this year.  Romney would “like the Congress to extend the current tax
code for a bit so that he can put his tax plan and budget out,”
Hubbard said. “That’s really job one for him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  