-- Top Syrian Officials Killed as UN Delays Action on Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-19T06:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/un-talks-on-syria-near-a-showdown-while-violence-grows.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is
scrambling to stop his family’s four-decade grip on power
unraveling after yesterday’s bomb attack in Damascus killed key
members of his military establishment.  As the United Nations continues to stall on action,  Al
Arabiya  reported there are pockets of fighting throughout
Damascus this morning and an explosion was heard near the
government’s cabinet office. Some 200 people were killed
yesterday, the broadcaster said, after a blast wiped out Assad’s
brother-in-law, his defense minister and the vice president’s
military adviser at  Syria ’s national security headquarters.  “This is very much the beginning of the end for Assad,”
Salman Shaikh, the director of the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha
Center in Qatar, said in a telephone interview. “This was an
extremely professional operation by the rebels and a big blow.”  The deaths of Syria’s most senior officials since the
uprising started in March 2011 “makes clear” that the 46-year-
old Assad is losing control of the country, White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday. Still, the international
community has been powerless to stop the rising death toll in a
17-month long insurgency that now has reached Damascus, the
capital, where security forces have battled rebels for the past
four days.  UN Delay  “The violence there has only gotten worse, and the loss of
life has only increased, which tells us that this is a situation
that’s rapidly spinning out of control,” U.S. Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  said at a news conference yesterday.  Yesterday’s attack killed Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef
Shawkat; Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and vice president’s
military adviser, Hasan Turkmani. Other officials including the
interior minister were injured, according to state television.
Shawkat served as deputy defense minister and deputy chief of
staff for security.  The latest developments prompted the UN Security Council to
delay until today a vote threatening Syria with sanctions unless
Assad complies with a UN peace plan that so far has failed to
quell the violence and may be abandoned.  A vote is scheduled for 10 a.m. in  New York .  With last-ditch diplomacy at work, there’s little hope that
 Russia , which twice has blocked measures against its Soviet-era
ally, will bow to Western demands to increase pressure on Assad,
according to three UN diplomats speaking on condition of
anonymity because the negotiations are private.  Russian Corner  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  reiterated Russia’s aim to
block measures that “mean direct support for the revolutionary
movement.” Responding to the blasts, he told reporters in
Moscow that “the UN has no business here.”  Russia has backed itself into a corner, and now its best
option is to offer Assad asylum, according to  George Lopez , a
former UN sanctions investigator.  “Lavrov could not be clearer: Let events take their
course,” said Lopez, who teaches at the Kroc Institute for
International Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame  in
 Indiana .  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and his Russian counterpart,
 Vladimir Putin , spoke yesterday on the phone and “noted the
differences” in their approaches to Syria, according to a White
House statement that highlighted the current stalemate.  With little sign of a breakthrough at the UN, Assad’s fate
is being decided on the Syrian streets.  Rebel fighters, mostly armed with light weapons, have been
pushing into the capital this week to battle government forces
armed with tanks, artillery and attack helicopters.  The fighters are mostly led by  Sunni Muslims , who form the
majority of Syria’s population. Assad and many of his top
officials come from the country’s Alawite minority, an offshoot
of the Shiite branch of Islam that stands to lose privileges,
property and even lives if his regime falls.  No Suicide  The Free Syrian Army, a loose collection of deserters and
armed youths, claimed responsibility for yesterday’s attack on
Assad’s military leaders.  “The person who carried out the operation is in a safe
place now, and he is a person very close to the regime,”
Brigadier General Mustafa al-Sheikh, head of the Supreme Council
of the Free Syrian Army, told  Al Jazeera . “It was not a suicide
mission, just explosives that were placed in a small room.”  The operation took place a day sooner than planned, he
said.  Hours after the blast, Assad appointed Jassem al-Fraij as
defense minister, state-run Syrian TV said. In brief remarks
aired on Syrian TV, al-Fraij vowed to “cut the hand” of anyone
who wants to harm the nation.  Damascus Battle  Damascus and Aleppo, Syria’s largest cities, had until
recently been spared the worst of the violence as the army
shelled towns in mainly Sunni areas such as Homs and Hama.  The violence in Damascus is concentrated mostly on the
outskirts of the city and is approaching the center. Some upper-
income areas, such as Mazzeh where several embassies are
located, also have seen sporadic clashes or gunfire. A few
neighborhoods have been mostly calm, with restaurants still open
and traffic jams during rush hour.  “Recent clashes in the capital reflect a major improvement
in the military and intelligence capabilities of opposition
forces, and are most likely to prove a prelude to broader
political and military defections, particularly among the Sunni
community,” said Ayham Kamel, a Middle East analyst for the
Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk.  They don’t signal the imminent collapse of the government,
as “Assad’s Alawite-dominated elite forces remain coherent,”
he said in an e-mailed comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  