-- Turkey Bond Yields Slide to 10-Month Low as Funding Cost Falls
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-17T14:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/turkey-bond-yields-slide-to-10-month-low-as-funding-cost-falls.html
Turkish bond  yields  retreated to the
lowest since September as the central bank cut the cost of
borrowing and the lira weakened after the U.S. Federal Reserve
failed to signal imminent monetary easing.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.89 percent, the lowest level
since Sept. 9.  The central bank lent 2.5 billion liras ($1.38 billion) at
the lowest 5.75 percent policy rate today, up from 2 billion
liras last week, reflecting its easing stance as the Turkish
economy slows. It provided liquidity at the minimum funding rate
for a 31st consecutive day, reducing the  average cost of
borrowing  to 7.83 percent today, the lowest since April 10. None
of the eight economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast a cut in
the main one-week repo rate when policy makers meet on July 19.  “We continue to think the funding rate will remain at
7.5-8.0 percent in the coming weeks and the central bank will
not turn more dovish than that in the monetary policy committee
meeting this Thursday,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist
at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  The lira depreciated for the first time in three days,
weakening 0.2 percent to 1.8127 per dollar, after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S.Bernanke refrained from discussing
specific steps to boost the economic recovery in the U.S. A
contraction in June retail sales yesterday rejuvenated bets the
Fed will introduce more measures to support the world’s largest
economy.  “The market had been expecting a more aggressive statement
from Bernanke but he used the usual wording,” Tufan Comert,
strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, the brokerage unit
of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  said in e-mailed comments. “That
is why we are seeing selling in the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  