-- U.S. Bancorp Accused of Failing to Maintain Properties
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/us-bancorp-accused-of-failing-to-maintain-properties.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) ’s U.S. Bank unit has
become one of  Los Angeles ’s biggest slumlords by letting
hundreds of foreclosed homes fall into disrepair, city officials
said in a court filing.  In the past four years, the bank has become the owner of
more than 1,500 residential properties in the city that it
acquired title to as the trustee for mortgages that were held in
mortgage-backed securities, the city attorney said in a civil
law enforcement action filed yesterday in California state court
in Los Angeles.  The city accused the bank of violating California’s unfair
competition law and the Los Angeles municipal code. It seeks
$2,500 a day for each violation.  “Such unlawful, unfair and fraudulent business acts and
practices by defendant  U.S. Bank National Association  has
resulted in the creation and maintenance of hundreds of
substandard, uninhabitable occupied and vacant nuisance
properties; public nuisances; and the unlawful eviction of
hundreds of tenants,” Los Angeles City Attorney Carmen Trutanich said in the complaint.  Last year, Trutanich sued Deutsche Bank AG, accusing it of
failing to maintain foreclosed properties and illegally evicting
low-income tenants. The cities of  Memphis ,  Tennessee , Baltimore
and Cleveland also have sued banks to recoup their costs of
maintaining foreclosed and abandoned properties.  Servicers Responsible  Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that other
companies are responsible for servicing the mortgages, including
maintenance of the foreclosed properties and compliance with the
city ordinances. The bank intends to bring the servicers into
the lawsuit, Charest said.  “We have worked collaboratively with other cities to
engage servicers to address property-specific and general
foreclosure related concerns,” Charest said. “We have made
similar offers to the city attorney’s office, and we continue to
stand ready to implement such an approach with the city of Los
Angeles.”  The case is the people v. U.S. Bank National Association,
BC488436,  California  Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  