-- Utility Chiefs Worry U.S. Rush to Gas Will Crowd Out Other Fuels
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-17T16:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/utility-chiefs-worry-u-s-rush-to-gas-will-crowd-out-other-fuels.html
The U.S. is at risk of relying too
much on natural gas as transportation, manufacturing and
electric-power industries vie for the cheap fuel, top executives
of three power utilities said.  While greater use of gas instead of coal for generation
cuts air pollution and carbon-dioxide emissions linked to
 climate change , the executives said the U.S. needed a diverse
fuel mix to hedge against cost increases in any one source.  “Having one focus is never good, just like a portfolio
having one stock,” Michael Yackira, chief executive officer of
Las Vegas-based  NV Energy Inc. (NVE) , said today at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast in Washington.  Energy companies are developing vast reserves of natural
gas by hydraulic fracturing underground to push gas out of shale
rock. The process, also called fracking, has sent gas prices
down about 38 percent in the past year, benefiting industries
like chemical manufacturers that use the fuel in production.  The three executives disagreed on whether the U.S. should
encourage production of alternative sources of electricity by
taxing  carbon emissions  or by offering tax credits for wind and
solar developers, for example.  Natural gas is the “killer app” because it’s the cheapest
way to produce power, said Lewis Hay, executive chairman of  Juno
Beach , Florida-based  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , the nation’s largest
producer of wind and solar energy.  ‘Cleaner, Dirtier’  The costs for fossil fuels such as natural gas should pay
for their environmental impacts, which would help wind and solar
companies compete, Hay, 56, said.  “None of us should be allowed to put pollutants into the
air for free,” Hay said. “Either incentivize cleaner stuff, or
tax the dirtier stuff.”  Thomas Fanning, CEO of Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO) , said
taxing carbon emissions is a “terrible idea” because it would
raise energy costs on low-income consumers. The economics of the
industry is already pushing power providers to adjust.  “The transition is already occurring in America,” the 55-
year-old executive said. “Why would you add a tax burden to an
already regressive commodity?”  In the utility industry, the drop in the price of natural
gas has helped topple coal from its perch as the main source of
power production in the U.S.  Coal and natural gas in April generated equal amounts of
electricity for the first time since the government started
gathering data, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration, which tracks and analyzes energy statistics.  Fuel Mix  Southern produced 70 percent of its electricity using coal
and 16 percent from gas five years ago, Fanning said. The
company cut coal generation in half, and now 35 percent is
generated from coal and 47 percent from gas, he said.  EIA expects natural-gas  consumption  will average 69.9
billion cubic feet a day in 2012, about 5 percent more than a
year ago.  Consumption might expand to about 100 billion cubic feet a
day by 2020, assuming natural gas is used more as a
transportation fuel and exports of liquefied natural gas grow,
Fanning said. The U.S. is reviewing several applications for LNG
export terminals.  Southern is hedging against price jumps by building a
nuclear-power plant in  Georgia , among the first such
construction project approved in the U.S. in three decades, and
a cleaner coal plant in  Mississippi , Fanning said.  “One of the things I think that’s been an important lesson
learned in our industry over many, many decades is the
importance of fuel diversity,” Hay said. “Any time you get too
dependent on any one fuel, we’ll live to regret it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  