-- Luxury Beats Tech as Michael Kors Tops IPO Ranking
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   W o l l m a n
-- 2012-07-17T23:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/luxury-beats-tech-as-michael-kors-tops-ipo-ranking.html
In 2003, fashion house  Michael Kors
Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  was struggling.  “It was losing money and probably would have gone out of
business had we not bought it,’’ said Chief Executive Officer
John Idol in a speech at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School in March. Idol, 53, a former CEO of Donna Karan
International Inc., took over the company with partners that
included Sportswear Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based private
equity firm.  It’s been pretty much champagne and roses for Michael Kors
ever since, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August
issue. What was a $20 million-in-revenue business in 2004 is now
a $1.3 billion behemoth. Net income for the 12 months ended on
March 31 was $147 million. And Kors Holdings soared 144 percent
in the 90 days after going public in December.  That makes it No. 1 in the Bloomberg Markets annual ranking
of the best-performing initial public offerings. The ranking
measures the 90-day stock performance of the 179 global IPOs
that raised more than $500 million since the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 through the end
of 2011.  Because the IPO market froze for more than a year after
Lehman’s collapse, most new listings were from 2010 and 2011.  The success of  Michael Kors  stands in sharp contrast to the
rocky road traveled by one of the most anticipated share
offerings of the decade:  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Facebook Rebound  The social-networking company, whose website has more than
900 million users, dropped as low as $25.87 per share from its
offering price of $38 before rebounding to $28.09 as of
yesterday’s close.  For its first week, Facebook was the worst-performing of
the 30 largest IPOs since the beginning of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Travel site operator Kayak Software Corp., Russian social-
networking company VKontakte, Formula One Holdings Ltd. and a
dozen other companies shelved planned listings in the weeks
after the Facebook listing. Kayak consequently revived its
offering and is scheduled to price its IPO tomorrow.  Meanwhile, Kors Holdings, which went public on Dec. 14, was
still trading at almost double its offering price as of
yesterday.  Michael Kors  has been making clothes since 1981 and has
expanded into fragrances and other beauty items.  Revenue surged 
62 percent in the year ended March 31, while net income more
than doubled.  ‘Jet-Set Lifestyle’  The success of the IPO “tells you we have a great brand
with great management, led in particular by Michael and his very
clear positioning of the jet-set lifestyle,’’ Idol says.  The listing has given Idol and Chief Creative Officer Kors,
52, the means to live that lifestyle. The founding designer sold
stock worth $117 million in the December IPO and $135.7 million
in a March secondary offering, while Idol raised $68 million in
the IPO and $81.3 million in the subsequent sale, according to
company regulatory filings.  Kors Holdings is domiciled in  Hong Kong , though Kors
himself still works mostly in New York. The China connection is
now key to Idol’s strategy, as the company aims to more than
double its Greater China stores to 15 by the end of the year.  Asian Affluence  Asia dominated the list of best-performing IPOs,
contributing seven of the top 10.  “Since 2008, if you’re looking for strong, sustainable
growth, the only areas that have created that have been Asia and
to some extent Russia,’’ says Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global
strategist at investment firm TCW Group Inc., which oversees
$128 billion. “What is happening in Asia is that people are
rising from middle class to the upper-income group and from
lower income to the middle class. All of that contributes to
more spending on  luxury goods .’’  Asia’s new affluence is due partly to the success of the
dozens of industrial companies that have gone public in recent
years in China, Malaysia, South Korea and other nations. On the
list of best-performing IPOs are  China Hainan Rubber Industry
Group Co. (601118) ,  Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. (047810) , Malaysia Marine and
Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd. and  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975)   Asian companies have raised more than half of the money
gleaned from IPOs since the beginning of 2010, while the U.S.
portion has fallen as low as 15 percent in recent years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s growth has been slowing, and Premier  Wen Jiabao  in
March set a 7.5 percent growth target for this year, down from
an 8 percent goal in place since 2005. Tempered expansion in
that economy has had a serious impact on the stock prices of
some of the companies at the top of the ranking.  Malaysia Marine  For example, the share price of  Malaysia Marine (MMHE) , which
builds offshore platforms for oil and gas producers and repairs
liquefied-natural-gas vessels, more than doubled in its first
eight months of trading before trimming those gains to 45
percent through yesterday.  Hainan Rubber’s shares  almost tripled in the first six
weeks of trading as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
commodities headed for a 32-month high. They’ve tumbled 60
percent from that peak, as the commodities index has fallen 17
percent from its April high.  Mongolian Mining, No. 10, jumped 50 percent in its first 90
days of trading, yet as of yesterday was down 42 percent from
its listing price. Still, the coking coal exporter said in March
that revenue had nearly doubled last year and will continue to
grow because of demand from China. Mongolia was Asia’s fastest-
growing economy in 2011 at 17 percent, according to the  World
Bank .  Glencore Swoon  Sinking commodities prices pushed one giant trading
company,  Glencore International (GLEN)  Plc, onto the Bloomberg Markets
ranking of the 20 worst-performing IPOs. Shares of the oil, coal
and metals trader, which launched the biggest offering of 2011,
had dropped more than 25 percent after 90 days and remained well
below the offering price as of yesterday’s close.  Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, which sold $10 billion in
its London and Hong Kong IPO, recorded profits of $4.05 billion
in the 12 months through Dec. 31. The smart investors were those
who sold Glencore in the IPO, says  Michael Holland , chairman of
Holland & Co., a New York-based investment company that oversees
more than $4 billion.  “The bankers figured out there was a willing IPO market to
go after,’’ Holland says. “As in the case with Facebook or any
other IPO that comes with a frenzy and a huge tail wind -- as
the commodities market had for Glencore -- the clear winners
were those who sold the stock.”  Trading Errors  Glencore’s debut, at least, went smoothly. Facebook’s was
plagued by trading errors and questions of whether the firm and
the underwriters, led by Morgan Stanley, selectively disclosed
nonpublic information. Negative buzz around Facebook’s IPO was
stoked by a 6.7 percent slide in U.S. stocks from the end of
April through the company’s May 17 pricing date.  “There were very dark clouds on the horizon for the 10
days prior,’’ says Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based Ipox
Schuster LLC, which oversees $2.5 billion and invests in IPOs.
“The deal was just mispriced.”  Only two Internet/social-networking companies,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
and Russia’s  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (61HE) , made the Bloomberg Markets list
of the 20 best-performing IPOs. And Zynga, along with  Pandora
Media Inc. (P)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , were all trading below their
offering prices yesterday.  Schuster says the poor performance of social media
companies was predictable in the uncertain markets of 2010 and
2011.  Jittery Market  “It’s a valuation game and also a market game,’’ he says.
“In the last few years, the market as a whole has been very
jittery,’’ Schuster says. “You have these spurts of enthusiasm
during which these companies price. Then you have these periodic
increases in global risk, which really affect these companies
strongly on the downside.”  Demand for luxury goods has remained strong even through
the slide in China’s growth and Europe’s debt crisis. One
company that has benefited is Milan-based  Prada SpA (1913) , which went
public in June 2011 in a $2.48 billion Hong Kong IPO that gave
the company a higher valuation than those of global peers such
as  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s biggest
maker of luxe items.  Prada stock ended the 90-day post-offering period down 2
percent, yet it has risen dramatically since then and was up 34
percent this year as of yesterday.  Prada Surges  Prada Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli said in a
May interview with Bloomberg News that he expects 40 percent of
the company’s sales to come from the Asia-Pacific region in 2012
and 2013.  Social media may be all the rage among under-35s. It’s
luxury goods in Asia that are earning money for investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ; Elizabeth Wollman in San Francisco at
   ewollman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  