-- Luxury Loses as China Slowdown Reinforces Regime Change
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-07-17T16:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/luxury-loses-as-china-slowdown-reinforces-regime-change.html
Rolex  watches and bars of gold are
often handed out by those seeking favors from business
associates in  China . Now the gift-givers are cutting back, and
the luxury industry is holding its breath.  Vivian So, a 38-year-old owner of beauty salons in
 Shanghai , said she had been giving Rolex watches to business
contacts and is shifting to wallets. William Li, manager at Hong
Kong’s  King’s Watch Co. , who used to see mainland customers buy
HK$100,000 ($12,900) watches for official gifts, said many are
picking brands that cost 40 percent less.  Their pullback shows how the slowest economic expansion in
three years and an effort to curb corruption are starting to
ripple through China’s 22-billion euro ($27 billion) luxury
market, where CLSA Ltd. estimates that almost a fifth of
spending is on corporate gifts. That will likely hurt makers of
pricey brands such as Cartier seller  Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA (CFR) ,  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and  Hong Kong  jeweler  Luk Fook Holdings
International Ltd. (590)   “Lower earnings resulting from China’s economic slowdown
may lead to companies spending less on business gifts,” said
Luk Fook Chief Financial Officer Paul Law. “Corporate gifting
helps foster business relationships: You can cut the red tape
and speed up approval processes when you have good relations.”  Law said gold bars carved with “lucky” characters, some
costing at least HK$20,000, are among top picks for business
shoppers at the jeweler’s stores.  The website for Luk Fook, based in Hong Kong, which gets
about 10 percent of China sales from corporate gifting,  lists 
basketballs, poker cards and chess sets made of gold as options
for those looking to “tighten the co-operation” with business
partners. Prices of the items can vary based on the amount of
precious metal used, and the size and carvings requested by the
buyer, Law said.  Presenting Watches  A once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year
and the March ouster of Bo Xilai, party chief of the country’s
biggest municipality, in an alleged graft and murder scandal
have put the spotlight on influence and corruption in business
and public life.  Warning that corruption may endanger the ruling Communist
Party’s survival, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March pledged to
ban the use of public funds to buy cigarettes and “high-end”
alcohol.  The official Xinhua News Agency reported in July that China
will prohibit government agencies from buying  luxury goods 
starting Oct. 1. The eastern Chinese city of Wenzhou this month
banned government banquets from serving premium liquor such as
that made by  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , based in Guizhou province in
China, whose half-liter bottles can sell at about $300.  Such anti-graft measures could restrain people from
“giving away luxury goods in a business context,” said Aaron Fischer, head of consumer and gaming research at CLSA Asia
Pacific Markets.  Lowered Estimates  China’s spending on Swiss watches on a gross domestic
product per capita basis is about six times that of the U.S. and
almost double that of  France  partly because of gift-giving “to
facilitate business with the Chinese government or other
companies,” MainFirst Bank AG said in a July report.  “Hence, a slowing economy, sluggish housing market and
changing government clearly puts pressure on corporate sales,”
said Matthias Eifert, an analyst at MainFirst.  Gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent in the three
months ended June, in a sign the government is yet to get the
economy firing as quarterly growth cooled to the slowest pace in
three years.  Growth in the global luxury market is expected to fall by
half to 5.5 percent this year and 3.7 percent next year because
of the slowdown in  Greater China , hurting Swatch, whose brands
include Omega watches, and Richemont, according to Eifert. He
cut per-share earnings estimates on Richemont for the year
ending March 2014 by 7 percent and on Swatch by more than 5
percent for the year ending December 2013.  China’s Potential  Virginie Chevailler, a spokeswoman for Rolex Group, which
is owned by the Hans Wilsdorf Foundation, declined to comment.  Alan Grieve, a spokesman for Geneva-based Richemont,
declined to comment on specific markets. Beatrice Howald, a
spokeswoman for Biel, Switzerland-based Swatch, cited an
interview in May with  Finanz und Wirtschaft , a Swiss business
publication, in which Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said
China’s potential is still “enormous” and Chinese are buying
more abroad.  At Swatch’s China retail partner,  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) ,
Vice President Tan Li said this month demand for luxury watches
is slowing and sales growth for high-end watches has come down
to “single digits.”  Mainland shoppers “are not splashing out as much,” Wong Wai Sheung, Luk Fook’s chief executive officer, said at a June
briefing. “I’m not too optimistic about the jewelry market this
year.”  Rival  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) , based in Hong
Kong, this month said sales rose 16 percent in the first quarter
ended June, a slower pace than 61 percent growth in the fiscal
year ended March.  Economic Slump  Outside of the mainland, Chinese shoppers spend 44 billion
euros on luxury goods while traveling to locations such as Hong
Kong and  Europe , CLSA estimates.  Hong Kong this month reported its slowest retail sales
growth since 2009 as demand for high-end jewelry and watches
weakened.  “Clearly, a lot of other players have been calling out the
reductions, the softening when it comes to gift-giving, and I
don’t think we’re sort of any different to that,” said  Burberry (BRBY) 
Group Plc Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright, when asked
about Hong Kong on a conference call after the results,
according to a Bloomberg transcript of the event.  Burberry, based in  London , when reporting results on July
11, said China’s comparable-store sales growth climbed by a mid-
teen percentage in the first quarter from more than 20 percent
 expansion  last year.  Gifting is important in Chinese personal and professional
life and is centered around the idea of reciprocity. Even though
companies and government officials may be under public scrutiny
there will still be demand for gifts because “corporate gifting
is so prevalent in China’s business practices,” said Law, who
sees economic pressures as a bigger threat than the anti-graft
measures, which can be hard to enforce.  Vivian So, the beauty-store operator, said her past
purchases included a HK$30,000 Longines watch for a real-estate
agent who helped her find a prime location for her outlet. As
business has slowed, she has cut back to wallets for HK$3,000 to
HK$6,000 from  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   Li, the watch-shop operator, said his customers see pricey
watches as “a good investment for business relationships.”
They’ve pulled back on gifts, he said, because “they don’t
think the watch is as worthwhile as a year ago because business
activities have slowed down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  