-- Vivus Weight-Loss Pill Is Second in Month to Win Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2012-07-18T20:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/vivus-weight-loss-pill-is-second-in-month-to-win-approval.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  rose the most in almost
five months after winning approval from U.S. regulators
yesterday for its obesity drug Qsymia, the second medicine
cleared to treat the condition within three weeks.  Vivus jumped 9.6 percent to $29 at the close in  New York ,
for its biggest one-day increase since Feb. 24. The decision
means overweight consumers can soon choose between Qsymia and
Belviq, a diet drug from  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  and  Eisai
Co. (4523)  approved on June 27.  Vivus, based in  Mountain View ,  California , plans to begin
selling Qsymia -- a combination of the appetite suppressant
phentermine and the antiseizure drug topiramate -- in the fourth
quarter, said President Peter Tam by telephone. The drug, which
will carry a warning about potential heart and birth-defect
risks, may generate $1.2 billion in sales in 2016, according to
the average of five analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The majority of obese patients wanting to try drug
therapy will end up seeing both drugs, regardless of which one
they take first,” said Simos Simeonidis, a Cowen & Co. analyst,
in a note to clients today. “This assumption, together with the
large potential market opportunity, makes us believe that there
is room for at least two, if not more, sizeable drugs in this
space.”  Diabetes, Stroke  More than 78 million U.S. adults are obese, according to
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
condition raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and
stroke, and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a
year in medical expenses and lost productivity, the Atlanta-
based agency says on its website.  Qsymia and Belviq are the first pills sanctioned in the
U.S. for obesity since Roche Holding AG’s Xenical in 1999. The
shares of San Diego-based Arena fell 9.7 percent to $9.98 for
its biggest drop since June 28.  Vivus has “worked tirelessly over the last 10 years to
make this happen,” Chief Executive Officer Leland Wilson said
on a  conference call  today. “This is an accomplishment that
will help patients who need help losing weight.”  The drugmaker has had “positive discussions” with health
plans and employers about getting Qsymia covered by insurance,
Michael Miller, the company’s chief commercial officer, said on
the call.  About 30 percent of weight-loss prescriptions are paid for
by insurers and Vivus’ goal is to have coverage by a year after
the drug is introduced. The company declined to discuss details
of pricing before an investor conference scheduled for August.  Side Effects  The warnings in Vivus’s packaging may benefit Arena and
Eisai’s Belviq in the marketplace, said Atsushi Seki, a health-
care analyst at Barclays Plc in  Tokyo . The market for obesity
treatments will probably reach $6 billion a year, and Barclays
expects annual sales of Belviq to peak at $1.5 billion, he said.  “The new addition will expand the overall market,” Seki
said. “Vivus will have some restrictions to sell Qsymia as the
drug is very effective, which also means the side effects will
be stronger.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in 2010 rejected on
safety concerns both the Vivus drug and the Belviq treatment
from Arena and Eisai, which is based in Tokyo. The companies re-
applied with the agency after completing further testing.  ‘Reckless’ Approval  Vivus’s Qsymia will carry a warning on its label about the
possibility it will increase  heart rate . Use of the treatment
will also be tied to a risk-management strategy that warns women
of child-bearing age of the need to use contraception, Tam said.
Topiramate has been linked to oral clefts in the children of
women on the therapy.  The potential complications make the FDA’s approval of both
Qsymia and Belviq “reckless,” according to a statement today
from  Public Citizen , the Washington, D.C.-based advocacy group.
The group cited past diet drugs cleared and then taken off the
market because of side effects.  “It is magical and delusional thinking for anyone to
believe that a drug will turn off hunger without hitting other
targets where it will do harm, usually to the cardiovascular
system,”  Sidney Wolfe , Public Citizen’s director of health
research, said in the statement.  The  American College of Cardiology  welcomed the drug yet
warned about the need to evaluate the potential hazards.
“Weight-loss drugs have the potential to help manage obesity,
which is a major health problem, but it is most important to
understand the impact the medications may have on long-term
cardiovascular health,” William Zoghbi, president of the
Washington-based medical society, said in a statement.  Ten Studies  Vivus must conduct 10 studies while Qsymia is on the
market, including a long-term trial to assess the risk for
cardiac events such as heart attack and stroke, the FDA said.  Arena and Eisai, in securing approval for their drug,
agreed to conduct six post-market studies to assess Belviq’s
safety and effectiveness, including a long-term cardiovascular
outcomes trial to assess the drug’s risk for major cardiac risks
such as heart attack and stroke.  Tam, Vivus’s president, said the company’s initial plan for
U.S. sales is to use representatives from  PDI Inc. (PDII) , a contract
organization in Saddle River,  New Jersey .  At the same time, “we are talking to companies we believe
are capable of supporting our product outside of the U.S.,” he
said. “There are quite a few.”  Qsymia was formerly known as Qnexa. The FDA rejected the
original name because too many other drugs ended in the same
letters and it would have caused confusion, Tam said.  Vivus plans to sell the pill at first through mail-order
pharmacies, though the company is working with the FDA to
broaden access to retail drugstore chains, Tam said.  “This is a very large market,” he said. “There aren’t a
lot of treatments that are working.”  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , which is also developing a
weight-loss pill called Contrave with  Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , agreed in September to conduct a two-year
study of the medicine’s heart risks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Denver at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  