-- VMware Names EMC’s Pat Gelsinger CEO to Replace Paul Maritz
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-18T20:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/vmware-to-replace-ceo-maritz-with-emc-s-gelsinger-crn-reports.html
EMC Corp. (EMC)  said Pat Gelsinger will
succeed Paul Maritz as chief executive officer of  VMware Inc. (VMW) ,
giving new management the task of pursuing new products and
stepping up growth at the software maker under its control.  Maritz will return to EMC, which owns  79 percent  of VMware,
as chief strategist,  Palo Alto , California-based VMware said
yesterday in a statement. Gelsinger, chief operating officer for
information infrastructure products at EMC, takes over Sept. 1.  The management change follows a growth slowdown that has
dragged down shares 3.5 percent this year at VMware, the largest
maker of so-called virtualization software, designed to make
computers run more efficiently. It puts Gelsinger in charge of
VMware’s push beyond servers into other areas of  information
technology , such as storage, security and networking, said  Brian
Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  “EMC is making management changes from a position of
strength to address large new opportunities,” Marshall wrote in
a research note. The areas of potential growth include “the
entire IT infrastructure beyond VMware’s roots in server
virtualization.”  VMware also said second-quarter sales rose 22 percent to
about $1.12 billion, exceeding $1.11 billion, the average of
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding certain
costs, operating margin was 32 percent, compared with VMware’s
earlier forecast of 30.25 percent to 31.25 percent.  VMware rose 12 percent to $89.98 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest daily gain since April 2011. EMC climbed 9.4 percent
to $25.08, the largest one-day advance since October 2008. EMC
has increased 16 percent this year.  Succession Planning  EMC’s CEO, Joe Tucci, who has committed to stay on until at
least the end of 2013, is also trying to give key deputies new
management experience. The changes, along with some alterations
to the sales force announced last week “are the most visible
steps yet in our long-standing executive succession plan,”
Tucci said in an e-mail to employees obtained by Bloomberg. EMC
confirmed the e-mail’s authenticity.  Tucci, on a conference call with analysts yesterday, left
open the possibility that he may stay on beyond 2013.  “I’m will not overextend my welcome by any means, but as
long as I’m enjoying it, providing value, they want me, the
board wants me --  I’m very energized so I’m not putting any
firm end date in the sand,” he said.  Gelsinger Gains  Tucci has been talking about moving on from the CEO
position since at least 2009, when he said he would step down in
three years and turn the job over to an internal candidate. He
later said he would stay until at least the end of 2013, and he
reiterated that point today. Tucci said he still expects to be
replaced by an internal candidate.  EMC Chief Financial Officer David Goulden was also promoted
to president and chief operating officer. He will retain the CFO
role.  Gelsinger joined EMC in 2009 after about 30 years at  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based EMC, the world’s biggest
maker of storage computers, acquired control of VMware in 2004.  “It’s clearly a move up for Gelsinger, and moving Maritz
to EMC as strategist means they weren’t unhappy with him,” said
Mark Moerdler, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York.  EMC’s Results  EMC said second-quarter sales rose to $5.31 billion,
according to a preliminary review. Profit excluding some items
was 39 cents, below the 40 cent estimate of analysts, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EMC’s board held discussions several months ago as to how
best to expand VMware’s lead in virtualization software into
areas like cloud and storage, and as part of those discussions
Maritz said he decided it was time to hand the job to a new CEO.
Maritz, who first met Gelsinger when both worked at Intel in the
1980s, suggested Gelsinger, Tucci said.  Maritz will focus on defining EMC’s strategy for products
related to Internet-based cloud systems and handling massive
amounts of data.  Maritz was the No. 3 executive at Microsoft Corp. and one
of the architects of the company’s Windows operating system
before he left in 2000. He was appointed CEO of VMware in 2008
after EMC acquired PI Corp., the company he founded in 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On his watch, VMware’s  revenue  doubled to $3.77 billion
last year from $1.88 billion in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  