-- Vodafone $10 Billion Dividend Quandary Draws Investor Ire
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-18T16:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/vodafone-10-billion-dividend-quandary-draws-investor-ire.html
More than a decade after  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  started a U.S. mobile-phone partnership with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , payments from the venture are still
uncertain and investors’ patience is wearing thin.  A year ago,  Verizon Wireless  announced a $10 billion
dividend, the first payout since 2005. The venture’s board is
set to decide on the size of this year’s payout as early as this
week, said two people with knowledge of the matter, asking not
to be identified as the discussions are private.  “The uncertainty generated by not having a regular
dividend policy from Verizon Wireless is very annoying,” said
Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $55 billion at Zurich-
based  Swisscanto Asset Management , including Vodafone shares.
“Dividends were and still are very important to attract new
investors, especially for Vodafone, amid such a challenging
economic environment.”  The need for Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of Verizon
Wireless, to negotiate a payment each year from the largest U.S.
mobile operator is fanning discontent among  investors  at a time
when the Newbury, England-based company faces the threat of a
$3.6 billion tax bill in  India  and is poised to report a
slowdown in revenue growth this week.  Vodafone Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said in May
that a dividend should come in “hopefully on a reasonably
regular basis.” The same month, Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao  called the U.S. dividend a “luxury problem with
Verizon paying all this cash.”  Crucial Dividends  Shareholder payouts are crucial for European operators, the
 third-worst  performer of 19 industry groups in the  Europe  Stoxx
600 Index this year, to attract investors as they use stable
cash flows from phone contracts to pay higher-than-average
dividends.  Vodafone’s dividend yield, at 7.4 percent, trails that of
Europe’s biggest phone companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s yield is 7.6 percent, compared
with 12.9 percent for  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and 10.6 percent for
Telefonica SA. The average for Western European operators that
pay a dividend is 7.5 percent, compared with 5.8 percent for
 North America ’s biggest phone companies.  When Vodafone received the $4.5 billion dividend from the
venture last year, it paid 2 billion pounds ($3.1 billion) of it
as a special dividend to shareholders. Previously, Verizon had
withheld the dividend from the partnership to focus on paying
down debt.  ‘Huge Headache’  “The dividend issue is a huge headache for Vodafone,”
said Espen Furnes, who manages the  Delphi Europa (DFEUROP)  fund at Oslo-
based  Storebrand Asset Management , which oversees $72 billion
and until April owned shares in Vodafone. “Vodafone seems to be
unable to resolve the dividend situation and they either need to
buy the remaining stake or sell it, but both options don’t seem
feasible now.”  Vodafone repeatedly opted to keep its stake in the venture.
Verizon, based in  New York , said in May 2010 it would be
interested in purchasing Vodafone’s holding and the partners
held talks in March 2010, discussing options, including a
merger, buyout or a dividend payout, two people familiar with
the deliberations said at the time.  The board of Verizon Wireless, which is made up of
executives from both owners, may decide on a smaller dividend
after the operator last year agreed to pay $3.6 billion for
mobile frequencies from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Time Warner Cable Inc.
and Bright House Networks LLC, said Swisscanto’s Braendle.  Slowing Growth  “Even as I expect the dividend from Verizon Wireless to be
similar to last year’s, it would also be reasonable to see a
lower dividend,” he said.  Verizon Wireless had $12.8 billion in cash and cash
equivalents at the end of 2011, and paid $10 billion of that as
dividend. At the end of 2010, the operator had $5.3 billion in
cash and cash equivalents.  Vodafone may say on July 20 that service revenue growth,
excluding currency swings and acquisitions, slowed to 0.8
percent in the three months through June, after rising 1.5
percent a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  The company, which is no longer the world’s biggest mobile-
phone company after  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  boosted sales last year,
is increasingly relying on its U.S. wireless venture to make up
for shrinking sales in crisis-stricken European economies,
including Spain and  Italy .  Dividend Lure  “The main driver for investors to buy telecom stocks,
including Vodafone, has been dividends,” said Heinrich Ey, a
 fund manager  at Allianz Global Investors in  Frankfurt , which
manages about 300 billion euros, including Vodafone shares.  Vodafone rose 1.4 percent to 185.20 pence in  London  today,
valuing the company at 91.2 billion pounds. Verizon
Communications gained 0.9 percent to $46.09 as of 12:31 p.m. in
New York, giving the company a market value of $130.1 billion.  Verizon Wireless accounted for 42 percent of Vodafone’s
operating profit, excluding some items, last year. In India,
Vodafone may face a bill of as much as 200 billion rupees ($3.7
billion) as the government considers amending the law to get tax
contributions from the 2007 acquisition of Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd.’s local operations.  Verizon Communications tomorrow may report second-quarter
sales of $28.5 billion, up from $27.5 billion a year earlier,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Verizon Communications needs the dividend as well and can’t
afford to avoid distributing Verizon Wireless’s cash for long,
said  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based fund manager at
Highmark Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $17
billion, including Vodafone shares.  Teasing Investors  Verizon Communications gets the remaining 35 percent of its
revenue from Internet connections and the declining home phone
market in the U.S. It has also committed to paying its own
 shareholders  about 50 cents a share per quarter, which amounted
to about $5.6 billion last year.  “Verizon needs the distributions from the wireless
business to fund its own ongoing dividend,” Lowenstein said.  Still, Verizon may be teasing Vodafone’s investors with the
dividend as it evaluates a bid for Vodafone’s stake in the
wireless venture, said James Britton, the head of
telecommunications research at Nomura Holdings Inc. Verizon’s
share price, which has risen 15 percent this year while Vodafone
gained 3.5 percent, may provide leverage in a deal, he said.  “They may well have an interest in Vodafone’s share price
a little lower because in a combination scenario, it would be
easier for them to make a merger more appealing,” he said. “It
could offer a better premium to a lower share price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  