-- Volkswagen Wins France With Financing Peugeot Can’t Match
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-18T15:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/volkswagen-wins-france-with-financing-peugeot-can-t-match-cars.html
For decades, France’s elite troops
have marched down the Avenue des Champs-Elysees in Paris to mark
Bastille Day, passing countless tricolor flags and -- almost as
important to French national identity -- dealerships for  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Renault SA. (RNO)  Next summer, they may also find
a  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  showroom on their route.  VW is negotiating to open a store on France’s most famous
shopping street as the German company steps up its challenge to
Renault and Peugeot on their home turf. VW’s first-half share in
France grew to 13.5 percent from 11.9 percent a year earlier,
according to France’s CCFA automakers association. Peugeot and
Renault each lost about 1.5 percentage points of share.  As Europe’s most profitable carmaker, VW has been able to
borrow at cheaper  interest rates  than many of its rivals. That
advantage has translated into better deals for French consumers.  “There’s been a slide since the start of the year, with
German carmakers borrowing at around 2 percent and the French at
6 percent,” said Philippe Houchois, an analyst with UBS in
 London . “This difference in financing costs may lead eventually
to a gradual difference in competitiveness.”  French buyers pay as little as 1.9 percent annual interest
on 10,000 euros ($12,280) in financing from Volkswagen, the
company says. From Peugeot, the same loan would cost around 11.6
percent annually, according to the automaker’s website. Renault
says it charges 5.9 percent.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker, could see its
borrowing costs rise further. Moody’s Investors Service placed
its Ba1 rating on Peugeot, already junk, under review on July
13, and yesterday it put the carmaker’s bank on watch for a
downgrade. Volkswagen had 17 billion euros of net liquidity at
the end of 2011, while Peugeot faced net debt of 3.35 billion
euros. Renault had 299 million euros of net debt.  ‘Full of Money’  That edge also gives VW a technological advantage, said IHS
Automotive analyst Christoph Stuermer.  “Volkswagen is so full of money,” Stuermer said.
“They’re filling their vehicles with features, with quality,
with technology that the others simply can’t afford.”  Peugeot’s passenger car sales in  France  tumbled 22 percent
in the first half, though the company remained the top seller
with 30.6 percent of the market. Renault saw its sales drop 19
percent and had 22.8 percent share. Volkswagen’s sales slipped
3.3 percent as deliveries in the overall market fell 14 percent.  Patriotic Challenge  “I’m lucky to work for Volkswagen,” said Gwenael Leroux,
a VW dealer near Montmartre, the hill that towers over north
Paris. “I’d say about 60 percent of our new clients used to buy
Peugeot or Renault cars.”  That’s not to say the German automaker will easily win over
French car buyers, many of whom maintain a strong allegiance to
their national brands.  “We want to buy French,” said Pascal Guignard, a Parisian
checking out a Peugeot 5008 with his wife at the carmaker’s
Champs-Elysees showroom. “We heard about Peugeot’s
difficulties, so being a little patriotic wouldn’t be a bad
thing.”  Peugeot’s reliance on France and southern Europe for sales
has made it more vulnerable to the economic slump than
Volkswagen, which is the leader in  Germany  and has booming sales
in  China . Peugeot is seeking to slash 14,000 jobs and stop
production at a French factory to stem widening losses.  The company said last week its automotive unit will post a
first-half operating loss of 700 million euros, compared with a
profit of 405 million euros a year earlier.  Diverging Fortunes  Peugeot in April signed an agreement to sell its 48-year-
old headquarters near the Arc de Triomphe at the top of the
Champs-Elysees for 245.5 million euros as part of an effort to
decrease its debt. The carmaker plans to lease the building from
the new owner.  The automaker’s credit-default swaps reached record highs
over the last two days as investors bet the company has a 51
percent probability of default within five years. The stock has
traded at a 23-year low for most of the last month. The shares
 gained  23 cents, or 4 percent, to 6.10 euros in Paris trading
today, valuing the carmaker at 2.16 billion euros. VW is up 19
percent this year, giving the German automaker a  market
capitalization  of 62.3 billion euros.  Peugeot Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon
told newspaper  Les Echos  today that one reason for the share-
price drop is investor concern the French government may block
the restructuring program. Chatillon said the automaker will
outline the plan in detail when it reports earnings next week.
Peugeot spokesman Pierre-Olivier Salmon confirmed the comments.  Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin will also
meet French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  later today to
discuss the restructuring, Salmon said.  Target Scrapped  Renault has suffered less because of its partnership with
Nissan Motor Co., which allows it to share developmental costs
and gives it access to more markets. Renault says it expects to
sell more than half of its vehicles outside of Western Europe in
2013, up from 43 percent today and 37 percent in 2010.  Nonetheless, Renault sales chief Jerome Stoll last week
scrapped the carmaker’s 2012 sales-growth target after reporting
a first-half drop in deliveries of 3.3 percent. He said Europe
may not recover to pre-crisis levels until 2018.  VW, which also owns the Audi, Skoda and Seat brands, is
Europe’s biggest automaker, delivering almost 25 percent of all
cars in the region. Globally, VW is behind  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , though it aims to surpass them by 2018
to become the world’s No. 1.  To keep the pressure on its French rivals, Volkswagen is
negotiating to lease the Champs-Elysees storefront currently
occupied by record-seller Virgin Megastore, said VW spokeswoman
Leslie Peltier. The location, directly opposite Renault’s
“atelier,” would give plenty of potential customers a close-up
view of the German automaker’s latest offerings during next
year’s Bastille Day celebrations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  