-- Wasendorf Has Restaurant, Romanian Properties, Receiver Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-17T15:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/wasendorf-has-restaurant-romanian-properties-receiver-says.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr., the Peregrine
Financial Group Inc. executive charged with lying to federal
regulators, counted Romanian properties, a restaurant and an
online bookstore among the entities he controlled, a court-
appointed receiver told a U.S. judge.  Receiver Michael Eidelman and his lawyer, Randall Lending,
told U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer about those holdings
and others today as they asked her to modify the July 10
receivership order she signed shortly before Peregrine filed for
 bankruptcy court  protection.  “There’s quite a bit of work to do here,” said Lending,
who obtained court approval for an expanded budget and for the
retention of his firm, Vedder Price PC, as Eidelman’s counsel.  Wasendorf, 64, is accused of lying to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission about the amount of client funds the
 Cedar Falls , Iowa-based commodities brokerage had on deposit at
U.S. Bank. He is in federal custody pending the outcome of a
bail hearing at a U.S. court in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , tomorrow.  The  National Futures Association  on July 9 announced at
least $200 million in Peregrine client funds were unaccounted
for. Wasendorf, the firm’s founder and chief executive officer,
tried to kill himself the same day.  Client Funds  The CFTC accused Wasendorf and the firm of misappropriating
client funds in a July 10 federal lawsuit filed in  Chicago ,
where Peregrine has offices.  While Pallmeyer appointed Eidelman as receiver for
Wasendorf and his company that day, a separate trusteeship over
the brokerage was established in the bankruptcy court
proceeding.  Eidelman, through Lending, filed papers yesterday asking
Pallmeyer to amend her order to account for Chapter 7 Trustee
 Ira Bodenstein’s  responsibility for the Peregrine Financial
bankruptcy estate.  Preliminary review of Wasendorf’s holdings revealed a
construction company, a publishing company, two Chicago
condominiums and aircraft, according to that filing.  “It is possible assets owned by the Wasendorf entities may
have been procured with funds embezzled from PFG,” Lending and
Eidelman said in their court papers.  Liability Cap  Eidelman also told the court he’d reached an agreement with
 U.S. Bank  that caps liability for a credit rate swap in which
the bank and a Wasendorf-controlled entity were counter-parties,
at $770,000.  Wasendorf has admitted stealing at least $100 million from
the firm, according to the affidavit of  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation Special Agent William Langdon, filed with the
criminal complaint.  In a signed statement found with Wasendorf as he tried to
commit suicide by asphyxiation outside Peregrine’s Cedar Falls
offices, the CEO said he’d been embezzling from his clients for
nearly 20 years, Langdon’s affidavit said.  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 