-- WHO Doctor Running Polio Program Shot in Pakistan’s Karachi
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-07-17T11:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/who-doctor-running-polio-program-shot-in-pakistan-s-karachi-1-.html
A  World Health Organization  doctor
was injured in a gun attack in the Pakistani city of Karachi as
he returned from supervising a polio vaccination campaign, a
program the Taliban has opposed elsewhere in the country.  The Ghanaian national, Constant Dedo, is out of danger
after surgery for wounds to his abdomen at the city’s  Aga Khan
University Hospital , Maryam Yunus, a WHO spokeswoman, said by
phone from Islamabad. His driver was also wounded. There was no
immediate claim of responsibility for the attack.  The WHO is “temporarily suspending” activities in the
area where Dedo was working until security for the
organization’s staff could be guaranteed, Yunus said.  The attack in the southern port city of Karachi comes after
 Pakistan ’s Taliban guerrilla movement said last month it would
oppose polio immunization in the country’s northwestern tribal
areas of North and South Waziristan to protest missile strikes
by U.S. unmanned drone aircraft.  About 250,000 children in tribal agencies located along
Pakistan’s border with  Afghanistan  will not receive the polio
vaccine as a result of the Taliban ban, the  BBC   reported 
yesterday, quoting WHO officials it didn’t name.  Pakistan is one of three remaining countries where polio is
still endemic, the British broadcaster said, another being
Afghanistan. It said nearly 200 children were paralyzed by the
disease in 2011 in Pakistan, the most in more than a decade,
citing figures from a study by the Lancet medical journal.  Drone aircraft are used by the U.S. to target Islamic
militants in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region. Pakistan’s
parliament has demanded the strikes stop, saying they violate
the country’s sovereignty and kill civilians as well as the
guerrillas targeted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  