-- Wife of Convicted Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Seeks Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-17T17:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/wife-of-convicted-ex-credit-suisse-broker-seeks-assets.html
The wife of  Eric Butler , a former
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker convicted in a $1 billion fraud,
is protesting the government’s efforts to take over joint
assets, according to a federal court filing.  Elizabeth Butler objected today to a recommendation that
the proceeds of joint accounts go to the government to satisfy a
$5 million fine and $250,000 forfeiture order. Eric Butler began
serving a five-year sentence in September for crimes associated
with misleading clients about securities investments.  The government and the court “take the position that
because certain assets in the web of linked accounts were in Mr.
Butler’s name alone, this justifies giving Mrs. Butler nothing
from the accounts always considered hers, and holding funds she
earned,” according to the objection filed on behalf of the
Butlers.  A federal jury in Brooklyn,  New York , convicted Butler in
August 2009 of intentionally misleading his institutional
clients, including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
about securities purchased on their behalf. Victims’ losses were
more than $1.1 billion, according to the government.  Butler and his partner,  Julian Tzolov , who testified
against him at trial, falsely told their clients that securities
they were buying were backed by federally guaranteed student
loans. Tzolov pleaded guilty and was also sentenced to prison.  Joint Property  In her objection, Elizabeth Butler asked for half of the
funds in the couple’s accounts, arguing that they should be
considered joint marital property under New York law. Further, a
significant portion of the funds came from her earnings as an
executive assistant and rent from a jointly owned apartment in
 Florida , according to the filing.  Magistrate Judge Ramon E. Reyes Jr. issued a recommendation
in June that Butler not be allowed to stop the government from
taking the funds in the accounts, which are frozen. All of the
accounts at issue are held solely in Eric Butler’s name, and his
wife contributed only to one of them, Reyes said in the
recommendation. The Butlers received $65,000 from that account
for living expenses during the criminal case, according to the
filing.  A federal judge hasn’t yet ruled on whether to adopt the
recommendation.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of New York, declined to comment on Elizabeth
Butler’s objection.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  