-- Woods Says Field Depth Makes It Harder Than Ever to Win Majors
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-17T14:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/woods-says-field-depth-makes-it-harder-than-ever-to-win-majors.html
Tiger Woods said the depth of talent
in golf makes it harder than ever to win a major championship as
his Grand Slam drought extends to more than four years.  Woods’s pursuit of  Jack Nicklaus ’s record 18 major titles
has stalled since he won his 14th at the 2008 U.S. Open.
Personal issues, injuries and learning a new swing have all
contributed to that, but the former world No. 1 also points to
the competition.  “I think the fields are deeper, there’s no doubt,” Woods
said at a news conference today ahead of the British Open. “I
think that there are more guys now who have a chance to win
major championships than ever before, and I think that will just
continue to be that way.”  Woods is backed by the numbers. The past 15 majors have
been won by 15 different players. In fact, the last nine
champions have been first-time winners, most recently Bubba Watson at the  Masters Tournament  in April and  Webb Simpson  at
last month’s U.S. Open.  Woods begins his quest for the elusive 15th major title in
two days at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in Lancashire,  England , as
the favorite with British bookmaker  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  He’s a 9-1
choice to win his fourth Claret Jug, meaning a $1 bet returns $9
plus the original stake. England’s  Lee Westwood  is the second
pick at 14-1.  Inconsistency  The 36-year-old Woods has had an up-and-down season. He’s
won three times on the U.S. PGA Tour and climbed 19 spots in the
Official World Golf Ranking to fourth. He’s also missed two cuts
and struggled in both majors, finishing tied for 40th at the
Masters Tournament in April and tied for 21st at the  U.S. Open 
last month.  “If I knew the answer I’d tell you, but I don’t,” Woods
said when asked about his inconsistency. “I just keep trying to
work and keep trying to get better.”  To one of his fellow competitors, the three victories
outweigh everything else.  “He’s the only person to win three times this year,
right?” Watson said to reporters yesterday. “I think he’s done
pretty well.”  Woods has fond memories of Royal Lytham from the first time
he played the Open at the course in 1996. He shot 66 in the
second round en route to winning the silver medal as low
amateur, an experience he said helped him make a career-starting
decision.  “The Open Championship that year I thought pushed me
towards turning pro versus going back to college,” he said. “I
was still kind of iffy about whether I should turn pro or not.
But that gave me so much confidence that I could do it at a high
level.”  Woods won his first major at the next year’s Masters to
start his run at Nicklaus. Although it’s since sputtered, he
says he there’s no anxiety over when No. 15 will come.  “Not at all,” he said. “I just try and put myself there.
I think that if I continue putting myself there enough times,
then I’ll win major championships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal Lytham & St. Annes through the London sports
desk at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 