-- Woolworths Drops as Sales Said to Disappoint: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-17T15:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/woolworths-drops-as-sales-said-to-disappoint-johannesburg-mover.html
Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL) , a South
African food and clothing retailer, fell in Johannesburg trading
as analysts said a sales gain didn’t justify the stock’s
“expensive” level.  The  shares retreated  as much as 3.1 percent to 51.28 rand,
before closing 0.7 percent lower at 52.55 rand.  Sales for the 52 weeks through June 24 rose 12 percent from
a year earlier, the Cape Town-based retailer said in a statement
today. That would match the mean estimate of 12 analysts for
sales to advance to 28.8 billion rand ($3.5 billion), according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue last year climbed 9
percent to 25.8 billion rand, beating estimates.  “It’s an expensive stock and people are expecting
growth,” Nic Norman-Smith, chief investment officer at
Johannesburg-based Lentus Asset Management said by phone. “Even
if you get a decent amount of growth, it’s not enough to justify
the lofty valuations.”  Shares in the retailer have risen 35 percent this year, the
second-best performance in the 10-member  FTSE/JSE Africa General
Retailers Index. (JGENR)   “The clothing retailers in particular are quite expensive,
so maybe the market was a little bit disappointed,” Simon Fillmore, an analyst at Independent Securities (Pty) Ltd., said
by phone from Johannesburg. “These shares are priced for
perfection, so the market at worst expects them to meet
expectations.”  The company trades at 21 times reported earnings, 50
percent higher than its five-year average. A forward price
earnings ratio of 17 for 2013 is also “high” by historical
standards, Fillmore said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at  