-- Yahoo’s Unchanged Sales Reflect Challenge Facing New CEO Mayer
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/yahoo-profit-beats-estimates-as-mayer-begins-as-chief-executive.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  reported sales that were
little changed in the second quarter, underscoring the lack of
growth that  Marissa Mayer  will need to combat in her reign as
chief executive officer, which began yesterday.  Second-quarter revenue, excluding sales passed on to
partner sites, rose less than 1 percent to $1.08 billion,
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said in a statement yesterday.
That compares with the $1.1 billion average  analysts’  projection
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yahoo is lagging behind Web companies, including  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and Mayer’s former employer  Google (GOOG)  Inc., in luring the
advertising that makes up most of revenue. Investors are looking
to 37-year-old Mayer, the fifth CEO in three years at the
biggest U.S. Web portal, to do a better job winning business
than predecessors who eked out profit by slicing jobs.  “This is a turnaround situation,” said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York. “It’s much easier to
control costs than it is to grow revenue. She’s got her work cut
out for her to try to accelerate the top line.”  Yahoo’s share of U.S. spending on display ads will fall to
9.1 percent this year from 11 percent in 2011, trailing Google
and Facebook, according to EMarketer Inc.  Yahoo was little changed in extended trading yesterday
after the report. The shares had fallen 0.3 percent to $15.60 at
the close in New York, and the stock has dropped 3.3 percent
this year.  Europe Woes  Second-quarter profit, excluding some items, was 27 cents a
share. That beat the 23-cent average  estimate  compiled by
Bloomberg, a sign that job cuts are helping reduce costs. Net
income attributable to the company fell to $226.6 million, or 18
cents a share, from $237 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier.  Revenue for display advertising, minus sales passed to
partner sites, increased 1.5 percent to $473.4 million during
the quarter. Growth was hampered by a sales decline in the
region that includes  Europe .  Unlike past quarters, Yahoo didn’t provide an outlook for
sales and income from operations. The company decided not to
provide the forecast as Mayer had only just joined the company.
Mayer also didn’t participate in the conference call.  “She is very mindful of the importance of the investor
community, and I’m sure that you’ll be hearing from her soon,”
said Yahoo Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse, who hosted the
call. “Marissa’s a high-caliber, well-respected leader.”  Mayer, a 13-year Google veteran, replaces  Ross Levinsohn ,
who ran Yahoo on an interim basis after  Scott Thompson  resigned
in May over inaccuracies in his resume.  Management Changes  Thompson took over in January from Morse, who became
interim CEO in September. Morse followed  Carol Bartz , who was
fired last year. Levinsohn also wasn’t on yesterday’s call.  Yahoo’s total sales tumbled 21 percent to $4.98 billion
last year as users devoted less time to the service. Visitors on
average spent less than two hours and 20 minutes on Yahoo pages
in May, compared with more than six hours for Facebook,
according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   Mayer, who joined Google as its 20th employee and its first
female engineer, is credited with maintaining the company’s
Spartan home page for a decade and overseeing such products as
Gmail, Google News, and image, book and product search. In 2010,
she became vice president of local, maps and location services.  Mayer also brings technical prowess to the CEO position.
She’s an engineer and patent holder who earned a bachelor’s
degree in symbolic systems and a master’s degree in computer
science from  Stanford University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 