-- Yahoo’s Mayer Takes Google Product Prowess to Turnaround Bid
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-17T18:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/yahoo-s-mayer-brings-google-product-prowess-to-turnaround-bid.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  named Marissa Mayer
chief executive officer, appointing a technologist who has
managed some of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s most popular products to help
reverse market-share losses that fueled three years of sales
declines at the biggest U.S. Web portal.  Mayer, a 13-year Google veteran, takes the helm today, just
as Yahoo prepares to report second-quarter results after the
close of trading. She replaces  Ross Levinsohn , who ran
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo on an interim basis after
 Scott Thompson  resigned in May over inaccuracies in his resume.  In hiring Google’s Mayer, 37, the Web portal poaches from
the company that unseated it as the Web-search leader about a
decade ago, presaging Yahoo’s decline. The new CEO -- Yahoo’s
fifth in three years -- is an engineer skilled at tailoring
products to customers’ tastes, yet she lacks experience in
running a large business and courting big advertisers.  “What she did at Google was really focus on the user
experience more than anything else; Yahoo does need that,” said
 Benjamin Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc.
“But it needs many other things as well. The fact that she had
not been a CEO before certainly raised some eyebrows.”  Mayer doesn’t plan to be on a conference call today after
the earnings report, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse will field questions on the
call. Yahoo shares  declined  0.4 percent to $15.58 at 1:59 p.m.
in  New York , and through yesterday  declined  3 percent this year.  Yahoo’s Challenges  Mayer, who became Google’s 20th employee and its first
female engineer, is credited with maintaining the company’s
Spartan home page for a decade and overseeing such products as
Gmail, Google News, and image, book and product search. In 2010,
she became vice president of local, maps and location services.  Yahoo’s biggest challenges include adapting the Web company
to a shift toward mobile devices and getting users to visit its
pages more often, Mayer said in an interview. She said she will
draw on experience that ranges from developing products to
helping start AdWords, the business that helps companies insert
ads alongside Google’s search results.  “It’s going to be a lot of hard work,” Mayer said. “My
focus has always been on users and creating innovative and
compelling end-user experiences -- and being very focused on
excellent technology and great design.”  Competitors Gain  Mayer will also juggle her role as CEO with being a new
mother. She  said  on her Twitter page that she and her husband,
Zachary Bogue, are expecting a baby boy. The information was
confirmed by Yahoo.  Co-founded by  Jerry Yang  and  David Filo  in 1995 when the
pair were doctoral students at  Stanford University , Yahoo was
once the world’s most popular website, with a  market
capitalization  greater than $100 billion. Yahoo lost its luster
in recent years as Google snared a larger share of the search-
advertising market and Facebook Inc. captured the attention of
people seeking a more social experience on the Web.  Visitors on average spent less than two hours, 15 minutes
on Yahoo pages in March, compared with more than six hours for
Facebook, according to ComScore Inc.  The declines have sent advertisers into the arms of
competitors. Yahoo’s  share  of the U.S. online display-ad market
will shrink to about 8 percent in 2014, while the combined share
for Google and Facebook will widen to about 39 percent,
according to EMarketer Inc.  Page’s Circle  For all her accomplishments at Google, Mayer wasn’t
included in the senior-management team set up by  Larry Page  last
year soon after he took the helm. Under Eric Schmidt, Page’s
predecessor, she had been a member of Google’s operating
committee, the company’s most senior management group.  “From a career standpoint, from a legacy standpoint, she
seemed unlikely to go beyond where she was at Google,” said
Allen Weiner, an  analyst  at Gartner Inc. in Austin. “In order
to reach the next level, she would have to go elsewhere.”  Mayer, in the interview, said she wasn’t expecting to be
included in Page’s senior circle. She had only recently assumed
oversight of maps and local, she said.  “It was too early in my time there,” Mayer said. “I’ve
never been very focused on titles. I’ve always been much more
focused on impact and user services.”  In her new position, Mayer performed well, said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. Her responsibilities
included integrating local services with Google+, a social-
networking tool that vies with Facebook. She also helped
spearhead the acquisition of Zagat Survey LLC.  ‘Tireless Champion’  “Local was a business that Google had struggled with for
many years, and she was given the role to turn it around and
make it a real business going forward,” Sinha said. “She was
doing all the right things -- simplifying the structure, making
it easy for small or local business to interact.”  Page himself praised Mayer, saying, “Marissa has been a
tireless champion of our users. We will miss her talents at
Google.”  As CEO, Mayer also will need to bring stability to a
management team wracked by upheaval. Yahoo’s Levinsohn had
stepped in on May 13 when Thompson left after failing to fix
errors in his academic record. Thompson, former president of
EBay Inc.’s PayPal, took the helm in January from Morse, who
became interim CEO in September. Morse followed  Carol Bartz , who
was fired last year.  Yang Criticized  Bartz had succeeded Yang, who was CEO from June 2007 to
January 2009. Yang faced criticism from investors, including
Third Point LLC CEO  Daniel Loeb , for rebuffing an acquisition
offer for as much as $47.5 billion from Microsoft in 2008.  Mayer is distinguished for an ability to nurture talent,
said Chris Sacca, founder of Lowercase Capital LLC and former
head of special initiatives at Google. That includes Yahoo’s
efforts to catch up in social networking.  “I have never seen anyone invest as much in developing the
talents within her team as Marissa does,” Sacca said in an e-
mailed statement. “All told, her style is meritocratic and
clear.”  Her selection puts Mayer among a small club of women who
run publicly traded technology companies. The list includes  Meg Whitman , CEO of Hewlett-Packard Co. and Ginni Rometty at
International Business Machines Corp.  An engineer and patent holder who earned a bachelor’s
degree in symbolic systems and a master’s degree in computer
science from Stanford University, Mayer stands apart from female
CEOs who boast business degrees.  ‘Street Credibility’  “Marissa has a lot of street credibility with product
managers and engineers, which significantly increases Yahoo’s
chances of attracting the right technology talent,” said Doug Garland, a  former  vice president at Google and senior vice
president at Yahoo, who’s now the chief revenue officer at
music-discovery service Shazam Entertainment Ltd.  She also has acted as a public face of Google, often
speaking at conferences, and serves on the boards of  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  as well as such nonprofits as the  San Francisco 
Museum of  Modern Art  and the  New York City Ballet .  “I worked with Marissa for many years -- she’s a great
product person, very innovative and a real perfectionist who
always wants the best for users,” Google Executive Chairman
 Eric Schmidt  said in an e-mailed statement. “Yahoo has made a
good choice and I am personally very excited to see another
woman become CEO of a technology company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  