-- German Investor Confidence Falls to Six-Month Low
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-17T10:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-17/zew-investor-confidence-declines-to-lowest-since-january.html
German investor confidence declined
for a third month in July as the euro area’s debt crisis and
cooling global demand dimmed the economic outlook.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
minus 19.6 in July from minus 16.9 in the previous month. In the
U.K., inflation dropped to the lowest in 2 1/2 years.  Germany’s economy, which grew 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, is running out of steam as austerity measures across
 Europe  and weakening global growth curb demand for its goods and
damp confidence. The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut
its global growth forecast for 2013 to 3.9 percent from a 4.1
percent estimate in April.  “Germany’s export prospects to Europe are in the doldrums
and the U.S. and  China  cooling doesn’t bode well either,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “A
stronger domestic economy can’t offset that, so we are looking
at a long period of stagnation, albeit at a high level.”  Economists forecast a drop to minus 20, according to the
median of 38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . ZEW’s gauge
of sentiment in the 17-nation euro region fell to minus 22.3
from minus 20.1. A measure of current conditions in Germany
slumped to 21.1 from 33.2.  Rising Wages  The euro pared its gain versus the dollar after the report
before rebounding. It was 0.2 percent stronger at $1.2299 as of
10:35 a.m. London time. Bonds were little changed.  Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index has lost almost 8 percent in
the past four months. Germany’s Bundesbank said June 18 that it
remained to be seen to what extent the financial turmoil “and
signs of a global slowdown further damp prospects for the German
economy.”  Still, on June 8 it revised up its 2012 growth forecast for
Germany to 1 percent from 0.6 percent. The IMF, which has co-
financed bailouts for countries including Ireland and  Greece ,
lowered its growth forecast for the euro region next year to 0.7
percent, from 0.9 percent in April, and left a forecast for a
0.3 percent contraction this year unchanged.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
bolstering domestic spending, helping to insulate Germany from
the debt crisis. Up to now German companies were compensating
for weaker European demand by tapping faster-growing markets
such as China.  Additional Stimulus  Even so, the world’s second-largest economy is battling its
own weakness, with gross domestic product up 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, a sixth straight slowdown.
The  U.S. economy  is also struggling with weaker growth,
prompting the  Federal Reserve  to signal growing support for
additional monetary stimulus if needed.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will deliver his semi-annual
report on the economy and monetary policy before Congress today,
after data yesterday showing a contraction in June retail sales.  In  Asia , South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan ruled
out additional fiscal stimulus for now, saying it could do more
harm than good because the global economy is too weak to make it
meaningful.  “You don’t plant a tree in winter,” Bahk said yesterday
in an interview with Bloomberg News in  Seoul . Elsewhere in Asia,
 Singapore ’s export growth unexpectedly quickened in June and New
Zealand’s consumer prices rose at the slowest rate since 1999
last quarter.  U.K. Inflation  Central bankers from London to Seoul have lowered borrowing
costs or increased bond buying in recent weeks in a round of
international stimulus echoing the response to the 2007-2008
global financial crisis. The  European Central Bank  cut its
benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75 percent on July 5 and
lowered its deposit rate to zero.  The drop in the June U.K. inflation rate to 2.4 percent
from 2.8 percent after clothing prices plunged, helped to
vindicate the central bank’s increase in emergency stimulus this
month.  From May, consumer prices fell 0.4 percent, the biggest
June decline since records began in 1996.  The  Bank of England  added 50 billion pounds to its asset-
purchase program this month as falling inflation gave policy
makers scope to spur an economy struggling to emerge from its
second recession since 2009. The inflation figures offer some
respite for consumers who have seen their wages eroded by
soaring energy prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  