-- Malema Loses Appeal Against His Suspension From South Africa’s Ruling ANC
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-04T17:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/malema-loses-appeal-against-his-suspension-from-south-africa-s-ruling-anc.html
Julius Malema , leader of the youth
wing of South Africa’s ruling African National Congress, lost an
appeal against charges of bringing the party into disrepute and
sowing discord, undermining his political ambitions.  “Discipline is one of the key pillars in the life of
ANC,”  Cyril Ramaphosa , chairman of the party’s appeals panel,
told reporters in Johannesburg today. Malema’s appeal against
two charges of violating the ANC’s constitution “is
dismissed.”  Malema, 30, was cast out of the ANC for five years on Nov.
10, after a disciplinary committee found he flouted party rules
when he criticized its leadership and contradicted policies. The
committee also suspended the youth league’s spokesman, Floyd
Shivambu, from the party for three years, and handed suspended
sentences to four other league officials, on related charges
that were upheld by the appeal panel.  The six men may argue for their sentences to be reduced
because they had not been given the opportunity to present
mitigating arguments, Ramaphosa said. The disciplinary panel,
which must hear their case within 14 days, may decide to impose
even harsher sentences, he said.  The decision on when the suspension will take effect
“resides within the leading structures of the ANC,” Jackson
Mthembu, a spokesman for the party, said by phone today. Earlier
Keith Khoza, another ANC spokesman, said the suspension would
take immediate effect. Malema had retained his membership while
the appeals panel reviewed the disciplinary ruling.  Disrupted  The panel overruled a finding that league officials had
purposefully disrupted a meeting where President  Jacob Zuma  was
present. It dismissed the youth league’s claims that the
disciplinary proceedings were procedurally flawed and that the
officials who oversaw them were biased.  “Substantively Malema is still the loser,”  Aubrey Matshiqi , a political analyst at the Helen Suzman Foundation in
Johannesburg, said in a phone interview. “The verdict against
him has not changed.”  The youth leader, who has publicly ridiculed Zuma, has
lobbied the ANC to adopt a policy of nationalizing mines in
Africa’s biggest economy. Chief executives of the largest
companies operating in South Africa, including  Anglo American
Plc (AGL)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , have warned the policy threat
may deter investment.  The league, which helped Zuma oust Thabo Mbeki as ANC
leader in 2007, successfully pressured the ruling party to study
the viability of nationalization. In October last year, he led
thousands of young supporters on a 62-kilometer (39-mile) march
between Johannesburg and Pretoria, calling for nationalization
and jobs. A quarter of  South Africa ’s workforce is unemployed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  