-- Manchester City Takes Premier League Lead; Arsenal, Wolves Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-04T20:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/arsenal-wolves-end-winless-streaks-in-english-premier-league.html
Manchester City  beat Fulham 3-0 to
take sole possession of first place in English soccer’s Premier
League, while Arsenal and Wolverhampton ended winless runs.  Robin van Persie scored a hat trick as Arsenal routed
Blackburn 7-1 to end a four-game winless streak and Wolves beat
QPR 2-1 for their first victory in 10 games. Norwich beat Bolton
2-0, Sunderland defeated 10-man Stoke 1-0, Swansea won 2-1 at
West Brom and Wigan and Everton tied 1-1.  Manchester City bounced back from a 1-0 loss at Everton
four days ago to move three points ahead of Manchester United,
which visits Chelsea tomorrow. City has won all 12 of its home
games this season, outscoring its opponents 37-6.  “It’s nice to get in early and get the three points and
put the pressure on the other teams,” City’s  Adam Johnson  told
ESPN. “We’re looking forward to seeing the results tomorrow
and, as I say, putting them under pressure.”  Sergio Aguero  opened the scoring with a 10th-minute penalty
kick after referee  Mike Dean  ruled Chris Baird fouled Johnson.
City doubled its lead in the 30th minute when Baird deflected a
ball from Johnson in for an own goal.  City then clinched the victory in the 72nd minute as Dzeko
took a pass from Aguero and put a shot past Mark Schwarzer.  Van Persie gave Arsenal the lead after just two minutes at
the Emirates Stadium, but Morten Gamst Pedersen tied the score
with a free kick in the 31st minute.  Van Persie  scored again in the 38th minute and Alex Oxlade-
Chamberlan added his first Premier League goal two minutes
later. Blackburn’s Gale Givet was shown a red card just before
halftime for a two-footed challenge on van Persie.  Mikel Arteta and Oxlade-Chamberlain scored early in the
second half and van Persie completed his hat trick in the 62nd
minute. Thierry Henry, who came on as a substitute, then closed
the scoring in stoppage time.  Relegation Zone  Wolves moved out of the three relegation places at the
bottom of the standings with the come-from-behind away win.  QPR took the lead in the 16th minute on a goal from  Bobby Zamora , who joined the club from Fulham at the transfer deadline
four days ago. Djibril Cisse was then sent off for QPR in the
34th minute after an altercation with Roger Johnson.  Matt Jarvis  tied the score in the opening minute of the
second half. Kevin Doyle, who came on as a substitute at
halftime, then scored in the 71st minute to give Wolves just
its second away win of the season.  Andrew Surman and Anthony Pilkington scored in the final 20
minutes to lead Norwich past Bolton, which drops into the
relegation zone one point behind Wolves.  James McClean’s goal in the 60th minute gave Sunderland its
seventh win in 10 matches since  Martin O’Neill  took over as
manager in December. Stoke’s Robert Huth was red-carded just
before halftime for a challenge on David Meyler.  Gyfli Sigurdsson and  Danny Graham  scored four minutes apart
in the second half as Swansea won just its second away game.
Victor Anichebe’s 83rd-minute goal gave Everton the draw at
last-place Wigan, which took the lead on an own goal from Phil Neville.  Newcastle hosts  Aston Villa  in tomorrow’s other match and
Tottenham visits Liverpool in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  