-- BNY Mellon Sues Alabama’s Bankrupt Jefferson County Over Sewer Revenue
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/bny-mellon-sues-bankrupt-jefferson-county-over-sewer-revenue.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , as
trustee for $3.6 billion of sewer warrants, sued bankrupt
Jefferson County, Alabama, claiming it’s entitled to all of the
county’s system revenue.  The  bank , in a lawsuit filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Birmingham, Alabama, seeks a judgment that it is
entitled to the system revenue,  capital expenditures , the
payment of sewer warrants and revenue for non-operating
expenses, according to the filing.  If the court disagrees, it should issue a judgment
“granting the trustee such other and further relief” that it
determines to be “just and appropriate,” according to the
filing by the New York-based bank.  Jefferson County filed bankruptcy in November. The county,
state officials, the receiver and bondholders failed to
implement a tentative agreement that would have required the
sewer debt to be cut by about $1 billion, rates to increase and
the  Alabama  Legislature to enact new laws to benefit the
county’s finances.  The judge in the case has said that if the parties can’t
agree on the distribution of sewer revenue, then he would decide
the issue, said Kenneth Klee, a lawyer for the county. BNY
Mellon decided to file the complaint even though the two sides
are still in negotiations, Klee said in a phone interview.  “The county remains confident the court will resolve the
issue of net sewer revenues in its favor,” Klee said.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  