-- Canadian Dollar Gains on Risk Appetite in Longest Win Streak Since October
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/canadian-dollar-gains-on-risk-appetite-in-longest-win-streak-since-october.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced for a fourth
week against its U.S. counterpart, its longest stretch of wins
since October, as stronger economic data from the nation’s
biggest trade partner helped fuel appetite for riskier assets.  The currency reached the strongest level in more than three
months yesterday as the U.S. jobless rate fell to its lowest
since 2009 and stocks climbed. Stronger manufacturing data from
China to Europe to America also stoked demand for higher-
yielding assets. Yields on Canada’s two-year government notes
rose before the government sells C$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion) of
the securities next week.  “As long as the U.S. machine is turning higher, it will
trickle down toward Canada,” said Rahim Madhavji, president and
head trader at Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange in Toronto.
“Going into next week, we will continue to see a strong risk-on
environment.”  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.9 percent to
99.34 cents per U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0018
on Jan. 27. It was the longest winning streak since the four
weeks ended Oct. 28. The loonie touched 99.28 cents yesterday,
the most since Oct. 31. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0066.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index extended its best start to
a year since 1987, rising 1.5 percent yesterday and gaining 2.2
percent in its fifth straight weekly increase.  U.S. Jobs  The loonie climbed yesterday as government data in
 Washington  showed payrolls in the U.S., the world’s largest
economy, swelled by 243,000 jobs last month, following a revised
increase of 203,000 in December. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 140,000. The
unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent, from 8.5 percent.  U.S.  service industries , which account for about 70 percent
of the economy, expanded in January more than forecast, the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index showed
yesterday. U.S. manufacturing grew last month at the fastest
pace in seven months, the ISM’s factory report showed on Feb. 1.  Yesterday’s data cast doubt on the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge
to hold its key  interest rate  at virtually zero until late 2014
and fueled optimism the American economy is weathering  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Canada’s currency strengthened yesterday beyond its 200-day
moving average against the greenback for the first time since
September. In technical analysis, the use of charts to predict
currency moves, surpassing a moving average is a signal an asset
may continue to rise.  ‘Risk-On Sentiment’  “Canada’s major trading partner had data that came out
that was very positive, and that has impacted a risk-on
sentiment,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto.
“The data provided a positive backdrop that gave it the impetus
to push through that 200-day moving average.”  The loonie may advance now to 98.92 Canadian cents per
dollar and then to 98 cents, Watt said.  Canada sells about 75 percent of its exports to the U.S.,
accounting for about 25 percent of its C$1.7 trillion gross
domestic product. The nation is the biggest supplier of energy
to the U.S.  The loonie snapped a two-week losing streak against the
euro, appreciating 1.3 percent to C$1.3071, the most this year,
as  Greece , its private creditors and international authorities
struggled over a second bailout. The  European Central Bank  is
considering using its bond holdings to bolster Greece’s next
rescue program and support efforts to contain Europe’s debt
crisis, three euro-region officials said yesterday.  China, Germany  Canada’s dollar also gained this week as factory
purchasing-manager gauges increased for  China  and  Germany ,
boosting speculation the global economy is improving. A
composite index for manufacturing and services in the euro area
also strengthened, Markit Economics said yesterday in a report.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing yields on  two-year
notes  up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.04
percent, from 1 percent on Jan. 27. The price of the 1 percent
securities due in February 2014 decreased 10 cents to C$99.93.  The government will auction two-year debt on Feb. 8,
according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s website. The
0.75 percent securities are due in May 2014.  Gains by the Canadian dollar this week were tempered by
government data that showed the nation’s  unemployment rate  rose
and its economy unexpectedly contracted. The loonie initially
fell yesterday as a report said the jobless rate rose to 7.6
percent in January, from 7.5 percent the previous month, and
employers added a  net 2,300 jobs . Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast the unemployment rate would hold steady
and that 22,000 positions would be added.  Canadian GDP  Canada’s gross domestic product shrank in November for the
first time in six months, contracting 0.1 percent, on
maintenance shutdowns by crude-oil producers and lower natural-
gas extraction. The data was issued Jan. 31.  Business and government spending growth slipped in January
from a seven-month high, economists in another Bloomberg poll
forecast before the  Ivey purchasing managers  index is released
Feb. 6. The gauge declined to 59.7, from 63.5 in December,
according to the median estimate in the survey.  Canada’s dollar gained 2.5 percent over the past three
months against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar 
rose 1 percent, while the euro dropped 4.4 percent. The  New
Zealand  and Australian dollars were the top performers, climbing
6.7 percent and 4.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  