-- Colorado May Restrict Shale Fracturing at Former Bombing Range
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/colorado-may-take-steps-to-limit-shale-fracturing-at-former-bombing-range.html
Proposed drilling on a former bombing
range that contains unexploded munitions and a landfill prompted
 Colorado  lawmakers this week to introduce a bill that would
require rules for fracking near toxic-waste sites.  “This is quite immediately a public health and safety
issue,” said State Senator Morgan Carroll, a Democrat who co-
sponsored the  measure . “The room for error here is limited.”  With the measure, Colorado joins other states, including
 West Virginia ,  New York  and  Ohio , seeking to regulate hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, in which sand, water and chemicals are
forced into rock under pressure, cracking it and releasing oil
and natural gas.  In January, the Colorado State Land Board signed a
tentative $137 million agreement with  ConocoPhillips  to lease
oil and gas resources underneath 21,048 acres on the bombing
range, said Davy Kong, a  ConocoPhillips (COP)  spokeswoman.  The  Niobrara  Shale formation extends from southeastern
 Wyoming  through northeastern Colorado and underneath the range,
which is partly held in trust by the land board and includes the
Aurora Reservoir, which provides recreation and drinking water
for nearby residents.  There are 4,000 unexploded munitions on the former Lowry
Bombing and Gunnery Range, which was used by the U.S. Army
during World War II, Carroll said, as well as a  landfill  listed
under the Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund toxic-
waste cleanup program because of contaminated ground water.  Asbestos, Debris  The site accepted asbestos, liquid industrial waste and
medical and municipal debris from 1965 through 1990, records
show. It still accepts some asbestos and building materials,
according to the landfill’s website.  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers is working to  clean up 
potentially hazardous military munitions on the 92-square-mile
range, located in Carroll’s district in southeast Denver.  Carroll’s bill would require Colorado’s Oil and Gas
Conservation Commission to establish rules for hydraulic
fracturing near radioactive materials and Superfund sites.  Carroll’s measure would also require  oil companies  to
document the quantity of water needed to horizontally drill a
well and to test the quality of water wells within a half mile
of a rig before and after drilling.  It joins a  second bill  introduced in the Colorado House
that would require the conservation commission to adopt rules
mandating that  oil wells  that are hydraulically fractured be set
back at least 1,000 feet from a school or residence.  Boosting Production  Fracking helped boost production by 38 percent in oil-rich
regions in western and northeastern Colorado to 46,835 wells
last year, up from 33,815 five years ago.  A rule enacted by the conservation commission in December
that requires companies to disclose the contents of fracking
fluid provided Colorado with the “strongest hydraulic
fracturing rule in the country,” Doug Flanders, director of
policy and external affairs for the Colorado Oil and Gas
Association, said in an e-mail.  “Every aspect of oil and gas activity is regulated
including site selection, permitting, down-hole activities,
hydraulic fracturing and final site reclamation,” Flanders
said.  The industry hasn’t taken a position on Carroll’s bill,
Flanders said.  The legislation would also require the conservation
commission to establish rules for the shutdown of operations
when monitors detect a drop in pressure and that prohibit
drilling within a half-mile of surface water and the injection
of any “chemical compound that would cause cancer” into the
ground.  A third bill that would clarify existing law with regard to
how cities and counties can regulate fracking is expected to be
introduced in the Colorado House sometime this month, Chris
Kennedy, chief of staff for State Representative Matt Jones, a
Democrat, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  