-- Court Rejects Petition Against Home Minister Chidambaram in Airwaves Case
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-02-04T11:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/court-rejects-petition-against-home-minister-chidambaram-in-airwaves-case.html
An Indian court dismissed a petition
asking that Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram be probed for
corruption in a 2008 sale of phone licenses that were canceled
by the nation’s judiciary this week.  The rejection comes as a relief to Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s government, which has been assailed by allegations of
graft and policy drift for more than a year after a former
Cabinet minister and company executives were charged with
conspiring to sell phone permits at below-market rates.  The court’s order followed a petition by regional
politician Subramanian Swamy, who alleged that as finance
minister the permits were awarded, Chidambaram was party to
discussions on the pricing of airwaves. During arguments, Swamy
has said the evidences he produced before the court is
sufficient to establish Chidambaram is as culpable as  Andimuthu
Raja , a former telecommunications minister who is in jail while
facing trial in the scam.  “This is a small relief for Chidambaram and the
government,” N. Bhaskara Rao, New Delhi-based chairman of the
Centre for Media Studies, said in a telephone interview.
“Recent developments have negative implications not just for
telecommunications but other sectors also. Foreign investors
will be concerned and there will be a pause in investments.”  Swamy plans to challenge the dismissal of his petition in a
higher court, he told reporters in New Delhi today.  Resignation Demanded  While hearing a separate plea from Swamy, the  Supreme Court 
on Feb. 2 left it to the trial court to decide whether to probe
the role of Chidambaram in the phone-permit case. In another
order,  Supreme Court  Justices G.S. Singhvi and A.K. Ganguly
canceled 122 permits to run cellular services that were awarded
in 2008, saying the allocation was done in an arbitrary and
unconstitutional manner.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  has demanded the
home minister’s resignation, while the ruling  Congress party  has
rejected Swamy’s allegations.  Chidambaram, 66, a lawyer and Harvard Business School
Graduate, is one of the most prominent members of the  Congress -
led government. He was finance minister from 2004 until 2008,
and took over as home minister following the November 2008
Mumbai terrorist attacks. Chidambaram denies approving the
pricing, saying last year he urged an auction of the permits
instead of their issuance for fees fixed more than six years
earlier.  Revenue Loss  India ’s chief auditor said the first-come, first-serve sale
four years ago may have lowered government revenue by $31
billion. The  Central Bureau of Investigation  put the loss to the
government from the license awards at a lower $4.9 billion.  Raja and company executives face charges they conspired to
grant permits to unqualified companies for personal benefit. All
deny wrongdoing and are on trial.  Allegations of corruption weakened Singh’s government,
stalling its legislative agenda for much of the last 14 months.
Street protests and hunger strikes triggered appeals from
business leaders to curb graft that has dented investor
confidence in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  