-- Draft Fracking Rule Has ‘Good Elements,’ Environmentalist Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-04T00:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/draft-fracking-rule-has-good-elements-environmentalist-says.html
The U.S. Interior Department’s
proposed guidelines for natural gas fracking on public lands
don’t specify how drillers will disclose the chemicals they use.  Environmentalists prefer the disclosure to the public be
made on the web as well as by certified mail to landowners
living within two miles of the fracking, Dusty Horwitt, senior
counsel of the Environmental Working Group, said in a telephone
interview.  The draft of the measure only says the information “will
become a matter of public record.”  “There are some good elements in the rule,” Horwitt said
after being shown a draft.  Among his concerns are an exemption from disclosure of
 trade secrets .  “Our concern is whether the exemption would swallow the
rule,” he said.  The Obama administration will require companies operating
on public lands, such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp ., to report a
complete makeup of chemicals used in the fluid, and the volume
of fluid used. The agency also will require drillers to disclose
the source, access route and transport for all water anticipated
to be used in the well, according to the draft rule obtained
today and confirmed by the Interior Department.  Fracking Widespread  Fracking, a technology that releases gas trapped in shale
rock by injecting water, sand and chemicals thousands of feet
underground, is used for almost every new natural-gas well
drilled on U.S. lands. The Washington-based Environmental
Working Group said some of the chemicals already disclosed by
the companies are known to cause cancer or reproductive harm.  The  energy industry  already is disclosing chemicals used
under state requirements on websites such as  www.fracfocus.org .,
said Reid Porter, a spokesman for  American Petroleum Institute ,
the largest trade group representing energy companies.  “The federal government should not add bureaucratic layers
where disclosure is already occurring,” he said in an e-mail.
He declined to comment on the details of the rule before it’s
officially published.  Some states, such as Wyoming and  Texas , also require
chemical disclosure and permit limited exemptions for trade
secrets.  Rule in Progress  “We will continue to gather public input throughout this
process to ensure that the disclosure rule enhances public
confidence in hydraulic fracturing on public lands, while also
encouraging continued safe and responsible exploration and
production for many decades to come,” Adam Fetcher, a spokesman
for the Interior Department, said in an e-mail.  New rules are part of President Barack Obama’s plan to
increase natural gas production in safe and environmentally
friendly way.  “We have a supply of natural gas that can last America
nearly 100 years and my administration will take every possible
action to safely develop this energy,” Obama said in his Jan.
24 State of the Union address. “I’m requiring all companies
that drill for gas on public lands to disclose the chemicals
they use, because America will develop this resource without
putting the health and safety of our citizens at risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  