-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Rally of 2012; Xstrata, Glencore Gain
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-02-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-rally-of-2012-xstrata-gains.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly gain this year, sending the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index to its
highest level in six months, as manufacturing increased globally
and the U.S. jobless rate fell to the lowest in three years.  Xstrata Plc and Glencore International Plc surged more than
13 percent after the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
trader held talks to buy the Zug, Switzerland-based mining
company. Temenos Group AG rallied 20 percent as Misys Plc, the
British maker of software for banks, said it has held talks
about a merger with the Swiss company.  The  Stoxx 600  climbed 3.6 percent to 264.6 this past week,
extending the January rally of 4 percent that was the best start
to a year since 1998. The equity gauge has gained 8.2 percent in
2012 and is up 23 percent since its 2 1/2-year low on Sept. 22.  “We had a very good week,” Veronika Pechlaner, who helps
manage 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) at  Jersey , Channel
Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., said in a telephone interview. The
U.S. employment numbers “are providing more hope to the market
that the recovery in the U.S. is not only on track, but maybe
accelerating a little bit.”  The Stoxx 600 on Feb. 1 surged 2 percent, the most in six
weeks, as gauges of manufacturing increased from the U.S. to
 China . The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. manufacturing
 index  rose to 54.1 in January from 53.1 in December, while
China’s official purchasing managers’ index increased to 50.5 in
January from 50.3 in December.  European Manufacturing  The Markit Economics final purchasing managers’ index, a
gauge of manufacturing in the euro area, climbed to 48.8 in
January from 46.9 in the prior month. A  U.K. (PMITMUK)  manufacturing index
also jumped to an eight-month high.  The European stocks gauge rallied 1.7 percent yesterday
after U.S. Labor Department figures showed employment climbed
more than forecast, with a 243,000 increase in payrolls that was
the most since April. The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.3
percent, the lowest since February 2009.  German unemployment also dropped more than economists
forecast to a two-decade low in January, the Federal Labor
Agency said Jan. 31. The number of people  out of work  fell a
seasonally adjusted 34,000 to 2.85 million for the biggest drop
since March. The adjusted jobless rate slipped to 6.7 percent
from 6.8 percent.  Portuguese Bonds  European stocks fell the most in six weeks on Jan. 30 as
Portuguese bonds sank. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  then
said his country’s debt has been judged “perfectly
sustainable” by the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  and that there is no risk of writedowns on the bonds.  EU policy makers agreed on a fiscal-discipline treaty that
allows for sanctions on high-deficit states and requires members
to enact laws to limit budget shortfalls. They decided to bring
the region’s permanent bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, into operation on July 1, a year before schedule. The
U.K. and the  Czech Republic  both refused to sign the pact.  Negotiations between  Greece  and its creditors on the terms
of an accord to reduce the country’s borrowings continued all
week. Greek bondholders may get a sweetener tied to a revival in
economic growth that would ease the impact of accepting a lower
 interest rate  on new bonds, according to people with knowledge
of the talks.  All 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 gained more than
1.2 percent. Automakers and mining companies rose the most,
adding 6.6 percent and 6 percent, respectively.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata surged 16 percent and Glencore jumped 13 percent
after Glencore held talks to buy the shares in Xstrata that it
doesn’t already own to add mines from  Africa  to  Asia . Glencore,
which holds a 34 percent stake in Xstrata, said that there’s no
certainty it will make an offer.  London-based Anglo American Plc rose 7.8 percent, Nyrstar
NV, the world’s largest producer of refined zinc, climbed 5.7
percent and Rio Tinto Group, the third-biggest mining company,
gained 4.7 percent.  PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest carmaker,
jumped 13 percent, the biggest gain among carmakers. Renault SA,
 France ’s second-biggest carmaker, gained 8.1 percent. Renault-
Nissan 2011 global sales rose 10 percent to a record, driven by
 emerging markets  and the U.S., the company said on Feb. 1.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  rose 4.6 percent after the  world’s second-largest
truckmaker  reported fourth-quarter earnings before interest and
taxes that increased 26 percent to 6.96 billion kronor ($1.04
billion) from 5.52 billion kronor a year earlier.  Banks Rally  Banks as a group added 5 percent, with Bank of Ireland Plc
rising 30 percent for the biggest gain, followed by a 23 percent
advance for Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl and an increase of 19
percent for Banco Popolare SC.  Temenos surged 20 percent, the most since October, as Misys
said it has held talks with the Swiss software maker about an
all-share merger. In a separate statement, Temenos said it is
“evaluating its strategic options.” Misys gained 0.8 percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, rose 2.6
percent as it agreed to sell its Inoxum stainless steel unit to
Outokumpu Oyj. The deal valued the division at about 2.7 billion
euros ($3.5 billion).  Outokumpu,  Finland ’s biggest stainless-steel producer,
tumbled 22 percent, the largest decline since 2008.  Repsol YPF SA, the biggest  oil company  in  Spain , fell 3.2
percent. Pagina/12 newspaper said Argentine officials had
discussed a takeover of its YPF unit, the South American
country’s biggest oil producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  