-- Euro Declines as Greek Debt Stalemate Increases European Crisis Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/euro-declines-as-greek-debt-stalemate-increases-european-crisis-concern.html
The euro fell against the yen,
dropping from a one-month high, as an unresolved Greek debt-swap
agreement with private bondholders added to concern the region’s
fiscal crisis is far from over.  The 17-nation currency dropped against all of its most-
traded counterparts except for the Swiss franc, which declined
after touching the highest level since the central bank acted in
September to stem gains. The yen rose to almost a record against
the  U.S. dollar , leading to speculation Japan may intervene.
South Africa’s rand and Mexico’s peso led gains after the U.S.
jobless rate dropped. The  European Central Bank  is forecast to
keep rates unchanged when it meets next week.  “The market is short euros and is likely to become
increasingly short euros as the final decision about Greece is
contemplated,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
world’s largest custodial bank. “This employment report has
garnered a lot of attention on behalf of international
investors, and it’ll be interesting to see if we see a carry-
through rally next week.” A short position is a bet a currency
will depreciate.  The euro dropped 0.6 percent to 100.79 yen after touching
102.21 on Jan. 26, the highest level since Dec. 23. The shared
currency fell 0.5 percent to $1.3158. The yen appreciated 0.1
percent to 76.60 per dollar and reached 76.03 Feb. 1, the
strongest level since reaching a post-World War II high of 75.35
Oct. 31.  The rand added 3.1 percent to 7.5218 per dollar in the
biggest weekly gain against the greenback among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso rallied 2 percent to
12.6596, extending its gain against the dollar this year to 10.1
percent.  ‘Uncertainty in Greece’  The euro dropped as leaders failed to reach an agreement
with Greek bondholders on a restructuring of the nation’s debt.
The deal is part of a second bailout that  Greece  and European
officials have been attempting to finalize since July.  “The continuing uncertainty in Greece has contributed to a
slightly weaker euro this week,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at broker FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in  London .  The ECB was considering using its bond holdings to bolster
Greece’s next rescue program and support efforts to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis, according to three euro-region officials.  The central bank meets Feb. 9 and will keep rates at 1
percent, according to the median estimate of 57 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The ECB cut rates twice, in November and
December, and will auction unlimited three-year loans Feb. 29,
after lending banks 489 billion euros ($642 billion) of them
Dec. 21.  Net Shorts  Futures traders  decreased bets the euro will fall versus
the dollar, so-called net shorts, after increasing them for five
straight weeks to a record last week. The difference between
wagers that the shared currency will weaken versus those that it
will rise narrowed to 157,546 on Jan. 31, data  from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed yesterday.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by 243,000, after a revised
203,000 gain in December, the Labor Department reported
yesterday in  Washington . The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3
percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Feb. 2, in
testimony to the House Budget Committee in Washington, that the
economy has shown “signs of improvement” while remaining
vulnerable to shocks.  The dollar has gained 6.2 percent over the past six months,
the best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
dropped 3 percent and the yen strengthened 5.1 percent.  Swiss Franc  The  Swiss franc  reached 1.02319 against the euro Feb. 1,
the strongest level since September, when the  Swiss National
Bank  said it would cap the franc at 1.20 per euro after it
touched a euro-era record 1.00749 in August.  The franc fell 0.1 percent to 1.20838 per euro.  The Canadian currency appreciated even after the nation’s
unemployment rate increased. The loonie rose 0.8 percent to
99.34 Canadian cents per U.S. dollar after yesterday touching
99.28 cents, the strongest since Oct. 31.  The nation’s jobless rate rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5
percent as employment increased by 2,300 last month,  Statistics
Canada  said yesterday. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
forecast unemployment to stay at 7.5 percent and 22,000 jobs to
be added.  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  has said he will take
decisive steps against one-sided moves in the yen if needed. The
currency’s level doesn’t reflect economic fundamentals, and
falling U.S. interest rates are increasing speculative yen
buying, he told reporters in  Tokyo . Japan sold yen on Oct. 31 on
concern its advance to a record would hurt exporters.  The yen dropped yesterday after the U.S. unemployment data
damped speculation the Fed will add another round of asset
purchases to spur growth.  “The pressure to intervene in the yen is receding with
each rally in dollar-yen,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at the online trading firm GFT Forex in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  