-- Foreclosure Accord With Banks Said to Ensure Same Terms for All 50 States
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/foreclosure-deal-said-to-ensure-same-terms-for-all-50-states.html
Lenders including  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and state attorneys general
agreed to ensure that states signing a nationwide accord on
foreclosures will be entitled to improved terms won later by
states that opt out, two people familiar with the matter said.  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris is one of the
highest profile attorneys general to publicly balk at the
settlement, saying she won’t sign a deal that blocks
investigations into  mortgage loans .  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who last week
declined to say whether he would sign the deal, yesterday sued
Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,  New York- 
based JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in state court in Brooklyn
over the use of a national mortgage database that the state
claims led to improper foreclosures.  The agreement to grant so-called most-favored nation status
comes in the endgame of a probe that began in 2010 following
claims of widespread foreclosure wrongdoing by mortgage
servicers. States have until Feb. 6 to accept the agreement with
the five largest servicers, which also include San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Detroit-
based Ally Financial Inc. The deal, said to be worth as much as
$25 billion, will settle allegations the banks used faulty or
forged documents to seize homes from borrowers.  California’s Share  Without California, the value of the deal may sink to
$17 billion, said one of the people. Both declined to be
identified because the negotiations aren’t public.  The most-favored nation provision would only kick in under
certain thresholds, said a third person familiar with the matter
who also didn’t want to be named because the talks aren’t
public.  All 50 states announced an investigation into bank
foreclosure practices in October 2010. A group of state
attorneys general and federal officials have since negotiated
terms of the settlement, which would set standards for how banks
conduct foreclosures while providing mortgage relief to
borrowers.  Harris has said she won’t sign a deal blocking her from
investigating whether the five largest mortgage servicers misled
homeowners about the terms of their loans.  Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden also has concerns
about the scope of the liability releases that would be given to
the banks, according to his office.  Nevada’s Questions  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto wrote on Jan
27 to Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  and Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan seeking details on the
settlement so she could evaluate it.  Schneiderman was selected by the Obama administration last
week to help lead a joint state and federal group probing
misconduct in the packaging and sale of residential mortgage-
backed securities.  The term “most favored nation” is used in international
law to specify that countries given that status are ensured that
no other country will receive better trading terms. If so, the
same benefits must be conveyed to all other trading partners
with that designation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  