-- Giants’ Coughlin Turns Up Heat as Team Caps Super Bowl Practices
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/giants-coughlin-turns-up-heat-as-team-caps-super-bowl-practices.html
New York Giants coach  Tom Coughlin ,
who is known for his attention to detail, made sure the
temperature was just right as his team finished up a week of
Super Bowl practices in Indianapolis.  The Giants were told the on-field temperature will be 68 to
70 degrees (20 to 21 degrees Celsius) inside Lucas Oil Stadium
for the  National Football League ’s championship game tomorrow,
so he had the temperature set to 70 during each day of practice
at the University of Indianapolis’ practice field.  “We were able to get a good sweat going, working in
conditions like they’ll have Sunday,” Coughlin told reporters
yesterday. “Of course, we didn’t have 60,000 people watching.”  Coughlin took care of that element, as well, having crowd
noise piped into the practice facility on the campus seven miles
south of downtown Indianapolis.  The  New England Patriots  completed their practice sessions
yesterday with an hour-long walk-through in which tight end  Rob Gronkowski  participated, moving without a limp as the Patriots
ran offensive plays.  Gronkowski returned to practice a day earlier for the first
time since suffering a left ankle sprain on Jan. 22 in the
Patriots’ victory against Baltimore in the American Football
Conference championship game. He is listed as questionable for
tomorrow’s game.  “We’ll see where he’s at on Sunday,”  New England  coach
Bill Belichick told reporters. “I saw no setbacks. He’s still
making progress.”  Bradshaw Skips Practice  Giants running back  Ahmad Bradshaw , who has an injured
right foot, was held out of yesterday’s session after
participating in practice the previous two days.  “He’s OK,” Coughlin said. “He’ll be ready. He’ll be
listed as probable. He got in two good days of work prior to
this. He’s prepared.”  The game is a rematch of the 2008  Super Bowl  in which the
Giants upset the undefeated Patriots 17-14 when  Eli Manning 
threw a scoring pass to Plaxico Burress with 35 seconds left.  The Patriots entered this season as Super Bowl favorites,
with 9-2 odds that were the best among the NFL’s 32 teams. New
England beat the Denver Broncos and  Baltimore Ravens  at home to
advance to the Super Bowl.  Chuck Noll’s Record  Belichick is chasing Chuck Noll, who won four Super Bowls
during his 23-year run as coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers.
Noll’s final season was in 1991, which was Belichick’s first
year as an NFL coach with the  Cleveland Browns . Belichick has
been the Patriots’ coach since 2000 and won Super Bowl titles
after the 2001, 2003 and 2004 seasons.  The five Super Bowl appearances for Belichick and
quarterback Tom Brady are the most for a coach-quarterback
combination, exceeding Hall of Famers Tom Landry and Roger
Staubach of  Dallas , Noll and Terry Bradshaw of Pittsburgh, and
Marv Levy and Jim Kelly of Buffalo.  “Slept like a baby,” Belichick said yesterday at a news
conference. “Honestly, I usually do during the season. I start
early and have a full day of things that I need to do to prepare
myself and prepare the team.”  The Giants beat the  New York Jets  and  Dallas Cowboys  to
finish the regular season and become the first team to win the
National Football Conference’s East division title with fewer
than 10 wins. New York then notched playoff wins against the
Atlanta Falcons, the 15-1  Green Bay Packers  and the San
Francisco 49ers.  Giants Are Underdogs  New York started the season with 25-1 odds to win the
championship. The Giants are a 2 1/2-point underdog tomorrow
against the Patriots.  One month before the opening week of the regular season,
the NFL and its players completed a 10-year labor agreement that
ended a 4 1/2-month lockout and allowed the U.S.’s richest and
most popular sports league to reopen for business.  Ratings for playoff games reached historic levels this
season. An average of 53.7 million viewers watched this year’s
conference title games, the most since 1982, the NFL said.  The Giants and Patriots are preparing for what is projected
to be the most-watched program in U.S. television history,
according to industry analysts, surpassing the record 111
million viewers for last year’s game between the Packers and
Steelers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  