-- Gingrich Ties to Fannie, Freddie Said to Extend to Speaker Days
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-02-04T20:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/gingrich-ties-to-fannie-freddie-said-to-extend-to-speaker-days.html
Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  had ties to  Freddie Mac  and Fannie Mae during his time
as speaker of the House from 1995 to 1999, adding to questions
about the nature of his relationship with the home mortgage
companies.  Gingrich, then a U.S. representative from  Georgia , visited
Ireland in 1998 on a trip that was partly sponsored by Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae, the New York Times reported today. Gingrich
also helped thwart measures that would have boosted fees paid by
the two mortgage companies, the newspaper reported.  Gingrich’s consulting work for Freddie Mac after he left
Congress has emerged as a theme in the Republican presidential
nomination campaign and drawn criticism from rivals. Freddie Mac
and  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  have drawn about $153 billion in taxpayer aid
since losses from risky mortgages caused them to be brought
under U.S. conservatorship in September 2008.  Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail requesting comment on his connections to Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae during his time in Congress. Douglas Duvall,
a Freddie Mac spokesman, declined to comment.  Andrew Wilson ,
spokesman for Fannie Mae, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Belfast Visit  Gingrich visited a home-building project in  Belfast ,
 Northern Ireland , as part of a 1998 trip that was sponsored by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Times reported.  In 1995, Gingrich helped derail a proposal that could have
added billions of dollars in fees to Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ,
and opposed another measure that year to raise fees on the two
companies, according to the newspaper.  Gingrich expressed support for Fannie Mae, traveling to
Atlanta in 1995 to help open a Fannie Mae office promoting home
ownership for low- and moderate-income families.  In a press release issued at the time, Gingrich said,
“Fannie Mae is an excellent example of a former government
institution fulfilling its mandate while functioning in the
market economy.”  Fannie Mae hired Gingrich’s former chief of staff, Arne
Christenson, as vice president of regulatory policy, in 1999,
according the website of the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics. He worked there until 2003, the center
said.  Freddie Mac Adviser  Bloomberg News first reported in November that Freddie Mac
paid Gingrich at least $1.6 million for advice over a period of
eight years, from 1999 to 2007, after he left Congress.  Some Republicans have criticized Freddie Mac because the
company invested in risky mortgages and then needed billions of
dollars in taxpayer money for a bailout after the housing market
meltdown in 2008.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor and the
front-runner for the Republican nomination, has disparaged the
former House speaker as a Washington “influence peddler,”
focusing on his contract with Freddie Mac after leaving
Congress.  Gingrich has said he has never worked as a lobbyist, adding
that Freddie Mac hired him mainly to draw upon his training as
an historian and strategist.  Freddie Mac Critic  Throughout the campaign, Gingrich has tried to distance
himself from Freddie Mac, criticizing its business model and
even suggesting some Democrats should be jailed for associating
with the company’s officials at a time when the housing market
was about to collapse.  Gingrich, campaigning in  Las Vegas  yesterday, sought to use
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac to attack Romney.  “We did not create Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac so that rich
guys like Mitt Romney and Goldman Sachs could make money,”
Gingrich said to cheers from the crowd. “We created them to
provide low-cost housing to the American people and their
current behavior is a betrayal of the very purpose of founding
them and Congress should be investigating them right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  