-- Greek Bailout Hangs on Razor’s Edge as Reforms, Cuts Sought
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-05T16:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/greece-talks-enter-final-phase-on-2nd-bailout.html
Greece ’s efforts to win a second
bailout from international creditors teetered in the balance as
negotiations in  Athens  failed to clinch an agreement.  “The distance between success and failure, which could
come from misfortune or misunderstanding, is very small,” Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters in Athens
yesterday after consultations with euro area finance ministers.
“We are on razor’s edge.”  While agreement had been found on issues such as bank
recapitalization and state asset sales, the government and the
so-called troika of international creditors are still at odds
over labor reforms and fiscal measures for this year. The talks
with euro-area finance ministers were “very difficult,”
Venizelos said yesterday.  With the country’s stability at stake, the government is
racing to clinch agreement on a plan that’s been in the works
since July, with talks between international monitors and Greek
officials running in parallel with discussions among caretaker
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s coalition members and Greece’s
government and its private creditors.  Venizelos and Papademos convened with leaders of the three
political parties backing Papademos after “intensive” meetings
with representatives of international creditors earlier in
Athens today.  Bond Payment  Open questions involve how much more aid Greece needs, how
much more austerity is required, and how to involve the  European
Central Bank  in the debt swap. Facing a 14.5 billion-euro ($19.1
billion) bond payment on March 20 and general elections as soon
as April, Papademos must heed calls for tighter austerity to
complete the talks on a second aid package in time.  Venizelos said everything needed to be completed by tonight
in advance of a meeting of euro-area ministers scheduled for
Feb. 8. A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13
to allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due.  The discussions have led to tussles among European central
bankers and political leaders. The rescue blueprint includes a
loss of more than 70 percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt
exchange and loans that will probably exceed the 130 billion
euros now on the table.  ‘Pandora’s Box’  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said a collapse of Greece’s economy would open a “Pandora’s
box” that would kill a euro-area recovery.  “We are in a make-or-break situation and Greece plays a
very important role -- and if we find a solution in the next few
days, I think we’re on the right track,” Ackermann told a panel
yesterday in Munich. Ackermann was due fly to Athens last night
as talks go on over the swap involving Greek debt with a face
value of about 200 billion euros.  The ECB is considering using its bond holdings to bolster
Greece’s next rescue program and support efforts to contain the
sovereign debt crisis, three euro-region officials said. The ECB
has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped nations’ bonds
since 2010 and between 36 billion euros and 55 billion euros are
invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to estimates by
 Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  Greek Yields  The euro fell against the yen last week, dropping from a
one-month high, as the unresolved Greek situation added to
concern the region’s fiscal crisis is far from over. The yield
on Germany’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 8 basis points to 1.93
percent, while the yield on Greek 10-year bonds fell 18 basis
points to 34.19 percent.  Papademos held meetings over the weekend with members of
the so-called troika -- the European Commission, the ECB and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- over what the country has to do
to receive more funds. A government official said after
yesterday’s meeting the creditors were insisting on cuts to
wages and bonuses.  The troika wants the country to detail over 4 billion euros
of measures to meet targets for 2011 and 2012 because wage cuts
will deepen the recession and cause a shortfall this year, the
official told reporters in Athens. Another official said the
talks were difficult though not at an impasse.  With Papademos’s term set to end when general elections are
held, most likely in April, EU and IMF officials seek guarantees
from political leaders in Greece that they will stick to pledges
made to receive the financing.  Minimum Wage  Underlining the complexity of the task for Papademos,
representatives of Greek employers and the biggest private
sector union on Feb. 3 called on him to resist pressure to cut
the  minimum wage  and holiday allowances.  The troika argues that cutting private-sector holiday
allowances is among reforms necessary to boost competitiveness
in the country. Those opposed say the cuts would deepen the
country’s recession, now in its fifth year.  The troika demanded the minimum wage be cut to less than
600 euros a month and that at least one holiday allowance be
abolished, Mega TV said, citing unidentified ministers who met
with Venizelos yesterday. Supplementary pensions should be cut
by 35 percent, the Athens-based channel said.  Greece must carefully examine the terms being demanded by
international creditors before agreeing to them, said George Karatzaferis, leader of the Laos party, one of the three
supporting Papademos.  Budget Targets  “I will examine every detail and footnote,” Karatzaferis
said in Thessaloniki yesterday, according to an e-mailed
transcript of his speech. “If we don’t agree with something and
the troika insists, we won’t take the package.”  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May
2010, prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country’s
economy shrank 6 percent last year, according to the latest IMF
estimates, the  budget deficit  is still close to 10 percent of
GDP and unemployment is around 18 percent.  “We can’t pay into a bottomless pit,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Feb. 2. “Greece needs a new
program, there’s no question about that, but Greece must create
the conditions for it.”  More austerity risks triggering a “social explosion,”
Hieronymos II, the head of Greece’s Orthodox Church, said in a
statement on Feb. 3.  Bitter Pill  “We are being asked to take even larger doses of a medicine
that has proven to be deadly and to undertake commitments that
do not solve the problem, but only temporarily postpone the
foretold death of our economy,” he said.  Papademos’s spokesman, Pantelis Kapsis, denied news reports
on Feb. 3 that the leader would resign if leaders of the parties
backing his interim government refused to agree to additional
conditions for new financing.  Even after a second bailout, Greece may be saddled with too
much debt, too little growth and too large a budget hole to do
without even more money, which euro nations led by  Germany  are
increasingly reluctant to offer.  The lead negotiators of the creditors’ steering committee
working on a debt accord with Greece,  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the International Institute of Finance, and  Jean Lemierre , a senior adviser to the chairman of BNP Paribas SA,
returned to Athens this weekend to continue talks.  Deutsche Bank’s Ackerman is the chairman of the group,
based in  Washington , which has more than 450 financial firms as
members and is representing private creditors in the talks.  Those talks are happening in parallel with those with the
troika, Venizelos said yesterday “but that’s now the easiest
part of the process.”  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Foxwell{ at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  