-- Missouri Judge Rejects Congressional District Map Challenge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-04T00:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/missouri-judge-rejects-congressional-district-map-challenge-1-.html
The  Missouri  Legislature’s new
federal congressional district map passes legal requirements for
compactness of those territories, a state court judge ruled.  Judge Daniel R. Green in Jefferson City today rejected a
two-pronged challenge to the Legislature’s new map, which was
created after 2010 U.S. Census data showed the state’s
relatively slow  population growth  required the elimination of
one of its nine districts.  Missouri’s General Assembly passed the new map in May,
overriding Governor Jay Nixon’s veto.  “This court declines plaintiffs’ invitation to engage in a
never-ending game of one-upmanship in a constant search for the
ultimate map,” Green said, finding that the legislators’ map
met legal requirements for contiguousness of area and equal
distribution of population.  The state’s  Supreme Court  last month overturned a prior
ruling on compactness by Green, returning the case to him with
instructions to hold an evidentiary hearing.  “While we have received a favorable ruling from the
Circuit Court, we recognize that this is just the latest step in
the process and the issue will likely return to the Missouri
Supreme Court in the coming days for a final decision.”
Attorney General Chris Koster said in a press statement
announcing the trial court decision.  St. Louis attorney Gerry Greiman, who represented one set
of plaintiffs, said in a phone interview tonight that Koster is
correct, that his clients will appeal Green’s ruling.  Because the case involves a constitutional issue, Greiman
said, that challenge will skip Missouri’s intermediate-level
appellate court and go directly to the state’s Supreme Court,
where he will seek an expedited review.  “We think it’s clear legal error,” he said of the judge’s
decision today. The Supreme Court had instructed Green to
determine if the new maps were “as compact as they may be,”
the attorney said, asserting that Green’s decision gave no
effect to the high court’s standard.  The cases are Pearson v. Koster, 11AC-CC00624, and
McClatchey v. Carnahan, 11AC-CC00752, Cole County, Missouri,
Circuit Court (Jefferson City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  