-- Job Gains From Factories to Stores Add Heft to U.S. Job Market Recovery
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/job-gains-from-factories-to-stores-add-heft-to-u-s-job-market-recovery.html
The U.S. labor market recovery is
broadening as industries from construction to retail to
manufacturing added workers in January and the jobless rate fell
to the lowest level in three years.  The world’s largest economy generated 243,000 jobs last
month following a 203,000 increase in December, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday in Washington. The  share  of industries
showing job gains climbed to the highest level since April.  Stocks advanced, extending the best start to a year for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1987, on optimism the economy
will weather the European debt crisis. The data may help
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election bid while casting doubt on
the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to keep lending rates low at least
through late 2014.  “There’s encouraging breadth in terms of what we are
seeing in the labor market,” Bruce Kasman, chief economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co in New York, said in a conference call after
the report. “We got good gains in both the goods-producing and
service-producing industries,” he said. “We don’t think the
Fed will need to deliver further quantitative easing during
2012,” he said, referring to large-scale asset purchases.  The Labor Department’s so-called employment diffusion
index, which measures the share of industries adding jobs,
climbed to 64.1 in January from 62.4 a month earlier. The gauge
was last higher in April, when it was at 65.2. Prior to a surge
in early 2011, the index was last above 61 in January 2007.
Readings above 50 signal more industries are adding jobs than
cutting them.  Service Providers  Manufacturing payrolls increased by 50,000, the most in a
year, and service providers added 162,000 jobs, the biggest gain
since September. Professional and business services hired 70,000
workers, the most since March. Employment in leisure and
hospitality, education and health care also rose.  “It basically gives the recovery more legs if the hiring
is broad-based,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. “You want the
improving economic picture to come from many industries.”  The unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent in January from
8.5 percent.  The payroll report coincided with other stronger-than-
forecast data this week.  Service industries  last month grew the
most in a year, and the pace of manufacturing expansion was the
strongest since June, according to the Tempe, Arizona-based
Institute for Supply Management.  Car Sales  Car sales in January rose to a 14.1 million annual rate,
the highest since the government’s “cash-for-clunkers” program
in August 2009, industry data showed.  Excluding  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and Walgreen Co., same store
sales for the 20 companies tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-
based Retail Metrics advanced 4 percent, beating estimates for a
3 percent gain.  The median projection in the Bloomberg survey called for
payrolls to rise by 140,000. Revisions added a total of 60,000
jobs to payrolls in November and December.  Sustained increases of around 200,000 jobs a month are
needed to bring the  unemployment rate  down one percentage point
over a year, according to  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Obama used yesterday’s report to push lawmakers for an
extension of the payroll-tax cut for workers and unemployment
benefits.  ‘Speeding Up’  “The recovery is speeding up,” Obama said at a fire
station in Arlington, Virginia. “And we’ve got to do everything
in our power to keep it going.”  Employment, overtime and hours worked in factories
increased as manufacturers, who have been leading the two-year
recovery, boosted production to rebuild inventories and meet
global demand for their goods.  Assembly-line workers put in an average 41.9 hours of work
each week, the most since 1998.  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  plans to hire 500 people in the U.S.
this year as the economy improves and  Europe  works out its debt
crisis, Vivek Ranadive, chief executive officer of the  Palo
Alto , California-based company said in an interview.  “We are hiring quite rapidly now, all in sales and
service,” Ranadive said last week at the  World Economic Forum ’s
annual conference in Davos,  Switzerland . “It’s a good time to
hire.”  Construction companies added 21,000 workers last month. The
number of people unable to go to work because of bad weather was
206,000 last month, less than half the 424,000 average for the
month since 1976. The shortfall signals mild weather may have
played a role in the gain in employment, according to Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .  Hourly Earnings  Average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent to $23.29, the
report showed. The average work week for all workers held at
34.5 hours.  The Fed said on Jan. 25 that it would extend its low-rate
pledge from a prior date of mid-2013. Bernanke, speaking at a
news conference after the meeting, said that the option of a
third round of large-scale bond purchases is still “on the
table.”  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke told the House
Budget Committee in Washington this week.  Yesterday’s figures may change the Fed’s thinking, said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York. “The report definitely scales down the odds for QE3,
particularly the drop in the unemployment rate,” Feroli said.
“There is strength in the labor market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  