-- Kenya Says Al-Qaeda-Linked Fighters Driven From Two Somali Bases
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-02-04T11:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/kenya-says-al-qaeda-linked-fighters-driven-from-two-somali-bases.html
Kenya ’s army said it pushed al-
Shabaab from two areas in southern Somalia that the group was
using to transport contraband and improvised explosive devices
into the East African nation.  Islamic militants linked to al-Qaeda lost control of the
town of Hosingo, through which electronics and sugar were being
smuggled, on Feb. 1 and Badhadhe the following day, Colonel
Cyrus Oguna, a spokesman for the Kenya Defence Forces, told
reporters in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, today.  Yesterday, Kenyan helicopter gunships thwarted a planned
retaliatory attack by al-Shabaab fighters near Badhadhe,
destroying 18 of their vehicles, Oguna said. He declined to
estimate the number of people killed in the attack.  “We see al-Shabaab ceding more ground as we move
forward,” Oguna said. “Al-Shabaab is completely weakened.”  The group vowed to strike back at Kenya after it deployed
troops in mid-October in southern  Somalia  to secure its borders.
Kenya blames al-Shabaab for wave of attacks on foreigners on its
soil, a charge the group has denied.  Information about the fighting cannot be independently
verified and the two sides’ version of events generally differ.
The Horn of African nation also hosts more than 10,000 African
Union troops from Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti working alongside
government troops and Ethiopian soldiers who separately entered
Somalia in pursuit of al-Shabaab in December.  Al-Shabaab has been battling Somalia’s western-backed
government led by President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed for five
years and controls most of the southern and central regions.  Somalia has had no effective central government since the
downfall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre two decades ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 