-- Obama Promotes Homeowner Plan to Eliminate ’Drag’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-04T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/obama-promotes-homeowner-plan-to-eliminate-u-s-s-biggest-drag-.html
President  Barack Obama  is asking
Americans to press Congress to pass his new U.S. homeowner
relief plan that includes a tax on financial companies that
Republicans have already rejected.  Obama said in his weekly radio and  Internet  address that
the housing crisis has been “the biggest drag on our recovery
from the recession.” He said his proposal, outlined earlier
this week, would let homeowners who are current on their
payments save $3,000 per year through refinancing into lower-
interest loans guaranteed by the  Federal Housing Administration .  “The catch,” Obama said, is that his plan needs approval
by Congress. “And as anyone who has followed the news in the
last six months can tell you, getting Congress to do anything
these days is not an easy job.”  “Right now, there are more than 10 million homeowners in
this country who, because of a decline in  home prices  that is no
fault of their own, owe more on their mortgages than their homes
are worth,” Obama said. It is “wrong for anyone to suggest
that the only option for struggling, responsible homeowners is
to sit and wait for the housing market to hit bottom. I don’t
accept that.  None of us should.”  The remark is a not-so-veiled reference to  Mitt Romney , the
front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination who said
last year he would let the housing crisis “run its course and
hit the bottom.”  Tax on Banks  Obama asked Congress to pay for the housing plan with a tax
on financial companies with more than $50 billion in assets.
Congress already has twice refused to approve such increases.  Representative Pat Meehan of  Pennsylvania , in the
Republican radio and Internet  response , said Obama should tell
 Senate Democrats  to hold votes on job-creation proposals,
including a payroll-tax-cut extension and energy and
infrastructure jobs plan backed by  House Republicans .  Unless lawmakers from both parties reach a deal by the end
of this month, the  payroll tax  would increase 2 percentage
points.  “The nation’s unemployment rate has now exceeded 8 percent
for three years running, the longest stretch since the Great
Depression,” Meehan said. “Struggling families and workers
want to end the gridlock and get our economy moving. House
Republicans have offered good ideas that will help create jobs,
but to execute them, we need leadership from President Obama and
help from his fellow Democrats who control the Senate.”  A Labor Department report released yesterday shows
employers added 243,000 jobs in January, the biggest gain in
nine months, with the  unemployment rate  dropping to 8.3 percent
from 8.5 percent in December. The economy remains vulnerable to
risks such as a worsening of the European debt crisis.  “Our Democratic colleagues in  Washington  have a
responsibility to tell the nation what they’re prepared to do to
extend the payroll tax cut for a full year and give middle-class
families and small businesses much-needed certainty,” Meehan
said.  Meehan said it would “really be helpful” if Obama would
urge Senate Democratic leaders to vote for House Republican jobs
proposals whose goals he supports.  To contact the
reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  