-- Pound Strengthens for Third Week Against Dollar on Growth Signs
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-02-04T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/pound-strengthens-for-third-week-against-dollar-on-growth-signs.html
The pound strengthened for a third
week against the dollar, the longest run of gains against the
greenback since October, as gauges of manufacturing and services
output beat analyst estimates.  Sterling also appreciated versus the euro as data showed
 consumer confidence  rose to the highest in seven months. Gilts
declined as the  Bank of England  completed its latest round of
bond purchases. A gauge of services activity, known as the
purchasing managers’ index, climbed to a 10-month high in
January. The U.K.  FTSE 100  Index of shares climbed 2.7 percent,
its biggest weekly gain since Dec. 2.  “This week we have manufacturing and particularly services
PMI moving up fairly significantly,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head
of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London. “Alongside that, sterling is a risk-correlated currency
and with equities performing relatively well, that’s providing
some impetus. The combination of those two factors has obviously
seen sterling making some pretty reasonable gains.”  The pound rose 0.3 percent in the week to $1.5778 at 4:59
p.m.  London  time yesterday, extending its 1.4 percent gain in
January. Sterling appreciated 1.2 percent against the euro in
the five-day period.  The pound has weakened 1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. It advanced 0.2 percent against the
basket in the past week as the PMI climbed and manufacturing
unexpectedly expanded.  Gilts Decline  The 10-year gilt  yield  rose 11 basis points in the week to
2.18 percent as the Treasury sold 7.25 billion pounds of bonds
and bills. The U.K. is scheduled to auction 4 billion of 2017
bonds next week.  Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said on Feb. 2 he’s
“leaning” toward more stimulus when the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee meets on Feb. 9. There is a case to
increase the bond-purchase target by a further 75 billion
pounds, he said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “I suspect that we will get more,” said Stretch. “Some
people may well consider their thoughts after the PMIs but it’s
still the case that the central bank will be mindful of the
economy being well below its optimum level.”  Gilts have handed investors a loss of 0.7 percent so far
this year, while German  government bonds  have slipped 0.1
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 